10-K


v38408e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR SECTION 15(d)
    OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended
    December 30, 2007

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission file

number: 1-15295

Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated

(Exact name of
    registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

25-1843385

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification Number)

1049 Camino Dos Rios

Thousand Oaks, California

91360-2362

(Address of principal executive
    offices) (Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:

(805) 373-4545

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

New York Stock Exchange

Preferred Share Purchase Rights

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or such shorter period that the registrant was
    required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
    such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of

Regulation S-K

is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this

Form 10-K

or any amendment to this

Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
    “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated
    filer” and “smaller reporting company” in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer

þ

Accelerated
    filer

o

Non-accelerated
    filer

o

Smaller
    reporting
    company

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes

o

No

þ

The aggregate market value of the registrant’s Common Stock
    held by non-affiliates was $1,529.6 million, based on the
    closing price of a share of Common Stock on June 29, 2007
    ($45.95), which is the last business day of the
    registrant’s most recently completed fiscal second quarter.
    Shares of Common Stock known by the registrant to be
    beneficially owned as of February 20, 2008 by the
    registrant’s directors and the registrant’s executive
    officers subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934 are not included in the computation. The registrant,
    however, has made no determination that such persons are
    “affiliates” within the meaning of

Rule 12b-2

under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

At February 26, 2008, there were 35,316,766 shares of the
    registrant’s Common Stock issued and outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Selected portions of the registrant’s proxy statement for
    its 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the “2008 Proxy
    Statement”) are incorporated by reference in Part III
    of this Report. Information required by paragraphs (d)(1)-(3)
    and (e)(5) of Item 407 of

Regulation S-K

is not incorporated by reference in this

Form 10-K

or in any other filing of the registrant. Such information shall
    not be deemed “soliciting material” or to be filed
    with the Commission as permitted by Item 407 of

Regulation S-K.

INDEX

Explanatory
    Notes

In this Annual Report on

Form 10-K,

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is sometimes referred to as
    the “Company” or “Teledyne”. References to
    “ATI” mean Allegheny Technologies Incorporated,
    formerly known as Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated, the company
    from which we were spun-off on November 29, 1999.

For a discussion of risk factors and uncertainties associated
    with Teledyne and any forward looking statements made by us, see
    the discussion beginning at page 14 of this Annual Report
    on Form

10-K.

i


PART I

Item 1.

Business.

Who We
    Are

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is a leading provider of
    sophisticated electronic components and subsystems,
    instrumentation and communications products, including defense
    electronics, monitoring and control instrumentation for marine,
    environmental and industrial applications, harsh environment
    interconnect products, data acquisition and communications
    equipment for air transport and business aircraft, and
    components and subsystems for wireless and satellite
    communications. We also provide engineered systems and
    information technology services for defense, space and
    environmental applications, manufacture general aviation engines
    and components, and supply energy generation, energy storage and
    small propulsion products.

We serve niche market segments where performance, precision and
    reliability are critical. Our customers include government
    agencies, aerospace prime contractors, energy exploration and
    production companies, major industrial companies, and airlines
    and general aviation companies.

Total sales in 2007 were $1,622.3 million, compared with
    $1,433.2 million and $1,206.5 million in 2006 and
    2005, respectively. Our aggregate segment operating profit and
    other segment income were $194.9 million,
    $155.3 million and $126.6 million in 2007, 2006 and
    2005, respectively. Approximately 59% of our total sales in 2007
    were to commercial customers and the balance was to the
    U.S. Government, as a prime contractor or subcontractor.
    Approximately 42% of these U.S. Government sales were
    attributable to fixed price-type contracts and the balance to
    cost plus fee-type contracts. Sales to international customers
    accounted for approximately 22% of total sales in 2007.

We have realigned Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc., Teledyne
    Turbine Engines and Teledyne Battery Products in a new segment
    called Energy and Power Systems. This segment will provide
    Teledyne’s customers with a focal point for the specialized
    energy generation, energy storage and small propulsion products
    that Teledyne manufactures, primarily for high-reliability
    aerospace and defense applications. Product lines in this
    segment include hydrogen generators, fuel cells, thermoelectric
    generators, batteries and small turbine engines. In addition to
    these changes, the Systems Engineering Solutions segment has
    been renamed Engineered Systems to better describe its programs.
    The full year 2007 information reflects this new reporting
    structure. Historical financial data for 2006 and 2005 also
    reflects the new segment presentation to enhance comparability
    between periods. This segment realignment had no effect on our
    financial position, results of operations or cash flow for the
    periods presented and also did not affect the results of the
    Electronics and Communications or Engineered Systems segments.
    Our four business segments and their respective contributions to
    our total sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005 are summarized in the
    following table:

Percentage of Sales

Segment




Electronics and Communications


%


%


%

Engineered Systems


%


%


%

Aerospace Engines and Components


%


%


%

Energy and Power Systems


%


%


%


%


%


%

We are a Delaware corporation that was spun off from ATI as an
    independent company on November 29, 1999. Our principal
    executive offices are located at 1049 Camino Dos Rios, Thousand
    Oaks, California

91360-2362.

Our telephone number is

(805) 373-4545.

Strategy

Our strategy continues to emphasize growth in our core markets
    of instrumentation, defense electronics and government
    engineered systems. We intend to strengthen and expand our core
    businesses with targeted acquisitions. We intend to aggressively
    pursue operational excellence to continually improve our margins
    and



earnings. At Teledyne, operational excellence includes the rapid
    integration of the businesses we acquire. Over time, our goal is
    to create a set of businesses that are truly superior in their
    niches. We intend to continue to evaluate our product lines to
    ensure that they are aligned with our strategy.

Our
    Recent Acquisitions

During 2007 and subsequently, we engaged in a number of
    acquisitions intended to expand and strengthen our product and
    service offerings in our core instrumentation and defense
    markets.

Fiscal 2007

•

On March 30, 2007, Teledyne Instruments, Inc. acquired
    assets of D.G. O’Brien, Inc. (“DGO”). DGO,
    headquartered in Seabrook, New Hampshire, manufactures highly
    reliable electrical and fiber-optic interconnect systems,
    primarily for subsea military and offshore oil and gas
    applications.

•

On June 20, 2007, Teledyne Cougar, Inc. acquired Tindall
    Technologies, Inc. (“Tindall”), a designer and
    supplier of microwave subsystems for defense applications, and
    consolidated Tindall’s Pleasanton, California operations
    with its operations in Sunnyvale, California.

Fiscal 2008

•

On December 31, 2007, Teledyne Instruments, Inc. acquired
    assets of Impulse Enterprise. Impulse, headquartered in
    San Diego, California, manufactures underwater electrical
    interconnection systems for harsh environments.

•

On December 31, 2007, Teledyne Reynolds, Inc. acquired
    Storm Products Co. Primarily from its Dallas, Texas facility,
    Storm supplies custom, high-reliability bulk wire and cable
    assemblies to a number of markets, including energy exploration,
    environmental monitoring and industrial equipment. From its
    Woodridge, Illinois facility, Storm provides coax microwave
    cable and interconnect products primarily to defense customers
    for radar, electronic warfare and communications applications.

•

On January 31, 2008, Teledyne Limited acquired S G Brown
    Limited and its wholly-owned subsidiary TSS (International)
    Limited. TSS International, headquartered in Watford, United
    Kingdom, designs and manufactures inertial sensing, gyrocompass
    navigation and subsea pipe and cable detection of offshore
    energy, oceanographic and military marine markets.

•

On February 1, 2008, Teledyne Scientific &
    Imaging, LLC, acquired assets of Judson Technologies, LLC.
    Headquartered in Montgomeryville, Pennsylvania, Judson designs
    and manufactures high performance infrared detectors and
    accessory products for military, space, industrial and
    scientific applications.

Teledyne spent $42.7 million, net of cash acquired, on
    these acquisitions in our fiscal 2007. For those acquisitions
    subsequently completed in our fiscal 2008, we spent
    $167.4 million, net of cash acquired. All of the
    acquisitions are part of the Electronics and Communications
    segment. The results of all of our acquisitions are included in
    our consolidated financial statements since the respective
    acquisition dates of the acquired businesses.

Available
    Information

Our Annual Report on

Form 10-K,

our Quarterly Reports on

Form 10-Q,

any Current Reports on

Form 8-K,

and any amendments to these reports, are available on our
    website as soon as reasonably practicable after we
    electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the
    SEC. In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our
    Corporate Objectives and Guidelines for Employee Conduct, our
    codes of ethics for financial executives, directors and service
    providers and the charters of the standing committees of our
    Board of Directors are available on our website. Our website
    address is

www.teledyne.com.

You will be responsible for any costs normally associated with
    electronic access, such as usage and telephone charges.
    Alternatively, if you would like a paper copy of any such
    Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) report
    (without exhibits) or document, please write to John T. Kuelbs,
    Executive Vice



President, General Counsel and Secretary, Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated, 1049 Camino Dos Rios, Thousand Oaks, California

91360-2362,

and a copy of such requested document will be provided to you,
    free-of-charge.

In April 2007, we submitted to the New York Stock Exchange the
    CEO certification required by Section 303A.12(a) of the New
    York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual. The certification was
    not qualified in any respect. Additionally, we filed with the
    SEC as exhibits to this

Form 10-K

the CEO and CFO certifications required under Section 302
    of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Our
    Business Segments

As previously reported in our press release reporting our fourth
    quarter 2007 financial results, we realigned our business
    segments. Our businesses are divided and managed as four
    segments; namely, Electronics and Communications, Engineered
    Systems, Aerospace Engines and Components and Energy and Power
    Systems. The financial information in this Annual Report on

Form 10-K

reflects this new reporting structure. Financial information
    about our business segments can be found in Note 13 to our
    consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this
    Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

Electronics
    and Communications

Our Electronics and Communications segment provides a wide range
    of specialized electronic systems, instrumentation, components
    and services that address niche market applications in defense,
    marine, environmental, industrial, commercial aerospace,
    communications and scientific markets.

Defense Electronics, Products and Services

Traveling Wave Tubes.

Our helix traveling wave
    tubes are used to provide broadband power amplification of
    microwave signals. Military applications include radar,
    electronic warfare and satellite communication. Commercial
    applications for traveling wave tubes include electromagnetic
    compatibility test equipment and satellite communication
    terminals for mobile newsgathering.

Microwave Components and Subsystems.

We
    design, develop, and manufacture RF and microwave components and
    subassemblies used in aerospace and defense applications,
    including electronic warfare and radar. With the 2005
    acquisition of Cougar Components Corporation
    (“Cougar”), our products include cascadable
    amplifiers, voltage-controlled oscillators and microwave mixers.
    The 2006 acquisition of assets of KW Microwave added RF filters,
    multiplexers and diplexers. The 2007 acquisition of Tindall
    Technologies, Inc. added high performance Instantaneous
    Frequency Measurement (IFM)-based systems and subsystems,
    including integrated frequency locked sources and set-on
    receiver jammers used for the U.S. Navy and Air Force
    training.

High Voltage Connectors and
    Subassemblies.

Through Teledyne Reynolds, Inc.,
    we supply specialized high voltage connectors and subassemblies
    for defense, aerospace and industrial applications. With the
    2008 acquisition of Storm Products Co., we provide coax
    microwave cable and interconnects primarily to defense customers
    for radar, electronic warfare and communications applications.
    We also produce pilot helmet mounted display components and
    subsystems for the Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing System used in
    the F-15, F-16 and F-18 aircrafts. This system is designed to
    give military pilots the ability to designate a target just by
    looking at it.

Microelectronic Modules.

We develop and
    manufacture custom microelectronic modules that provide both
    high reliability and extremely dense packaging for military
    applications. We also develop custom tamper-resistant
    microcircuits designed to provide enhanced security in military
    communication.

Imaging Sensors.

Through Teledyne Imaging
    Sensors, we design and produce advanced focal plane arrays,
    sensors, and subsystems covering a broad spectrum of light from
    below 0.3 micron ultra-violet to 18 micron long-wave infrared.
    We provide large focal plane array sensors for both military and
    space-science markets. We have been developing manufacturing
    processes to support production of third generation dual band
    infrared imagers designed to allow members of the armed forces
    to identify threats on the battlefield



before the enemy can detect their presence. With the 2008
    acquisition of assets of Judson Technologies, LLC, we provide a
    wider range of visible and infrared detectors, integrated
    subsystems and camera products, produce dewar and coolers
    assemblies and have additional detector packaging capabilities.
    Teledyne Imaging Sensors also designs and manufactures advanced
    military laser protection eyewear.

Sequencers.

Teledyne Electronic Safety
    Products continues to provide microprocessor-controlled aircraft
    ejection seat sequencers and related support elements to
    military aircraft programs, including the

F/A-18E/F

and

F/A-22

.

Since 2006, under a five-year contract, we have produced the
    Digital Recovery Sequencer to support the F-15, F-16, F-22,
    F-117,

A-10,

B-1 and B-2 aircrafts. We also have developed a new sequencer in
    support of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program for which low
    rate initial production began in 2007.

Relays and Switches.

Teledyne Relays supplies
    electromechanical relays, solid-state power relays and coaxial
    switching devices to military and aerospace markets.

Research and Development Services.

Through
    Teledyne Scientific Company, we provide research and engineering
    services primarily in the areas of electronics, optics,
    information sciences and materials technology. Our scientific
    team delivers research and development services and specialty
    products to military, aerospace and industrial customers. We
    strive to maintain close relationships and collaborations with
    researchers at universities and national laboratories to stay at
    the forefront of cutting-edge technologies. We also license
    various technologies to third parties.

Electronic Manufacturing Services.

We serve
    the market for high-mix, low-volume manufacturing of
    sophisticated military electronics equipment principally from
    our facility in Tennessee.

Teledyne Instruments

During 2001, we formed Teledyne Instruments, a group of business
    units drawn from our Electronics and Communications segment and
    our then called Systems Engineering Solutions segment, to focus
    on industrial monitoring and process control applications. Since
    then and through acquisitions, we have grown two additional
    instrumentation platforms, marine and environmental.

Marine Instrumentation.

Historically, through
    Teledyne Geophysical Instruments, we have manufactured
    geophysical streamer cables, hydrophones and specialty products
    used in offshore hydrocarbon exploration to locate oil and gas
    reserves beneath the ocean floor. We continue to adapt this
    technology for the military market, where these products can be
    used to detect submarines, surface ships and torpedoes.

Through various acquisitions over the last several years, we
    have greatly expanded our underwater acoustic and marine
    instrumentation capabilities. Teledyne RD Instruments,
    Inc.’s acoustic Doppler current profilers perform precise
    measurement of currents at varying depths in oceans and rivers,
    and its Doppler Velocity Logs are used for navigation of
    civilian and military surface ships and unmanned underwater
    vehicles and by U.S. Navy divers. Teledyne Benthos, Inc.
    manufactures oceanographic products used by the U.S. Navy,
    energy exploration, oceanographic research and port and harbor
    security services. Its products include acoustic modems for
    networked underwater communication, a three-dimensional sidescan
    sonar system and remotely operated underwater vehicles. Recently
    acquired Teledyne TSS Limited (formerly known as TSS
    (International) Limited) designs and manufactures inertial
    sensing, gyrocompass navigation and subsea pipe and cable
    detection systems for offshore energy, oceanographic and
    military marine markets. Teledyne TSS’ inertial sensing and
    navigation systems, which contain mechanical gyros and solid
    state sensors, provide detailed positioning parameters for
    marine applications. Such systems increase the accuracy of
    hydrographic surveys by correcting for a marine vessel’s
    motion. These products also provide critical data for dynamic
    positioning systems used by floating offshore drilling rigs that
    need to maintain a constant position in challenging marine
    environments. Teledyne TSS’ electromagnetic detection
    systems are fitted to remotely operated vehicles and used for
    detection and maintenance of subsea telecommunications cables,
    power cables and offshore pipelines.

As a result of acquisitions, we also provide a broader range of
    end-to-end undersea interconnect solutions to the offshore oil
    and gas, defense, oceanographic and telecom markets.
    Majority-owned Ocean Design, Inc. or ODI manufactures subsea,
    wet-mateable electrical and fiber-optic interconnect systems
    used in offshore oil and gas production, oceanographic research
    and military applications. Teledyne D.G. O’Brien
    manufactures



glass-to-metal sealed subsea cable and connectors systems,
    primarily for subsea military and offshore oil and gas
    exploration. Recently acquired Teledyne Impulse manufactures
    waterproof neoprene and glass reinforced epoxy connectors that
    complement Teledyne D.G. O’Brien’s interconnect
    systems, which are typically installed before being submerged in
    the ocean, and also complement ODI’s lines of wet-mateable
    interconnect systems. With the 2008 acquisition of Storm
    Products Co., we also provide custom, high-reliability bulk wire
    and cable assemblies to a number of marine, environmental and
    industrial markets. In addition, we manufacture custom surface
    mount connectors for applications in computer disk drives and
    consumer medical electronic devices.

Environmental Instrumentation.

As a result of
    our acquisitions, we offer a wide range of products for
    environmental monitoring. Teledyne Advanced Pollution
    Instrumentation, Inc. manufactures a broad line of
    instrumentation for monitoring low levels of gases such as
    sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides and ozone in
    order to measure the quality of the air we breathe. Teledyne
    Monitor Labs, Inc. supplies environmental monitoring systems for
    the detection, measurement and reporting of air pollutants from
    industrial stack emissions. Teledyne Tekmar Company manufactures
    laboratory instrumentation that automates the preparation and
    concentration for the analysis of trace levels of volatile
    organic compounds by a gas chromatograph. The company also
    provides laboratory instrumentation for the detection of total
    organic carbon and total nitrogen in water and wastewater
    samples. Through Teledyne Leeman Labs, we provide inductively
    coupled plasma laboratory spectrometers, atomic absorption
    spectrometers, mercury analyzers and calibration standards. The
    advanced elemental analysis products are used by environmental
    and quality control laboratories to detect trace levels of
    inorganic contaminants in water and other environmental samples.

Teledyne Isco, Inc. (“Teledyne Isco”) produces water
    quality monitoring products such as wastewater samplers and open
    channel flow meters. A variety of measurement technologies is
    offered to meet various flow applications found in pump
    stations, flumes, weirs and industrial and municipal sewer
    systems and storm drains. Teledyne Isco also manufactures
    chromatography instruments and accessories for purification of
    organic compounds. Its liquid chromatography customers include
    pharmaceutical laboratories involved in drug discovery and
    development. Additionally, Teledyne Isco manufactures
    high-precision, high-pressure syringe pumps for metering various
    applications from liquefied gasses to tar with flow rates from
    sub-micro liter to 400 ml per minute and pressures up to 20,000
    psi.

Industrial Process Instrumentation.

A group of
    Teledyne businesses serve the process control and monitoring
    needs of industrial plants with instruments that include gas
    analyzers, vacuum and flow measurement devices, package
    integrity inspection systems and torque measurement sensors.

Teledyne Analytical Instruments was a pioneer in the development
    of precision oxygen analyzers. We now manufacture a wide range
    of process gas and liquid analysis products for measurement of
    oxygen, combustibles, oil in water, moisture, sulfides, pH and
    many other parameters. We also manufacture custom analyzers
    systems that provide turn-key solutions to complex process
    monitoring

and/or

control applications found in petrochemical and refinery
    facilities.

Teledyne Hastings Instruments manufactures a broad line of
    instruments for precise measurement and control of vacuum and
    gas flows. Our instruments are used in varied applications such
    as semiconductor manufacturing, refrigeration, metallurgy and
    food processing.

Under the
    Taptone

®

brand, we provide quality control systems to the food, beverage
    and pharmaceutical industries that inspect plastic, glass and
    metal containers for various types of defects and
    non-conformities.

We manufacture torque sensors and automatic data acquisition
    systems that are used to instrument critical devices under
    regulatory oversight, such as the requirement to test
    periodically the torque, thrust and force of motor-operated
    valves used in nuclear power plants.

Other Commercial Electronics

Aircraft Information Management.

Our aircraft
    information management solutions are designed to increase the
    reliability and efficiency of airline transportation. Through
    Teledyne Controls, we are a leading supplier of digital flight
    data acquisition and flight safety systems to the civil aviation
    market. These systems acquire data for use by the
    aircraft’s flight data recorder as well as record
    additional data for the airline’s



operation, such as aircraft and engine condition monitoring. We
    also provide the means to transfer this data, using
    Teledyne’s patented wireless technology, from the aircraft
    to the airline operation center. This product is currently in
    operational use by over 40 commercial airlines all over the
    world. Additionally, we provide flight data monitoring services
    to analyze the acquired data and to drive our flight data
    visualization and animation products. Our data acquisition
    systems are certified on the Airbus A320 and A330/340, Boeing
    737-NG and

747-400,

and
    Embraer EMB170/190 aircraft. We were also selected as a supplier
    of the data acquisition system for the new Boeing

747-8

and
    Sukhoi RRJ regional jet. In addition, our Aviation Information
    Solutions (“AIS”) business designs and manufactures
    aerospace Electronic Flight Bag equipment, networking products,
    and flight deck and cabin displays.

Microelectronic Modules.

In addition to
    military microelectronic modules, we develop and manufacture
    custom microelectronic modules that provide both high
    reliability and extremely dense packaging for implantable
    medical devices, such as pacemakers and defibrillators, and
    commercial communication products.

Relays and Switches.

In addition to military
    and aerospace markets, Teledyne Relays supplies
    electromechanical relays, solid-state power relays and coaxial
    switching devices to industrial and commercial markets.
    Applications include microwave and wireless communication
    infrastructure, RF and general broadband test equipment, test
    equipment used in semiconductor manufacturing, and industrial
    and commercial machinery and control equipment.

Wireless Transceivers and Amplifiers.

Our line
    of integrated transceiver modules provides high data rate
    point-to-point connectivity in cellular telephone
    infrastructure. We also supply microwave devices used in
    satellite uplink applications.

Electronics Equipment and Printed Circuit Card
    Assembly.

We serve the market for high-mix,
    low-volume manufacturing of electronic products.

Engineered
    Systems

Our Engineered Systems segment, principally through Teledyne
    Brown Engineering, Inc., applies the skills of its extensive
    staff of engineers and scientists to provide innovative systems
    engineering and integration, advanced technology application,
    software development, and manufacturing solutions to space,
    military, environmental, and air and missile defense
    requirements.

Defense

Teledyne Brown Engineering is a well-recognized full-service
    missile defense contractor with over 50 years of experience
    in air and missile defense and related systems integration. Our
    diverse customer base in this field includes the U.S. Army
    Aviation and Missile Command (“AMCOM”), the
    U.S. Army’s Space and Missile Defense Command
    (“SMDC”), the Missile Defense Agency (“MDA”)
    and Defense Department major prime contractors.

We play significant roles in diverse missile defense areas,
    which include targets and countermeasures, systems engineering,
    modeling and simulation, test and evaluation, and complex real
    time

hardware-in-the-loop

integration. Our engineering and technological capabilities
    include requirements definition, systems design, development,
    integration and testing, with specialization in real-time
    distributed systems.

During 2007, we continued our long-standing support of several
    air and missile defense programs, including the Ground-based
    Midcourse Defense (“GMD”) Program, Missile Defense
    Systems Exerciser, the Extended Air Defense Simulation
    (“EADSIM”) and, as part of the Lockheed Martin team,
    the Targets and Countermeasures Program. These programs involve
    the test and evaluation of ballistic missile defense system
    performance on a large number of major programs, including the
    Airborne Laser, the Kinetic Energy Interceptor, the Ground-based
    Midcourse Defense, Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense, the Patriot
    Advanced Capability 3, and the Terminal High Altitude Area
    Defense (“THAAD”). Additionally, we continue to work
    on an enhanced test program to develop an integrated test lab
    for the GMD system.



In addition to our missile defense activities, we are supporting
    several U.S. Army programs. Supported programs include the
    Army’s Future Combat System Multifunctional
    Utility/Logistics and Equipment (“MULE”) program and
    Patriot Missile validation and verification for the Lower
    Tier Project Office. Tasking spans complex hardware
    integration and software testing, from design through
    verification and validation.

Aerospace

We have been active in U.S. space programs for almost
    50 years and continue to be a significant contributor to
    NASA programs.

We have played a key role in the International Space Station
    (“ISS”), and have had various roles in the Space
    Shuttle program. We supply

24-hour-per-day

service for the payload operation cadre for the ISS Payload
    Operations and Integration Center, located at NASA’s
    Marshall Space Flight Center. As a subcontractor to Lockheed
    Martin, we also work on the ISS Cargo Mission Contract at the
    Johnson Space Center. This six-year contract, which began in
    January 2004, involves providing services related to planning,
    preparation and execution of cargo missions to the ISS.

We are the prime contractor on the Marshall Space Flight Center
    Systems Development and Operations Support Contract, which
    provides engineering services and hardware development support
    for a variety of space activities. We have been the prime
    contractor for the Propellants, Pressurants and Calibration
    Services Contract at Marshall Space Flight Center since 1971.
    Under that contract we furnish management, personnel, equipment
    and materials to operate and maintain the propellant and
    pressurant generating systems, storage and distribution systems,
    as well as management and operation of the calibration
    facilities at the Marshall Space Flight Center. We also have a
    prime Blanket Purchase Agreement with the Marshall Space Flight
    Center for specialized engineering and program support. We
    perform engineering and software services under this contract
    for NASA’s new Ares launch vehicle upper stage.

Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN)
    Systems

We support the U.S. Government’s efforts to clean up
    dangerous materials and waste. Since 1996, we have supported the
    U.S. Army’s Non-Stockpile Chemical Materiel Program.
    We also have begun to apply sophisticated computer aided
    engineering, design, modeling and manufacturing skills to
    support the U.S. Army’s Edgewood Chemical and
    Biological Center.

In November 2007, we were awarded a contract from the Department
    of Defense to develop and test the Joint Material
    Decontamination System (JMDS) for U.S. military forces. The
    JMDS will be designed to remove toxic contamination as a result
    of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons from sensitive
    electronic equipment, command posts, aircraft and avionics, and
    other applications where water and harsh decontamination
    materials could damage or destroy items being decontaminated.

We operate a Department of Energy-certified radiological
    analysis services laboratory in Knoxville, Tennessee. This
    laboratory has received certification from the National
    Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program in
    12 states, including Utah where the largest commercial
    radiological waste disposal site resides. With its Nuclear
    Utilities Procurement Issues Committee certification, the
    laboratory also serves one-third of the nuclear power plants in
    United States.

Additionally, we produce canisters for the processing,
    stabilization and storage of nuclear-waste products. Expanding
    on our core nuclear quality-related manufacturing, in February
    2008, Fluor Enterprises, Inc., acting as an agent for USEC Inc.,
    awarded us a contract to manufacture and deliver an initial
    complement of gas centrifuge service modules to support fuel
    production for commercial nuclear power plants.

Teledyne
    Solutions, Inc.

Through Teledyne Solutions, Inc., we are a primary Missile
    Defense systems engineering contractor. Teledyne Solutions is a
    principal prime contractor for the Systems Engineering and
    Technical Assistance Contract in support of the U.S. Army
    Space and Missile Defense Command. We also provide engineering
    and services support to other major Department of Defense
    customers including the Missile Defense Agency, the



Program Executive Office for Missiles and Space, the Defense
    Threat Reduction Agency, and the U.S. Army Aviation and
    Missile Command.

Teledyne
    CollaborX, Inc.

With the 2006 acquisition of CollaborX, we extended our
    capabilities to include full system acquisition lifecycle
    support from concept development to sustainment. CollaborX
    provides engineering services to the U.S. Air Force,
    U.S. Army, Office of Secretary of Defense, Missile Defense
    Agency and select military combatant commands such as the
    U.S. Joint Forces Command, U.S. Strategic Command, and
    U.S. Northern Command. CollaborX provides the Air Force
    with operational and systems expertise in the development, test,
    integration, and fielding of new Command and Control and
    Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance capabilities for
    major Air Force weapons systems. CollaborX’s services
    complement TBE’s support to the Army and NASA.

Aerospace
    Engines and Components

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment focuses on the
    design, development and manufacture of piston engines,
    aftermarket support and electronic engine controls.

Piston
    Engines

Principally through Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc., we
    design, develop and manufacture piston engines, ignition
    systems, and aftermarket engines and spare parts for general
    aviation airframe manufacturers and the aftermarket. We are one
    of two primary worldwide original equipment producers of piston
    aircraft engines for the general aviation marketplace.

Our current OEM product lines include engines for the Cirrus
    SR-20 and SR-22, the Diamond DA20, Cessna 350 and 400 series
    (formerly built by Columbia Aircraft Company), the Liberty XL2,
    the Beech Bonanza and Baron aircraft, Mooney Ovation and Acclaim
    lines, and the Piper Seneca V twin-engine aircraft.

During 2007, Cessna Aircraft Company selected our O-200D
    air-cooled engine for its highly anticipated Light Sport
    Aircraft, the Skycatcher.

Aftermarket
    Support

In addition to the sales of OEM engines, we actively support the
    replacement aircraft engine aftermarket. Piston aircraft engines
    have a FAA authorized time between overhauls. Our aftermarket
    support includes building and rebuilding of complete engines, as
    well as providing a full complement of spare parts such as
    cylinders, crankcases, fuel systems, crankshafts, camshafts and
    ignition products. Also, through Teledyne Mattituck Services,
    Inc., located in Long Island, New York, and our Fairhope,
    Alabama service center, we serve as an aftermarket supplier of
    overhauled piston engines and engine installations to the
    general aviation marketplace for both Teledyne Continental
    Motors and Textron Lycoming aircraft engines.

Electronic
    Engine Controls

Through Aerosance, Inc., we developed the first production full
    authority digital electronic controls (FADEC) for piston
    aircraft engines. These controls, known as
    PowerLink

tm

FADEC, are designed to automate many functions that currently
    require manual control, such as fuel flow and power management.
    This system also saves fuel as a result of improved engine
    management and facilitates electronic-centered maintenance of
    our engines. We have shipped our 100th production engine to
    Liberty Aircraft with FADEC and are certifying FADEC-equipped
    engines targeted at the most popular OEM and aftermarket models
    of four and six cylinder piston aircraft engines of the general
    aviation fleet. We continue to believe that these control
    systems will become standard equipment on new aircraft and will
    be retrofitted on higher-end piston engine general aviation
    aircraft.

Energy
    and Power Systems

Our Energy and Power Systems segment designs and manufactures
    hydrogen gas generators, thermoelectric and fuel cell-based
    power sources, batteries and small turbine engines.



Teledyne
    Energy Systems, Inc.

Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc., a majority owned subsidiary of
    Teledyne, was formed in 2001 by combining Teledyne Brown
    Engineering’s then existing Energy Systems business unit
    with assets and intellectual properties of then Florida-based
    Energy Partners, Inc.

Through Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc., we manufacture
    hydrogen/oxygen gas generators that utilize the principle of
    electrolysis to convert water into high purity hydrogen gas at
    useable pressures. Our Teledyne
    Titan

tm

gas generators are used worldwide in electrical power generation
    plants, semiconductor manufacturing, optical fiber production,
    chemical processing, specialty metals, float glass and other
    industrial processes. Our historic sales of hydrogen generators
    have been largely to developing countries.

For over 50 years, we have supplied high reliability energy
    conversion devices and gas generation products based on
    thermoelectric and electrochemical processes. We provided the
    thermoelectric power systems for the Pioneer 10 and 11
    deep-space missions to Jupiter and Saturn and for the Viking 1
    and Viking 2 Mars Landers. In 2006, in partnership with
    Boeing and under a ten-year $57 million contract signed in
    2003 with the U.S. Department of Energy, we completed all
    of the testing of the Multi-Mission Radioisotope Thermoelectric
    Generator capable of supporting planetary landing and deep space
    probe missions. As a result of the successful test phase, in
    2007, we began production of this generator for potential use to
    power the Mars Science Laboratory scheduled to launch in 2009.
    We recently began to explore the market potential for a liquid
    fuel thermoelectric generator.

In conjunction with its thermoelectric power systems for space,
    we also have ongoing development and prototyping work with NASA
    on PEM fuel cell stacks and systems. These systems are being
    developed in support of potential manned and robotic missions to
    the moon and Mars.

We have a line of fuel cell test stations designed to provide a
    completely integrated system for fuel cell testing for the PEM
    fuel cell development market. Our Medusa line of fuel cell test
    systems provides high quality, simple to use automated test
    stations for fuel cell and fuel cell stack testing up to 12
    kilowatts.

Aviation
    Batteries

Our
    Gill

®

line of lead acid batteries is widely recognized as the premier
    power source for general aviation. We have developed sealed
    recombinant batteries for business and light jet applications.
    Teledyne Battery Products, in conjunction with Teledyne
    Controls, jointly developed an onboard charging and cockpit
    display kit that permits existing NiCad battery systems to be
    replaced with
    Gill

®

sealed lead acid batteries.

Turbine
    Engines

We design, develop and manufacture small turbine engines
    primarily used in tactical missiles for military markets.

Our J402 engine powers the Harpoon missile system. Derivatives
    of this engine power the Standoff Land Attack Missile and the
    Standoff Land Attack Missile-Expanded Response. Lockheed Martin
    Corporation selected a derivative of the J402 engine to power
    the Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile (“JASSM”).
    We are the sole source provider of engines for the baseline
    JASSM system.

Our J700 engine provides the turbine power for the Improved
    Tactical Air Launched Decoy (“ITALD”) built for the
    U.S. Navy. The ITALD system enhances combat aircraft
    survivability by both serving as a decoy and identifying enemy
    radar sources.

In 2007, we continued to work under a contract related to the
    U.S. Army’s Future Combat System for the development
    of new and derivative turbine engines for unmanned air vehicles,
    commonly called UAVs, and other future aircraft. We continue to
    work advanced technology for small turbine engines and
    components under contract to the U.S. Air Force Research
    Laboratory sponsored Versatile Advanced Affordable Turbine
    Engine (VAATE) program. Advanced technology engine and component
    demonstrators are being developed for the next generation cruise
    missile and UAVs.



Customers

We have hundreds of customers in the electronics,
    communications, aerospace and defense industries. No commercial
    customer accounted for more than 10% of our total sales during
    2007, 2006 or 2005.

Approximately 41%, 40%, and 42% of our total sales for 2007,
    2006 and 2005, respectively, were derived from contracts with
    agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government.
    Our principal U.S. Government customer is the
    U.S. Department of Defense. These sales represented 30%,
    30% and 32% of our total sales for 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, our largest program with
    the U.S. Government was the Systems Engineering and
    Technical Assistance contract with the Space and Missile Defense
    Command, and it represented 4.3%, 4.9% and 5.5% of total sales,
    respectively. Set forth below are sales by our segments to
    agencies and prime contractors to the U.S. Government for
    the periods presented:

U.S.
    Government Sales




(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

334.4

$

249.1

$

198.5

Engineered Systems

298.0

278.9

260.0

Energy and Power Systems

32.1

41.4

52.1

Total U.S. Government sales

$

664.5

$

569.4

$

510.6

Our total backlog of confirmed orders was approximately
    $707.2 million at December 30, 2007,
    $582.4 million at December 31, 2006 and
    $521.9 million at January 1, 2006. We expect to
    fulfill 98% of such backlog of confirmed orders during 2008.

Sales to international customers accounted for approximately 22%
    of total sales in 2007, compared with 21% in 2006 and 18% in
    2005. In 2007, we sold products to customers in over 100 foreign
    countries. Ninety percent of our sales to foreign customers were
    made to customers in 28 foreign countries.

Sales and
    Marketing

Our sales and marketing approach varies by segment and by
    products within our segments. A shared fundamental tenet is the
    commitment to work closely with our customers to understand
    their needs, with an aim to secure preferred supplier and
    longer-term relationships.

Our business segments use a combination of internal sales
    forces, distributors and commissioned sales representatives to
    market and sell our products and services. As part of on-going
    acquisition integration efforts, some of our Teledyne
    Instruments companies and other business units have been working
    to consolidate or share internal sales and servicing efforts.

Products are also advertised in appropriate trade journals and
    by means of various websites. To promote our products and other
    capabilities, our personnel regularly participate in relevant
    trade shows and professional associations.

Many of our government contracts are awarded after a competitive
    bidding process in which we seek to emphasize our ability to
    provide superior products and technical solutions in addition to
    competitive pricing.

Through Teledyne Technologies International Corp. and other
    subsidiaries, the Company has established offices in foreign
    countries to facilitate international sales for various
    businesses.

Competition

We believe that technological capabilities and innovation and
    the ability to invest in the development of new and enhanced
    products are critical to obtaining and maintaining leadership in
    our markets and the industries in which we compete. Although we
    have certain advantages that we believe help us compete
    effectively in our markets, each of our markets is highly
    competitive. Our businesses vigorously compete on the basis of
    quality, product performance and reliability, technical
    expertise, price and service. Many of our



competitors have, and potential competitors could have, greater
    name recognition, a larger installed base of products, more
    extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution
    capabilities and greater financial, technological and personnel
    resources than we do.

Research
    and Development

Our research and development efforts primarily involve
    engineering and design related to improving product lines and
    developing new products and technologies in the same or similar
    fields. We spent a total of $355.1 million,
    $307.0 million, and $291.5 million on research and
    development and bid and proposal costs for 2007, 2006, and 2005,
    respectively. Customer-funded research and development, most of
    which was attributable to work under contracts with the
    U.S. Government, represented approximately 83%, 83%, and
    85% of total research and development costs for 2007, 2006, and
    2005, respectively.

In 2007, approximately 81.3% of the $59.7 million in
    Company-funded research and development and bid and proposal
    costs were incurred in our electronics and communications
    businesses. We expect the level of Company-funded research and
    development and bid and proposal costs to be approximately
    $70.0 million in 2008.

Intellectual
    Property

While we own and control various intellectual property rights,
    including patents, trade secrets, confidential information,
    trademarks, trade names, and copyrights, which, in the
    aggregate, are of material importance to our business, our
    management believes that our business as a whole is not
    materially dependent upon any one intellectual property or
    related group of such properties. We own several hundred active
    patents and are licensed to use certain patents, technology and
    other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by
    others. Similarly, other companies are licensed to use certain
    patents, technology and other intellectual property rights owned
    and controlled by us. As part of our acquisition of Scientific
    Company in September 2006, we licensed certain intellectual
    property of the acquired company to Rockwell Automation and
    Rockwell Collins.

Patents, patent applications and license agreements will expire
    or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with
    their terms or otherwise. We do not expect the expiration or
    termination of these patents, patent applications and license
    agreements to have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations or financial condition.

Employees

Our total current workforce consists of approximately
    8,130 employees. The International Union of United
    Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of
    America represents approximately 270 active employees in Mobile,
    Alabama under a collective bargaining agreement that expires by
    its terms on February 20, 2010. This union also represents
    approximately 20 of our active employees in Toledo, Ohio under a
    collective bargaining agreement that expires by its terms on
    November 10, 2009. We consider our relations with our
    employees to be good.

Executive
    Management

Teledyne’s executive management includes:

Name and Title

Age

Principal Occupations Last 5 Years

Executive Officers:

Robert Mehrabian

*

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Director


Dr. Mehrabian has served as Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer of Teledyne for more than five years. He is a
    director of Teledyne, Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and
    PPG Industries, Inc.



Name and Title

Age

Principal Occupations Last 5 Years

John T. Kuelbs

*

Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary


Mr. Kuelbs has been Executive Vice President, General Counsel
    and Secretary of Teledyne since September 1, 2005.  Prior to
    that, he was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
    Secretary of Teledyne.

Dale A. Schnittjer

*

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Mr. Schnittjer has been Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer of the Company since September 1, 2005.  From
    January 27, 2004 to September 1, 2005, he was Vice President and
    Chief Financial Officer of Teledyne. He had served as interim
    Chief Financial Officer since July 7, 2003.  Mr. Schnittjer
    first became a Vice President on December 19, 2001, and had been
    the Controller of Teledyne from November 29, 1999 to January 27,
    2004. Mr. Schnittjer also served as Acting Chief Financial
    Officer and Treasurer of Teledyne from June 1, 2000 to October
    3, 2000.

Susan L. Main*

Vice President and Controller


Ms. Main has been Vice President and Controller of the Company
    since March 2004. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Main served
    as Vice President Controller of Water Pik Technologies, Inc.
    from November 29, 1999 to March 2004.

Segment Management:

Aldo Pichelli*

President and Chief Operating Officer, Electronics and
    Communications Segment


Mr. Pichelli has been President and Chief Operating Officer of
    Teledyne’s Electronics and Communications segment since
    September 1, 2007. From July 22, 2003 to that date, he was
    Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of that
    segment. Prior to that, he served as Vice President and General
    Manager of Teledyne Instruments since its formation in 2001.
    Prior to that, Mr. Pichelli was the Vice President and General
    Manager of Teledyne Analytical Instruments.

Rex D. Geveden*

President, Engineered Systems and Energy and Power Systems
    Segments


Mr. Geveden has been the President of Teledyne Brown
    Engineering, Inc. and the Engineered Systems segment (formerly
    known as the Systems Engineering Solutions segment) since August
    1, 2007. Since January 1, 2008, he has also been the President
    of the Energy and Power Systems segment. Prior to that, Mr.
    Geveden served as the Associate Administrator of the National
    Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) where he functioned
    as the agency’s chief operating officer. Prior to that, he
    served as NASA’s Chief Engineer and Deputy Director of
    NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama.

Rhett C. Ross

President, Aerospace Engines and Components Segment


Mr. Ross has been the President of Teledyne Continental Motors,
    Inc. since November 5, 2007. Mr. Ross is also referred to as the
    President of the Aerospace Engines and Components segment. Prior
    to that he was the President of Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc.
    since its formation in June 2001 for the purposes of the
    transaction with Energy Partners, Inc.

Other Officers:

Ivars R. Blukis

Chief Business Risk Assurance Officer


Mr. Blukis has been Chief Business Risk Assurance Officer since
    January 22, 2002 and is responsible for the internal audit
    function. Prior to that, Mr. Blukis was the Vice President,
    Finance and Administration, for Teledyne Electronics
    Technologies.



Name and Title

Age

Principal Occupations Last 5 Years

Melanie S. Cibik

Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary


Miss Cibik has been Vice President, Associate General Counsel
    and Assistant Secretary of the Company for more than five years.

Robyn E. McGowan

Vice President, Administration and Human Resources and Assistant
    Secretary


Ms. McGowan has been Vice President — Administration
    and Human Resources of the Company since April 2003 and Vice
    President — Administration since December 2000.  Prior
    to becoming a Vice President, she served as Director of
    Administration. She has been an Assistant Secretary of Teledyne
    since November 29, 1999.

Robert L. Schaefer

Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary, General
    Counsel of the Electronics and Communications Segment


Mr. Schaefer has been an Associate General Counsel and an
    Assistant Secretary of Teledyne and the General Counsel of
    Teledyne’s Electronics and Communications segment for more
    than five years.

Robert W. Steenberge

Vice President and Chief Technology Officer


Mr. Steenberge became a Vice President of the Company on
    February 21, 2006, and has been Teledyne’s Chief Technology
    Officer for more than five years.

Jason VanWees

Vice President, Corporate Development and Investor Relations


Mr. VanWees has been Vice President, Corporate Development and
    Investor Relations since February 21, 2006.  Prior to that, he
    was Director of Corporate Development and Investor Relations of
    Teledyne for more than five years.

*

Such officers are subject to the reporting and other
    requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended.

Dr. Mehrabian and Teledyne have entered into a Third
    Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of
    September 1, 2007. The agreement provides that we will
    employ him as the Chairman, President and Chief Executive
    Officer. The agreement currently terminates on December 31,
    2008, but will automatically be extended annually unless either
    party gives the other written notice prior to October 31 of the
    year of such term that it will not be extended. Under the
    agreement, Dr. Mehrabian’s annual base salary is
    $800,000. The agreement provides that Dr. Mehrabian is
    entitled to participate in Teledyne’s annual incentive
    bonus plan and other executive compensation and benefit
    programs. The agreement provides Dr. Mehrabian with a
    non-qualified pension arrangement, under which Teledyne will pay
    him annually starting six months following his retirement and
    for a period of 10 years, as payments supplemental to any
    accrued pension under our qualified pension plan, an amount
    equal to 50% of his base compensation as in effect at
    retirement. Under the third amendment, at his request,
    Dr. Mehrabian’s eligibility to receive country club
    and city club memberships and related tax

gross-ups

was discontinued. On January 23, 2007, without amending the
    employment agreement, Teledyne’s Board of Directors asked
    Dr. Mehrabian to continue to serve as its Chairman,
    President and Chief Executive Officer through at least
    December 31, 2009.

Fourteen current members of management have entered into Change
    in Control Severance Agreements with Teledyne. The agreements
    have a three-year, automatically renewing term. Under the
    agreements, the executive is entitled to severance benefits if
    (1) there is a change in control of Teledyne and
    (2) within three months before or 24 months after the
    change in control, either we terminate the executive’s
    employment for reasons other than for cause or the executive
    terminates employment for good reason. “Severance
    benefits” consist of:

•

A cash payment equal to three times (in the case of
    Dr. Mehrabian, Messrs. Kuelbs and Schnittjer) or two
    times (in the case of Messrs. Pichelli and Geveden and nine
    other executives) the sum of (i) the executive’s
    highest annual base salary within the year preceding the change
    in control and (ii) the AIP bonus target for the year in
    which the change in control occurs or the actual bonus payout
    for the year immediately preceding the change in control,
    whichever is higher.



•

A cash payment for the current AIP bonus cycle based on the
    fraction of the year worked times the AIP target objectives at
    120% (with payment of the prior year bonus if not yet paid).

•

Payment in cash for unpaid Performance Share Program awards,
    assuming applicable goals are met at 120% of performance.

•

Continued equivalent health and welfare (e.g., medical, dental,
    vision, life insurance and disability) benefits at
    Teledyne’s expense for a period of up to 36 months
    (24 months in some agreements) after termination (with the
    executive bearing any portion of the cost the executive bore
    prior to the change in control); provided, however, such
    benefits would be discontinued to the extent the executive
    receives similar benefits from a subsequent employer.

•

Immediate vesting of all stock options, with options being
    exercisable for the full remaining term.

•

Removal of restrictions on restricted stock issued by the
    Company under our Restricted Stock Award Programs.

•

Full vesting under the Company’s pension plans (within
    legal parameters) such that the executive shall be entitled to
    receive the full accrued benefit under all such plans in effect
    as of the date of the change in control, without any actuarial
    reduction for early payment.

•

Up to $25,000 ($15,000 in some agreements) reimbursement for
    actual professional outplacement services.

•

A

“gross-up-payment”

to hold the executive harmless against the impact, if any, of
    federal excise taxes imposed on the executive as a result of the
    payments constituting an “excess parachute” as defined
    in Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code.

Item 1A.

Risk
    Factors.

Risk
    Factors; Cautionary Statement as to Forward-Looking
    Statements

The following text highlights various risks and uncertainties
    associated with Teledyne. These factors could materially affect
    “forward-looking statements” (within the meaning of
    the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that
    we may from time to time make, including forward-looking
    statements contained in “Item 1. Business” and
    “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this

Form 10-K

and in Teledyne’s 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders. It is
    not possible for management to predict all of such factors, and
    new factors may emerge. Additionally, management cannot assess
    the impact of each such factor on Teledyne or the extent to
    which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual
    results to differ materially from those contained in any
    forward-looking statements.

Our
    dependence on revenue from government contracts subjects us to
    many risks:

Our
    revenue from government contracts depends on the continued
    availability of funding from the U.S. Government, and,
    accordingly, we have the risk that funding for our existing
    contracts may be diverted to other uses or delayed.

We perform work on a number of contracts with the Department of
    Defense and other agencies and departments of the
    U.S. Government including sub-contracts with government
    prime contractors. Sales under contracts with the
    U.S. Government as a whole, including sales under contracts
    with the Department of Defense, as prime contractor or
    subcontractor, represented approximately 41% of our total
    revenue for 2007, as compared to 40% and 42% of our total
    revenue for 2006 and 2005, respectively. Performance under
    government contracts has certain inherent risks that could have
    a material effect on our business, results of operations, and
    financial condition.

Government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing
    availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress typically
    appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis
    even though contract performance may take more than one year. As
    a result, at the beginning of a major program, a contract is
    typically only partially funded, and additional monies are
    normally committed to the contract by the procuring



agency only as Congress makes appropriations available for
    future fiscal years. The timing of program cycles can also
    affect our results of operations for a particular quarter or
    year. It is not uncommon for the Department of Defense to delay
    the timing of awards for major programs for six to twelve
    months, or more, beyond the original anticipated timeframe.

While U.S. defense spending increased as a result of the
    September 11th terrorist attacks and the war in Iraq,
    it is currently expected to continue to moderate over the next
    few years. The continued war on terrorism and the Iraqi
    situation could result in a diversion of funds from programs in
    which Teledyne participates. In addition, continued defense
    spending does not necessarily correlate to continued business
    for us, because not all the programs in which we participate or
    have current capabilities may be provided with continued
    funding. Further, changes in the leadership of the
    U.S. Government could result over time in reductions in
    defense spending and further changes in programs in which we
    participate.

Our Electronics and Communications segment provides a variety of
    products for newer military platforms such as the

F/A-22

and
    F-35 aircraft. Development and production of these aircraft are
    very expensive, and there is no guarantee that the Department of
    Defense, as it balances budget priorities, will continue to
    provide funding to manufacture and support these platforms.
    Reallocation of funding priorities within the Department of
    Defense could also affect repair and spares sales for older
    military platforms, including, by way of example, sales of our
    traveling wave tubes for F-15, F-16, F-18, EA-6B, B-52, B-1,
    C-130 and U-2 aircraft. The recent grounding of the Air
    Force’s F-15 fleet as a result of apparent structural
    failures could result in decreased orders for products we supply
    to the F-15 program.

Our
    participation in government programs may decrease or be subject
    to renegotiation as those programs evolve over time.

The relocation to Huntsville, Alabama of the Missile Defense
    Agency or MDA has resulted in the transfer to the MDA of certain
    missions and functions from the U.S. Army Space and Missile
    Defense Command or SMDC. We understand that work currently
    performed under one or more existing SMDC contracts may be
    transferred to one or more existing or new MDA contracts. Such
    transfers may require us to recompete for some work currently
    performed by us, and there is no guarantee that we would
    maintain historic levels of revenue or profitability if we
    successfully recompeted, or even that MDA will effect this
    transition without a break in contract coverage. Such changes
    could affect our Engineered Systems segment, but it is too early
    to tell the impact of such changes.

Over time, and for a variety of reasons, programs can evolve and
    affect the extent of our participation. For example, Teledyne
    Brown Engineering’s Ground-based Midcourse Defense program
    is moving toward the end of the program cycle resulting in
    declining revenues. Revenues from this contract in 2005 and 2006
    totaled approximately $51 million and $48 million,
    respectively. In 2007, revenues related to this program declined
    to $45 million, and are expected to decline further through
    2009 as MDA shifts its focus toward integrating the Ground-based
    Midcourse Defense program into the larger Ballistic Missile
    Defense Program.

We have been a significant participant in NASA programs,
    traditionally through our Engineered Systems segment and through
    Teledyne Scientific Company. The foci of our current NASA
    activities are the International Space Station and the James
    Webb Space Telescope. While we anticipate participating in
    NASA’s lunar and interplanetary exploration activities,
    funding for these activities has been reduced as NASA focuses on
    the completion of the International Space Station and on keeping
    the Space Shuttle fleet in continuous service, each of which is
    also facing a tightened budget. These changes could adversely
    impact us.

We may
    not be successful in bidding for future contracts.

We obtain many U.S. Government prime contracts and
    subcontracts through the process of competitive bidding. We may
    not be successful in having our bids accepted. In addition, we
    may spend substantial amounts of time, money and effort,
    including design, development and marketing activities, required
    to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be
    awarded to us.



Our
    contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to termination
    rights that could adversely affect us.

Most of our U.S. Government contracts are subject to
    termination by the U.S. Government either at its
    convenience or upon the default of the contractor.
    Termination-for-convenience provisions provide only for the
    recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses,
    and profit on work completed prior to termination.
    Termination-for-default clauses impose liability on the
    contractor for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government
    in reprocuring undelivered items from another source. During
    2007, Teledyne had four U.S. Government contracts
    terminated for convenience. We did not have any of our
    U.S. Government contracts terminated for default during
    2007.

We may
    lose money or generate less than expected profits on our
    fixed-price government contracts and we may lose money if we
    fail to meet certain pre-specified targets in government
    contracts.

There is no guarantee that U.S. Government contracts will
    be profitable. A number of our U.S. Government prime
    contracts and subcontracts are fixed-price type contracts (42%
    in 2007, 47% in 2006 and 2005). Under these types of contracts,
    we bear the inherent risk that actual performance cost may
    exceed the fixed contract price. This is particularly true where
    the contract was awarded and the price finalized in advance of
    final completion of design. Under such contracts, we must absorb
    cost overruns, notwithstanding the difficulty of estimating all
    of the costs we will incur in performing these contracts. Our
    failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs
    accurately or control costs during performance of a fixed-price
    contract may reduce the profitability of a fixed-price contract
    or cause a loss. We cannot assure that our contract loss
    provisions in our financial statements will be adequate to cover
    all actual future losses. We may lose money on some contracts if
    we fail to meet these targets.

Certain fees under some of our U.S. Government contracts
    are linked to meeting specified technical, cost

and/or

schedule targets, including development or testing deadlines.
    Fees may also be influenced or be dependent on the collective
    efforts and success of other defense contractors over which we
    had no or limited control.

Our
    business is subject to government contracting regulations, and
    our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm
    our operating results and prospects.

We, like other government contractors, are subject to various
    audits, reviews and investigations (including private party
    “whistleblower” lawsuits) relating to our compliance
    with federal and state laws. Generally, claims arising out of
    these U.S. Government inquiries and voluntary disclosures
    can be resolved without resorting to litigation. However, should
    the business unit or division involved be charged with
    wrongdoing, or should the U.S. Government determine that
    the unit or division is not a “presently responsible
    contractor,” that unit or division, and conceivably our
    company as a whole, could be temporarily suspended or, in the
    event of a conviction, could be debarred for up to three years
    from receiving new government contracts or government-approved
    subcontracts. In addition, we could expend substantial amounts
    in defending against such charges and in damages, fines and
    penalties if such charges are proven or result in negotiated
    settlements.

Our
    pension expenses and the value of our pension assets are
    affected by factors outside of our control, including the
    performance of plan assets, the stock market, interest rates and
    actuarial data.

We have a defined benefit pension plan covering most of our
    employees. At year-end 2007, the value of the combined pension
    assets was less than our accumulated pension benefit obligation.
    Given our pension plan’s underfunded status, in 2004 we
    began making required cash contributions to our pension plan.
    For 2007, 2006 and 2005, cash contributions totaled
    $7.5 million, $20.9 million and $15.5 million,
    respectively, and we currently expect such contributions to be
    approximately $9.0 million for 2008. The lower contribution
    level in 2007 is due primarily to the merger into our pension
    plan of the overfunded Scientific Company pension plan in
    September 2006, which was part of our September 2006 acquisition
    of Scientific Company. The accounting rules applicable to our
    pension plan require that amounts recognized in financial
    statements be determined on an actuarial basis, rather than as
    contributions are made to the plan. Two significant elements in
    determining our pension income or pension expense are the
    expected return on plan assets and the discount



rate used in projecting pension benefit obligations. Declines in
    the stock market and lower rates of return could increase
    required contributions to our pension plan. Any decreases in
    market interest rates will affect the discount rate assumption
    used in projecting pension benefit obligations, and therefore if
    and to the extent these decreases are not offset by
    contributions and asset returns, our obligations could increase
    under the plans. For additional discussion of pension matters,
    see the discussion under “Item 7. Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition” and Notes 2 and 12 to Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements. At the end of 2007, we changed some
    investment allocations to reduce exposure to deterioration in
    the subprime mortgage market. However, our investment strategy
    may not be successful if the problems in the subprime credit
    market spread to other types of investments.

United
    States’ and global responses to terrorism, the Iraq
    situation and nuclear proliferation concerns increase
    uncertainties with respect to many of our businesses and may
    adversely affect our business and results of
    operations.

United States’ and global responses to terrorism, the Iraq
    situation and nuclear proliferation concerns increase
    uncertainties with respect to U.S. and other business and
    financial markets. Several factors associated, directly or
    indirectly, with terrorism, the Iraq situation and perceived
    nuclear threats and responses may adversely affect us. The
    reaction to Iran’s continuing desire to explore nuclear
    capabilities could affect adversely oil prices and some of our
    businesses.

While some of our businesses that provide products or services
    to the U.S. Government experienced greater demand for their
    products and services as a result of increased
    U.S. Government defense spending, various responses could
    realign government programs and affect the composition, funding
    or timing of our government programs. Changes in the leadership
    of the U.S. Government could also further affect responses
    and government programs. Government spending could shift to the
    Department of Defense or Homeland Security programs in which we
    may not participate or may not have current capabilities and
    curtail less pressing non-defense programs in which we do
    participate, including Department of Energy or NASA programs.
    Government spending could also shift towards non-defense
    programs in which we do not currently participate, such as
    medical research programs of the National Institutes of Health.

Air travel declines have occurred after terrorist attacks and
    heightened security alerts, as well as after the SARS and bird
    flu scares. Additional declines in air travel resulting from
    such factors and other factors could adversely affect the
    financial condition of many of our commercial airline and
    aircraft manufacturer customers and in turn could adversely
    affect our Electronics and Communications segment.

Deterioration of financial performance of airlines could result
    in a reduction of discretionary spending for upgrades of
    avionics and in-flight communications equipment, which would
    adversely affect our Electronics and Communications segment.

The government continues to evaluate potential security issues
    associated with general aviation. Increased government
    regulations, including but not limited to increased airspace
    regulations (including user fees), could lead to an overall
    decline in air travel and have an adverse affect on our
    Aerospace Engines and Components segment. As happened after the
    September 11th terrorist attacks, reinstatement of
    flight restrictions would negatively impact the market for
    general aviation aircraft piston engines and components and our
    Aerospace Engines and Components segment. Potential reductions
    in the need for general aviation aircraft maintenance as a
    result of declines in air travel could also adversely affect our
    Aerospace Engines and Components segment.

Higher oil prices could reduce general aviation air travel,
    negatively affecting our Aerospace Engines and Components
    segment. Higher oil prices could also adversely affect
    commercial airline-related customers of our Electronics and
    Communications segment. Conversely, lower oil prices could
    decrease oil exploration activities and hinder our marine
    instrumentation businesses, including Teledyne Geophysical
    Instruments, Teledyne Benthos, Teledyne D.G. O’Brien and
    majority-owned ODI. In addition, instability in the Middle East
    or other oil-producing regions could adversely affect expansion
    plans of the oil and gas industry customers of our marine
    instrumentation business.



Acquisitions
    involve inherent risks that may adversely affect our operating
    results and financial condition.

Our growth strategy includes acquisitions. Acquisitions involve
    various inherent risks, such as:

•

our ability to assess accurately the value, strengths,
    weaknesses, internal controls, contingent and other liabilities
    and potential profitability of acquisition candidates;

•

the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business;

•

our ability to integrate acquired businesses and to achieve
    identified financial, operating and other synergies anticipated
    to result from an acquisition;

•

our ability to assess, integrate and implement internal controls
    of acquired businesses in accordance with Section 404 of
    the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002;

•

the distraction of management resulting from the need to
    integrate acquired businesses;

•

increased competition for acquisition targets, which may
    increase acquisition costs; and

•

unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions
    affecting an acquired business.

While we conduct financial and other due diligence in connection
    with our acquisitions and generally seek some form of
    protection, including indemnification from a seller and
    sometimes an escrow of a portion of the purchase price to cover
    potential issues, such acquired companies may have weaknesses or
    liabilities that are not accurately assessed or brought to our
    attention at the time of the acquisition. Further, indemnities
    or escrows may not fully cover such matters, particularly
    matters identified after a closing.

We also have acquired several private companies, including the
    recent acquisitions of Storm Products Co., TSS (International)
    Limited, and the assets of Impulse Enterprise and Judson
    Technologies, LLC. Private companies generally may not have as
    formal or comprehensive internal controls and compliance systems
    in place as public companies. While we have required various
    sellers to take certain compliance actions prior to the closing
    of an acquisition, including making voluntary disclosures under
    various export control laws and regulations, and have sought
    protections in the purchase agreement for such matters, there is
    no assurance that we have identified all issues or will be fully
    protected from historic liabilities. After acquiring a company,
    notwithstanding pre-closing due diligence, we have discovered
    issues that required further action, including making voluntary
    disclosures under various defense and export control laws and
    regulations.

While the products and customer base of the companies we
    acquired in 2007 are complementary to some of Teledyne’s
    existing businesses, there is no assurance that we will achieve
    all identified financial, operating and marketing synergies. We
    may also experience problems that arise in entering new markets
    through acquisitions in which we may have little or no
    experience.

In connection with acquisitions, we may consolidate one or more
    acquired facilities with other Teledyne facilities to obtain
    synergies and cost-savings. For example, in 2006, we relocated,
    with minimal disruption, the operations of the microwave
    technical solutions assets acquired from Avnet Inc. to a
    Teledyne Cougar facility in Sunnyvale, California. In 2007, we
    also moved

2007-acquired

Tindall Technologies, Inc.’s operations into the same
    Teledyne Cougar facility. On a larger scale, in 2006, we
    successfully consolidated into a newly leased facility in Poway,
    California the operations of

2005-acquired

Teledyne RD Instruments, Inc.,

2005-acquired

MGD Technologies, Inc. (now part of Teledyne Isco) and Teledyne
    Interconnect Devices. In 2007, we added

2006-acquired

Teledyne KW Microwave to such facility. Nonetheless, despite
    planning, relocation and consolidation of manufacturing
    operations has inherent risks, as it tends to involve, among
    other things, change of personnel, application of a new business
    system software and learning or adaptation of manufacturing
    processes and techniques. As a result, production delays at a
    new operating location may occur.

As permitted by SEC rules, our current management’s report
    as to our assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls
    over financial reporting excludes in its scope and coverage our
    2007 acquisition of the assets of D.G. O’Brien, Inc.. We
    plan to evaluate more fully the internal controls of Teledyne
    D.G. O’Brien and subsequently acquired companies and
    implement a formal and rigorous system of internal controls at
    those



acquired companies. We can provide no assurance that we will be
    able to provide a report that contains no significant
    deficiencies or material weaknesses with respect to these
    acquired companies or other acquisitions.

Our
    future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset
    impairment charges.

Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
    Intangible Assets”, we are required to test both acquired
    goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for
    impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach,
    rather than amortizing them over time. We have chosen to perform
    our annual impairment reviews of goodwill and other
    indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of
    each fiscal year. We also are required to test goodwill for
    impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances
    change that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise
    fair value below its book value. These events or circumstances
    could include a significant change in the business climate,
    including a significant sustained decline in an entity’s
    market value, legal factors, operating performance indicators,
    competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of the
    business, or other factors. If the fair market value is less
    than the book value of goodwill, we could be required to record
    an impairment charge. The valuation of reporting units requires
    judgment in estimating future cash flows, discount rates and
    estimated product life cycles. In making these judgments, we
    evaluate the financial health of the business, including such
    factors as industry performance, changes in technology and
    operating cash flows. As we have grown through acquisitions, we
    have accumulated $351.6 million of goodwill, and have
    $61.7 million of acquired intangible assets, which includes
    $11.3 of indefinite-lived intangible assets, out of total assets
    of $1,159.4 million at December 30, 2007. As a result,
    the amount of any annual or interim impairment could be
    significant and could have a material adverse effect on our
    reported financial results for the period in which the charge is
    taken. We also may be required to record an earnings charge or
    incur unanticipated expenses if, as a result of a change in
    strategy or other reason, we determined the value of other
    assets has been impaired.

We account for the impairment of long-lived assets to be held
    and used in accordance with SFAS No. 144,
    “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived
    Assets” (“SFAS No. 144”).
    SFAS No. 144 requires that a long-lived asset to be
    disposed of be reported at the lower of its carrying amount or
    fair value less cost to sell. An asset (other than goodwill and
    indefinite-lived intangible assets) is considered impaired when
    estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying amount of
    the asset. In the event the carrying amount of such asset is not
    deemed recoverable, the asset is adjusted to its estimated fair
    value. Fair value is generally determined based upon estimated
    discounted future cash flows.

We may
    not have sufficient resources to fund all future research and
    development and capital expenditures or possible
    acquisitions.

In order to remain competitive, we must make substantial
    investments in research and development of new or enhanced
    products and continuously upgrade our process technology and
    manufacturing capabilities. Although we believe that anticipated
    cash flows from operations and available borrowings under our
    recently amended $590.0 million credit facility will be
    sufficient to satisfy our anticipated working capital, research
    and development and capital investment needs, we may be unable
    to fund all of these needs or possible acquisitions. Our ability
    to raise additional capital will depend on a variety of factors,
    some of which will not be within our control, including the
    existence of a public offering market, investor perceptions of
    us, our businesses and the industries in which we operate, and
    general economic conditions. We may be unable to successfully
    raise additional capital, if needed. Failure to successfully
    raise needed capital on a timely or cost-effective basis could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations and financial condition.

Our
    indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our
    business.

As of December 30, 2007, we had $143.2 million in
    total outstanding indebtedness, including $138.0 million
    under our then $400.0 million credit facility. The
    borrowing capacity under our credit facility was subsequently
    increased to $590.0 million in February 2008. Our
    indebtedness could harm our business by, among other things,
    reducing the funds available to make new strategic acquisitions.
    Our indebtedness could



also have a material adverse effect on our business by
    increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions or a downturn in our business. General
    adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our
    business could result in our inability to repay this
    indebtedness in a timely manner.

We may be
    unsuccessful in our efforts to increase our participation in
    certain new markets.

We intend to both adapt our existing technologies and develop
    new products to expand into new market segments. For example, we
    continue to work towards developing new fuel cell related
    technologies. The market for fuel cell technologies is not well
    established and there are a number of companies that have
    announced intentions to develop and market fuel cell products.
    Some of these companies have greater financial

and/or

technological resources than we do.

We have also been developing new electronic products, including
    high-power millimeter traveling wave tubes and imaging sonar
    systems, which are intended to access markets in which Teledyne
    does not currently participate or has limited participation. We
    may be unsuccessful in accessing these and other new markets if
    our products do not meet our customers’ requirements, as a
    result of changes in either technology and industry standards or
    because of actions taken by our competitors.

We may be
    unable to successfully introduce new and enhanced products in a
    timely and cost-effective manner.

Our operating results depend in part on our ability to introduce
    new and enhanced products on a timely basis. Successful product
    development and introduction depend on numerous factors,
    including our ability to anticipate customer and market
    requirements, changes in technology and industry standards, our
    ability to differentiate our offerings from offerings of our
    competitors, and market acceptance. We may not be able to
    develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely and
    cost-effective manner or to develop and introduce products that
    satisfy customer requirements. Our new products also may not
    achieve market acceptance or correctly anticipate new industry
    standards and technological changes. As an example, we have been
    working to develop high power solid state power amplifiers,
    which could replace our traveling wave tubes in some
    applications, and, in this area, there is a larger base of
    potential competitors than for tube amplifiers. As a result, it
    may be more difficult for our solid state power amplifier
    products to gain market acceptance. We may also lose any
    technological advantage to competitors if we fail to develop new
    products in a timely manner. For example, if Teledyne
    Continental Motors fails to fully launch Aerosance’s
    PowerLink FADEC, its electronic engine control product,
    competitors may be able to introduce similar products that are
    able to gain market acceptance to the disadvantage of
    Teledyne’s product.

Additionally, new products may trigger increased warranty costs
    as such products are tested further by actual usage. Accelerated
    entry of new products to meet heightened market demand and
    competitive pressures may cause additional warranty costs as
    development and testing time periods might be condensed. In
    2008, for example, Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc. currently
    believes it will continue to incur additional warranty costs as
    it continues to roll out two new hydrogen generation product
    lines.

Technological
    change and evolving industry and regulatory standards could
    cause certain of our products or services to become obsolete or
    non-competitive.

The markets for a number of our products and services are
    generally characterized by rapid technological development,
    evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements
    and new product introductions and enhancements. A faster than
    anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to
    our products or services, or in market demand for products or
    services based on a particular technology, could result in
    faster than anticipated obsolescence of certain of our products
    or services and could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition. For
    example, Teledyne Reynolds’ high voltage connector business
    could be negatively impacted by marketplace shifts to lower
    voltage requirements where the number of competitors is larger.
    Most lighting displays in legacy aircraft use tubes that require
    high voltage connectors. LED backlights, which are increasingly
    being used for aircraft lighting displays, have substantially
    lower voltage requirements.



Currently accepted industry and regulatory standards are also
    subject to change, which may contribute to the obsolescence of
    our products or services. For example, a European directive that
    certain electronic products must not contain impermissible
    levels of lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium,
    polybrominated biphenyls or polybrominated diphenyl ethers,
    recently took effect on July 1, 2006. As a result, we must
    make sure that certain of our electronic products sold into
    European member states comply with this new directive. Although
    many of our products are exempt from the European directive, we
    expect that, over time, component manufacturers may discontinue
    selling components that have the restricted substances. This
    will, in turn, require us to accommodate changes in parameters,
    such as the way parts are soldered, and may, in some cases,
    require redesign of certain products. This could lead to
    increased costs, which we may not be able to recover from our
    customers, delays in product shipments and loss of market share
    to competitors. Our sales of environmental monitoring equipment
    could be negatively impacted if regulatory requirements change
    to deemphasize environmental monitoring. Similarly, revenues of
    our Teledyne Test Services business, which provides testing and
    certification for products used in nuclear power plants, could
    be negatively impacted in the event of any changes in
    certification standards by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.

The
    airline industry is heavily regulated, and if we fail to comply
    with applicable requirements, our results of operations could
    suffer.

Governmental agencies throughout the world, including the
    U.S. Federal Aviation Administration, or the FAA, prescribe
    standards and qualification requirements for aircraft
    components, including virtually all commercial airline and
    general aviation products, as well as regulations regarding the
    repair and overhaul of aircraft engines. Specific regulations
    vary from country to country, although compliance with FAA
    requirements generally satisfies regulatory requirements in
    other countries. We include, with the products and replacement
    parts that we sell to our aircraft manufacturing industry
    customers, documentation certifying that each part complies with
    applicable regulatory requirements and meets applicable
    standards of airworthiness established by the FAA or the
    equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. In order to
    sell our products, we and the products we manufacture must also
    be certified by our individual original equipment manufacturer,
    or OEM, customers. If any material authorization or approval
    qualifying us to supply our products is revoked or suspended,
    then the sale of the subject product would be prohibited by law,
    which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.

From time to time, the FAA or equivalent regulatory agencies in
    other countries propose new regulations or changes to existing
    regulations, which are usually more stringent than existing
    regulations. If these proposed regulations are adopted and
    enacted, we may incur significant additional costs to achieve
    compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.

Product
    liability claims, product recalls and field service actions
    could have a material adverse effect on our reputation,
    business, results of operations and financial
    condition.

As a manufacturer and distributor of a wide variety of products,
    including aircraft engines and medical devices, our results of
    operations are susceptible to adverse publicity regarding the
    quality or safety of our products. In part, product liability
    claims challenging the safety of our products may result in a
    decline in sales for a particular product, which could adversely
    affect our results of operations. This could be the case even if
    the claims themselves are proven untrue or settled for
    immaterial amounts.

While we have general liability and other insurance policies
    concerning product liabilities, we have self-insured retentions
    or deductibles under such policies with respect to a portion of
    these liabilities. For example, our current annual self-insured
    retention for general aviation aircraft liabilities incurred in
    connection with products manufactured by Teledyne Continental
    Motors, Inc., is approximately $21.0 million, a decrease
    from $22.9 million for the prior annual period. Our
    existing aircraft product liability insurance policy expires on
    May 31, 2008. Additionally, based on facts and
    circumstances of claims, we have not always accrued amounts up
    to the applicable annual self-insured retentions. Awarded
    damages could be more than our accruals.

Product recalls can be expensive and tarnish our reputation and
    have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products. For
    example, Teledyne Continental Motors had been engaged in a
    product recall of



piston engine crankshafts as a result of which we recorded a
    $12.0 million pretax charge in the second quarter of 2000.
    In 2002, we reached a monetary settlement related to the 2000
    recall with two of three companies that manufactured and
    processed allegedly defective steel subsequently made into
    aircraft engine crankshafts. We failed to win a jury verdict
    against a third company involved in making the steel. In 2008,
    we reached another monetary settlement with a materials supplier
    as a result of the 2000 product recall program.

Through Aerosance, Inc., we have developed electronic controls,
    known as PowerLink FADEC, for piston aircraft engines that
    automate many functions requiring manual control, such as fuel
    flow and power management. While such control systems should
    improve engine management and facilitate maintenance of engines,
    we could face additional claims as they become standard
    equipment on selected new piston engine aircraft or are
    retrofitted on some piston engine aircraft. New products can
    trigger additional product liability claims as such products are
    further tested by actual usage. Additionally, general aviation
    aircraft crash lawsuits tend to name as defendants manufacturers
    of a multitude of aircraft-related products as discovery and
    recoveries are pursued.

We have been joined, among a number of defendants (often over
    100), in lawsuits alleging injury or death as a result of
    exposure to asbestos. We have not incurred material liabilities
    in connection with these lawsuits. The filings typically do not
    identify any of our products as a source of asbestos exposure,
    and we have been dismissed from cases for lack of product
    identification, but only after some defense costs have been
    incurred. Also, because of the prominent “Teledyne”
    name, we may be mistakenly joined in lawsuits involving a
    company or business that was not assumed by us as part of our
    1999 spin-off. Our historic insurance coverage, including that
    of its predecessors, may not fully cover such claims and defense
    of such matters, as coverage depends on the year of purported
    exposure and other factors. Nonetheless, we intend to defend
    these claims vigorously. Congress from time to time has
    considered tort reform to deal with asbestos-related claims, but
    to date nothing has materialized.

Certain gas generators manufactured by Teledyne Energy Systems,
    Inc. contain a sealed, wetted asbestos component. While the
    company has been transitioning to a replacement material, has
    placed warning labels on its products and takes care in handling
    of this material by employees, there is no assurance that the
    Company will not face product liability claims involving this
    component.

Our Teledyne Brown Engineering’s laboratory in Knoxville,
    Tennessee performs radiological analyses. While the laboratory
    is certified by the Department of Energy and has other
    nuclear-related certifications and internal quality controls in
    place, errors and omissions in analyses may occur. We currently
    have errors and omissions insurance coverage and nuclear
    liability insurance coverage that might apply depending on the
    circumstances. We also have sought indemnities from some of our
    customers. Our insurance coverage or indemnities, however, may
    not be adequate to cover potential problems associated with
    faulty radiological analyses.

We cannot assure that we will not have additional product
    liability claims or that we will not recall any additional
    products.

We may
    have difficulty obtaining product liability and other insurance
    coverages, or be subject to increased costs for such
    coverage.

As a manufacturer of a variety of products including aircraft
    engines used in general aviation aircraft, we have general
    liability and other insurance policies that provide coverage
    beyond self-insured retentions or deductibles. We cannot assure
    that, for 2008 and in future years, insurance carriers will be
    willing to renew coverage or provide new coverage for product
    liability, especially as it relates to general aviation. Over
    the last several years, the number of insurance companies
    providing general aviation product liability insurance coverage
    has decreased. If such insurance is available, we may be
    required to pay substantially higher prices for coverage

and/or

increase our levels of self-insured retentions or reserves. Our
    current aircraft product liability insurance policy expires in
    May 2008 and has an annual self-insured retention of
    approximately $21.0 million.



To offset aircraft product liability insurance costs, we
    continue to try to reduce manufacturing and other costs and also
    to pass on such insurance costs through price increases on its
    aircraft engines and spare parts. We cannot provide assurances
    that further cost reduction efforts will prove successful or
    that customers will accept additional price increases. Aircraft
    engines and spare part cost increases, coupled with increased
    costs of insurance for general aviation aircraft owners, tend to
    result in decreasing aftermarket sales of our piston engines.
    This, in turn, leaves our Aerospace Engines and Components
    segment more dependent on sales to OEMs, which is more dependent
    on general economic conditions.

For certain electronic components for medical applications that
    we manufacture, such as those that go into cardiac
    defibrillators, we have asked for indemnities from our customers

and/or

to be
    included under their insurance policies. We cannot, however,
    provide any assurance that such indemnities or insurance will
    offset potential liabilities that we may incur as a result of
    our manufacture of such components.

Aside from the uncertainties created by external events that can
    affect insurance coverages, such as the devastating 2005
    hurricane season, our ability to obtain product liability
    insurance and the cost for such insurance are affected by our
    historical claims experience. While we have taken steps to
    improve our claims management process over the last few years,
    we cannot assure that, for 2008 and in future years, our ability
    to obtain insurance, or the cost for such insurance, or the
    amount of self-insured retentions or reserves will not be
    negatively impacted by our experience in prior years.

Increasing
    competition could reduce the demand for our products and
    services.

Although we believe that we have certain advantages that help us
    compete in our markets, each of our markets is highly
    competitive. Many of our competitors have, and potential
    competitors could have, greater name recognition, a larger
    installed base of products, more extensive engineering,
    manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and
    greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we
    do. New or existing competitors may also develop new
    technologies that could adversely affect the demand for our
    products and services. Industry consolidation trends,
    particularly among aerospace and defense contractors, could
    adversely affect demand for our products and services if prime
    contractors seek to control more aspects of vertically
    integrated projects. For example, the pending combination of the
    network activities of Nokia and Siemens could negatively impact
    our wireless transceivers business. Our general aviation piston
    engines business could face increasing competition from
    German-based Thielert Aircraft Engines GmbH as it continues to
    enter the U.S. market with retrofits and attracts OEMs.
    Low-cost competition from China and other developing countries
    could also result in decreased demand for our products.

We sell
    products and services to customers in industries that are
    cyclical and sensitive to changes in general economic
    activity.

We develop and manufacture products for customers in the energy
    exploration market, which has been cyclical and suffered from
    over capacity in prior years. Strong demand and increased prices
    for oil and natural gas contributed to substantial revenue
    growth at Teledyne Geophysical Instruments and ODI since 2003. A
    cyclical downturn in this market may affect future operating
    results, particularly given our broader range of marine
    instrumentation businesses since 2003.

We derive significant revenues from the commercial aerospace
    industry. Domestic and international commercial aerospace
    markets are cyclical in nature. Historic demand for new
    commercial aircraft has been related to the stability and health
    of domestic and international economies. Delays or changes in
    aircraft and component orders could impact the future demand for
    our products and have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition. While the market
    for commercial aircraft has improved since the downturn
    triggered by the events of September 11th and the war
    in Iraq, another such event could increase the level of
    uncertainty regarding future orders for aircraft.

Many of the OEM customers of the businesses in our Aerospace
    Engines and Components segment are privately-held and may not be
    well-capitalized. In 2007, one of the airplane manufacturer
    customers of Teledyne Continental Motors filed a petition for
    bankruptcy, resulting in a $1.7 million write down of our
    accounts receivable. In February 2008, Adam Aircraft filed for
    bankruptcy protection. We have no unpaid



receivables from Adam Aircraft outstanding. Any future credit
    problems with our customers could result in similar or larger
    write downs.

Several of our businesses are also suppliers to the
    semiconductor industry, which is highly cyclical by nature. The
    semiconductor industry has experienced significant, and
    sometimes prolonged, downturns. Any downturn in the
    semiconductor industry or any other industry that uses a
    significant number of semiconductor devices, such as consumer
    electronic products, telecommunication devices, or computing
    devices could have a material adverse effect on our business and
    operating results.

In addition, we sell products and services to customers in
    industries that are sensitive to the level of general economic
    activity and in mature industries that are sensitive to
    capacity. Adverse economic conditions affecting these industries
    may reduce demand for our products and services, which may
    reduce our profits, or our production levels, or both.

We sell
    products to customers in industries that may undergo rapid and
    unpredictable changes.

We develop and manufacture products for customers in industries
    that have undergone rapid changes in the past. For example, we
    manufacture products and provide manufacturing services to
    companies that serve telecommunications markets. During 2001,
    many segments of the telecommunications market experienced a
    dramatic and rapid downturn that resulted in cancellations or
    deferrals of orders for our products and services. This market,
    or others that we serve, may exhibit rapid changes in the future
    and may adversely affect our operating results, or our
    production levels, or both. We also manufacture products using
    fuel cell technology, which is a market that is not well
    established and subject to significant change and evolution.

We are
    subject to the risks associated with international
    sales.

During 2007, sales to international customers accounted for
    approximately 22% of our total revenues, as compared to 21% in
    2006 and 18% in 2005. We anticipate that future sales to
    international customers will continue to account for a
    significant percentage of our revenues. Risks associated with
    these sales include:

•

political and economic instability;

•

international terrorism;

•

export controls, including U.S. export controls related to
    China;

•

changes in legal and regulatory requirements;

•

U.S. and foreign government policy changes affecting the
    markets for our products;

•

changes in tax laws and tariffs;

•

changes in

U.S.-China

relations; and

•

exchange rate fluctuations.

Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition.
    Exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect the cost of our
    products to international customers and therefore reduce our
    competitive position. If the U.S. Dollar strengthens
    against the British Pound Sterling or Euro, our European
    customers may no longer find our product prices more attractive
    than European competitors.

Sales of our products and services internationally are subject
    to U.S. and local government regulations and procurement
    policies and practices including regulations relating to
    import-export control. Violations of export control rules could
    result in suspension of our ability to export items from one or
    more business units or the entire corporation. Depending on the
    scope of the suspension, this could have a material effect on
    our ability to perform certain international contracts. Concerns
    over theft of technology for military uses, nuclear
    proliferation concerns, terrorism and other factors have
    resulted in increased export scrutiny of international sales,
    including some of our products to international customers. There
    has also been increasing export oversight and regulation of
    sales to China. Travel restrictions to Middle Eastern and other
    countries may



negatively affect continuing international sales or service
    revenues from such regions. There are also U.S. and
    international regulations relating to investments, exchange
    controls and repatriation of earnings, as well as varying
    currency, political and economic risks.

Among other things, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits
    U.S. companies and their intermediaries from bribing
    foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping
    business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. In
    particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our
    strategic or local partners even though our partners are not
    subject to the FCPA. Any determination that we have violated the
    FCPA could result in sanctions that could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.

Compliance
    with increasing environmental regulations and the effects of
    potential environmental liabilities could have a
    material adverse financial effect on us.

We, like other industry participants, are subject to various
    federal, state, local and international environmental laws and
    regulations. We may be subject to increasingly stringent
    environmental standards in the future. Future developments,
    administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental
    matters could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations or financial condition.

While we have, as part of our overall risk management program,
    an environmental management and compliance program applicable to
    our operating facilities, including a “review and
    audit” program to monitor compliance where each facility is
    reviewed and audited by an internal environmental team every
    three years, such program does not eliminate potential
    environmental liabilities. In addition, while we conduct
    environmental-related due diligence in acquisitions and
    generally seek some form of protection, including
    indemnification from a seller, companies we acquire may have
    environmental liabilities that are not accurately assessed or
    brought to our attention at the time of the acquisition.

For additional discussion of environmental matters, see the
    discussion under the caption “Other Matters —
    Environmental” of “Item 7. Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition” and Note 15 to Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Increased environmental regulatory monitoring requirements of
    the air we breathe and the water we drink could have a favorable
    effect on the results of operations or financial condition of
    our instrumentation businesses, including the sulfur dioxide,
    carbon monoxide and ozone gas monitoring business of Teledyne
    Advanced Pollution Instrumentation, Inc. and the water quality
    monitoring business of Teledyne Isco, Inc.

Our
    inability to attract and retain key personnel could have a
    material adverse effect on our future success.

Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the
    continued service of our executive officers and other key
    management and technical personnel and on our ability to
    continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.
    Recruiting and retaining skilled technical and engineering
    personnel has become even more competitive as the domestic
    economy has improved in recent years. Also, our Engineered
    Systems segment has already begun to face increasing competition
    for qualified engineering personnel as a result of the
    Department of Defense 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (also
    known as BRAC) decisions, particularly as positions continue to
    move to Huntsville, Alabama over the next several years. While
    we have engaged in succession planning, the loss of the services
    of one or more of our key employees or our failure to attract,
    retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.

We may
    not be able to sell, or exit on acceptable terms, product lines
    that we determine no longer meet with our growth
    strategy.

Consistent with our growth strategy to focus on markets to
    expand our profitable niche businesses, we continually evaluate
    our product lines to ensure that they are aligned with our
    strategy. For example, after the June 2004 acquisition of Isco,
    Inc., we determined that the on-line process control
    instrumentation business of



its German subsidiary was not aligned with our strategy, and in
    March 2005, we sold this non-strategic business. In 2007,
    principally because of the decision of a customer to manufacture
    certain medical products at its facilities in India, we closed
    our contract manufacturing operations in El Rubi, Mexico and
    transferred the remaining operations to our La Mesa, Mexico
    facility and our Lewisburg, Tennessee facility.

Our ability to dispose of or exit product lines that may no
    longer be aligned with our growth strategy will depend on many
    factors, including the terms and conditions of any asset
    purchase and sale agreement, as well as industry, business and
    economic conditions. We cannot provide any assurance that we
    will be able to sell non-strategic product lines on terms that
    are acceptable to us, or at all. Also, if the sale of any
    non-strategic product line cannot be consummated or is not
    practical, alternative courses of action, including closure, may
    not be available to us or may be more costly than anticipated.

Provisions
    of our governing documents, applicable law, and our Change in
    Control Severance Agreements could make an acquisition of
    Teledyne Technologies more difficult.

Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and Restated
    Bylaws and Rights Agreement and the General Corporation Law of
    the State of Delaware contain several provisions that could make
    the acquisition of control of Teledyne Technologies in a
    transaction not approved by our board of directors more
    difficult. We have also entered into Change in Control Severance
    Agreements with 14 members of our management, which could have
    an anti-takeover effect.

The
    market price of our Common Stock has fluctuated significantly
    since our spin-off from ATI, and could continue to do
    so.

Since the spin-off from ATI on November 29, 1999, the
    market price of our Common Stock has ranged from a low of
    $7.6875 to a high of $57.21 per share. At February 26,
    2008, our closing stock price was $46.84. Fluctuations in our
    stock price could continue. Among the factors that could affect
    our stock price are:

•

quarterly variations in our operating results;

•

strategic actions by us or our competitors;

•

acquisitions;

•

adverse business developments;

•

war in the Middle East or elsewhere;

•

additional terrorist activities;

•

increased military or homeland defense activities; changes to
    the Federal budget;

•

changes in the semiconductor, telecommunications, commercial
    aviation, energy exploration and electronic manufacturing
    services markets;

•

general market conditions;

•

changes in tax laws; and

•

general economic factors unrelated to our performance.

The stock markets in general, and the markets for high
    technology companies in particular, have experienced a high
    degree of volatility not necessarily related to the operating
    performance of these companies. We cannot provide assurances as
    to our stock price.

Our
    financial statements are based on estimates required by GAAP,
    and actual results may differ materially from those estimated
    under different assumptions or conditions.

Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with
    generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
    These principles require our management to make estimates and
    assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
    liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
    reported amounts of



revenue and expenses during the reporting period. For example,
    estimates are used when accounting for items such as asset
    valuations, allowances for doubtful accounts, depreciation and
    amortization, impairment assessments, employee benefits, taxes,
    aircraft product and general liability and contingencies. While
    we base our estimates on historical experience and on various
    assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the
    circumstances at the time made, actual results may differ
    materially from those estimated.

While we
    believe our control systems are effective, there are inherent
    limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to
    error or fraud may occur and not be detected.

We continue to take action to assure compliance with the
    internal controls, disclosure controls and other requirements of
    the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management, including our
    Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot
    guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls
    will prevent all possible errors or all fraud. A control system,
    no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only
    reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the
    control system are met. In addition, the design of a control
    system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints
    and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs.
    Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no
    system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all
    control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the
    Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include
    the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty
    and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or
    mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual
    acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by
    management override of the controls. The design of any system of
    controls also is based, in part, upon certain assumptions about
    the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance
    that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under
    all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be
    inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of
    compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
    Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control
    system, misstatements resulting from error or fraud may occur
    and may not be detected.

Natural
    disasters, such as a serious earthquake or wildfire in
    California or a major hurricane in Alabama or Florida, could
    adversely affect our business, results of operations and
    financial condition.

Several of our facilities, as a result of their locations could
    be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by an earthquake, a
    hurricane or a tornado. Many of our production facilities and
    our headquarters are located in California and thus are in areas
    with above average seismic activity and may also be at risk of
    damage in wildfires. In addition, we have manufacturing
    facilities in the Southeastern United States and Texas that have
    been threatened and struck by major hurricanes. Our facilities
    in Alabama, Florida, Kansas, Nebraska and Tennessee have also
    been threatened by tornados. In 2007, prior to our acquisition
    of Storm Products Co., a tornado caused minor damage to one of
    its Dallas, Texas facilities. While Teledyne Continental
    Motors’ piston-engines manufacturing facility, located in
    Mobile, Alabama, Teledyne Geophysical Instruments’ facility
    in Houston, Texas, and ODI’s facility in Daytona Beach,
    Florida were relatively fortunate with respect to the building
    damage and business interruption they suffered during the severe
    2005 hurricane season, there can be no assurance that any one of
    them will be as fortunate in the future. If any of our
    California facilities, including our California headquarters,
    were to experience a catastrophic earthquake or wildfire loss or
    if any of our Alabama, Florida, Nebraska, Kansas, Tennessee or
    Texas facilities were to experience a catastrophic hurricane,
    storm or tornado, such event could disrupt our operations, delay
    production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses
    to repair or replace the facility or facilities. While Teledyne
    has property insurance to partially reimburse it for losses
    caused by windstorm and earth movement, such insurance would not
    cover all possible losses. In addition, our existing disaster
    recovery plans (including those relating to our information
    technology systems) may not be fully responsive to, or minimize
    losses associated with, catastrophic events.

Item 1B.

Unresolved
    Staff Comments.

None.



Item 2.

Properties.

Our principal facilities as of February 20, 2008 are listed
    below. Although the facilities vary in terms of age and
    condition, our management believes that these facilities have
    generally been well maintained and are adequate for current
    operations.

Facility Location

Principal Use

Owned/Leased

Electronics and Communications Segment

Defense Electronics, Products and Services

Camarillo, California

Production of focal plane arrays and imaging sensors and
    subsystems

Leased

Los Angeles, California

Development and production of electronic components and
    subsystems

Owned and

Leased

Los Angeles, California

Development and production of high voltage connectors and
    subassemblies and pilot helmet mounted display components and
    subsystems

Leased

Mountain View, California

Production of microwave integrated circuits and systems

Owned

Northridge, California

Development of electronic seat ejection sequencers

Leased

Poway, California

Development and production of defense microwave components and
    subsystems

Leased

Rancho Cordova, California

Development and production of traveling wave tubes

Owned

Santa Maria, California

Development and production of high voltage capacitor products

Leased

Sunnyvale, California

Development and production of RD and microwave amplifiers and
    components

Owned and

Leased

Thousand Oaks, California

Provision of research and development services

Owned

Tracy, California

Development and production of precision secondary explosive
    components including initiators and detonators

Leased

Woodridge, Illinois

Development and production of microwave cable and interconnect
    products

Leased

Hudson, New Hampshire

Production of printed circuit boards

Owned

Montgomeryville, Pennsylvania

Development and production of infrared devices and accessory
    products

Owned and

Leased

Lewisburg, Tennessee

Development and manufacturing of electronic components and
    subsystems

Owned

Instrumentation Products

City of Industry, California

Development and production of precision oxygen analyzers

Owned

San Diego, California

Development and production of environmental monitoring
    instrumentation

Leased

San Diego, California

Development and production of electrical interconnection systems

Leased

Poway, California

Development and production of connectors

Leased

Poway, California

Development and production of underwater acoustic instrumentation

Leased

Englewood, Colorado

Development and production of environmental monitoring systems

Leased

Daytona Beach, Florida

Development of subsea, wet-mateable electrical and fiber-optic
    interconnect systems

Leased

North Falmouth, Massachusetts

Development and production of underwater acoustic
    instrumentation and package inspection systems

Owned

Lincoln, Nebraska

Development and production of water quality monitoring products,
    chemical separation instruments and flash chromatography
    instruments and consumables

Owned

Hudson, New Hampshire

Development and production of elemental analysis instruments

Leased



Facility Location

Principal Use

Owned/Leased

Seabrook, New Hampshire

Development and production of electrical and fiber optic
    interconnect systems

Leased

Mason, Ohio

Development and production of chemical analysis instruments

Leased

Dallas, Texas

Development and production of specialty wire and cable assemblies

Leased

Houston, Texas

Development and production of geophysical streamer cables and
    hydrophones for seismic monitoring

Owned

Hampton, Virginia

Development and production of vacuum and flow measurement
    instruments

Owned

Other Commercial Electronics

El Segundo, California

Development and production of digital data acquisition

Leased

systems for monitoring commercial aircraft and engines

Hawthorne, California

Production of electromechanical relays

Owned

Engineered Systems Segment

Huntsville, Alabama

Provision of engineering services and products, including
    systems engineering, optical engineering, software and hardware
    engineering, and instrumentation technology

Owned and

Leased

Colorado Springs, Colorado

Provision of engineering services

Leased

Knoxville, Tennessee

Laboratories and offices in support of environmental services

Leased

Arlington, Virginia

Defense program offices supporting governmental customers

Leased

Aerospace Engines and Components Segment

Mobile, Alabama

Design, development and production of new and rebuilt piston
    engines, ignition systems and spare parts for the general
    aviation market

Leased

Mattituck, New York

Supply of aftermarket parts, services and engine overhauls for
    the general aviation market

Leased

Energy and Power Systems Segment

Redlands, California

Manufacturing of batteries for the general aviation market

Owned

Hunt Valley, Maryland

Manufacturing, assembling and maintenance of hydrogen gas
    generators, power generating systems and fuel cell test stations

Leased

Toledo, Ohio

Design, development and production of small turbine engines for
    aerospace and military markets

Leased

We also own or lease facilities and offices elsewhere in the
    United States and outside the United States, including
    facilities in: Tijuana, Mexico; Gloucester, Newbury, West
    Drayton and Watford, England; Cumbernauld and Aberdeen,
    Scotland; Singapore; Cwmbran, Wales; Kreuztal, Germany;
    La Gaude, France; Shanghai, China; and Ottawa, Canada. Our
    corporate executive offices are located at 1049 Camino Dos Rios,
    Thousand Oaks, California

91360-2362.

Item 3.

Legal
    Proceedings.

From time to time, we become involved in various lawsuits,
    claims and proceedings related to the conduct of our business,
    including those pertaining to product liability, patent
    infringement, commercial, employment and employee benefits.
    While we cannot predict the outcome of any lawsuit, claim or
    proceeding, our management does not believe that the disposition
    of any pending matters is likely to have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition or liquidity. The resolution
    in any reporting period of one or more of these matters,
    however, could have a material adverse effect on the results of
    operations for that period.

Item 4.

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

No matters were submitted to a vote of Teledyne’s
    stockholders during the fourth quarter of 2007.



PART II

Item 5.

Market
    for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder
    Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities.

Price
    Range of Common Stock and Dividend Policy

Our Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and
    traded under the symbol “TDY.” The following table
    sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sale
    prices for the Common Stock as reported by the New York Stock
    Exchange.

High

Low


1st Quarter

$

35.92

$

28.88

2nd Quarter

$

38.99

$

31.02

3rd Quarter

$

42.28

$

29.10

4th Quarter

$

44.59

$

38.39


1st Quarter

$

40.73

$

35.75

2nd Quarter

$

48.95

$

36.91

3rd Quarter

$

55.00

$

42.86

4th Quarter

$

57.21

$

47.68


1st Quarter (through February 26, 2008)

$

54.65

$

46.00

On February 26, 2008, the closing sale price of our Common
    Stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange was $46.84 per
    share. As of February 26, 2008, there were 5,820 holders of
    record of the Common Stock.

We currently intend to retain any future earnings to fund the
    development and growth of our businesses, including through
    acquisitions. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash
    dividends in the foreseeable future.



Item 6.

Selected
    Financial Data.

The following table presents our summary consolidated financial
    data. We derived the following historical selected financial
    data from our audited consolidated financial statements. We have
    reclassified some amounts reported in previous years to conform
    to our 2007 presentation. These reclassifications did not affect
    our reported results of operations or stockholders’ equity.
    Our fiscal year is determined based on a 52 or 53-week
    convention ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. The
    five-year summary of selected financial data should be read in
    conjunction with the discussion under “Item 7 -
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operation.”

Five-Year
    Summary of Selected Financial Data






(In millions, except per-share amounts)

Sales

$

1,622.3

$

1,433.2

$

1,206.5

$

1,016.6

$

840.7

Net income

$

98.5

$

80.3

$

64.2

$

41.7

$

29.7

Working capital

$

213.7

$

216.4

$

154.0

$

124.4

$

129.5

Total assets

$

1,159.4

$

1,061.4

$

728.2

$

624.8

$

433.6

Long-term debt and capital lease obligations

$

142.4

$

230.7

$

47.0

$

74.4

$

—

Stockholders’ equity

$

530.2

$

431.8

$

326.0

$

262.1

$

221.0

Basic earnings per common share

$

2.82

$

2.34

$

1.93

$

1.29

$

0.92

Diluted earnings per common share

$

2.72

$

2.26

$

1.85

$

1.24

$

0.91



Item 7.

Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operation.

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is a leading provider of
    sophisticated electronic components and subsystems,
    instrumentation and communications products, including defense
    electronics, monitoring and control instrumentation for marine,
    environmental and industrial applications, harsh environment
    interconnect products, data acquisition and communications
    equipment for air transport and business aircraft, and
    components and subsystems for wireless and satellite
    communications. We also provide engineered systems and
    information technology services for defense, space and
    environmental applications, manufacture general aviation engines
    and components, and supply energy generation, energy storage and
    small propulsion products.

We serve niche market segments where performance, precision and
    reliability are critical. Our customers include government
    agencies, aerospace prime contractors, energy exploration and
    production companies, major industrial companies, and airlines
    and general aviation companies.

Strategy

Our strategy continues to emphasize growth in our core markets
    of instrumentation, defense electronics and government
    engineered systems. We intend to strengthen and expand our core
    businesses with targeted acquisitions. We intend to aggressively
    pursue operational excellence to continually improve our margins
    and earnings. At Teledyne, operational excellence includes the
    rapid integration of the businesses we acquire. Over time, our
    goal is to create a set of businesses that are truly superior in
    their niches. We intend to continue to evaluate our product
    lines to ensure that they are aligned with our strategy.

Recent
    Acquisitions

During 2007 and subsequently, we engaged in a number of
    acquisitions intended to expand and strengthen our product and
    service offerings in our core instrumentation and defense
    markets.

Fiscal 2007

•

On March 30, 2007, Teledyne Instruments, Inc. acquired
    assets of D.G. O’Brien, Inc. (“DGO”). DGO,
    headquartered in Seabrook, New Hampshire, manufactures highly
    reliable electrical and fiber-optic interconnect systems,
    primarily for subsea military and offshore oil and gas
    applications.

•

On June 20, 2007, Teledyne Cougar, Inc. acquired Tindall
    Technologies, Inc. (“Tindall”), a designer and
    supplier of microwave subsystems for defense applications and
    consolidated Tindall’s Pleasanton, California, operations
    with its operations in Sunnyvale, California.

Fiscal 2008

•

On December 31, 2007, Teledyne Instruments, Inc. acquired
    assets of Impulse Enterprise. Impulse, headquartered in
    San Diego, California, manufactures underwater electrical
    interconnection systems for harsh environments.

•

On December 31, 2007, Teledyne Reynolds, Inc. acquired
    Storm Products Co. Primarily from its Dallas, Texas facility,
    Storm supplies custom, high-reliability bulk wire and cable
    assemblies to a number of markets, including energy exploration,
    environmental monitoring and industrial equipment. From its
    Woodridge, Illinois facility, Storm provides coax microwave
    cable and interconnect products primarily to defense customers
    for radar, electronic warfare and communications applications.

•

On January 31, 2008, Teledyne Limited acquired S G Brown
    Limited and its wholly-owned subsidiary TSS (International)
    Limited. TSS International, headquartered in Watford, United
    Kingdom, designs and manufactures inertial sensing, gyrocompass
    navigation and subsea pipe and cable detection of offshore
    energy, oceangraphic and military marine markets.

•

On February 1, 2008, Teledyne Scientific &
    Imaging, LLC, acquired assets of Judson Technologies, LLC.
    Headquartered in Montgomeryville, Pennsylvania, Judson designs
    and manufactures high performance infrared detectors and
    accessory products for military, space, industrial and
    scientific applications.



Teledyne spent $42.7 million, net of cash acquired, on
    these acquisitions in fiscal 2007. For those acquisitions
    subsequently completed in our fiscal 2008, we spent
    $167.4 million, net of cash acquired. All of the
    acquisitions are part of the Electronics and Communications
    segment.

Financial
    Highlights

Our fiscal year is determined based on a 52 or 53-week
    convention ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. The
    following is our financial information for 2007, 2006 and 2005
    (in millions, except per-share amounts):

2007(a)

2006(a)


Sales

$

1,622.3

$

1,433.2

$

1,206.5

Costs and Expenses

Cost of sales

1,136.4

1,020.2

869.6

Selling, general and administrative expenses

323.6

287.9

236.2

Total costs and expenses

1,460.0

1,308.1

1,105.8

Income before other income and expense and income taxes

162.3

125.1

100.7

Interest and debt expense, net

(12.5

)

(7.4

)

(3.5

)

Minority Interest

(3.4

)

(1.0

)

(0.2

)

Other income (expense), net(b)

2.9

5.0

6.0

Income before income taxes

149.3

121.7

103.0

Provision for income taxes(c)

50.8

41.4

38.8

Net income

$

98.5

$

80.3

$

64.2

Basic earnings per common share

$

2.82

$

2.34

$

1.93

Diluted earnings per common share

$

2.72

$

2.26

$

1.85

We operate in four business segments: Electronics and
    Communications; Engineered Systems; Aerospace Engines and
    Components; and Energy and Power Systems. In the fourth quarter
    of 2007, the company realigned Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc.,
    Teledyne Turbine Engines and Teledyne Battery Products in a new
    segment called Energy and Power Systems. This segment will
    provide Teledyne’s customers with a focal point for the
    specialized energy generation, energy storage and small
    propulsion products that Teledyne manufactures, primarily for
    high-reliability aerospace and defense applications. Product
    lines in this segment include hydrogen generators, fuel cells,
    thermoelectric generators, batteries and small turbine engines.
    In addition to these changes, the Systems Engineering Solutions
    segment has been renamed Engineered Systems to better describe
    its programs. As required by Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standard (“SFAS”) No. 131, “Disclosures
    about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information”
    (“SFAS No. 131”), the Company has restated
    its 2006 and 2005 historical segment information to be
    consistent with the current reportable segment



structure. This segment restatement had no effect on the
    Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash
    flows for the periods presented and also did not affect the
    results of the Electronics and Communications or Engineered
    Systems segments. The segments’ respective contributions as
    a percentage of total sales for 2007, 2006 and 2005 are
    summarized in the following table:

Percentage of Sales

Segment




Electronics and Communications


%


%


%

Engineered Systems


%


%


%

Aerospace Engines and Components


%


%


%

Energy and Power Systems


%


%


%


%


%


%

Results
    of Operations

    Compared with 2006

%

Sales



Change

(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

1,071.6

$

899.4

19.1

%

Engineered Systems

301.7

283.0

6.6

%

Aerospace Engines and Components

180.7

181.6

(0.5

)%

Energy and Power Systems

68.3

69.2

(1.3

)%

Total sales

$

1,622.3

$

1,433.2

13.2

%

%

Net Income


2006(a)

Change

(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

143.2

$

109.3

31.0

%

Engineered Systems

26.2

24.5

6.9

%

Aerospace Engines and Components(a)

19.2

15.5

23.9

%

Energy and Power Systems

6.3

6.0

5.0

%

Segment operating profit and other segment income

194.9

155.3

25.5

%

Corporate expense

(32.6

)

(27.7

)

17.7

%

Interest and debt expense, net

(12.5

)

(7.4

)

68.9

%

Minority interest

(3.4

)

(1.0

)

*

Other income, net

2.9

2.5

16.0

%

Income before taxes

149.3

121.7

22.7

%

Provision for income taxes(b)

50.8

41.4

22.7

%

Net income

$

98.5

$

80.3

22.7

%

(a)

Fiscal year 2006 includes the receipt of $2.5 million
    pursuant to an agreement with Honda Motor Co., Ltd. related to
    the piston engine business.

(b)

Fiscal year 2007 includes income tax credits of
    $4.4 million. Fiscal year 2007 also reflects the reversal
    of $1.1 million in income tax contingency reserves which
    were determined to be no longer needed due to the completion of
    state tax audits and the expiration of applicable statutes of
    limitations. Fiscal year 2006 includes the reversal of income
    tax contingency reserves of $3.3 million. These reserves
    were determined to be no longer needed due to the expiration of
    applicable statutes of limitations.

*  not meaningful



We reported 2007 sales of $1,622.3 million, compared with
    sales of $1,433.2 million for 2006, an increase of 13.2%.
    Net income was $98.5 million ($2.72 per diluted share) for
    2007, compared with $80.3 million ($2.26 per diluted share)
    for 2006, an increase of 22.7%.

The increase in sales in 2007, compared with 2006, reflected
    improvement in the Electronic and Communications and Engineered
    Systems segments. The largest increase in sales was in the
    Electronic and Communications segment which grew both
    organically and through strategic acquisitions made in 2007 and
    in 2006 including: assets of DGO acquired in March 2007, Tindall
    acquired in June 2007, Benthos acquired in January 2006, assets
    of KW Microwave in April 2006, the initial majority interest
    (51%) acquired in ODI in August 2006, and Teledyne
    Scientific & Imaging in September 2006. The increase
    in sales for the Engineered Systems segment included the
    acquisition of CollaborX in August 2006. The incremental
    increase in revenue in 2007 from businesses acquired since 2005
    was $161.5 million.

The increase in segment operating profit and other segment
    income for 2007, compared with 2006, reflected the impact of
    higher sales. Operating profit and other segment income was
    higher in each operating segment. Fiscal year 2006 also included
    the receipt of $2.5 million pursuant to an agreement with
    Honda Motor Co., Ltd. The $33.9 million increase in
    operating profit in the Electronics and Communications segment,
    included incremental operating profit from acquisitions and
    related synergies of $15.5 million.

Effective January 2, 2006, we adopted the provisions of
    Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”)
    SFAS No. 123(R), “Share Based Payment”
    (“SFAS No. 123(R)”) using the modified
    prospective method and began recording stock option compensation
    expense in the consolidated statements of income, but did not
    restate prior year financial statements. Stock option
    compensation expense is recorded on a straight line basis over
    the appropriate vesting period, generally three years. For
    fiscal year 2007, we recorded a total of $6.8 million in
    stock option expense related to stock options awarded after the
    adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and for stock options
    which were not vested by the date of adoption of
    SFAS No. 123(R). Of this amount $2.3 million was
    recorded as corporate expense and $4.5 million was recorded
    in the operating segment results. For fiscal year 2006, we
    recorded a total of $5.9 million in stock option expense,
    of which $2.2 million was recorded as corporate expense and
    $3.7 million was recorded in the operating segment results.

Cost of sales in total dollars was higher in 2007, compared with
    2006, primarily due to higher sales which resulted from organic
    growth and acquisitions. Fiscal year 2007 included
    $1.3 million in LIFO expense, compared with
    $0.7 million in LIFO expense in 2006. Cost of sales as a
    percentage of sales for 2007 was 70.0%, compared with 71.2% for
    2006. The lower cost of sales percentage in 2007 primarily
    reflected sales mix differences and a continued emphasis on
    margin improvement and cost control.

Selling, general and administrative expenses, including research
    and development and bid and proposal expense, in total dollars
    were higher in 2007 compared with 2006. This $35.7 million
    increase was primarily due to higher sales which resulted from
    organic growth and acquisitions and also included
    $6.8 million in stock option compensation expense in 2007
    compared with $5.9 million in stock option compensation
    expense in 2006. The increase also reflected higher corporate
    expense of $4.9 million compared with 2006 due to higher
    employee compensation and relocation expense and professional
    fee expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for
    2007, as a percentage of sales, were 19.9%, compared with 20.1%
    for 2006, and reflected sales mix differences.

Included in operating profit in 2007 was pension expense of
    $11.9 million, in accordance with the pension accounting
    requirements of SFAS No. 87, “Employers’
    Accounting for Pensions,” of which $10.2 million was
    recoverable in accordance with U.S. Government Cost
    Accounting Standards (“CAS”) from certain government
    contracts. Included in operating profit in 2006 was pension
    expense of $15.4 million, of which $10.5 million was
    recoverable in accordance with U.S. Government CAS. The
    decrease in pension expense in 2007, compared with 2006,
    reflects, in part, pension contributions made in 2006, the
    impact of favorable market returns on plan assets in 2006 and
    changes to the Company’s pension assets and liabilities
    resulting from the merger of the Teledyne Scientific &
    Imaging pension plan with Teledyne Technologies pension plan.
    Pension expense determined under CAS can generally be recovered
    through the pricing of products and services sold to the
    U.S. Government.



The Company’s effective tax rate for 2007 was 34.1%,
    compared with 34.0% for 2006. The Company completed an analysis
    of research and development spending for 2000 through 2006, as
    well as the base period years, and anticipates the receipt of
    income tax refunds for those years. The effective tax rate for
    2007 reflects the impact of expected research and development
    income tax refunds of $4.4 million and also reflects the
    reversal of $1.1 million in income tax contingency reserves
    which were determined to be no longer needed due to the
    completion of state tax audits and the expiration of applicable
    statutes of limitations. Excluding these items the effective tax
    rate for 2007 would have been 37.7%. The effective tax rate for
    the 2006 reflects the impact of the reversal of income tax
    contingency reserves of $3.3 million which were determined
    to be no longer needed due to the expiration of applicable
    statutes of limitations. Excluding the impact of the reversal,
    the effective tax rate for 2006 would have been 36.7%.

Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government were
    approximately 41% of sales in 2007 and 40% of sales in 2006.
    Sales to international customers represented approximately 22%
    of sales in 2007, compared with 21% of sales in 2006.

Total interest expense, including credit facility fees and other
    bank charges, was $13.1 million in 2007 and
    $7.7 million in 2006. Interest income was $0.6 million
    in 2007 and $0.3 million in 2006. The higher interest
    expense in 2007 primarily reflected higher outstanding debt
    levels due to acquisitions.

Minority interest reflects the minority ownership interests in
    Ocean Design, Inc. and Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc. The
    minority interest ownership percentage in ODI has decreased from
    49% to 38% since the initial 51% purchase of ODI in August 2006.

Other income for 2006 included the receipt of $2.5 million
    pursuant to an agreement with Honda Motor Co., Ltd. which is
    included as part of the Aerospace Engines and Components segment
    operating profit and other segment income for segment reporting
    purposes. The $2.5 million received in January 2006 was the
    final receipt pursuant to the agreement. Fiscal years 2007 and
    2006 also include sublease rental income and royalty income in
    other income. Other income in 2007 included $0.8 million
    received for the early return of leased property.

    Compared with 2005

%

Sales

2006(a)


Change

(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

899.4

$

717.8

25.3

%

Engineered Systems

283.0

263.7

7.3

%

Aerospace Engines and Components

181.6

151.4

19.9

%

Energy and Power Systems

69.2

73.6

(6.0

)%

Total sales

$

1,433.2

$

1,206.5

18.8

%

%

Net Income

2006(a)


Change

(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

109.3

$

84.0

30.1

%

Engineered Systems

24.5

27.5

(10.9

)%

Aerospace Engines and Components(b)

15.5

9.3

66.7

%

Energy and Power Systems

6.0

5.8

3.4

%

Segment operating profit and other segment income

155.3

126.6

22.7

%

Corporate expense

(27.7

)

(20.9

)

32.5

%

Interest and debt expense, net

(7.4

)

(3.5

)

111.4

%

Minority interest

(1.0

)

(0.2

)

*

Other income, net

2.5

1.0

150.0

%

Income before taxes(c)

121.7

103.0

18.2

%

Provision for income taxes

41.4

38.8

6.7

%

Net income

$

80.3

$

64.2

25.1

%



*

not meaningful

We reported 2006 sales of $1,433.2 million, compared with
    sales of $1,206.5 million for 2005, an increase of 18.8%.
    Net income was $80.3 million ($2.26 per diluted share) for
    2006, compared with $64.2 million ($1.85 per diluted share)
    for 2005, an increase of 25.1%.

The increase in sales in 2006, compared with 2005, reflected
    improvement in our three largest reporting segments. The largest
    increase in sales was in the Electronic and Communications
    segment which grew both organically and through strategic
    acquisitions made in 2006 and in 2005 including: Cougar
    Components Corporation (“Cougar”), acquired in June
    2005; RD Instruments, Inc. (“RDI”), acquired in August
    2005; the assets of the microwave technical solutions business
    of Avnet, Inc., acquired in October 2005; Benthos, acquired in
    January 2006; certain assets of KW Microwave acquired in April
    2006; the initial majority interest (51%) in ODI, acquired in
    August 2006; and Teledyne Scientific & Imaging,
    acquired in September 2006. The increase in sales for the
    Engineered Systems segment included the acquisition of
    CollaborX, in August 2006. The incremental increase in revenue
    in 2006 from businesses acquired since 2004 was
    $124.8 million.

The increase in segment operating profit and other segment
    income for 2006, compared with 2005, reflected the impact of
    higher sales. Operating profit and other segment income was
    higher in the Electronics and Communications, Aerospace Engines
    and Components and Energy and Power Systems segments and lower
    in the Engineered Systems segment. Operating profit in 2006 was
    negatively impacted by $1.5 million in higher net pension
    expense compared with 2005. In fiscal year 2006 we also began
    recording stock option compensation expense compared with no
    stock option compensation expense recorded in 2005. Fiscal year
    2006 also included the receipt of $2.5 million pursuant to
    an agreement with Honda Motor Co., Ltd. compared with
    $5.0 million received in 2005 pursuant to the agreement.
    The $25.3 million increase in operating profit in the
    Electronics and Communications segment, included incremental
    operating profit from acquisitions and related synergies of
    $12.4 million.

As noted earlier, effective January 2, 2006, we adopted the
    provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified
    prospective method. Accordingly, for fiscal year 2006, we
    recorded a total of $5.9 million in stock option expense.
    Of this amount $2.2 million was recorded as corporate
    expense and $3.7 million was recorded in the operating
    segment results. No stock option compensation expense was
    recorded in 2005.

Cost of sales in total dollars was higher in 2006, compared with
    2005, primarily due to higher sales which resulted from organic
    growth and acquisitions. Fiscal year 2006 included
    $0.7 million in LIFO expense compared with
    $2.1 million in LIFO expense in 2005. Cost of sales as a
    percentage of sales for 2006 was 71.2% compared with 72.1% for
    2005. The lower cost of sales percentage in 2006 primarily
    reflected a lower cost of sales percentage for recent
    acquisitions which due to the nature of their business, carry a
    lower cost of sales percentage than most of Teledyne’s
    other businesses.

Selling, general and administrative expenses, including research
    and development and bid and proposal expense, in total dollars
    were higher in 2006 compared with 2005. This $51.7 million
    increase was primarily due to higher sales, which resulted from
    organic growth and acquisitions and also included
    $5.9 million in stock option compensation expense in 2006
    compared with no stock option compensation expense in 2005. The
    increase in 2006 also reflected higher corporate expense of
    $6.8 million compared with 2005 due to the impact of stock
    option compensation expense and higher professional fees
    expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2006,
    as a percentage of sales, were 20.1% compared with 19.6% for
    2005, and reflected a higher general and administrative expense
    percentage due to the impact of stock option



compensation expense and a higher selling expense percentage,
    partially offset by a slightly lower research and development
    and bid and proposal expense percentage. The higher selling
    expense percentage was due to recent acquisitions which, due to
    the nature of their business, carry a higher selling expense
    percentage than most of Teledyne’s existing businesses.

Included in operating profit in 2006 was pension expense of
    $15.4 million, of which $10.5 million was recoverable
    in accordance with U.S. Government Cost Accounting
    Standards (“CAS”) from certain government contracts.
    Included in operating profit in 2005 was pension expense of
    $12.7 million, of which $9.3 million was recoverable
    in accordance with U.S. Government CAS. The increase in
    pension expense in 2006 compared with 2005 reflects, in part, a
    reduction in the discount rate assumption for the Company’s
    defined benefit plan to 6.00% in 2006 from 6.25% in 2005.
    Pension expense determined under CAS can generally be recovered
    through the pricing of products and services sold to the
    U.S. Government.

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2006 was 34.0%,
    compared with 37.6% for 2005. The lower effective tax rate for
    2006, compared with 2005, reflects the impact of the reversal of
    income tax contingency reserves of $3.3 million during the
    third quarter. These reserves were determined to be no longer
    needed due to the expiration of applicable statutes of
    limitations. Excluding the impact of the reversal, the effective
    tax rate for 2006 would have been 36.7%.

Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government were
    approximately 40% of sales in 2006 and 42% of sales in 2005.
    Sales to international customers represented approximately 21%
    of sales in 2006 compared with 18% of sales in 2005.

Total interest expense including credit facility fees and other
    bank charges was $7.7 million in 2006 and $3.8 million
    in 2005. Interest income was $0.3 million in both 2006 and
    2005. The higher interest expense in 2006 primarily reflected
    higher outstanding debt levels due to acquisitions and higher
    average interest rates in 2006 compared with 2005.

Minority interest reflects the minority ownership interests in
    Ocean Design, Inc. and Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc.

Other income for 2006 and 2005 included the receipt of
    $2.5 million and $5.0 million, respectively, pursuant
    to an agreement with Honda Motor Co., Ltd. which is included as
    part of the Aerospace Engines and Components segment operating
    profit and other segment income for segment reporting purposes.
    The $2.5 million received in January 2006 was the final
    receipt pursuant to the agreement. Fiscal years 2006 and 2005
    also include sublease rental income and royalty income in other
    income.



Segments

The following discussion of our four segments should be read in
    conjunction with Note 13 to the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Electronics
    and Communications




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

1,071.6

$

899.4

$

717.8

Operating profit

$

143.2

$

109.3

$

84.0

Operating profit % of sales

13.4

%

12.2

%

11.7

%

International sales % of sales

29.0

%

29.1

%

24.8

%

Governmental sales % of sales

31.2

%

27.7

%

27.7

%

Capital expenditures

$

33.7

$

17.9

$

12.5

Our Electronics and Communications segment provides
    sophisticated electronic components and subsystems,
    instrumentation and communications products, including defense
    electronics, monitoring and control instrumentation for marine,
    environmental and industrial applications, harsh environment
    interconnect products, data acquisition and communications
    equipment for air transport and business aircraft, and
    components and subsystems for wireless and satellite
    communications.

    compared with 2006

Our Electronics and Communications segment sales were
    $1,071.6 million in 2007, compared with sales of
    $899.4 million in 2006, an increase of 19.1%. Operating
    profit was $143.2 million in 2007, compared with
    $109.3 million in 2006, an increase of 31.0%.

The 2007 sales growth of $172.2 million resulted primarily
    from revenue growth in defense electronics and electronic
    instruments, partially offset by lower sales of other commercial
    electronics. The revenue growth of $98.0 million in defense
    electronics was primarily driven by the acquisition of Teledyne
    Scientific & Imaging in September 2006. The increase
    in revenue from acquisitions in defense electronics products for
    2007, compared with 2006, was $89.7 million. Organic growth
    of defense electronics for 2007 was due to higher sales of
    microwave components and subsystems. The revenue growth of
    $88.6 million in electronic instruments was driven by
    acquisitions and organic growth. Revenue growth in electronic
    instruments included the acquisition of the majority interest in
    ODI in August 2006, the acquisition of Benthos, Inc. in January
    2006 and the acquisition of assets of DGO in March 2007. The
    increase in revenue from acquisitions in electronic instruments
    for 2007, compared with 2006, was $63.1 million. Sales of
    electronic instruments for 2007 increased due to organic sales
    growth of instruments for the industrial and environmental
    monitoring instrumentation markets. Revenue in avionics and
    other commercial electronics decreased by $14.4 million and
    primarily reflected decreased sales of medical electronic
    manufacturing services. In 2007, an increase of
    $152.8 million in revenue and $15.5 million in
    operating profit, including synergies, was due to acquisitions
    that we acquired since 2005 as compared to the revenue and
    operating profit from those acquisitions in 2006. Segment
    operating profit was favorably impacted by the increase in
    revenue and margin improvement from cost control initiatives.
    Segment operating profit was negatively impacted by
    $3.1 million of stock option compensation expense in 2007
    compared with $2.4 million of stock option compensation
    expense in 2006. Fiscal year 2007 also reflected higher LIFO
    expense of $0.2 million compared with fiscal year 2006.
    Pension expense, in accordance with the pension accounting
    requirements of SFAS No. 87, was $4.0 million in
    2007 compared with $3.8 million in 2006. Pension expense
    allocated to contracts pursuant to CAS was $1.7 million in
    2007, compared with $1.6 million for 2006. Fiscal year 2006
    also included $0.7 million in charges in our commercial
    electronics business for warranty reserves and inventory
    obsolescence related to the termination of a product line.



    compared with 2005

Our Electronics and Communications segment sales were
    $899.4 million in 2006, compared with sales of
    $717.8 million in 2005, an increase of 25.3%. Operating
    profit was $109.3 million in 2006, compared with
    $84.0 million in 2005, an increase of 30.1%.

The 2006 sales growth of $181.6 million resulted primarily
    from revenue growth in defense electronics and electronic
    instruments. The revenue growth of $80.0 million in defense
    electronics was driven by increased sales of traveling wave
    tubes, connectors and the acquisitions of Teledyne
    Scientific & Imaging in September 2006, the assets of
    KW Microwave in April 2006, the assets of the microwave
    technical solutions business of Avnet, Inc. in October 2005 and
    Cougar in June 2005. The increase in revenue from acquisitions
    in defense electronics products for 2006, compared with 2005,
    was $51.6 million. The revenue growth of
    $108.3 million in electronic instruments was primarily
    driven by recent acquisitions as well as organic growth. Revenue
    growth included the acquisitions of the majority interest in ODI
    in August 2006, Benthos in January 2006 and RDI in August 2005
    and also reflected increased sales of geophysical sensors for
    the energy exploration market. The increase in revenue from
    acquisitions in electronic instruments for 2006, compared with
    2005, was $67.3 million. Revenue in avionics and other
    commercial electronics decreased by $6.7 million and
    reflected revenue growth in electronic relay products which was
    more than offset by lower commercial contract manufacturing
    services. In 2006, an increase of $118.9 million in revenue
    and $12.4 million in operating profit, including synergies,
    was due to acquisitions that we acquired since 2004 as compared
    to the revenue and operating profit from those acquisitions in
    2005. Segment operating profit was favorably impacted by revenue
    from acquisitions, as well as organic sales growth. Segment
    operating profit was negatively impacted by $2.4 million of
    stock option compensation expense in 2006. No stock option
    compensation expense was recorded in 2005. Fiscal year 2006 also
    reflected lower LIFO expense of $0.8 million compared with
    fiscal year 2005. In 2006, we also recorded $0.7 million in
    charges in our commercial electronics business for warranty
    reserves and inventory obsolescence related to the termination
    of a product line. Pension expense, in accordance with the
    pension accounting requirements of SFAS No. 87, was
    $3.8 million in 2006 compared with $3.3 million in
    2005. Pension expense allocated to contracts pursuant to CAS was
    $1.6 million in 2006 compared with $1.0 million for
    2005.

Engineered
    Systems




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

301.7

$

283.0

$

263.7

Operating profit

$

26.2

$

24.5

$

27.5

Operating profit % of sales

8.7

%

8.7

%

10.4

%

International sales % of sales

0.5

%

0.6

%

0.7

%

Governmental sales % of sales

98.8

%

98.6

%

98.6

%

Capital expenditures

$

1.5

$

1.4

$

1.3

Our Engineered Systems segment (formerly named Systems
    Engineering Solutions), principally through Teledyne Brown
    Engineering, Inc., applies the skills of its extensive staff of
    engineers and scientists to provide innovative engineered and
    information technology services for defense, space and
    environmental applications.

    compared with 2006

Our Engineered Systems segment sales were $301.7 million in
    2007, compared with sales of $283.0 million in 2006, an
    increase of 6.6%. Operating profit was $26.2 million in
    2007, compared with $24.5 million in 2006, an increase of
    6.9%.

Sales for 2007, compared with 2006, reflected revenue growth in
    aerospace and defense programs, partially offset by lower
    environmental sales. The revenue growth of $32.3 million in
    aerospace and defense programs included $8.7 million in
    incremental revenue from the acquisition of CollaborX in August
    2006. The revenue growth in aerospace programs was primarily due
    to increased support for NASA. The revenue



decrease of $13.0 million in environmental programs was
    primarily due to decreased support of the U.S. Army at Pine
    Bluff Arsenal. Operating profit for 2007, compared with 2006,
    was favorably impacted by higher segment revenue in 2007, and
    incremental operating profit of $0.5 million from
    CollaborX, partially offset by lower margins in certain defense
    programs. Segment operating profit also included pension expense
    under SFAS No. 87 of $6.4 million in 2007
    compared with $9.5 million of pension expense in 2006.
    Pension expense allocated to contracts pursuant to CAS was
    $8.1 million in 2007 compared with $8.6 million in
    2006. Fiscal year 2006 included a favorable overhead claim
    settlement of $1.3 million.

    compared with 2005

Our Engineered Systems segment sales were $283.0 million in
    2006, compared with sales of $263.7 million in 2005, an
    increase of 7.3%. Operating profit was $24.5 million in
    2006, compared with $27.5 million in 2005, a decrease of
    10.9%.

Sales for 2006, compared with 2005, reflected revenue growth in
    aerospace and environmental programs and included
    $5.9 million in revenue from the acquisition of CollaborX
    in August 2006. The revenue growth of $8.7 million in
    aerospace was primarily due to increased support for NASA. The
    revenue growth of $4.7 million in environmental programs
    was primarily due to increased support of the U.S. Army at
    Pine Bluff Arsenal. Operating profit for 2006, compared with
    2005, reflected higher segment revenue and a favorable overhead
    claim settlement of $1.3 million in 2006, compared with a
    favorable overhead claim settlement of $0.8 million in
    2005, which was more than offset by lower margins in aerospace
    programs due to higher sales on certain contracts which carry
    lower profit margins, increased subcontract work which carries
    lower margins, lower margins on an environmental contract and
    amortization expenses associated with the acquisition of
    CollaborX. Segment operating profit was negatively impacted by
    $0.7 million of stock option compensation expense in 2006
    compared with no stock option compensation expense in 2005.
    Segment operating profit also included pension expense under
    SFAS No. 87 of $9.5 million in 2006 compared with
    $7.7 million of pension expense in 2005. Pension expense
    allocated to contracts pursuant to CAS was $8.6 million in
    2006 compared with $8.0 million in 2005.

Aerospace
    Engines and Components




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

180.7

$

181.6

$

151.4

Operating profit

$

19.2

$

15.5

$

9.3

Operating profit % of sales

10.6

%

8.5

%

6.1

%

International sales % of sales

16.0

%

15.2

%

17.2

%

Capital expenditures

$

3.5

$

5.1

$

4.1

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment, principally
    through Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc., focuses on the
    design, development and manufacture of piston engines,
    aftermarket support and electronic engine controls. As noted
    earlier, in the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company transferred
    the turbine engine and the battery products businesses from the
    Aerospace Engines and Components segment to the Energy and Power
    Systems segment. As required by SFAS No. 131, the
    Company has restated its 2006 and 2005 historical segment
    information to be consistent with the current reportable segment
    structure.

    compared with 2006

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment sales were
    $180.7 million in 2007, compared with sales of
    $181.6 million in 2006, a decrease of 0.5%. Operating
    profit was $19.2 million in 2007, compared with
    $15.5 million in 2006, an increase of 23.9%.

Sales for 2007, compared with 2006, decreased and reflected
    slightly lower OEM engine sales. The improvement in operating
    profit in 2007, compared with 2006 reflected the impact of
    improved operating performance including lower aircraft product
    liability expense, the receipt of a litigation settlement of
    $1.4 million, net of expenses, partially offset by a
    $1.7 million writedown of accounts receivable related to
    the



bankruptcy of our customer Columbia. However, Cessna recently
    acquired the assets of Columbia Aircraft Manufacturing Company
    (“Columbia”) and we expect that they will continue to
    produce Columbia models that use our engines. Segment operating
    profit for 2006, included the receipt of $2.5 million,
    pursuant to an agreement with Honda Motor Co., Ltd. related to
    the piston engine business. The $2.5 million receipt in the
    first quarter of 2006 was the final payment under the agreement.
    Segment operating profit also included pension expense, under
    SFAS No. 87 of $0.7 million in 2007 compared with
    $1.2 million for 2006. Segment operating profit for 2007
    also reflected lower LIFO expense of $0.5 million.

    compared with 2005

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment sales were
    $181.6 million in 2006, compared with sales of
    $151.4 million in 2005, an increase of 19.9%. Operating
    profit was $15.5 million in 2006, compared with
    $9.3 million in 2005, an increase of 66.7%.

The higher sales for 2006, compared with 2005, primarily
    resulted from higher OEM piston engine and spare part sales.
    Segment operating profit for 2006, compared with 2005, reflected
    the impact of higher sales, improved operating performance, and
    $1.8 million in lower warranty costs. Segment operating
    profit for 2006 and 2005 included the receipt of
    $2.5 million and $5.0 million, respectively, pursuant
    to an agreement with Honda Motor Co., Ltd. related to the piston
    engine business. Segment operating profit was negatively
    impacted by $0.4 million of stock option compensation
    expense in 2006 compared with no stock option compensation
    expense in 2005. Segment operating profit also included pension
    expense, under SFAS No. 87 of $1.2 million in
    2006, compared with $0.9 million for 2005.

Energy
    and Power Systems




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

68.3

$

69.2

$

73.6

Operating profit

$

6.3

$

6.0

$

5.8

Operating profit % of sales

9.3

%

8.7

%

7.9

%

International sales % of sales

31.2

%

14.9

%

22.0

%

Governmental sales % of sales

47.0

%

59.8

%

70.8

%

Capital expenditures

$

1.0

$

1.9

$

1.7

Our Energy and Power Systems segment provides hydrogen gas
    generators, thermoelectric and fuel cell-based power sources,
    turbine engines and aviation batteries. As noted earlier, in the
    fourth quarter of 2007, the company realigned Teledyne Energy
    Systems, Inc., Teledyne Turbine Engines and Teledyne Battery
    Products in a new segment called Energy and Power Systems. This
    segment will provide Teledyne’s customers with a focal
    point for the specialized energy generation, energy storage and
    small propulsion products that Teledyne manufactures, primarily
    for high-reliability aerospace and defense applications. Product
    lines in this segment include hydrogen generators, fuel cells,
    thermoelectric generators, batteries and small turbine engines.
    As required by SFAS No. 131, the Company has restated
    its 2006 and 2005 historical segment information to be
    consistent with the current reportable segment structure.

    compared with 2006

Our Energy and Power Systems segment sales were
    $68.3 million in 2007, compared with sales of
    $69.2 million in 2006, a decrease of 1.3%. Operating income
    was $6.3 million in 2007, compared with $6.0 million
    in 2006, an increase of 5.0%.

The decrease in sales for 2007, compared with 2006, primarily
    resulted from higher commercial hydrogen generator sales and
    higher aviation battery sales, which were more than offset by
    lower turbine engine sales. Operating profit reflected higher
    margins and sales in the hydrogen generator business, which were
    partially offset by the impact of lower sales and lower margins
    in the turbine engine business. Segment operating profit for
    2007 also reflected higher LIFO expense of $0.9 million.
    Turbine engine sales and operating profit for



2007 were unfavorable, compared with 2006, due to lower JASSM
    engine sales, partially offset by higher research and
    development sales. Turbine engine sales, which have declined
    since 2005, are expected to begin to recover in 2008.

    compared with 2005

Our Energy and Power Systems segment sales were
    $69.2 million in 2006, compared with sales of
    $73.6 million in 2005, a decrease of 6.0%. Operating income
    was $6.0 million in 2006, compared with $5.8 million
    in 2005, an increase of 3.4%.

The decrease in sales for 2006, compared with 2005, reflected
    lower turbine engine sales and reduced work on the Multi-Mission
    Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator (“MMRTG”)
    contract due to moving from the engineering development phase to
    the product qualification phase, partially offset by higher
    aviation battery sales. The improvement in segment operating
    profit reflected lower LIFO expense of $0.7 million,
    partially offset by the impact of the lower sales and
    differences in contract fees. Turbine engine sales and operating
    profit for 2006 were unfavorable, compared with 2005, due to
    lower Harpoon and ITALD engine sales and lower J69 spare sales,
    partially offset by higher research and development sales.
    Segment operating profit also included pension expense, under
    SFAS No. 87 of $0.5 million for 2006 compared
    with $0.4 million for 2005. Pension expense allocated to
    contracts pursuant to CAS was $0.3 for both 2006 and 2005.

Financial
    Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources

Principal
    Capital Requirements

Our principal capital requirements are to fund working capital
    needs, capital expenditures and debt service requirements, as
    well as to fund acquisitions. It is anticipated that operating
    cash flow, together with available borrowings under the credit
    facility described below, will be sufficient to meet these
    requirements and could be used to fund some acquisitions in the
    year 2008. To support acquisitions, we may need to raise
    additional capital. Our liquidity is not dependent upon the use
    of off-balance sheet financial arrangements. We have no
    off-balance sheet financing arrangements that incorporate the
    use of special purpose entities or unconsolidated entities.

Revolving
    Credit Agreement

On February 8, 2008, Teledyne Technologies entered into a
    First Amendment to its now Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
    dated as of July 14, 2006. The amended and restated credit
    facility has lender commitments totaling $590.0 million and
    expires on July 14, 2011. Excluding interest and fees, no
    payments are due under the amended and restated credit facility
    until it matures. The credit agreement requires the Company to
    comply with various financial and operating covenants, including
    maintaining certain consolidated leverage and interest coverage
    ratios, as well as minimum net worth levels and limits on
    acquired debt. At December 30, 2007, the Company was in
    compliance with these covenants. Available borrowing capacity
    under the prior $400.0 million credit facility, which is
    reduced by borrowings, outstanding letters of credit and certain
    guarantees was $253.1 million at December 30, 2007.
    For a description of some terms of our credit facility, see
    “Financing Activities” on page 50.

Contractual
    Obligations

The following table summarizes our expected cash outflows
    resulting from financial contracts and commitments at
    December 30, 2007. We have not included information on our
    normal recurring purchases of



materials for use in our operations. These amounts are generally
    consistent from year to year, closely reflect our levels of
    production, and are not long-term in nature (in millions):

2013 and






beyond

Total

Operating lease obligations

$

16.7

$

15.6

$

13.9

$

9.9

$

9.4

$

34.1

$

99.6

Long-term debt obligations(a)

0.7

0.6

—

138.0

—

—

139.3

Capital lease obligations(b)

0.4

0.4

0.4

0.4

0.3

4.7

6.6

Purchase obligations(c)

31.3

2.5

0.8

—

—

—

34.6

Total

$

49.1

$

19.1

$

15.1

$

148.3

$

9.7

$

38.8

$

280.1

The amounts above exclude our minimum pension plan funding
    requirements, including those set forth by ERISA, which are
    $7.9 million in 2008 and $7.5 million in 2009. Our
    minimum funding requirements after 2007 are dependent on several
    factors as discussed under “Accounting for Pension
    Plans” in the Critical Accounting Policies section of this
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operation. Estimates beyond 2009 have not been
    provided due to the significant uncertainty of these amounts,
    which are subject to change until the Company’s
    SFAS No. 87 assumptions can be updated at the
    appropriate times. In addition, certain pension contributions
    are eligible for future recovery through the pricing of products
    and services to the U.S. government under certain
    government contracts, therefore, the amounts noted are not
    necessarily indicative of the impact these contributions may
    have on the Company’s liquidity. We also have payments due
    under our other postretirement benefits plans. These plans are
    not required to be funded in advance, but are pay as you go. See
    further discussion in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Pursuant to agreements in connection with our acquisition of a
    majority interest in ODI, the ODI minority stockholders have the
    contractual option to sell their shares to Teledyne Instruments
    following the end of each quarter through the quarter ended
    March 31, 2009, at a formula-determined price based
    principally on ODI’s earnings before interest, taxes,
    depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) for the twelve months
    preceding each applicable quarter end. All shares not sold to
    Teledyne Instruments following the quarter ended March 31,
    2009, are required to be purchased by Teledyne Instruments
    following the quarter ended June 30, 2009, at a same
    formula-determined price, at which time Teledyne Instruments
    will own all of the ODI shares held by the participating
    stockholders. At December 30, 2007, total cash paid,
    including the initial investment and subsequent share purchases,
    for Teledyne’s interest in ODI, net of cash acquired, was
    $35.3 million. Based on the formula-determined purchase
    price as of the quarter ended December 30, 2007, the
    aggregate amount of funds required to repurchase all the shares
    held by the remaining minority ODI stockholders would be
    approximately $57.3 million. However, the actual aggregate
    amount of funds that we will spend to repurchase the shares held
    by minority stockholders through June 30, 2009, could be
    significantly higher or lower than this amount, as that amount
    will depend on when individual stockholders elect to exercise
    their put options and on the financial performance of ODI.
    Teledyne Technologies has guaranteed the payment obligation of
    its subsidiary, Teledyne Instruments.

Operating
    Activities

In 2007, net cash provided from operations was
    $166.7 million, compared with $78.4 million in 2006
    and $92.3 million in 2005.

The higher net cash provided for 2007, compared with 2006, was
    primarily due to incremental cash flow from companies acquired
    since 2005, higher net income, higher customer advance payments
    and deposits, improved accounts receivable collections due to
    timing and $12.4 million in lower pension contributions.



The lower net cash provided for 2006, compared with 2005,
    reflected $14.6 million in higher income tax payments and
    $3.9 million in higher pension contributions, partially
    offset by higher net income, cash flow from companies acquired
    since 2005 and $3.1 million in insurance receipts.
    Additionally, in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R),
    $8.6 million of excess tax benefits in 2006 for stock
    option compensation have been classified as a financing cash
    flow instead of an operating cash flow as in prior years. In
    2005 cash flow from operations included $5.2 million in
    excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation.

Free cash flow (cash from operating activities less capital
    expenditures) was $126.4 million compared with
    $52.0 million in 2006 and $72.5 million in 2005.

Fiscal Year




(In millions,

Free Cash Flow(a)

brackets indicate use of funds)

Cash provided by operating activities

$

166.7

$

78.4

$

92.3

Capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment

(40.3

)

(26.4

)

(19.8

)

Free cash flow

$

126.4

$

52.0

$

72.5

(a)

The Company defines free cash flow as cash provided by operating
    activities (a measure prescribed by generally accepted
    accounting principles) less capital expenditures for property,
    plant and equipment. The company believes that this supplemental
    non-GAAP information is useful to assist management and the
    investment community in analyzing the company’s ability to
    generate cash flow.

Working
    Capital

Working capital decreased to $213.7 million at year-end
    2007, compared with $216.4 million at year-end 2006.

Balance
    Sheet Changes

The changes in the following selected components of
    Teledyne’s balance sheet are discussed below (in millions):



Accounts receivables, net

$

241.1

$

226.1

Inventories, net

$

174.6

$

155.8

Long-term deferred income taxes,net

$

56.9

$

38.6

Goodwill, net

$

351.6

$

313.6

Acquired intangible assets, net

$

61.7

$

69.4

Accounts payable

$

105.1

$

94.1

Accrued liabilities — short term

$

157.1

$

135.1

Long-term debt and capital lease obligations, net of current
    portion

$

142.4

$

230.7

Accrued pension obligation

$

74.3

$

38.4

Other long-term liabilities

$

126.6

$

105.7

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

$

(61.2

)

$

(42.3

)

The higher balances in accounts receivables, inventory, accounts
    payable and short-term accrued liabilities reflected the impact
    of organic sales growth, as well as businesses acquired in 2007.
    Long-term deferred income taxes reflected a $12.4 million
    increase related to the minimum pension liability adjustment in
    2007. The increase in goodwill reflected the DGO and Tindall
    acquisitions in 2007 and also reflected a $10.7 million
    increase to reflect changes in the estimated amount of acquired
    intangible assets based on the completed appraisal report for
    the valuation of acquired intangible assets for the Teledyne
    Scientific & Imaging acquisition. The decrease in
    acquired intangible assets reflected the $10.7 million
    decrease for the Teledyne Scientific & Imaging
    acquisition, current year amortization, partially offset by
    acquired intangible assets for



the DGO and Tindall acquisitions. The decrease in long-term debt
    and capital lease obligations reflected the use of cash flow to
    repay outstanding debt. The accrued pension obligation increased
    primarily as a result of an increase in the unfunded pension
    liability in 2007 due, in part, to lower returns on pension
    assets, partially offset by pension contributions. The increase
    in other long-term liabilities reflected an increase in the
    aircraft product liability reserve and higher compensation
    reserves including deferred compensation. The change in the
    accumulated other comprehensive loss reflected the
    $19.3 million non-cash adjustment related to the increase
    in the unfunded pension liability in 2007.

Investing
    Activities

Net cash used in investing activities included capital
    expenditures as presented below:

Capital
    Expenditures




(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

33.7

$

17.9

$

12.5

Engineered Systems

1.5

1.4

1.3

Aerospace Engines and Components

3.5

5.1

4.1

Energy and Power Systems

1.0

1.9

1.7

Corporate

0.6

0.1

0.2

$

40.3

$

26.4

$

19.8

During 2008, we plan to invest approximately $45.0 million
    in capital principally to upgrade capital equipment, reduce
    manufacturing costs and introduce new products. Commitments at
    December 30, 2007 for capital expenditures were
    approximately $3.9 million.

Investing activities in 2007 included acquisitions. On
    March 30, 2007, Teledyne Technologies through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Instruments, Inc., completed the
    acquisition of assets of DGO for consideration of
    $37.1 million, which includes a $1.0 million purchase
    price adjustment. DGO, headquartered in Seabrook, New Hampshire,
    is a leading manufacturer of highly reliable electrical and
    fiber-optic interconnect systems, primarily for subsea military
    and offshore oil and gas applications. DGO’s results of
    operations and cash flows have been included in Teledyne
    Technologies’ results beginning April 2, 2007. DGO had
    sales of $26.2 million for its fiscal year ended September
    2006. Teledyne Technologies operates this business under the
    name Teledyne D.G. O’Brien.

On June 20, 2007, Teledyne Technologies through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Cougar, Inc., completed the acquisition of
    Tindall, a designer and supplier of microwave subsystems for
    defense applications for consideration of $6.6 million. At
    December 30, 2007 total cash paid, net of cash acquired was
    $5.6 million. Teledyne Technologies also recorded
    $1.0 million in contingent payments in connection with the
    acquisition payable from 2008 through 2010 in three
    installments. Tindall designs and manufactures high performance
    Instantaneous Frequency Measurement (“IFM”) based
    systems and subsystems, including integrated frequency locked
    sources and set-on receiver-jammers used for U.S. Navy and
    Air Force training. Tindall’s operations, based in
    Pleasanton, California, have been consolidated with the
    operations of Teledyne Cougar in Sunnyvale, California.
    Tindall’s results of operations and cash flows have been
    included in Teledyne Technologies’ results beginning
    July 2, 2007. Tindall had revenue of $2.7 million for
    its fiscal year ended December 2006.

Investing activities in 2006 included acquisitions. On
    September 15, 2006, Teledyne Technologies through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc., acquired
    Scientific Company for $167.5 million in cash, with the
    sellers retaining certain liabilities. Total cash paid,
    including other fees, net of $9.5 million in cash acquired
    was $158.6 million. The Company now operates as Teledyne
    Scientific & Imaging, LLC. Headquartered in Thousand
    Oaks, California, Teledyne Scientific & Imaging is a
    leading provider of research and development services, as well
    as a leader in developing and manufacturing infrared and visible
    light imaging sensors for surveillance applications. Prior to
    the acquisition, Scientific Company was 50 percent owned by



each of Rockwell Automation, Inc. and Rockwell Collins, Inc. For
    its fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, Scientific
    Company had revenue of $114.0 million.

On August 16, 2006, Teledyne Technologies through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Instruments, Inc., acquired a majority
    interest (51%) in ODI for approximately $30 million in
    cash. ODI, headquartered in Daytona Beach, Florida, is a leading
    manufacturer of subsea, wet-mateable electrical and fiber-optic
    interconnect systems used in offshore oil and gas production,
    oceanographic research, and military applications. In September
    2006, Teledyne Instruments acquired an additional 9.9% of
    ownership in ODI for $5.8 million. In 2007, Teledyne
    Instruments acquired an additional 0.9% of ownership in ODI for
    $0.9 million. At December 30, 2007, total cash paid,
    including the initial investment and subsequent share purchases,
    net of cash acquired, was $35.3 million. At
    December 30, 2007, Teledyne Instruments owns 61.8% of ODI.
    The ODI stockholders will also have the option to sell their
    shares to Teledyne Instruments following the end of each quarter
    through the quarter ended March 31, 2009, at a
    formula-determined price. All shares not sold to Teledyne
    Instruments following the quarter ended March 31, 2009,
    will be purchased by Teledyne Instruments following the quarter
    ended June 30, 2009, at the same formula-determined price,
    at which time Teledyne Instruments will own all of the ODI
    shares held by the participating stockholders. For its fiscal
    year ended December 31, 2005, ODI had revenue of
    $31.6 million.

On August 16, 2006, Teledyne Technologies, through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc., acquired CollaborX
    for cash consideration of $17.5 million, less certain
    transaction-related expenses. Total cash paid, including other
    fees, net of cash acquired was $14.9 million. CollaborX,
    based in Colorado Springs, Colorado, provides government
    engineering services primarily to the U.S. Air Force and
    select joint military commands, such as the Missile Defense
    Agency, the United States Joint Forces Command and the United
    States Northern Command. CollaborX had revenue of
    $13.6 million for its fiscal year ended December 31,
    2005.

On April 28, 2006, Teledyne Wireless, Inc. completed the
    acquisition of certain assets of KW Microwave, a manufacturer of
    defense microwave components and subsystems, for
    $10.5 million in cash. Total cash paid, including the
    receipt of a $0.2 million purchase price adjustment, was
    $10.3 million. Principally located in Carlsbad, California,
    the business will operate as Teledyne KW Microwave. KW Microwave
    designs and manufactures high performance microwave filters and
    integrated filter assemblies that are used in military
    electronic warfare, communication and navigation systems. KW
    Microwave reported revenue of approximately $6.7 million
    for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2005.

On January 27, 2006, we acquired all of the outstanding
    shares of Benthos for $17.50 per share in cash. The aggregate
    consideration for the outstanding Benthos shares was
    approximately $40.6 million (including payments for the
    settlement of outstanding stock options) or $32.2 million
    taking into consideration $8.4 million in cash acquired.
    Benthos, located in North Falmouth, Massachusetts, is a provider
    of oceanographic products used in port and harbor security
    services, military applications, energy exploration and
    oceanographic research. Benthos had revenue of
    $24.0 million for its fiscal year ended September 30,
    2005.

Our net cash used by investing activities for 2007 included a
    contingent payment of $0.8 million related to the Cougar
    Components Corporation acquisition made in 2005 and also
    included a payment of $3.7 million in August 2007 related
    to the RD Instruments acquisition made in 2005. Both amounts
    were recorded as a liability at the time of the acquisition. Our
    net cash used by investing activities for 2006 included
    $0.8 million for the purchase of assets and liabilities of
    a cable repair facility and a contingent payment of
    $0.8 million in connection with the Cougar acquisition. We
    received $0.8 million, $0.7 million and
    $1.1 million, in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, from
    the sale of assets.

Investing activities in 2005 included acquisitions. In August
    2005, we completed the acquisition of RDI for
    $36.0 million. Total cash paid, net of $0.4 million of
    cash acquired, was $32.0 million. In connection with the
    acquisition, we assumed debt obligations of $2.0 million.
    In addition, we recorded a $3.6 million liability that was
    paid in August 2007. RDI had sales of approximately
    $29.0 million for its fiscal year ended December 31,
    2004. In the fourth quarter of 2005, we purchased the minority
    interest of a subsidiary owned by RDI for a cash payment of
    $1.7 million.



In June 2005, we completed the acquisition of the stock of
    Cougar for a purchase price of $26.5 million. In the third
    quarter of 2005 we made a $0.6 million purchase price
    adjustment payment in connection with the acquisition. Total
    cash paid, including other fees and the purchase price
    adjustment, net of cash acquired was $22.5 million. In
    connection with the acquisition, we assumed debt obligations of
    $3.8 million and acquired cash and cash equivalents of
    $3.3 million. In addition, we recorded contingent payments
    of $1.6 million which have been paid. Cougar had sales of
    approximately $18.1 million for its fiscal year ended
    August 31, 2004. We also purchased certain assets of the
    microwave technical solutions business of Avnet, Inc. for
    $2.2 million in cash and consolidated these assets with the
    operations of Cougar.

Net cash used by investing activities in 2005 included the
    receipt of $5.6 million from the sale of the assets of
    STIP-Isco, a German subsidiary and $2.9 million from the
    sale of
    SWIFT

tm

assets. In the first quarter of 2007 an additional
    $0.4 million that was held in escrow in connection with the
    STIP-Isco asset sale was released to Teledyne. The assets of
    STIP-Isco and
    SWIFT

tm

were acquired as part of the Isco acquisition made in June 2004.
    No gain was recorded on the sales and goodwill was reduced by
    $5.1 million.

Teledyne funded the acquisitions primarily from borrowings under
    its credit facility and cash on hand.

In all acquisitions, the results of operations and cash flows
    are included in the Company’s consolidated financial
    statements from the date of each respective acquisition. Each of
    the companies acquired, except for CollaborX, is part of the
    Electronics and Communications segment. CollaborX is part of the
    Engineered Systems segment. During 2007 the Company completed
    the process of specifically identifying the amount to be
    assigned to intangible assets, as well as certain assets and
    liabilities for the CollaborX, ODI and Teledyne
    Scientific & Imaging acquisitions made in 2006. The
    amount of goodwill and acquired intangible assets recorded as of
    December 30, 2007 for the ODI acquisition was
    $17.4 million and $13.8 million, respectively. The
    preliminary amount of goodwill and acquired intangible assets
    recorded as of December 31, 2006 for the ODI acquisition
    was $15.9 million and $13.8 million, respectively. The
    change in goodwill from December 31, 2006 reflects
    additional share purchases and changes to the estimated income
    tax balances. The amount of goodwill and acquired intangible
    assets recorded as of December 30, 2007 for the CollaborX
    acquisition was $14.2 million and $2.1 million,
    respectively, and did not change from December 31, 2006.
    The amount of goodwill and gross acquired intangible assets
    recorded as of December 30, 2007 for the Teledyne
    Scientific & Imaging acquisition was
    $73.2 million and $8.3 million, respectively. The
    preliminary amount of goodwill and gross acquired intangible
    assets recorded as of December 31, 2006 for the Teledyne
    Scientific & Imaging acquisition was
    $60.1 million and $19.0 million, respectively. The
    primary change was a $10.7 million reduction to acquired
    intangible assets and a corresponding increase to goodwill to
    reflect changes in the estimated amount of acquired intangible
    assets based on the completed valuation of acquired intangible
    assets and for the final allocation for certain assets and
    liabilities. The Company is in the process of specifically
    identifying the amount to be assigned to intangible assets, as
    well as certain assets and liabilities for the DGO and Tindall
    acquisitions made in 2007. The Company made preliminary
    estimates as of December 30, 2007, since there was
    insufficient time between the acquisition dates and the end of
    the year to finalize the valuations. The preliminary amount of
    goodwill and acquired intangible assets recorded as of
    December 30, 2007 for the DGO acquisition was
    $17.7 million and $7.9 million, respectively. The
    preliminary amount of goodwill and acquired intangible assets
    recorded as of December 30, 2007 for the Tindall
    acquisition was $4.1 million and $1.5 million,
    respectively. These amounts were based on estimates that are
    subject to change pending the completion of the Company’s
    internal review and the receipt of certain third party valuation
    reports. Goodwill resulting from the CollaborX, Teledyne
    Scientific & Imaging and DGO acquisitions will be
    deductible for tax purposes.



The following is a summary at the acquisition date of the
    estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed for the acquisitions made in 2007 (in millions):

Current assets, excluding cash acquired

$

14.7

Property, plant and equipment

1.5

Goodwill

21.8

Intangible assets

9.4

Total assets acquired

47.4

Current liabilities, including short-term debt

3.7

Other long-term liabilities

1.0

Total liabilities assumed

4.7

Purchase price, net of cash acquired

$

42.7

Subsequent to December 30, 2007, Teledyne made four
    acquisitions.

On February 1, 2008, Teledyne Technologies through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Scientific & Imaging, LLC,
    completed the acquisition of assets of Judson Technologies, LLC
    (“Judson”) for $27.0 million in cash. Judson,
    headquartered in Montgomeryville, Pennsylvania, is a leading
    designer and manufacturer of high performance infrared detectors
    and accessory products. Judson manufactures high performance
    infrared detectors utilizing a wide variety of materials such as
    Mercury Cadmium Telluride (“HgCdTe”), Indium
    Antimonide (“InSb”), and Indium Gallium Arsenide
    (“InGaAs”), as well as tactical dewar and cooler
    assemblies and other specialized standard products for military,
    space, industrial and scientific applications. Judson had sales
    of $13.8 million for its fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2006. Teledyne operates this business under
    the name Teledyne Judson Technologies.

On January 31, 2008 Teledyne Technologies through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Limited, acquired all of the outstanding
    stock of S G Brown Limited and its wholly-owned subsidiary TSS
    (International) Limited (together “TSS International”)
    for GBP 29.1 million in cash (approximately
    $57.9 million). TSS International, headquartered in
    Watford, United Kingdom, designs and manufactures inertial
    sensing, gyrocompass navigation and subsea pipe and cable
    detection systems for offshore energy, oceanographic and
    military marine markets. TSS International’s inertial
    sensing and navigation systems, which contain mechanical gyros
    and solid state sensors, provide detailed positioning parameters
    for marine applications. Such systems increase the accuracy of
    hydrographic surveys by correcting for a marine vessel’s
    motion. TSS had revenue of GBP 12.0 million
    (approximately $23.9 million) for its fiscal year ended
    March 31, 2007. The acquired businesses operate under the
    names Teledyne SG Brown Limited and Teledyne TSS Limited.

On December 31, 2007, Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    through its subsidiary, Teledyne Instruments, Inc. completed the
    acquisition of assets of Impulse Enterprise
    (“Impulse”) for $35.0 million in cash. Impulse,
    headquartered in San Diego, California, is a leading
    manufacturer of underwater electrical interconnection systems.
    Impulse manufactures waterproof neoprene and glass reinforced
    epoxy connector products for harsh environments, complementing
    Teledyne D.G. O’Brien’s glass-to-metal sealed subsea
    cable and connector systems, as well as Ocean Design,
    Inc.’s lines of wet-mateable interconnect systems. Impulse
    had sales of $16.8 million for its fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2006. Teledyne operates this business under
    the name Teledyne Impulse.

On December 31, 2007, Teledyne Technologies through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Reynolds, Inc., acquired all of the
    outstanding stock of Storm Products Co. (“Storm”) for
    $47.5 million in cash. Storm, with principal operations in
    Dallas, Texas and Woodridge, Illinois, manufactures specialty
    wire, cable and interconnect products, as well as flexible and
    semi-rigid microwave cable assemblies. Storm currently operates
    two business units: Storm-Cable Solutions Group and
    Storm-Microwave. Storm’s Cable Solutions Group supplies
    custom, high-reliability bulk wire and cable assemblies to a
    number of markets including energy exploration, environmental
    monitoring and industrial equipment. Storm-Microwave provides
    coax microwave cable and interconnects primarily to defense
    customers for radar, electronic warfare and communications
    applications.



Storm had revenue of $45.7 million for its fiscal year
    ended March 31, 2007. Teledyne operates this business under
    the name Teledyne Storm Products, Inc.

Each of the companies acquired is part of the Electronics and
    Communications segment. Teledyne funded the acquisitions
    primarily from borrowings under its credit facility and cash on
    hand.

Financing
    Activities

Cash provided by financing activities for 2007 reflected the net
    repayments of borrowings of $88.8 million. Cash provided by
    financing activities for 2006 reflected net borrowings,
    primarily under our revolving credit agreement, to acquire
    businesses. Cash used in financing activities for 2005 reflected
    the payment of long-term debt. Fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005
    all reflect proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Fiscal
    years 2007 and 2006 included $3.6 and $8.6 million,
    respectively, in excess tax benefits related to stock-based
    compensation. In 2005 excess tax benefits of $5.2 million
    related to stock-based compensation were classified as an
    operating cash flow.

On February 8, 2008, Teledyne Technologies entered into a
    First Amendment to its $400.0 million Amended and Restated
    Credit Agreement dated as of July 14, 2006. The amended and
    restated credit facility has lender commitments of
    $590.0 million and expires in July 2011. At year-end 2007,
    we had $253.1 million of available committed credit under
    the credit facility, which can be utilized, as needed, for daily
    operating and periodic cash needs, including acquisitions.
    Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest, at our
    option, at a rate based on either a defined base rate or the
    London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), plus
    applicable margins. The credit agreement also provides for
    facility fees that vary between 0.10% and 0.25% of the credit
    line, depending on our consolidated leverage ratio as calculated
    from time to time. The credit agreement requires the Company to
    comply with various financial and operating covenants, including
    maintaining certain consolidated leverage and interest coverage
    ratios, as well as minimum net worth levels and limits on
    acquired debt. We also have two $5.0 million uncommitted
    credit lines available. These credit lines are utilized, as
    needed, for periodic cash needs. Total debt at year-end 2007
    includes $138.0 million outstanding under the
    $400.0 million credit facility and $1.3 million in
    other debt. No amounts were outstanding under the two
    uncommitted bank facilities at December 30, 2007. The
    Company also has a $3.9 million capital lease, of which
    $0.1 million is current. At year-end 2007, Teledyne had
    $8.9 million in outstanding letters of credit.

Pension
    and Postretirement Plans

In connection with our November 29, 1999 spin-off from
    Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated, now known as Allegheny
    Technologies Incorporated, a defined benefit pension plan was
    established and Teledyne assumed the existing pension
    obligations for all of the employees, both active and inactive,
    at the operations which perform government contract work and for
    active employees at operations which do not perform government
    contract work. ATI transferred pension assets to fund the new
    defined benefit pension plan. As of January 1, 2004,
    non-union new hires participate in an enhanced defined
    contribution plan as opposed to the Company’s existing
    defined benefit pension plan. Currently, Teledyne anticipates
    making an after-tax cash contribution of approximately
    $5.6 million to its pension plans in 2008 before recovery
    from the U.S. Government. Net after tax pension cash
    generation, after taking into consideration recovery of pension
    costs under certain government contracts in accordance with CAS
    from the U.S. Government is expected to be approximately
    $0.2 million in 2008.

Other
    Matters

Income
    Taxes

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2007 was 34.1%,
    compared with 34.0% for 2006 and 37.6% for 2005. The Company
    completed an analysis of research and development spending for
    2000 through 2006, as well as the base period years, and
    anticipates the receipt of income tax refunds for those years.
    The effective tax rate for 2007 reflects the impact of expected
    research and development income tax refunds of $4.4 million
    and also reflects the reversal of $1.1 million in income
    tax contingency reserves which were determined to be



no longer needed due to the completion of state tax audits and
    the expiration of applicable statutes of limitations. Excluding
    these items the effective tax rate for 2007 would have been
    37.7%. The effective tax rate for the 2006 reflects the impact
    of the reversal of income tax contingency reserves of
    $3.3 million which were determined to be no longer needed
    due to the expiration of applicable statutes of limitations.
    Excluding the impact of the reversal, the effective tax rate for
    2006 would have been 36.7%. Based on the Company’s history
    of operating earnings, expectations of future operating earnings
    and potential tax planning strategies, it is more likely than
    not that the deferred income tax assets at December 30,
    2007 will be realized.

Costs and
    Pricing

Inflationary trends in recent years have been moderate. Current
    inventory costs, the increasing costs of equipment and other
    costs are considered in establishing sales pricing polices. The
    Company emphasizes cost containment in all aspects of its
    business.

Hedging
    Activities; Market Risk Disclosures

We have not utilized derivative financial instruments such as
    futures contracts, options and swaps, forward foreign exchange
    contracts or interest rate swaps and futures during 2007 or
    2006. We believe that adequate controls are in place to monitor
    any hedging activities. Our primary exposure to market risk
    relates to changes in interest rates and foreign currency
    exchange rates. We periodically evaluate these risks and have
    taken measures to mitigate these risks. We own assets and
    operate facilities in countries that have been politically
    stable. Also, our foreign risk management objectives are geared
    towards stabilizing cash flow from the effects of foreign
    currency fluctuations. Most of the Company’s sales are
    denominated in U.S. dollars which mitigates the effect of
    exchange rate changes. Borrowings under our credit facility are
    at fixed rates that vary with the term and timing of each loan
    under the facility. Loans under the facility typically have
    terms of one, two, three or six months and the interest rate for
    each such loan is subject to change if the loan is continued or
    converted following the applicable maturity date. Interest rates
    are also subject to change based on our debt to earnings before
    interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ratio. As of
    December 30, 2007, we had $138.0 million in
    outstanding indebtedness under our amended and restated credit
    facility. A 100 basis point change in interest rates would
    result in an increase in annual interest expense of
    approximately $1.4 million, assuming the
    $138.0 million in debt was outstanding for the full year.
    Any borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit line
    are based on a fluctuating market interest rate and,
    consequently, the fair value of any outstanding debt should not
    be affected materially by changes in market interest rates.
    Overall, we believe that our exposure to interest rate risk and
    foreign currency exchange rate changes is not material to our
    financial condition or results of operations.

Related
    Party Transactions

In connection with the spin-off, Teledyne and ATI entered into
    several agreements governing the separation of our businesses
    and various employee benefits, compensation, tax,
    indemnification and transition arrangements. The Company’s
    principal spin-off requirements, including the requirement to
    ensure a favorable tax treatment, have been satisfied. One of
    our directors continues to serve on ATI’s board.

Our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer is a
    director of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, as is one
    of our other directors. The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation
    is the successor to Mellon Financial Corporation following its
    merger with The Bank of New York in 2007. Another of our
    directors was a former chief executive officer of Mellon
    Financial Corporation. All transactions with Mellon Bank, N.A.
    and The Bank of New York and its respective affiliates are
    effected under normal commercial terms, and we believe that our
    relationships with The Bank of New York and Mellon Bank, N.A.
    and its respective affiliates are arms-length. The Bank of New
    York and Mellon Bank, N.A. are two of 14 lenders under our
    $590.0 million credit facility, having committed up to
    $90.0 million under the facility. Mellon Bank, N.A.
    provides cash management services and an uncommitted
    $5.0 million line of credit. Mellon Bank, N.A. serves as
    trustee under our pension plan and through its affiliates and
    subsidiaries provides asset management and transition management
    services for the plan. Mellon Investor Services LLC serves as
    our transfer agent



and registrar, as well as agent under our stockholders rights
    plan. BNY Mellon Shareowner Services handles administration of
    our stock option program.

Environmental

We are subject to various federal, state, local and
    international environmental laws and regulations which require
    that we investigate and remediate the effects of the release or
    disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present
    operations. These include sites at which Teledyne has been
    identified as a potentially responsible party under the
    Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
    Act, commonly known as Superfund, and comparable state laws. We
    are currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a
    number of sites. Reserves for environmental investigation and
    remediation totaled approximately $4.4 million at
    December 30, 2007 and $5.1 million at
    December 31, 2006. As investigation and remediation of
    these sites proceed and new information is received, the Company
    expects that accruals will be adjusted to reflect new
    information. Based on current information, we do not believe
    that future environmental costs, in excess of those already
    accrued, will materially and adversely affect our financial
    condition or liquidity. However, resolution of one or more of
    these environmental matters or future accrual adjustments in any
    one reporting period could have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations for that period.

For additional discussion of environmental matters, see
    Notes 2 and 15 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Government
    Contracts

We perform work on a number of contracts with the Department of
    Defense and other agencies and departments of the
    U.S. Government including sub-contracts with government
    prime contractors. Sales under these contracts with the
    U.S. Government, which included contracts with the
    Department of Defense, were approximately 41% of total sales in
    2007, 40% of total sales in 2006 and 42% of total sales in 2005.
    For a summary of sales to the U.S. Government by segment,
    see Note 13 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements. Sales to the Department of Defense represented
    approximately 30%, 30% and 32% of total sales for 2007, 2006 and
    2005, respectively.

Performance under government contracts has certain inherent
    risks that could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s business, results of operations and financial
    condition. Government contracts are conditioned upon the
    continuing availability of Congressional appropriations, which
    usually occurs on a fiscal year basis even though contract
    performance may take more than one year. While U.S. defense
    spending increased as a result of the
    September 11th terrorist attacks and the war in Iraq,
    it is currently expected to moderate over the next few years.
    Notwithstanding the recent increase in U S. defense spending,
    delays or declines in U.S. military expenditures in the
    programs in which we participate could adversely affect our
    business, results of operations and financial condition.

For information on accounts receivable from the
    U.S. Government, see Note 5 to the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Estimates
    and Reserves

Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results
    of operations are based upon our consolidated financial
    statements, which have been prepared in accordance with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
    The preparation of these financial statements requires us to
    make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of
    assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
    disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we
    evaluate our estimates, including those related to product
    returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories,
    intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, pension
    and other postretirement benefits, long-term contracts,
    environmental, workers’ compensation and general liability,
    aircraft product liability, employee dental and medical benefits
    and other contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on
    historical experience and on various other assumptions that are
    believed to be reasonable under the circumstances at the time,
    the results of which form the basis for making our judgments.
    Actual results may differ materially from these estimates under
    different assumptions



or conditions. In some cases, such differences may be material.
    See “Other Matters — Critical Accounting
    Policies”.

The following table reflects significant reserves and valuation
    accounts, which are estimates and based on judgments as
    described above, at December 30, 2007 and December 31,
    2006:

Reserves
    and Valuation Accounts(a)



(In millions)

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

4.6

$

2.7

LIFO reserves

$

25.6

$

24.4

Other inventory reserves

$

23.6

$

22.8

Aircraft product liability reserves(b)

$

53.8

$

46.9

Workers’ compensation and general liability reserves(b)

$

10.7

$

10.6

Warranty reserves

$

11.4

$

11.4

Environmental reserves(b)

$

4.4

$

5.1

Other accrued liability reserves(b)

$

5.8

$

4.0

(a)

This table should be read in conjunction with the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b)

Includes both long-term and short-term reserves.

Some of the Company’s products are subject to specified
    warranties and the Company provides for the estimated cost of
    product warranties. We regularly assess the adequacy of our
    pre-existing warranty liabilities and adjust amounts as
    necessary based on a review of historic warranty experience with
    respect to the applicable business or products, as well as the
    length and actual terms of the warranties, which are typically
    one year. The product warranty reserve is included in current
    accrued liabilities on the balance sheet. Changes in the
    Company’s product warranty reserve are as follows (in
    millions):




Balance at beginning of year

$

11.4

$

10.3

$

6.9

Accruals for product warranties charged to expense

7.4

9.7

9.6

Cost of product warranty claims

(7.6

)

(9.1

)

(6.8

)

Acquisitions

0.2

0.5

0.6

Balance at year-end

$

11.4

$

11.4

$

10.3

Critical
    Accounting Policies

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with United States generally accepted accounting
    principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions
    that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
    the notes to the financial statements. Some of those judgments
    can be subjective and complex, and therefore, actual results
    could differ materially from those estimates under different
    assumptions or conditions. Our critical accounting policies are
    those that are reflective of significant judgment, complexity
    and uncertainty, and may potentially result in materially
    different results under different assumptions and conditions. We
    have identified the following as critical accounting policies:
    revenue recognition; aircraft product liability reserve;
    accounting for pension plans; accounting for business
    combinations, goodwill and other long-lived assets; and
    accounting for income taxes. For additional discussion of the
    application of these and other accounting policies, see
    Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Revenue
    Recognition

Commercial sales and sales from U.S. Government fixed-price
    type contracts are generally recorded as shipments are made or
    as services are rendered. We account for these contracts in
    accordance with the



Securities and Exchange Commissions’ Staff Accounting
    Bulletin (“SAB”) No. 104, “Revenue
    Recognition”, or other relevant revenue recognition
    accounting literature. Occasionally, for certain fixed-price
    type contracts that require substantial performance over a long
    time period (generally one or more years), in accordance with
    the requirements of American Institute of Certified Public
    Accountants Statement of Position

81-1

“Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and
    Certain Production-Type Contracts,”

(“SOP 81-1”)

revenues are recorded under the percentage-of-completion method.
    We measure the extent of progress toward completion using the
    units-of-delivery method, cost-to-cost method or upon attainment
    of scheduled performance milestones which could be time, event
    or expense driven. Occasionally, invoices are submitted to and
    paid by the customer under a contractual agreement which has a
    different time schedule than the related revenue recognition.
    Sales under cost-reimbursement contracts, usually from the
    U.S. Government, are recorded as allowable costs are
    incurred and fees are earned.

The development of cost of sales percentages used to record
    costs under certain fixed-price type contracts and fees under
    certain cost-reimbursement type contracts requires
    management’s judgment to make reasonably dependable cost
    estimates for the design, manufacture and delivery of products
    and services, generally over a long time period. Since certain
    fixed-price and cost-reimbursement type contracts extend over a
    long period of time, the impact of revisions in cost and revenue
    estimates during the progress of work may adjust the current
    period earnings on a cumulative

catch-up

basis. This method recognizes in the current period the
    cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior quarters.
    For fixed-price contracts, if the current contract estimate
    indicates a loss, a provision is made for the total anticipated
    loss in the period that it becomes evident. Contract cost and
    revenue estimates for significant contracts are generally
    reviewed and reassessed quarterly. These types of contracts and
    estimates are most frequently related to our sales to the
    U.S. Government or sales to other defense contractors for
    ultimate sale to the U.S. Government. For our sales to the
    U.S. Government in 2007, 2006 and 2005, operating income as
    a percent of sales did not vary by more than 0.5%. If operating
    income as a percent of sales to the U.S. Government had
    been higher or lower by 0.5% in 2007, the Company’s
    operating income would have changed by approximately
    $4.1 million.

Aircraft
    Product Liability Reserve

We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings related
    to aircraft product liability claims. We have accrued an
    estimate for the probable costs for the resolution of these
    claims. This estimate has been developed in consultation with
    our insurers, outside counsel handling our defense in these
    matters and historical experience, and is based upon an analysis
    of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and
    settlement strategies. We do not believe these proceedings will
    have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
    position. It is possible, however, that future results of
    operations for any particular quarterly or annual period could
    be materially affected by specific events occurring in the
    period, changes in our assumptions, or the effectiveness of our
    strategies, related to these proceedings. The Company has
    aircraft and product liability insurance. The current annual
    self-insurance retention is $21.0 million compared with
    $22.9 million in 2006. If a significant liability claim or
    combination of claims were identified, even taking into account
    insurance coverage, operating profit in a given period could be
    reduced significantly. Accruals could be made in a given period
    for amounts up to our annual self-insurance retention. Based on
    the facts and circumstances of the claims, we have not always
    accrued amounts up to our annual self-insurance retention. Also,
    we cannot assure that, for 2008 and in future years, our ability
    to obtain insurance, or the premiums for such insurance, or the
    amount of our self-insured retention or reserves will not be
    negatively impacted by our experience in prior years or other
    factors. Our current aircraft product liability insurance policy
    expires in May 2008.

Accounting
    for Pension Plans

Teledyne has a defined benefit pension plan covering most of its
    employees. The Company accounts for its defined benefit pension
    plan in accordance with SFAS No. 87,
    “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions,” and
    SFAS No. 158 “Employers’ Accounting for
    Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
    Plans — An Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87,
    88, 106, and 132(R),” which requires that amounts
    recognized in financial statements be determined on an actuarial
    basis, rather than as contributions are made to the plan. A



significant element in determining the Company’s pension
    income or expense is the expected return on plan assets. The
    Company has assumed, based upon the types of securities the plan
    assets are invested in and the long-term historical returns of
    these investments, that the long-term expected return on pension
    assets will be 8.5% in 2008 and its assumed discount rate will
    be 6.0% in 2008. The same rates were used in 2007. The actual
    rate of return on pension assets was 2.5% in 2007 and 15.1% in
    2006. If the actual rate of return on pension assets is above
    the projection, the Company may be able to reduce its
    contributions to the pension trust. If the actual rate of return
    on pension assets is below the projection, the Company may be
    required to make additional contributions to the pension trust.
    The Company made an after-tax contribution of $4.5 million
    to its pension benefit plans in 2007 and currently anticipates
    making an after-tax cash contribution of approximately
    $5.6 million to its pension benefit plans in 2008, before
    recovery from the U.S. Government. The assumed long-term
    rate of return on assets is applied to the market-related value
    of plan assets at the end of the previous year. This produces
    the expected return on plan assets that is included in annual
    pension income or expense calculation for the current year. The
    cumulative difference between this expected return and the
    actual return on plan assets is deferred and amortized into
    pension income or expense over future periods. In accordance
    with the requirements of SFAS No. 158, at year-end
    2007 the Company has a $62.7 million non-cash reduction to
    stockholders’ equity and a long-term additional liability
    of $103.0 million. At year-end 2006, the Company had a
    $43.4 million non-cash reduction to stockholders’
    equity and a long-term additional liability of
    $71.3 million. See Note 12 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements for additional pension
    disclosures.

Differences in the discount rate and expected long-term rate of
    return on assets within the indicated range would have had the
    following impact on 2007 results:

0.25 Percentage

0.25 Percentage

Point Increase

Point Decrease

$ in millions

Increase (decrease) to pension expense resulting from:

Change in discount rate

$

(2.0

)

$

2.1

Change in long-term rate of return on plan assets

$

(1.4

)

$

1.4

See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for additional pension disclosures.

Accounting
    for Business Combinations, Goodwill and Other Long-Lived
    Assets

The Company accounts for goodwill and purchased intangible
    assets under SFAS No. 141 “Business
    Combinations” and SFAS No. 142 “Goodwill and
    Other Intangible Assets”. In all acquisitions, the results
    are generally included in the Company’s consolidated
    financial statements from the date of each respective
    acquisition. Business acquisitions are accounted for under the
    purchase method by assigning the purchase price to tangible and
    intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Assets
    acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their fair
    values and the excess of the purchase price over the amounts
    assigned is recorded as goodwill. Purchased intangible assets
    with finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful
    lives. Adjustments to fair value assessments are recorded to
    goodwill over the purchase price allocation period (generally
    not longer than twelve months) with the exception of certain
    adjustments related to income tax uncertainties, the resolution
    of which may extend beyond the purchase price allocation period.

Goodwill and acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives
    are not amortized. We review goodwill and acquired
    indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever
    events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
    amount of these assets may not be recoverable. The Company also
    performs an annual impairment test in the fourth quarter of each
    year. Based on the annual impairment test completed in the
    fourth quarter of 2007, no impairment of goodwill or intangible
    assets with indefinite lives was indicated. The Company
    estimates the fair value of the reporting units, which are our
    four business segments, using a discounted cash flow model based
    on our best estimate of amounts and timing of future revenues
    and cash flows and our most recent business and strategic plans,
    and compares the estimated fair value to the net book value of
    the reporting unit, including goodwill. The development of
    future revenues and cash flows projections for our business and
    strategic plan, and the annual impairment test involve
    significant judgments. Changes in these projections could affect
    the estimated fair value of certain of the Company’s
    reporting units and could



result in a goodwill impairment charge in a future period.
    However, a 10 percent decrease in the current fair value
    estimate of each of the Company’s reporting units would not
    result in a goodwill impairment charge.

We monitor the recoverability of the carrying value of our
    long-lived assets. An impairment charge is recognized when
    events and circumstances indicate that the undiscounted cash
    flows expected to be generated by an asset (including any
    proceeds from dispositions) are less than the carrying value of
    the asset and the asset’s carrying value is less than its
    fair value. Our cash flow estimates are based on historical
    results adjusted to reflect our best estimate of future market
    and operating conditions. The net carrying value of assets not
    recoverable is reduced to fair value. Our estimates of fair
    value represent our best estimate based on industry trends and
    reference to market rates and transactions. Our determination of
    what constitutes an indication of possible impairment, the
    estimation of future cash flows and the determination of
    estimated fair value are all significant judgments.

Accounting
    for Income Taxes

Income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities
    reflect management’s assessment of actual future taxes to
    be paid on items reflected in the financial statements.
    Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions
    and determining our provision for income taxes. Uncertainty
    exists regarding tax positions taken in previously filed tax
    returns still under examination and positions expected to be
    taken in future returns. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
    arise due to differences between the consolidated financial
    statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities
    and their respective tax bases and tax carryforwards. Although
    we believe our income tax expense and deferred tax assets and
    liabilities are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the
    final tax outcome will not be different from that which is
    reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals.
    To the extent that the final tax outcome is different than the
    amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for
    income taxes in the period in which such determination is made.
    The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve
    provisions and changes to reserves that are considered
    appropriate, as well as the related net interest.

Significant judgment is required in determining any valuation
    allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the
    need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available
    evidence including past operating results, estimates of future
    taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies.
    In the event that we change our determination as to the amount
    of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our
    valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision
    for income taxes in the period in which such determination is
    made.

Our effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate primarily
    due to the tax impact of the research and development tax
    credits, state taxes and tax audit settlements. The effective
    tax rate was 34.1%, 34.0% and 37.6% in fiscal 2007, 2006 and
    2005, respectively. See Recent Accounting Pronouncements and
    Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    for disclosures regarding the adoption of FIN No. 48.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements

SFAS No. 141R

In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141R, “Business
    Combinations” (“SFAS No. 141R”). This
    statement replaces FASB Statement No. 141, “Business
    Combinations”. SFAS No. 141R establishes
    principles and requirements for how the acquirer of a business
    recognizes and measures in its financial statements the
    identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any
    noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. The statement also
    provides guidance for recognizing and measuring the goodwill
    acquired in the business combination and determines what
    information to disclose to enable users of the financial
    statement to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the
    business combination. SFAS No. 141R applies
    prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition
    date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting
    period beginning on or after December 15, 2008, and
    accordingly will not impact the accounting for acquisitions made
    prior to its adoption. For any acquisitions completed after our
    2008 fiscal year, we expect SFAS No. 141R



will have an impact on our consolidated financial statements,
    however the nature and magnitude of the specific effects will
    depend upon the nature, terms and size of the acquisitions we
    consummate.

SFAS No. 160

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,
    “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
    Statements — an amendment of ARB No. 51”
    (“SFAS No. 160”). SFAS No. 160
    changes the way the consolidated income statement is presented
    and establishes a single method of accounting for changes in a
    parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that does not
    result in deconsolidation. It also requires that a parent
    recognize a gain or loss in net income when a subsidiary is
    deconsolidated. This Statement will be effective for
    Teledyne’s 2009 fiscal year and interim periods within that
    fiscal year. SFAS No. 160 will be applied
    prospectively as of the beginning of the fiscal year 2009,
    except for the presentation and disclosure requirements. The
    presentation and disclosure requirements must be applied
    retrospectively for all periods presented. The Company is
    currently evaluating the impact of adopting this Statement.

SFAS No. 159

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,
    “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities — Including an Amendment of FASB Statement
    No. 115.” SFAS No. 159 permits entities to
    choose to measure eligible items at fair value at specified
    election dates and report unrealized gains and losses on items
    for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at
    each subsequent reporting date. SFAS No. 159 is
    effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
    2007. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting
    this Statement; however, the adoption is not expected to have an
    effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations
    or financial position.

EITF

No. 07-3

In June 2007 the FASB ratified EITF

No. 07-3,

(“EITF 07-3”),

“Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or
    Services to Be Used in Future Research and Development
    Activities”.

EITF 07-3

requires non-refundable advance payments for goods and services
    to be used in future research and development activities to be
    recorded as an asset and the payments to be expensed when the
    research and development activities are performed.

EITF 07-3

is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
    2007. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting
    this Statement; however, the adoption is not expected to have an
    effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations
    or financial position.

FIN No. 48

On January 1, 2007, Teledyne Technologies adopted FASB
    Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes (“FIN No. 48”). FIN No. 48
    prescribes a minimum recognition threshold and measurement
    methodology that a tax position taken or expected to be taken in
    a tax return is required to meet before being recognized in the
    financial statements. It also provides guidance for
    derecognition, classification, interest and penalties,
    accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. As a
    result of the implementation the Company recognized a
    $0.2 million increase in the liability for unrecognized tax
    benefits, which were accounted for as a cumulative-effect
    adjustment (decrease) to the beginning balance of retained
    earnings. As of the date of adoption and after the impact of
    recognizing the increase in the liability noted above, the
    Company’s total gross unrecognized tax benefits and related
    interest totaled $5.5 million.



The following presents a rollforward of our unrecognized tax
    benefits (in millions):

Unrecognized

Tax Benefits

Interest

Balance January 1, 2007

$

4.8

$

0.7

Increase in prior year tax positions

0.3

0.3

Increase for tax positions taken during the current period

24.5

—

Reduction related to settlements with taxing authorities

(0.8

)

(0.2

)

Reduction related to lapse of the statue of limitations

(1.0

)

(0.3

)

Balance December 30, 2007

$

27.8

$

0.5

We recognized interest related to unrecognized tax benefits of
    $0.3 million within the provision for income taxes on
    continuing operations in our statements of operations. Interest
    in the amount of $0.5 million is recognized in the
    2007 statement of financial position. As of
    December 30, 2007, we estimated that the entire balance of
    unrecognized tax benefits, if resolved in our favor, would
    positively impact the effective tax rate and, therefore, be
    recognized as additional tax benefits in our income statement.

We file income tax returns in the United States federal
    jurisdiction and in various states and foreign jurisdictions.
    Except for refund claims related to credits for research
    activities, the Company has substantially concluded on all
    U.S. federal income tax matters for years through 2003.
    Substantially all other material state and local, and foreign
    income tax matters have been concluded for years through 2002.

The Company anticipates the total unrecognized tax benefit may
    be reduced by $1.0 million due to the expiration of
    statutes of limitation for various federal and state tax issues
    in the next 12 months.

SFAS No. 157

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
    “Fair Value Measurements,” which defines fair value,
    establishes a framework in generally accepted accounting
    principles for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures
    about fair value measurements. This standard only applies when
    other standards require or permit the fair value measurement of
    assets and liabilities. It does not increase the use of fair
    value measurement. SFAS No. 157 is effective for
    fiscal years beginning after Nov. 15, 2007. The Company is
    currently evaluating the impact of adopting this Statement;
    however, the adoption is not expected to have a material effect
    on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or
    financial position.

SFAS No. 123(R)

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R) that
    requires compensation costs related to share-based payment
    transactions to be recognized in the financial statements. With
    limited exceptions, the amount of compensation costs will be
    measured based on the grant date fair value of the equity or
    liability instrument issued. Compensation cost will be
    recognized over the period that an employee provides service in
    exchange for the award. SFAS No. 123(R) replaces
    SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
    Compensation” and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25,
    “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.” The
    Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) effective
    January 2, 2006, using the modified prospective method, and
    accordingly did not restate prior year financial statements. No
    modifications to outstanding stock options were made prior to
    the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). The valuation
    methodologies and assumptions in estimating the fair value of
    stock options granted in 2007 were similar to those used in
    estimating the fair value of stock options granted in 2006.
    Stock option compensation expense is recorded on a straight line
    basis over the appropriate vesting period, generally three
    years. For fiscal year 2007 and 2006, the Company recorded a
    total of $6.8 million and $5.9 million, respectively,
    for stock option expense related to stock options awarded after
    the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and for stock options
    which were not vested by the date of adoption of
    SFAS No. 123(R). No compensation expense related to
    stock options was recorded in the consolidated statements of
    income for 2005 or in prior years since it was not required.



Outlook

Based on its current outlook, the Company’s management
    believes that first quarter 2008 earnings per diluted share will
    be in the range of approximately $0.63 to $0.66. The full year
    2008 earnings per diluted share outlook is expected to be in the
    range of approximately $2.86 to $2.94. Our 2008 outlook reflects
    anticipated sales growth in our defense electronics and
    instrumentation businesses, due primarily to the recent
    acquisitions. In addition, the Company’s first quarter and
    full year 2008 earnings per diluted share outlook reflects an
    anticipated increase in expenses, including intangible asset
    amortization and higher interest expense, as a result of these
    acquisitions. Our estimated effective tax rate for 2008 is
    expected to be 39.0%, excluding expected research and
    development income tax refund claims of $1.3 million in the
    first quarter of 2008.

The full year 2008 earnings outlook includes approximately
    $10.0 million in pension expense under
    SFAS No. 87 and No. 158, or $0.6 million in
    net pension expense after recovery of allowable pension costs
    from our CAS covered government contracts. Full year 2007
    earnings included $11.9 million in pension expense under
    SFAS No. 87 and No. 158, or $1.7 million in
    net pension expense after recovery of allowable pension costs
    from our CAS covered government contracts. The decrease in full
    year 2008 pension expense reflects pension contributions made in
    2007.

Our 2008 earnings outlook also reflects $7.8 million in
    stock option compensation expense. The Company’s 2007
    earnings included $6.8 million in stock option compensation
    expense.

EARNINGS
    PER SHARE SUMMARY (a)

(Diluted earnings per common share from continuing
    operations)

2008 Full Year Outlook



Low

High

Actual

Actual

Earnings per share (excluding net pension expense, stock option
    expense and income tax benefit)

$

2.96

$

3.04

$

2.72

$

2.36

Pension expense — SFAS No. 87 and
    No. 158

(0.17

)

(0.17

)

(0.21

)

(0.27

)

Pension expense — CAS(b)

0.16

0.16

0.18

0.18

Earnings per share (excluding stock option expense and income
    tax benefit)

2.95

3.03

2.69

2.27

Stock option expense(c)

(0.13

)

(0.13

)

(0.12

)

(0.10

)

Income tax benefit(d)

0.04

0.04

0.15

0.09

Earnings per share — GAAP

$

2.86

$

2.94

$

2.72

$

2.26



Safe
    Harbor Cautionary Statement Regarding Outlook and Other
    Forward-Looking Data

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operation contains forward-looking
    statements, as defined in the Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995, relating to earnings, growth opportunities,
    product sales, capital expenditures, pension matters, stock
    option compensation expense, taxes and strategic plans. All
    statements made in this Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation that
    are not historical in nature should be considered
    forward-looking. Actual results could differ materially from
    these forward-looking statements. Many factors, including
    changes in demand for products sold to the defense electronics,
    instrumentation and energy exploration and production,
    commercial aviation, semiconductor and communications markets,
    funding, continuation and award of government programs,
    continued liquidity of our customers (including commercial
    aviation customers) and economic and political conditions, could
    change the anticipated results. In addition, financial market
    fluctuations affect the value of our pension assets.

Global responses to terrorism and other perceived threats
    increase uncertainties associated with forward-looking
    statements about our businesses. Various responses to terrorism
    and perceived threats could realign government programs, and
    affect the composition, funding or timing of our programs.
    Flight restrictions would negatively impact the market for
    general aviation aircraft piston engines and components. Changes
    in the leadership of the U.S. Government could result over
    time in reductions in defense spending and further changes in
    programs in which the Company participates.

The Company continues to take action to assure compliance with
    the internal controls, disclosure controls and other
    requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we believe
    our control systems are effective, there are inherent
    limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to
    error or fraud may occur and may not be detected.

While Teledyne Technologies’ growth strategy includes
    possible acquisitions, we cannot provide any assurance as to
    when, if or on what terms any acquisitions will be made.
    Acquisitions involve various inherent risks, such as, among
    others, our ability to integrate acquired businesses, retain
    customers and achieve identified financial and operating
    synergies.

Additional information concerning factors that could cause
    actual results to differ materially from those projected in the
    forward-looking statements is contained beginning on
    page 14 of this

Form 10-K

under the caption “Risk Factors; Cautionary Statements as
    to Forward-Looking Statements.” Forward-looking statements
    are generally accompanied by words such as “estimate”,
    “project”, “predict”, “believes”
    or “expect”, that convey the uncertainty of future
    events or outcomes. We assume no obligation to publicly update
    or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of
    new information or otherwise.

Item 7A.

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

The information required by this item is included in this Report
    at page 50 under the caption “Other
    Matters — Hedging Activities; Market Risk
    Disclosures” of “Item 7. Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operation.”

Item 8.

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data.

The information required by this item is included in this Report
    at pages 65 through 106. See the “Index to Financial
    Statements and Related Information” at page 64.

Item 9.

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure.

None.



Item 9A.

Controls
    and Procedures.

Disclosure
    Controls

Teledyne’s disclosure controls and procedures are designed
    to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports
    that it files or submits, under the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, was recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
    the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the
    Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company’s
    management, with the participation of its Chairman, President
    and Chief Executive Officer and Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness, as of
    December 30, 2007, of the Company’s “disclosure
    controls and procedures,” as that term is defined in

Rule 13a-15(e)

under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
    (“the Exchange Act”). Based upon that evaluation, our
    Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer
    concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures as of
    December 30, 2007, were effective to provide a reasonable
    assurance that information required to be disclosed by the
    Company in the reports filed or submitted by it under the
    Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported
    within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and
    forms, and to provide reasonable assurance that information
    required to be disclosed by us in such reports is accumulated
    and communicated to the Company’s management, including its
    principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as
    appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
    disclosure.

Internal
    Controls

See Management Statement on page 65 for management’s
    annual report on internal control over financial reporting. See
    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
    page 66 for Ernst & Young LLP’s attestation
    report on management’s assessment of internal control over
    financial reporting.

There was no change in the Company’s “internal control
    over financial reporting” (as such term is defined in

Rule 13a-15(f)

under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the quarter ended
    December 30, 2007, that has materially affected, or is
    reasonably likely to materially effect, the Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting.

Sarbanes-Oxley
    Disclosure Committee

The Company’s Sarbanes-Oxley Disclosure Committee include
    the following members:

Ivars R. Blukis, Chief Business Risk Assurance Officer (Internal
    Audit)

Melanie S. Cibik, Vice President, Associate General Counsel and
    Assistant Secretary

John T. Kuelbs, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
    Secretary

Brian A. Levan, Director of External Financial Reporting and
    Assistant Controller

Susan L. Main, Vice President and Controller

Robyn E. McGowan, Vice President, Administration and Human
    Resources and Assistant Secretary

S. Paul Sassalos, Senior Corporate Counsel

Dale A. Schnittjer, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
    Officer

Jason VanWees, Vice President, Corporate Development and
    Investor Relations

Among its tasks, the Sarbanes-Oxley Disclosure Committee
    discusses and reviews disclosure issues to help us fulfill our
    disclosure obligations on a timely basis in accordance with SEC
    rules and regulations and is intended to be used as an
    additional resource for employees to raise questions regarding
    accounting, auditing, internal controls and disclosure matters.
    Our toll-free Ethics Help Line (1-877-666-6968) continues to be
    an alternative means to communicate concerns to the
    Company’s management.

Item 9B.

Other
    Information.

None.



PART III

Item 10.

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.

In addition to the information set forth under the caption
    “Executive Management” beginning at page 11 in
    Part I of this Report, the information required by this
    item is set forth in the 2008 Proxy Statement under the captions
    “Item 1 on Proxy Card — Election of
    Directors,” “Board Composition and Practices,”
    “Corporate Governance,” “Committees of Our Board
    of Directors — Audit Committee” and “Report
    of the Audit Committee” and “Stock
    Ownership — Sections 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
    Reporting Compliance.” Other than the “Report of the
    Audit Committee,” this information is incorporated herein
    by reference.

Item 11.

Executive
    Compensation.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2008
    Proxy Statement under the captions “Executive and Director
    Compensation” “Compensation Committee Interlocks and
    Insider Participation” and “Personnel and Compensation
    Committee Report.” Other than the “Personnel and
    Compensation Committee Report,” this information is
    incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2008
    Proxy Statement under the caption “Stock Ownership
    Information” and is incorporated herein by reference. The
    Equity Compensation Plans table required by this item is located
    in the 2008 Proxy Statement under “Item 2 on the Proxy
    Card — Approval of 2008 Incentive Award Plan” and
    is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2008
    Proxy Statement under the captions “Corporate
    Governance” and “Certain Transactions” and is
    incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2008
    Proxy Statement under the captions “Fees Billed by
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” and
    “Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policies” under
    “Item 3 on Proxy Card — Ratification of
    Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm” and is incorporated herein by reference.



PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules.

(a) Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules:

(1) Financial Statements

See the “Index to Financial Statements and Related
    Information” at page 64 of this Report, which is
    incorporated herein by reference.

(2) Financial Statement Schedules

See Schedule II captioned “Valuation and Qualifying
    Accounts” at page 106 of this Report, which is incorporated
    herein by reference.

(3) Exhibits

A list of exhibits filed with this

Form 10-K

or incorporated by reference is found in the Exhibit Index
    immediately following the certifications of this Report and
    incorporated herein by reference.

(b) Exhibits:

See Item 15(a)(3) above.

(c) Financial Schedules:

See Item 15(a)(2) above.


INDEX TO
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RELATED INFORMATION

Page

Financial Statements and Related Information:

Management Statement


Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting


Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm


Consolidated Statements of Income


Consolidated Balance Sheets


Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’
    Equity


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Financial Statement Schedule:

Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying
    Accounts




MANAGEMENT
    STATEMENT

RESPONSIBILITY
    FOR PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND ESTABLISHING AND
    MAINTAINING ADEQUATE INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

We are responsible for the preparation of the financial
    statements included in this Annual Report. The financial
    statements were prepared in accordance with accounting
    principles generally accepted in the United States of America
    and include amounts that are based on the best estimates and
    judgments of management. The other financial information
    contained in this Annual Report is consistent with the financial
    statements.

Our internal control system is designed to provide reasonable
    assurance concerning the reliability of the financial data used
    in the preparation of Teledyne Technologies’ financial
    statements, as well as to safeguard the Company’s assets
    from unauthorized use or disposition.

All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have
    inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined
    to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with
    respect to financial statement presentation.

REPORT OF
    MANAGEMENT ON TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED’S INTERNAL
    CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

We are also responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting. We conducted
    an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 30, 2007. In making this evaluation, we used the
    criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
    of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”) in Internal
    Control — Integrated Framework. Our evaluation
    included reviewing the documentation of our controls, evaluating
    the design effectiveness of our controls and testing their
    operating effectiveness. Our evaluation did not include
    assessing the effectiveness of internal control over financial
    reporting for the 2007 acquisition of assets of D.G.
    O’Brien, Inc. which is included in the 2007 consolidated
    financial statements of the Company and constituted:
    $39.9 million and $37.4 million of total and net
    assets, respectively, as of December 30, 2007 and:
    $21.9 million and $1.0 million of total revenues and
    net income, respectively, for the year then ended. We did not
    assess the effectiveness of internal control over financial
    reporting at this newly acquired entity due to the insufficient
    time between the date acquired and year-end and the complexity
    associated with assessing internal controls during integration
    efforts making the process impractical. Based on this evaluation
    we believe that, as of December 30, 2007, the
    Company’s internal controls over financial reporting were
    effective.

Ernst and Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting
    firm, has issued their report on the effectiveness of Teledyne
    Technologies’s internal control over financial reporting.
    Their report appears on page 66 of this Annual Report.

Date:
    February 27, 2008

/s/

Robert
    Mehrabian

Robert Mehrabian

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Date:
    February 27, 2008

/s/

Dale
    A. Schnittjer

Dale A. Schnittjer

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer



REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

We have audited Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 30, 2007, based on criteria established in
    Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    (the COSO criteria). Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s
    management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
    control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the
    effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
    included in the accompanying Report of Management on Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated’s Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
    company’s internal control over financial reporting based
    on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

As indicated in the accompanying Report of Management on
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting, management’s assessment of and
    conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting did not include the internal controls of the
    recent acquisition of assets of D.G. O’Brien, Inc.
    (“DGO”), which is included in the 2007 consolidated
    financial statements of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated and
    constituted $39.9 million and $37.4 million of total
    and net assets, respectively, as of December 30, 2007 and
    $21.9 million and $1.0 million of revenues and net
    income, respectively, for the year then ended. Our audit of
    internal control over financial reporting of Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated also did not include an evaluation of
    the internal control over financial reporting of DGO.

In our opinion, Teledyne Technologies Incorporated maintained,
    in all material respects, effective internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 30, 2007, based on the
    COSO criteria.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated balance sheets of Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated as of December 30, 2007 and December 31,
    2006, and the related consolidated statements of income,
    stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended December 30, 2007 of Teledyne
    Technologies



Incorporated and our report dated February 22, 2008
    expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. Our audits also
    included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at
    Item 15(a) and our report dated February 22, 2008
    expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/

Ernst &
    Young LLP

Los Angeles,
    California

February 22, 2008



REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the
    Stockholders and Board of Directors

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated as of December 30, 2007
    and December 31, 2006, and the related consolidated
    statements of income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows
    for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 30, 2007. Our audits also included the financial
    statement schedule listed in the index at Item 15(a)(2).
    These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility
    of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to
    express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule
    based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated at
    December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, and the
    consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for
    each of the three years in the period ended December 30,
    2007, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial
    statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
    financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
    material respects the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial
    statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for
    Share-Based Payments in accordance with Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) on
    January 2, 2006. As discussed in Note 2 to the
    consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its
    method of accounting for its defined-benefit pension and other
    postretirement plans in accordance with Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 158 on December 31, 2006. As
    discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial
    statements, the Company adopted the provisions of FASB
    Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes (FIN No. 48) on January 1, 2007.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 30, 2007, based on
    criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework
    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission and our report dated February 22, 2008
    expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/

Ernst &
    Young LLP

Los Angeles,
    California

February 22, 2008



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(In
    millions, except per-share amounts)




Sales

$

1,622.3

$

1,433.2

$

1,206.5

Costs and Expenses

Cost of sales

1,136.4

1,020.2

869.6

Selling, general and administrative expenses

323.6

287.9

236.2

Total costs and expenses

1,460.0

1,308.1

1,105.8

Income before other income and expense and income taxes

162.3

125.1

100.7

Interest and debt expense, net

(12.5

)

(7.4

)

(3.5

)

Minority interest

(3.4

)

(1.0

)

(0.2

)

Other income (expense), net

2.9

5.0

6.0

Income before income taxes

149.3

121.7

103.0

Provision for income taxes

50.8

41.4

38.8

Net income

$

98.5

$

80.3

$

64.2

Basic earnings per common share

$

2.82

$

2.34

$

1.93

Diluted earnings per common share

$

2.72

$

2.26

$

1.85

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
    statements.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS

(In
    millions, except share amounts)



Assets

Cash and cash equivalents

$

13.4

$

13.0

Accounts receivables, net

241.1

226.1

Inventories, net

174.6

155.8

Deferred income taxes, net

34.5

34.4

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

13.1

17.5

Total current assets

476.7

446.8

Property, plant and equipment, net

177.2

164.8

Deferred income taxes, net

56.9

38.6

Goodwill, net

351.6

313.6

Acquired intangibles, net

61.7

69.4

Other assets, net

35.3

28.2

Total Assets

$

1,159.4

$

1,061.4

Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity

Accounts payable

$

105.1

$

94.1

Accrued liabilities

157.1

135.1

Current portion of long-term debt and capital lease

0.8

1.2

Total current liabilities

263.0

230.4

Long-term debt and capital lease obligations

142.4

230.7

Accrued pension obligation

74.3

38.4

Accrued postretirement benefits

22.9

24.4

Other long-term liabilities

126.6

105.7

Total Liabilities

629.2

629.6

Commitments and Contingencies

Stockholders’ equity

Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; outstanding
    shares — none

—

—

Common stock, $0.01 par value; authorized 125 million
    shares;

Outstanding shares: 2007 — 35,150,117 and
    2006 — 34,719,700

0.4

0.3

Additional paid-in capital

206.9

188.0

Retained earnings

384.1

285.8

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(61.2

)

(42.3

)

Total Stockholders’ Equity

530.2

431.8

Total Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity

$

1,159.4

$

1,061.4

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
    statements.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(In
    millions)

Accumulated

Additional

Other

Total

Common

Paid-in

Retained

Comprehensive

Stockholders’

Stock

Capital

Earnings

Income (Loss)

Equity

Balance, January 2, 2005

$

0.3

$

142.8

$

141.3

$

(22.3

)

$

262.1

Net income

—

—

64.2

—

64.2

Other comprehensive loss, net of tax:

Foreign currency translation losses

—

—

—

(0.7

)

(0.7

)

Minimum pension liability adjustment

—

—

—

(16.2

)

(16.2

)

Comprehensive income

—

—

64.2

(16.9

)

47.3

Exercise of stock options and other, net

—

16.6

—

—

16.6

Balance, January 1, 2006

0.3

159.4

205.5

(39.2

)

326.0

Net income

—

—

80.3

—

80.3

Other comprehensive loss, net of tax:

Foreign currency translation gains

—

—

—

1.4

1.4

Minimum benefit plan liability adjustment, including the impact
    of SFAS No. 158

—

—

—

(4.5

)

(4.5

)

Comprehensive income

—

—

80.3

(3.1

)

77.2

Stock option compensation expense

—

5.9

—

—

5.9

Exercise of stock options and other, net

—

22.7

—

—

22.7

Balance, December 31, 2006

0.3

188.0

285.8

(42.3

)

431.8

Net income

—

—

98.5

—

98.5

Cumulative effect of the adoption of FIN No. 48

—

—

(0.2

)

—

(0.2

)

Other comprehensive loss, net of tax:

Foreign currency translation gains

—

—

—

0.4

0.4

Minimum benefit plan liability adjustment, including the impact
    of SFAS No. 158

—

—

—

(19.3

)

(19.3

)

Comprehensive income

—

—

98.3

(18.9

)

79.4

Stock option compensation expense

—

6.8

—

—

6.8

Exercise of stock options and other, net

0.1

12.1

—

—

12.2

Balance, December 30, 2007

$

0.4

$

206.9

$

384.1

$

(61.2

)

$

530.2

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
    statements.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In
    millions)




Operating activities

Net income

$

98.5

$

80.3

$

64.2

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
    operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization of assets

34.7

32.0

25.6

Deferred income taxes

(21.3

)

(12.1

)

(10.2

)

(Gains) loss on sale of property, plant and equipment

—

—

(0.4

)

Stock option expense

6.8

5.9

—

Minority interest

3.2

1.0

0.2

Excess income tax benefits from stock options

(3.6

)

(8.6

)

(5.2

)

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, excluding the
    effect of businesses acquired:

Increase in accounts receivables

(8.7

)

(17.5

)

(17.1

)

Increase in inventories

(10.2

)

(23.2

)

(11.6

)

Decrease (increase) in prepaid expenses and other assets

0.8

1.7

(3.4

)

Increase in long-term assets

(6.9

)

(3.2

)

(2.8

)

Increase in accounts payable

8.7

8.7

11.0

Increase in accrued liabilities

25.0

8.3

0.6

Increase in current income taxes payable, net

6.3

3.8

10.0

Increase in other long-term liabilities

17.2

6.4

26.7

Decrease in accrued postretirement benefits

(1.5

)

(3.7

)

(1.7

)

Increase (decrease) in accrued pension obligation

17.0

(1.6

)

6.4

Other operating, net

0.7

0.2

—

Net cash provided by operating activities

166.7

78.4

92.3

Investing activities

Purchases of property, plant and equipment

(40.3

)

(26.4

)

(19.8

)

Purchase of businesses and other investments, net of cash
    acquired

(48.1

)

(252.0

)

(58.4

)

Proceeds from sale of businesses and other assets

0.8

0.7

9.6

Net cash used by investing activities

(87.6

)

(277.7

)

(68.6

)

Financing activities

Net proceeds from (repayments of) long-term debt

(88.8

)

182.1

(35.8

)

Tax benefit from stock options exercised

3.6

8.6

—

Proceeds from exercise of stock options and other, net

6.5

12.3

10.0

Net cash provided (used) by financing activities

(78.7

)

203.0

(25.8

)

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

0.4

3.7

(2.1

)

Cash and cash equivalents — beginning of year

13.0

9.3

11.4

Cash and cash equivalents — end of year

$

13.4

$

13.0

$

9.3

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
    statements.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1.  Description
    of Business

Effective November 29, 1999 (the “Distribution
    Date”), Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    (“Teledyne” or the “Company”), became an
    independent, public company as a result of the distribution by
    Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated, now known as Allegheny
    Technologies Incorporated (“ATI”), of the
    Company’s Common Stock, $.01 par value per share, to
    holders of ATI Common Stock at a distribution ratio of one for
    seven (the “spin-off”). The spin-off has been treated
    as a tax-free distribution for federal income tax purposes. The
    spin-off included the transfer of certain of the businesses of
    ATI’s Aerospace and Electronics segment to the new
    corporation, immediately prior to the Distribution Date. ATI no
    longer has a financial investment in Teledyne.

Teledyne is a leading provider of sophisticated electronic
    components and subsystems, instrumentation and communications
    products, including defense electronics, monitoring and control
    instrumentation for marine, environmental and industrial
    applications, harsh environment interconnect products, data
    acquisition and communications equipment for air transport and
    business aircraft, and components and subsystems for wireless
    and satellite communications. We also provide engineered systems
    and information technology services for defense, space and
    environmental applications, manufacture general aviation engines
    and components, and supply energy generation, energy storage and
    small propulsion products.

Teledyne serves niche market segments where performance,
    precision and reliability are critical. Teledyne’s
    customers include government agencies, aerospace prime
    contractors, energy exploration and production companies, major
    industrial companies, and airlines and general aviation
    companies.

Teledyne consists of the operations of the Electronics and
    Communications segment with operations in the United States,
    United Kingdom, Mexico, Canada, France, Singapore and China; the
    Engineered Systems segment with operations in the United States;
    the Aerospace Engines and Components segment with operations in
    the United States; and the Energy and Power Systems segment with
    operations in the United States.

Note 2.  Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles
    of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    Teledyne and all wholly-owned and majority-owned domestic and
    foreign subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts and transactions
    have been eliminated. In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company
    realigned two business units to reflect the current management
    and organizational structure. The turbine engine business and
    the battery products business have been moved from the Aerospace
    Engines and Components segment to the Energy and Power Systems
    segment. The former Energy Systems segment has been renamed
    Energy and Power Systems segment. In addition to these changes,
    the Systems Engineering Solutions segment has been renamed
    Engineered Systems. As required by Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 131,
    “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
    Information”, (“SFAS No. 131”), the
    Company has restated its 2006 and 2005 historical segment
    information to be consistent with the current reportable segment
    structure. This segment restatement had no effect on the
    Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash
    flows for the periods presented and also did not affect the
    results Electronics and Communications or Engineered Systems
    segments.

Fiscal
    Year

The Company operates on a 52 or 53-week fiscal year convention
    ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. Fiscal year
    2007 was a 52-week fiscal year and ended on December 30,
    2007. Fiscal year 2006 was a 52-week fiscal year and ended on
    December 31, 2006. Fiscal year 2005 was a 52-week fiscal
    year and ended on January 1, 2006. References to the years
    2007, 2006 and 2005 are intended to refer to the respective
    fiscal year unless otherwise noted.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
    make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of
    assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
    disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, the
    Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to
    product returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories,
    intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, pension
    and other postretirement benefits, long-term contracts,
    environmental, workers’ compensation and general liability,
    aircraft product liability, employee dental and medical benefits
    and other contingencies, and litigation. The Company bases its
    estimates on historical experience and on various other
    assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the
    circumstances at the time, the results of which form the basis
    for making its judgments. Actual results may differ materially
    from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
    Management believes that the estimates are reasonable.

Revenue
    Recognition

Commercial sales and revenue from U.S. Government
    fixed-price-type contracts generally are recorded as shipments
    are made, as services are rendered or in some cases, on a
    percentage-of-completion basis. Sales under cost-reimbursement
    contracts are recorded as work is performed. The Company follows
    the requirements of Securities and Exchange Commission Staff
    Accounting Bulletin No. 104 on revenue recognition.
    Occasionally, for certain fixed-price type contracts that
    require substantial performance over a long time period
    (generally one or more years), in accordance with the
    requirements of Statement of Position

81-1

“Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and
    Certain Production-Type Contracts,” revenues are recorded
    under the percentage-of-completion method. We measure the extent
    of progress toward completion using the units-of-delivery
    method, cost-to-cost method or based upon attainment of
    scheduled performance milestones which could be time, event or
    expense driven. Occasionally, invoices are submitted to be paid
    by the customer under a contractual agreement which has a
    different time schedule that the related revenue recognition.
    Since certain contracts extend over a long period of time, all
    revisions in cost and revenue estimates during the progress of
    work have the effect of adjusting the current period earnings on
    a cumulative

catch-up

basis. If the current contract estimate indicates a loss,
    provision is made for the total anticipated loss in the period
    that it becomes evident. Sales under cost-reimbursement
    contracts are recorded as allowable costs are incurred and fees
    are earned.

Shipping
    and Handling

Shipping and handling fees charged to customers are classified
    as revenue while shipping and handling costs retained by
    Teledyne are classified as cost of sales in the accompanying
    consolidated statements of income.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Warranty
    Costs

Some of the Company’s products are subject to specified
    warranties and the Company provides for the estimated cost of
    product warranties. The adequacy of the preexisting warranty
    liabilities is assessed regularly and the reserve is adjusted as
    necessary based on a review of historic warranty experience with
    respect to the applicable business or products, as well as the
    length and actual terms of the warranties, which are typically
    one year. The product warranty reserve is included in current
    accrued liabilities on the balance sheet. Changes in the
    Company’s product warranty reserve are as follows (in
    millions):




Balance at beginning of year

$

11.4

$

10.3

$

6.9

Accruals for product warranties charged to expense

7.4

9.7

9.6

Cost of product warranty claims

(7.6

)

(9.1

)

(6.8

)

Acquisitions

0.2

0.5

0.6

Balance at year-end

$

11.4

$

11.4

$

10.3

Research
    and Development

Selling, general and administrative expenses include
    company-funded research and development and bid and proposal
    costs which are expensed as incurred and were $59.7 million
    in 2007, $52.5 million in 2006, and $44.9 million in
    2005. Costs related to customer-funded research and development
    contracts were $295.4 million in 2007, $254.5 million
    in 2006, and $246.6 million in 2005 and are charged to cost
    of sales as the related sales are recorded. A portion of the
    costs incurred for company-funded research and development is
    recoverable through overhead cost allocations on government
    contracts.

Income
    Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with
    SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.”
    Under this method, deferred income tax assets and liabilities
    are determined on the estimated future tax effects of
    differences between the financial reporting and tax basis of
    assets and liabilities given the application of enacted tax
    laws. Deferred income tax provisions and benefits are based on
    changes to the asset or liability from year to year. A valuation
    allowance is recorded when it is more likely than not that some
    of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.

In July 2006 the FASB issued Interpretation
    FIN No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes — An Interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 109, (“FIN No. 48”).
    FIN No. 48 provides detailed guidance for the
    financial statement recognition, measurement and disclosure of
    uncertain tax positions recognized in an enterprise’s
    financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109.
    Income tax positions must meet a more-likely-than-not
    recognition threshold at the effective date to be recognized
    upon the adoption of FIN No. 48 and in subsequent
    periods. We adopted FIN No. 48 effective
    January 1, 2007 and the provisions of FIN No. 48
    have been applied to all income tax positions commencing from
    that date. We recognize potential accrued interest and penalties
    related to unrecognized tax benefits within operations as income
    tax expense. As a result of the implementation the Company
    recognized a $0.2 million increase in the liability for
    unrecognized tax benefits, which was accounted for as a
    cumulative-effect adjustment (decrease) to the beginning balance
    of retained earnings.

Prior to 2007 we determined our tax contingencies in accordance
    with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. We
    recorded estimated tax liabilities to the extent the
    contingencies were probable and could be reasonably estimated.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Net
    Income Per Common Share

Basic and diluted earnings per share were computed based on net
    earnings. The weighted average number of common shares
    outstanding during the period was used in the calculation of
    basic earnings per share. This number of shares was increased by
    contingent shares that could be issued under various
    compensation plans as well as by the dilutive effect of stock
    options based on the treasury stock method in the calculation of
    diluted earnings per share.

The following table sets forth the computations of basic and
    diluted earnings per share (amounts in millions, except per
    share data):




Basic earnings per share

Net income

$

98.5

$

80.3

$

64.2

Weighted average common shares outstanding

34.9

34.3

33.2

Basic earnings per common share

$

2.82

$

2.34

$

1.93

Diluted earnings per share

Net income

$

98.5

$

80.3

$

64.2

Weighted average common shares outstanding

34.9

34.3

33.2

Dilutive effect of contingently issuable shares

1.3

1.2

1.5

Weighted average diluted common shares outstanding

36.2

35.5

34.7

Diluted earnings per common share

$

2.72

$

2.26

$

1.85

For 2007, 2006 and 2005, no stock options were excluded in the
    computation of diluted EPS.

Stock options to purchase 3.0 million, 2.8 million and
    3.3 million shares of common stock at fiscal year end 2007,
    2006, and 2005, respectively, had exercise prices that were less
    than the average market price of the Company’s common stock
    during the respective periods and are included in the
    computation of diluted EPS.

In addition 85,608 and 46,999 contingent shares of the
    Company’s common stock under two compensation plans were
    excluded from fully diluted shares outstanding for 2006 and
    2005, respectively, since performance and other conditions for
    issuance have not yet been met. No shares were excluded for 2007.

Accounts
    Receivable

Receivables are presented net of a reserve for doubtful accounts
    of $4.6 million at December 30, 2007 and
    $2.7 million at December 31, 2006. Expense recorded
    for the reserve for doubtful accounts was $2.3 million,
    $1.3 million, and $0.4 million for 2007, 2006, and
    2005, respectively. An allowance for doubtful accounts is
    established for losses expected to be incurred on accounts
    receivable balances. Judgment is required in the estimation of
    the allowance and is based upon specific identification,
    collection history and creditworthiness of the debtor. The
    Company markets its products and services principally throughout
    the United States, Europe, Japan and Canada to commercial
    customers and agencies of, and prime contractors to, the
    U.S. Government. Trade credit is extended based upon
    evaluations of each customer’s ability to perform its
    obligations, which are updated periodically.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Cash
    Equivalents

Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid money-market mutual
    funds and bank deposits with initial maturities of three months
    or less. Cash equivalents totaled $1.0 million at
    December 30, 2007 and $6.0 million at
    December 31, 2006.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, less
    progress payments. The majority of inventory values are stated
    at cost based on the

last-in,

first-out method, while the remainder are principally valued on
    an average cost, or

first-in,

first-out method. Costs include direct material, direct labor,
    applicable manufacturing and engineering overhead, and other
    direct costs.

Property,
    Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment is capitalized at cost. Property,
    plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated
    depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are
    determined using a combination of accelerated and straight-line
    methods over the estimated useful lives of the various asset
    classes. Buildings are depreciated over periods not exceeding
    45 years, equipment over 5 to 18 years, computer
    hardware and software over 3 to 5 years and leasehold
    improvements over the shorter of their estimated remaining lives
    or lease terms. Significant improvements are capitalized while
    maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred.
    Depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment, including
    assets under capital leases, was $28.3 million in 2007,
    $24.3 million in 2006 and $22.1 million in 2005.

Goodwill
    and Other Intangible Assets

The Company accounts for goodwill and purchased intangible
    assets under SFAS No. 141 “Business
    Combinations” and SFAS No. 142 “Goodwill and
    Other Intangible Assets”. Using the two-step goodwill
    impairment model approach outlined in SFAS No. 142,
    the Company performs an annual impairment test in the fourth
    quarter of each year, or more often as circumstances require.
    The two-step impairment test is used to first identify potential
    goodwill impairment and then measure the amount of goodwill
    impairment loss, if any. When it is determined that an
    impairment has occurred, an appropriate charge to operations is
    recorded. Based on the annual impairment test completed in the
    fourth quarter of 2007, no impairment of goodwill or intangible
    assets was indicated.

Business acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase
    method by assigning the purchase price to tangible and
    intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Assets
    acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their fair
    values and the excess of the purchase price over the amounts
    assigned is recorded as goodwill. Purchased intangible assets
    with finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful
    lives. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are
    not amortized, but tested at least annually for impairment.

Other
    Long-Lived Assets

The carrying value of long-lived assets is periodically
    evaluated in relation to the operating performance and sum of
    undiscounted future cash flows of the underlying businesses. An
    impairment loss is recognized when the sum of expected
    undiscounted future net cash flows is less than book value.

Environmental

Costs that mitigate or prevent future environmental
    contamination or extend the life, increase the capacity or
    improve the safety or efficiency of property utilized in current
    operations are capitalized. Other costs that relate to current
    operations or an existing condition caused by past operations
    are expensed. Environmental liabilities are recorded when the
    Company’s liability is probable and the costs are
    reasonably estimable, but



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

generally not later than the completion of the feasibility study
    or the Company’s recommendation of a remedy or commitment
    to an appropriate plan of action. The accruals are reviewed
    periodically and, as investigations and remediations proceed,
    adjustments are made as necessary. Accruals for losses from
    environmental remediation obligations do not consider the
    effects of inflation, and anticipated expenditures are not
    discounted to their present value. The accruals are not reduced
    by possible recoveries from insurance carriers or other third
    parties, but do reflect anticipated allocations among
    potentially responsible parties at federal Superfund sites or
    similar state-managed sites and an assessment of the likelihood
    that such parties will fulfill their obligations at such sites.
    The measurement of environmental liabilities by the Company is
    based on currently available facts, present laws and
    regulations, and current technology. Such estimates take into
    consideration the Company’s prior experience in site
    investigation and remediation, the data concerning cleanup costs
    available from other companies and regulatory authorities, and
    the professional judgment of the Company’s environmental
    personnel in consultation with outside environmental
    specialists, when necessary.

Foreign
    Currency Translation

The Company’s foreign entities’ accounts are generally
    measured using local currency as the functional currency. Assets
    and liabilities of these entities are translated at the exchange
    rate in effect at year-end. Revenues and expenses are translated
    at average month end rates of exchange prevailing during the
    year. Unrealized translation gains and losses arising from
    differences in exchange rates from period to period are included
    as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in
    stockholders’ equity. Most of the Company’s sales are
    denominated in U.S. dollars which mitigates the effect of
    exchange rate changes.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements

SFAS No. 159

In February 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards (“SFAS”) No. 159, “The Fair Value
    Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities — Including an Amendment of FASB Statement
    No. 115.” SFAS No. 159 permits entities to
    choose to measure eligible items at fair value at specified
    election dates and report unrealized gains and losses on items
    for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at
    each subsequent reporting date. SFAS No. 159 is
    effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
    2007 and is not expected to have an effect on the Company’s
    consolidated results of operations or financial position.

FIN No. 48

On January 1, 2007, Teledyne Technologies adopted FASB
    Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes (“FIN No. 48”). As a result of the
    implementation the Company recognized a $0.2 million
    increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, which
    was accounted for as a cumulative-effect adjustment (decrease)
    to the beginning balance of retained earnings. As of the date of
    adoption and after the impact of recognizing the increase in the
    liability noted above, the Company’s total gross
    unrecognized tax benefits totaled $5.5 million. Due to
    offsetting related deferred tax assets, $3.9 million
    represents the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if
    recognized, would favorably affect the effective income tax rate
    in any future periods. See Note 11 for additional
    disclosures regarding the adoption of FIN No. 48.

SFAS No. 157

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
    “Fair Value Measurements,” which defines fair value,
    establishes a framework in generally accepted accounting
    principles for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures
    about fair value measurements. This standard only applies when
    other standards require or permit the fair value measurement of
    assets and liabilities. It does not increase the use of fair
    value measurement. SFAS No. 157 is effective for
    fiscal years beginning after Nov. 15, 2007. The Company is



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

currently evaluating the impact of adopting this Statement;
    however, the adoption is not expected to have a material effect
    on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or
    financial position.

Hedging
    Activities

The Company’s has not utilized derivative financial
    instruments such as futures contracts, options and swaps,
    forward exchange contracts or interest rate swaps and futures
    during 2007 or 2006.

Supplemental
    Cash Flow Information

Cash payments for federal, foreign and state income taxes were
    $52.0 million for 2007 which is net of insignificant
    refunds. Cash payments for federal, foreign and state income
    taxes were $49.5 million for 2006 which is net of refunds
    of $0.1 million. Cash payments for federal, foreign and
    state income taxes were $34.9 million for 2005 which is net
    of refunds of $0.1 million. Cash payments for interest and
    credit facility fees totaled approximately $12.7 million,
    $6.2 million and $2.9 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively.

Comprehensive
    Income

The Company’s comprehensive income consists of net income,
    the minimum pension liability adjustment, the cumulative effect
    of the adoption of FIN No. 48 and foreign currency
    translation adjustments. See Note 12 for a further
    discussion of the pension adjustment. The Company’s
    comprehensive income was $79.4 million, $77.2 million,
    and $47.3 million for the years 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively.

The year-end components of accumulated other comprehensive loss
    are shown in the following table (in millions):

Balance at year end




Foreign currency translation gains (losses)

$

1.5

$

1.1

$

(0.3

)

Minimum pension liability adjustment(a)

(62.7

)

(43.4

)

(38.9

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

$

(61.2

)

$

(42.3

)

$

(39.2

)

(a)

Net of deferred taxes of $40.4 million in 2007,
    $27.9 million in 2006 and $24.8 million in 2005.

Note 3.  Business
    Acquisitions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets

On March 30, 2007, Teledyne Technologies through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Instruments, Inc., completed the
    acquisition of assets of DGO for consideration of
    $37.1 million, which includes a $1.0 million purchase
    price adjustment. DGO, headquartered in Seabrook, New Hampshire,
    is a leading manufacturer of highly reliable electrical and
    fiber-optic interconnect systems, primarily for subsea military
    and offshore oil and gas applications. DGO’s results of
    operations and cash flows have been included in Teledyne
    Technologies’ results beginning April 2, 2007. DGO had
    sales of $26.2 million for its fiscal year ended September
    2006. Teledyne operates this business under the name Teledyne
    D.G. O’Brien.

On June 20, 2007, Teledyne Technologies through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Cougar, Inc., completed the acquisition of
    Tindall, a designer and supplier of microwave subsystems for
    defense applications for consideration of $6.6 million. At
    December 30, 2007 total cash paid, net of cash acquired was
    $5.6 million. Teledyne Technologies also recorded
    $1.0 million in contingent payments in connection with the
    acquisition payable from 2008 through 2010 in three
    installments. Tindall designs and manufactures high performance
    Instantaneous Frequency Measurement (“IFM”)-based
    systems and subsystems, including integrated frequency locked
    sources and set-on receiver-jammers used for U.S. Navy and
    Air Force training. Tindall’s operations, based in
    Pleasanton, California, have been consolidated with the
    operations of Teledyne Cougar in Sunnyvale,



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

California. Tindall’s results of operations and cash flows
    have been included in Teledyne results beginning July 2,
    2007. Tindall had revenue of $2.7 million for its fiscal
    year ended December 2006.

On September 15, 2006, Teledyne Technologies through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc. acquired Rockwell
    Scientific for $167.5 million in cash, with the sellers
    retaining certain liabilities. At December 31, 2006, total
    cash paid, including other fees, net of $9.5 million in
    cash acquired was $158.6 million. The Company now operates
    as Teledyne Scientific & Imaging, LLC. Headquartered
    in Thousand Oaks, California, Teledyne Scientific &
    Imaging is a leading provider of research and development
    services, as well as a leader in developing and manufacturing
    infrared and visible light imaging sensors for surveillance
    applications. Prior to the acquisition, Teledyne
    Scientific & Imaging was 50 percent owned by each
    of Rockwell Automation, Inc. and Rockwell Collins, Inc.

Teledyne Scientific & Imaging’s results have been
    included since the date of the acquisition. The unaudited pro
    forma information below assumes that Teledyne
    Scientific & Imaging had been acquired at the
    beginning of each fiscal year and includes the effect of
    estimated amortization of acquired identifiable intangible
    assets, increased depreciation expense for fixed assets, as well
    as increased interest expense on acquisition debt. This pro
    forma financial information is presented for informational
    purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results
    of operations that actually would have resulted had the
    acquisition been in effect at the beginning of the respective
    periods. In addition, the pro forma results are not intended to
    be a projection of future results and do not reflect any
    operating efficiencies or cost savings that might be achievable.



(unaudited in millions, except per share amounts)

Sales

$

1,519.2

$

1,322.6

Net income

$

77.1

$

59.8

Basic earnings per common share

$

2.23

$

1.80

Diluted earning per common share

$

2.17

$

1.72

On August 16, 2006, Teledyne Technologies through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Instruments, Inc., acquired a majority
    interest (51%) in Ocean Design, Inc. (“ODI”) for
    approximately $30 million in cash. ODI, headquartered in
    Daytona Beach, Florida, is a leading manufacturer of subsea,
    wet-mateable electrical and fiber-optic interconnect systems
    used in offshore oil and gas production, oceanographic research,
    and military applications.

In September 2006, Teledyne Instruments acquired an additional
    9.9% of ownership in ODI for $5.8 million. In 2007,
    Teledyne Instruments acquired an additional 0.9% of ownership in
    ODI for $0.9 million. At December 30, 2007, total cash
    paid, including the initial investment and subsequent share
    purchases, net of cash acquired was $35.3 million. At
    December 30, 2007, Teledyne Instruments owns 61.8% of ODI.
    The ODI stockholders will also have the option to sell their
    shares to Teledyne Instruments following the end of each quarter
    through the quarter ended March 31, 2009, at a
    formula-determined price. All shares not sold to Teledyne
    Instruments following the quarter ended March 31, 2009,
    will be purchased by Teledyne Instruments following the quarter
    ended June 30, 2009, at the same formula-determined price,
    at which time Teledyne Instruments will own all of the ODI
    shares held by the participating stockholders. At
    December 31, 2007, the minority interest in ODI of
    $8.0 million is included in other long term liabilities on
    the balance sheet.

On August 16, 2006, Teledyne Technologies, through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc., acquired
    CollaborX, Inc. (“CollaborX”) for cash consideration
    of $17.5 million, less certain transaction-related
    expenses. At December 31, 2006, total cash paid, including
    other fees, net of cash acquired was $14.9 million.
    CollaborX, based in Colorado Springs, Colorado, provides
    government engineering services primarily to the



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

U.S. Air Force and select joint military commands, such as
    the Missile Defense Agency, the United States Joint Forces
    Command and the United States Northern Command.

On April 28, 2006, Teledyne Wireless, Inc. completed the
    acquisition of certain assets of KW Microwave, a manufacturer of
    defense microwave components and subsystems, for $10.3 million
    in cash, which included the receipt of a $0.2 million
    purchase price adjustment. Principally located in Carlsbad,
    California, the business operates as Teledyne KW Microwave. KW
    Microwave designs and manufactures high performance microwave
    filters and integrated filter assemblies that are used in
    military electronic warfare, communication and navigation
    systems.

On January 27, 2006, we acquired all of the outstanding
    shares of Benthos for $17.50 per share in cash. The aggregate
    consideration for the outstanding Benthos shares was
    approximately $40.6 million (including payments for the
    settlement of outstanding stock options) or $32.2 million
    taking into consideration $8.4 million in cash acquired.
    Benthos, located in North Falmouth, Massachusetts, is a provider
    of oceanographic products used in port and harbor security
    services, military applications, energy exploration and
    oceanographic research.

In October 2005, Teledyne Technologies purchased certain assets
    of the microwave technical solutions business of Avnet, Inc. for
    $2.2 million in cash and consolidated these assets with
    Teledyne Cougar Inc.

In August 2005, Teledyne Technologies through its wholly-owned
    subsidiary, Teledyne Investment, Inc., completed the acquisition
    of all of the stock of RD Instruments, Inc. (“RDI”).
    The total purchase price was $36.0 million. Total cash
    paid, net of $0.4 million of cash acquired, was
    $32.0 million. In connection with the acquisition Teledyne
    Technologies assumed debt obligations of $2.0 million. In
    addition, Teledyne Technologies recorded a $3.6 million
    liability to be paid to the seller in August 2007. RDI designs
    and manufactures acoustic Doppler instrumentation. The business
    operates as Teledyne RD Instruments, Inc. and is based in Poway,
    California. Teledyne Technologies funded the acquisition with
    cash on hand and borrowings under its credit facilities. In the
    fourth quarter of 2005, Teledyne Technologies purchased the
    minority interest of a subsidiary owned by RDI for a cash
    payment of $1.7 million.

In August 2005, Teledyne Technologies completed the sale of its
    SWIFT

tm

assets for net proceeds of $2.9 million. These assets were
    acquired as part of the Isco acquisition made in June 2004. No
    gain was recorded on the sale and goodwill was reduced by
    $2.7 million.

In June 2005, Teledyne Technologies through its wholly-owned
    subsidiary, Teledyne Investment, Inc., completed the acquisition
    of all of the stock of Cougar Components Corporation
    (“Cougar”) for $27.1 million which included a
    $0.6 million purchase price adjustment. In connection with
    the acquisition, Teledyne Technologies assumed debt obligations
    of $3.8 million and acquired cash and cash equivalents of
    $3.3 million. In addition, Teledyne Technologies recorded
    contingent payments totaling $1.6 million to be paid to the
    seller by Teledyne Technologies in specified increments as
    certain conditions are satisfied through June 2007. Total cash
    paid, net of $3.3 million of cash acquired, was
    $22.5 million. Cougar designs and manufactures RF and
    microwave cascadable amplifiers and subsystems for signal
    processing equipment. Principally located in Sunnyvale,
    California, the business operates as Teledyne Cougar, Inc., a
    business unit of Teledyne Microwave.

In March 2005, Teledyne Technologies sold the assets of
    STIP-Isco, a German subsidiary. Teledyne Technologies received
    $5.6 million in connection with the sale. An additional
    $0.4 million that was held in escrow was released to
    Teledyne Technologies in February 2007. This business was
    acquired as part of the Isco acquisition made in June 2004. No
    gain was recorded on the sale and goodwill was reduced by
    $2.4 million accordingly.

Teledyne funded the acquisitions primarily from borrowings under
    its credit facility and cash on hand.

In all acquisitions, the results of operations and cash flows
    are included in the Company’s consolidated financial
    statements from the date of each respective acquisition. Each of
    the companies acquired, except for



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

CollaborX, is part of the Electronics and Communications
    segment. CollaborX is part of the Engineered Systems segment.

The primary reason for the above acquisitions was to strengthen
    and expand our core businesses through adding complementary
    product and service offerings, allowing greater integrated
    products and services, enhancing our technical capabilities or
    increasing our addressable markets. The significant factors that
    resulted in recognition of goodwill were: (a) the purchase
    price was based on cash flow and return on capital projections
    assuming integration with our businesses and (b) the
    calculation of the fair value of tangible and intangible assets
    acquired that qualified for recognition.

Teledyne’s goodwill was $351.6 million at
    December 30, 2007 and $313.6 million at
    December 31, 2006. Teledyne’s acquired intangible
    assets were $61.7 million at December 30, 2007 and
    $69.4 million at December 31, 2006. The increase in
    goodwill reflected the DGO and Tindall acquisitions in 2007 and
    also reflected a $10.7 million increase related to changes
    in the estimated amount of acquired intangible assets based on
    the completed appraisal report for the valuation of acquired
    intangible assets for the Teledyne Scientific &
    Imaging acquisition. The decrease in acquired intangible assets
    reflected the $10.7 million decrease for the Teledyne
    Scientific & Imaging acquisition and current year
    amortization, partially offset by acquired intangible assets for
    the DGO and Tindall acquisitions. During 2007, the Company
    completed the process of specifically identifying the amount to
    be assigned to intangible assets, as well as certain assets and
    liabilities for the CollaborX, ODI and Teledyne
    Scientific & Imaging acquisitions made in 2006. The
    amount of goodwill and acquired intangible assets recorded as of
    December 30, 2007 for the ODI acquisition was
    $17.4 million and $13.8 million, respectively. The
    preliminary amount of goodwill and acquired intangible assets
    recorded as of December 31, 2006 for the ODI acquisition
    was $15.9 million and $13.8 million, respectively. The
    change in goodwill from December 31, 2006 reflects
    additional share purchases and changes to the estimated income
    tax balances. The amount of goodwill and acquired intangible
    assets recorded as of December 30, 2007 for the CollaborX
    acquisition was $14.2 million and $2.1 million,
    respectively, and did not change from December 31, 2006.
    The amount of goodwill and gross acquired intangible assets
    recorded as of December 30, 2007 for the Teledyne
    Scientific & Imaging acquisition was
    $73.2 million and $8.3 million, respectively. The
    preliminary amount of goodwill and gross acquired intangible
    assets recorded as of December 31, 2006 for the Teledyne
    Scientific & Imaging acquisition was
    $60.1 million and $19.0 million, respectively. The
    primary change was the $10.7 million reduction to acquired
    intangible assets and a corresponding increase to goodwill to
    reflect changes in the estimated amount of acquired intangible
    assets based on the completed valuation of acquired intangible
    assets and for the final allocation for certain assets and
    liabilities. The Company is in the process of specifically
    identifying the amount to be assigned to intangible assets, as
    well as certain assets and liabilities for the DGO and Tindall
    acquisitions made in 2007. The Company made preliminary
    estimates as of December 30, 2007, since there was
    insufficient time between the acquisition dates and the end of
    the year to finalize the valuations. The preliminary amount of
    goodwill and acquired intangible assets recorded as of
    December 30, 2007 for the DGO acquisition was
    $17.7 million and $7.9 million, respectively. The
    preliminary amount of goodwill and acquired intangible assets
    recorded as of December 30, 2007 for the Tindall
    acquisition was $4.1 million and $1.5 million,
    respectively. These amounts were based on estimates that are
    subject to change pending the completion of the Company’s
    internal review and the receipt of certain third party valuation
    reports. Goodwill resulting from the CollaborX, Teledyne
    Scientific & Imaging and DGO acquisitions will be
    deductible for tax purposes.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following table summarized the changes in the carrying value
    of goodwill (in millions):

Aerospace

Energy

Electronics and

Engineered

Engines and

and Power

Communications

Systems

Components

Systems

Total

Balance at January 1, 2006

$

194.7

$

1.6

$

0.7

$

—

$

197.0

Current year acquisitions

102.2

14.2

—

—

116.4

Adjustment to prior year acquisitions(a)

0.2

—

—

—

0.2

Balance at December 31, 2006

297.1

15.8

0.7

—

313.6

Current year acquisitions

21.8

—

—

—

21.8

Adjustment to prior year acquisitions(b)

16.2

—

—

—

16.2

Balance at December 30, 2007

$

335.1

$

15.8

$

0.7

$

—

$

351.6

(a)

The adjustments to prior year acquisitions related to final
    estimates of fair value for assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed in connection with business acquisitions completed prior
    to 2006.

(b)

The adjustments to prior year acquisitions related to final
    estimates of fair value for assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed in connection with business acquisitions completed prior
    to 2007, including a $10.7 million increase to reflect
    changes in the estimated amount of acquired intangible assets
    based on the completed valuation of acquired intangible assets
    for the Teledyne Scientific & Imaging acquisition.

The following table summarizes the carrying value of other
    acquired intangible assets (in millions):



Gross

Net

Gross

Net

carrying

Accumulated

carrying

carrying

Accumulated

carrying

amount

amortization

amount

amount

amortization

amount

Other acquired intangible assets:

Proprietary technology

$

43.6

$

10.1

$

33.5

$

41.2

$

5.5

$

35.7

Customer List/Relationships

16.9

4.1

12.8

20.5

2.9

17.6

Patents

0.3

0.1

0.2

0.3

0.1

0.2

Non-compete agreements

0.8

0.3

0.5

0.8

0.1

0.7

Trademarks

3.6

0.3

3.3

3.1

0.1

3.0

Backlog

4.4

4.3

0.1

5.0

4.1

0.9

Other acquired intangible assets subject to amortization

$

69.6

$

19.2

$

50.4

$

70.9

$

12.8

$

58.1

Other acquired intangible assets not subject to
    amortization

Trademarks

11.3

—

11.3

11.3

—

11.3

Total other acquired intangible assets:

$

80.9

$

19.2

$

61.7

$

82.2

$

12.8

$

69.4

Amortizable other intangible assets are amortized on a
    straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives ranging
    from one to 20 years. The Company recorded
    $6.4 million and $7.7 million in amortization expense
    in 2007 and 2006, respectively, for other acquired intangible
    assets. The expected future amortization expense for the next
    five years is as follows (in millions): 2008 — $7.2;
    2009 — $7.0; 2010 — $6.9; 2011 —
    $6.7; 2012 — $6.1.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The estimated remaining useful lives by asset category as of
    December 30, 2007 are as follows:

Weighted

average

remaining

useful life

Intangibles subject to amortization

in years

Proprietary Technology

6.6

Customer List/Relationships

4.7

Patents

10.3

Non-compete

3.0

Trademarks

13.1

Backlog

0.8

Total intangibles subject to amortization

6.0

The following is a summary at the acquisition date of the
    estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed for the acquisitions made in 2007 (in millions):

Current assets, excluding cash acquired

$

14.7

Property, plant and equipment

1.5

Goodwill

21.8

Intangible assets

9.4

Total assets acquired

47.4

Current liabilities, including short-term debt

3.7

Other long-term liabilities

1.0

Total liabilities assumed

4.7

Purchase price, net of cash acquired

$

42.7

The following table summarizes the intangible assets acquired as
    part of the acquisitions made in 2007 (dollars in millions):

Weighted average

remaining useful life

in years

Intangibles assets not subject to amortization:

Goodwill

$

21.8

n/a

Intangibles assets subject to amortization:

Proprietary Technology

$

7.8

9.7

Customer List/Relationships

0.7

8.9

Trademarks

0.5

10.0

Backlog

0.4

1.4

$

9.4

7.8

Note 4.  Financial
    Instruments

Teledyne values financial instruments as required by
    SFAS No. 107 — “Disclosures about Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments,” as amended. The carrying
    amounts of cash and cash equivalents approximate fair value
    because of the short maturity of those instruments. Teledyne
    estimates the fair value of its long-term debt



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

based on the quoted market prices for debt of similar rating and
    similar maturity and at comparable interest rates. The estimated
    fair value of Teledyne’s long-term debt at
    December 30, 2007 approximated the carrying value of
    $138.0 million. The estimated fair value of Teledyne’s
    long-term debt at December 31, 2006 approximated the
    carrying value of $226.9 million. The estimated fair value
    of Teledyne’s long-term debt at January 1, 2006
    approximated the carrying value of $43.6 million.

The carrying value of other on-balance-sheet financial
    instruments approximates fair value, and the cost, if any, to
    terminate off-balance sheet financial instruments (primarily
    letters of credit) is not significant.

Note 5.  Accounts
    Receivable

Accounts receivable are summarized as follows (in millions):

Balance at year-end



U.S. Government and prime contractors contract receivables:

Billed receivables

$

28.3

$

42.4

Unbilled receivables

39.2

32.4

Commercial and other receivables

178.2

154.0

245.7

228.8

Reserve for doubtful accounts

(4.6

)

(2.7

)

Total accounts receivable, net

$

241.1

$

226.1

The billed contract receivables from the U.S. Government
    and prime contractors contain $20.8 million and
    $24.3 million at December 30, 2007 and
    December 31, 2006, respectively, due to long-term
    contracts. The unbilled contract receivables from the
    U.S. Government and prime contractors contain
    $36.3 million and $22.1 million at December 30,
    2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively, due to long-term
    contracts.

Unbilled contract receivables represent accumulated costs and
    profits earned but not yet billed to customers. The Company
    believes that substantially all such amounts will be billed and
    collected within one year.

Note 6.  Inventories

Inventories consisted of the following (in millions):

Balance at year-end



Raw materials and supplies

$

64.7

$

59.3

Work in process

122.6

106.2

Finished goods

17.6

15.9

Total inventories at cost, net

204.9

181.4

LIFO reserve

(25.6

)

(24.4

)

Progress payments

(4.7

)

(1.2

)

Total inventories, net

$

174.6

$

155.8

Inventories at cost determined on the

last-in,

first-out method were $123.9 million at December 30,
    2007 and $110.9 million at December 31, 2006. The
    remainder of the inventories using average cost or the

first-in,

first-out methods, were $81.0 million at December 30,
    2007 and $70.5 million at December 31, 2006.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The Company recorded LIFO expense of $1.3 million,
    $0.7 million and $2.1 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively, which resulted from higher inventory levels in
    each year.

Total inventories at current cost were net of reserves for
    excess, slow moving and obsolete inventory of $23.6 million
    and $22.8 million at December 30, 2007 and
    December 31, 2006, respectively. The reserve for excess,
    slow moving and obsolete inventory at December 30, 2007
    reflected reserves of $0.6 million acquired as part of the
    acquisitions made in 2007.

Inventories, before progress payments, related to long-term
    contracts were $25.6 million and $14.8 million at
    December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively.
    Progress payments related to long-term contracts were
    $4.3 million and $1.2 million at December 30,
    2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively. Under the
    contractual arrangements by which progress payments are
    received, the customer has an ownership right in the inventories
    associated with specific contracts.

Note 7.

Supplemental
    Balance Sheet Information

Property, plant and equipment were as follows (in millions):

Balance at year-end



Land

$

19.4

$

19.4

Buildings

85.3

80.7

Equipment and software

290.8

267.8

395.5

367.9

Accumulated depreciation and amortization

(218.3

)

(203.1

)

Total property, plant and equipment, net

$

177.2

$

164.8

Other long-term assets included amounts related to deferred
    compensation of $24.2 million and $19.5 million at
    December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively.
    Accrued liabilities included salaries and wages and other
    related compensation reserves of $69.9 million and
    $60.1 million at December 30, 2007 and
    December 31, 2006, respectively. Accrued liabilities also
    included customer related deposits and credits of
    $28.1 million and $19.7 million at December 30,
    2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively. Other long-term
    liabilities included aircraft product liability reserves of
    $50.6 million and $44.4 million at December 30,
    2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively and deferred
    compensation liabilities of $23.8 million and
    $19.3 million at December 30, 2007 and
    December 31, 2006, respectively. Other long-term
    liabilities also included reserves for self-insurance,
    environmental liabilities and the long-term portion of
    compensation reserves.

Note 8.

Stockholders’
    Equity

The following is an analysis of Teledyne’s common stock
    share activity:

Balance, January 2, 2005

32,912,362

Stock options exercised and other

771,309

Balance, January 1, 2006

33,683,671

Stock options exercised and other

1,036,029

Balance, December 31, 2006

34,719,700

Stock options exercised and other

430,417

Balance, December 30, 2007

35,150,117



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Shares issued in all three fiscal years include stock options
    exercised as well as shares issued under certain compensation
    plans.

Preferred
    Stock

Authorized preferred stock may be issued with designations,
    powers and preferences designated by the Board of Directors.
    There were no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding in
    2007, 2006 or 2005.

Stockholder
    Rights Plan

On November 12, 1999, the Company’s Board of Directors
    unanimously adopted a stockholder rights plan under which
    preferred share purchase rights were distributed as a dividend
    on each share of Teledyne’s Common Stock distributed to
    ATI’s stockholders in connection with the spin-off and each
    share to become outstanding between the effective date of the
    spin-off and the earliest of the distribution date, redemption
    date and final expiration date. The rights will be exercisable
    only if a person or group acquires 15 percent or more of
    the Company’s Common Stock or announces a tender offer, the
    consummation of which would result in ownership by a person or
    group of 15 percent or more of the Common Stock. Each right
    will entitle stockholders to then buy one-hundredth of a share
    of a new series of junior participating preferred stock at an
    exercise price of $60 per share. There are 1,250,000 shares
    of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock authorized
    for issuance under the plan. The record date for the
    distribution was the close of business of November 22,
    1999. The rights will expire on November 12, 2009, subject
    to earlier redemption or exchange by Teledyne as described in
    the plan. The rights distribution is not taxable to stockholders.

Stock
    Incentive Plan

ATI sponsored an incentive plan that provided for ATI stock
    option awards to officers and key employees. Teledyne had
    officers and key employees that participated in this plan prior
    to the spin-off. In connection with the spin-off, outstanding
    stock options held by Teledyne’s employees were converted
    into options to purchase Teledyne’s Common Stock. The
    number of shares and the exercise price of each ATI option that
    was converted to a Teledyne option was based upon a formula
    designed to preserve the inherent economic value, vesting and
    term provisions of such ATI options as of the Distribution Date.
    The exchange ratio and fair market value of the Teledyne’s
    Common Stock, upon active trading, also impacted the number of
    options issued to Teledyne’s employees.

Teledyne has established its own long-term incentive plans which
    provide its Board of Directors the flexibility to grant
    restricted stock, performance shares, non-qualified stock
    options, incentive stock options and stock appreciation rights
    to officers and employees of Teledyne. Stock options become
    exercisable in one-third increments on the first, second and
    third anniversary of the grant and have a maximum 10 year
    life.

The following disclosures are based on stock options held by
    Teledyne’s employees and include the stock options that
    have been converted from ATI options to Teledyne’s options
    as noted above. The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R)
    effective January 2, 2006, using the modified prospective
    method, and accordingly did not restate prior year financial
    statements. No modifications to outstanding stock options were
    made prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). The
    valuation methodologies and assumptions in estimating the fair
    value of stock options granted in 2007 were similar to those
    used in estimating the fair value of stock options granted in
    2006. Stock option compensation expense is recorded on a
    straight line basis over the appropriate vesting period,
    generally three years. For fiscal year 2007, the Company
    recorded $6.8 million ($4.2 million after tax) for
    stock option expense related. For fiscal year 2006, the Company
    recorded a total of $5.9 million ($3.7 million after
    tax) for stock option expense. No compensation expense related
    to stock options was recorded in 2005 or in prior years since it
    was not required. The Company issues shares of common stock upon
    the exercise of stock options.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

As noted in the preceding paragraph, Teledyne Technologies
    accounts for its stock options under SFAS No. 123(R).
    If compensation cost for these options had been determined under
    the SFAS No. 123 fair-value method using the
    Black-Scholes option-pricing model for stock options granted
    prior to 2005 and the lattice based binomial model for stock
    options granted in 2005, the impact on net income and earnings
    per share is presented in the following table (amounts in
    millions, except per share data):

Fiscal Year


Net income as reported

$

64.2

Stock-based compensation under SFAS No. 123 fair-value
    method, net of tax

(3.4

)

Adjusted net income

$

60.8

Basic earnings per share

As reported

$

1.93

As adjusted

$

1.83

Diluted earnings per share

As reported

$

1.85

As adjusted

$

1.75

The Company used a combination of its historical stock price
    volatility and the volatility of exchange traded options on the
    Company stock to compute the expected volatility for purposes of
    valuing stock options issued. The period used for the historical
    stock price corresponded to the expected term of the options and
    was between five and six years. The period used for the exchange
    traded options extended to the longest-dated options publicly
    available, generally six to nine months. The expected dividend
    yield is based on Teledyne’s practice of not paying
    dividends. The risk-free rate of return is based on the yield of
    U.S. Treasury Strips with terms equal to the expected life
    of the option as of the grant date. The expected life in years
    is based on historical actual stock option exercise experience.
    The following assumptions were used in the valuation of stock
    options granted in 2007, 2006 and 2005:

For the year




Expected dividend yield

—

—

—

Expected volatility

33.0

%

36.0

%

33.0

%

Risk-free interest rate

4.9

%

4.7

%

3.9

%

Expected lives

5.6

5.5

6.3

Based on the assumptions in the table above, the grant date fair
    value of stock options granted in 2007, 2006 and 2005 was
    $15.54, $13.30 and $10.24, respectively.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Stock option transactions for Teledyne’s employee stock
    option plans are summarized as follows:




Weighted

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Average

Exercise

Exercise

Exercise

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Beginning balance

2,537,559

$

20.97

3,039,311

$

16.82

3,254,454

$

14.92

Granted

533,153

$

39.48

466,063

$

32.36

451,313

$

26.99

Exercised

(345,487

)

$

18.82

(942,196

)

$

13.02

(659,906

)

$

14.46

Canceled or expired

(23,068

)

$

24.46

(25,619

)

$

27.76

(6,550

)

$

20.73

Ending balance

2,702,157

$

24.71

2,537,559

$

20.97

3,039,311

$

16.82

Options exercisable at year-end

1,752,624

$

18.90

1,649,681

$

16.92

2,048,864

$

14.61

The following table provides certain information with respect to
    stock options outstanding and stock options exercisable at
    December 30, 2007 under the employee stock option plans:

Stock Options Outstanding

Stock Options Exercisable

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Exercise

Remaining

Exercise

Range of Exercise Prices

Shares

Price

Life

Shares

Price

$8.42-$10.00

88,833

$

9.67

2.2

88,833

$

9.67

$10.01-$20.00

1,285,529

$

16.60

4.3

1,285,029

$

16.60

$20.01-$30.00

386,857

$

26.96

7.1

245,301

$

26.94

$30.01-$40.00

938,938

$

36.26

8.7

133,461

$

32.42

$40.01-$45.87

2,000

$

45.41

9.5

—

$

—

2,702,157

$

24.71

6.2

1,752,624

$

18.90

Non-Employee
    Director Stock Compensation Plan

Teledyne also sponsors a stock plan for non-employee directors
    pursuant to which non-employee directors receive annual stock
    options and may receive stock or stock options in lieu of their
    respective retainer and meeting fees. The options become
    exercisable one year after issuance and have a maximum
    10 year life.

Stock option transactions for Teledyne’s non-employee
    director stock option plan are summarized as follows:




Weighted

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Average

Exercise

Exercise

Exercise

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Beginning balance

301,186

$

19.32

246,412

$

16.33

228,012

$

14.01

Granted

48,271

$

41.59

55,464

$

32.52

48,400

$

26.48

Exercised

(1,191

)

$

10.08

(690

)

$

10.86

(30,000

)

$

15.07

Ending balance

348,266

$

22.44

301,186

$

19.32

246,412

$

16.33

Options exercisable at year-end

299,995

$

19.36

247,474

$

16.38

198,012

$

13.85



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following table provides certain information with respect to
    stock options outstanding and stock options exercisable at
    December 30, 2007 under the non-employee director stock
    option plan:

Stock Options Outstanding

Stock Options Exercisable

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Exercise

Remaining

Exercise

Range of Exercise Prices

Shares

Price

Life

Shares

Price

$6.31 - $10.00

32,776

$

8.90

3.7

32,776

$

8.90

$10.01 - $20.00

174,753

$

15.14

5.1

174,753

$

15.14

$20.01 - $30.00

59,321

$

26.86

7.7

51,570

$

26.90

$30.01 - $40.00

43,416

$

35.58

8.6

38,896

$

35.99

$40.01 - $46.00

38,000

$

45.79

9.4

2,000

$

42.10

348,266

$

22.44

6.3

299,995

$

19.36

The total pretax intrinsic value of options exercised during
    2007 and 2006 (which is the amount by which the stock price
    exceeded the exercise price of the options on the date of
    exercise) was $9.3 million and $22.1 million,
    respectively. At December 30, 2007, the intrinsic value of
    stock options outstanding was $88.4 million and the
    intrinsic value of stock options exercisable was
    $70.9 million. During 2007 and 2006, the amount of cash
    received from the exercise of stock options was
    $6.5 million and $12.3 million, respectively.

At December 30, 2007, there was $8.2 million of total
    unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock
    option awards which is expected to be recognized over a
    weighted-average period of 1.3 years.

Performance
    Share Plan

Teledyne’s Performance Share Plan (“PSP”)
    provides grants of performance share units, which key officers
    and executives may earn if Teledyne meets specified performance
    objectives over a three-year period. Awards are payable in cash
    and shares. Awards are generally paid to the participants in
    three annual installments after the end of the performance cycle
    so long as they remain employed by Teledyne (with exceptions for
    retirement, disability and death).

In January 2006, the performance cycle for the three-year period
    ending December 28, 2008 was set. Based on the estimated
    performance over the three-year period, an aggregate of
    165,216 shares are expected to be issued in three equal
    installments during 2009, 2010 and 2011.

In December 2002, the performance cycle for the three-year
    period ending January 1, 2006 was set. Based on actual
    performance over the three-year period, an aggregate of
    86,772 shares are expected to be issued in 2008.

Prior to 2006, the calculated expense for each plan year was
    based on the expected cash payout and the expected shares to be
    issued valued at the share price at the inception of the
    performance cycle. Under SFAS No. 123(R), the
    calculated expense for each plan year is also based on the
    expected cash payout and expected shares to be issued, except
    for the shares that can be issued based on a market comparison.
    The expense for 2007 and 2006 for the shares that can be issued
    based on a market comparison was calculated using the
    requirements of SFAS No. 123(R). The expected expense
    for these shares was calculated using a Monte-Carlo type
    simulation which takes into consideration several factors
    including volatility, risk free interest rates and correlation
    of Teledyne’s stock price with the comparator, the Russell
    2000 Index. No adjustment to the calculated expense for the
    shares issued based on a market based comparison will be made
    regardless of the actual performance.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Restricted
    Stock Award Program

Under Teledyne’s restricted stock award program selected
    officers and key executives receive a grant of stock equal to
    30% of the participant’s annual base salary at the date of
    grant. The Restricted Stock is subject to transfer and
    forfeiture restrictions during an applicable “restricted
    period”. The restrictions have both time-based and
    performance-based components. The restricted period expires (and
    the restrictions lapse) on the third anniversary of the date of
    grant, subject to the achievement of stated performance
    objectives over a specified three-year performance period. If
    employment is terminated (other than via death, retirement or
    disability) during the restricted period, stock is forfeited.
    Under the 2005 to 2007 and 2006 to 2008 and 2007 to 2009
    performance periods an aggregate of 112,305 shares of
    restricted stock were issued and outstanding at year-end 2007.

The following table summarizes Teledyne’s restricted stock
    activity:

Weighted

average

grant-date

Shares

price

Balance, January 2, 2005

169,184

$

15.99

Granted

39,270

$

28.54

Issued

(51,290

)

$

16.41

Balance, January 1, 2006

157,164

$

18.98

Granted

38,812

$

30.78

Issued

(65,526

)

$

13.10

Balance, December 31, 2006

130,450

$

25.45

Granted

34,223

$

39.75

Issued

(52,368

)

$

19.18

Balance, December 30, 2007

112,305

$

32.73

Prior to 2006, the calculated expense for each plan year was
    based on the expected number of shares to be issued valued at
    the share price at the grant inception date. This calculated
    expense was adjusted downward if performance conditions were not
    expected to be met. Under SFAS No. 123(R), the
    calculated expense for each plan year is based on a Monte-Carlo
    type simulation which takes into consideration several factors
    including volatility, risk free interest rates and the
    correlation of Teledyne’s stock price with the comparator,
    the Russell 2000 Index. No adjustment to the calculated expense
    will be made regardless of actual performance. At
    December 30, 2007, there was $2.9 million of total
    unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested awards
    which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average
    period of 1.5 years.

Note 9.

Related
    Party Transactions

Prior to and in connection with the spin-off, Teledyne and ATI
    entered into agreements providing for the separation of the
    companies and governing various relationships for separating
    employee benefits and tax obligations, indemnification and
    transition services. The Company’s principal spin-off
    requirements, including the requirement to ensure a favorable
    tax treatment, have been satisfied. One of Teledyne’s
    directors continues to serve on ATI’s board.

The Company’s Chairman, President and Chief Executive
    Officer is a director of The Bank of New York Mellon
    Corporation, as is one of our other directors. The Bank of New
    York Mellon Corporation is the successor to Mellon Financial
    Corporation following its merger with The Bank of New York in
    2007. Another of the Company’s directors was a former chief
    executive officer and director of Mellon Financial Corporation.
    The Bank of New York and Mellon Bank, N.A. are two of 14 lenders
    under the Company’s $590.0 million



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

credit facility, having committed up to $90.0 million under
    the facility. Mellon Bank, N.A. also provides cash management
    services and an uncommitted $5.0 million line of credit.
    Mellon Bank, N.A. serves as trustee under the Company’s
    pension plan and through its affiliates and subsidiaries
    provides asset management and transition services for the plan.
    Mellon Investor Services LLC serves as our transfer agent and
    registrar, as well as agent under the Company’s
    stockholders’ rights plan. BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
    handles administration of our stock option program.

Note 10.

Long-Term
    Debt

At December 30, 2007, Teledyne had $138.6 million in
    long-term debt outstanding. At December 31, 2006, Teledyne
    had $226.9 million in long-term debt outstanding.

On February 8, 2008, Teledyne Technologies entered into a
    First Amendment to its $400.0 million Amended and Restated
    Credit Agreement dated as of July 14, 2006. The amended and
    restated credit facility has lender commitments of
    $590.0 million and expires in July 2011. Excluding interest
    and fees, no payments are due under the amended and restated
    credit facility until it matures. At year-end 2007, we had
    $253.1 million of available committed credit under the
    prior $400.0 million credit facility, which can be
    utilized, as needed, for daily operating and periodic cash
    needs, including acquisitions. Borrowings under the credit
    facility bear interest, at our option, at a rate based on either
    a defined base rate or the London Interbank Offered Rate
    (“LIBOR”), plus applicable margins. The credit
    agreement also provides for facility fees that vary between
    0.10% and 0.25% of the credit line, depending on our
    consolidated leverage ratio as calculated from time to time. The
    credit agreement requires the Company to comply with various
    financial and operating covenants, including maintaining certain
    consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios, as well as
    minimum net worth levels and limits on acquired debt. We also
    have two $5.0 million uncommitted credit lines available.
    These credit lines are utilized, as needed, for periodic cash
    needs. Total debt at year-end 2007 includes $138.0 million
    outstanding under the credit facility and $1.3 million in
    other debt. The Company also has a $3.9 million capital
    lease, of which $0.1 million is current. At year-end 2007,
    Teledyne had $8.9 million in outstanding letters of credit.

Total interest expense including credit facility fees and other
    bank charges was $13.1 million in 2007, $7.7 million
    in 2006 and $3.8 million in 2005.

At December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, long-term
    debt consisted of the following (in millions):



Revolving credit and bank facilities, weighted average rate
    5.5%

at December 30, 2007

$

138.0

$

226.9

Other unsecured debt due through 2009 at varying rates

1.3

1.2

Total

139.3

228.1

Less:

Current portion

(0.7

)

(1.2

)

Total long-term debt

$

138.6

$

226.9

At December 30, 2007, future minimum principal payments on
    long-term debt subsequent to December 30, 2007 were as
    follows: $0.7 million in 2008, $0.6 million in 2009
    and $138.0 million in 2011.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 11.  Income
    Taxes

Provision for income taxes was as follows (in millions):




Current

$

46.2

$

42.8

$

35.2

Federal

7.9

8.7

6.8

State

2.5

1.6

1.4

Foreign

56.6

53.1

43.4

Total current

Deferred

Federal

(4.8

)

(9.3

)

(4.0

)

State

(1.0

)

(2.4

)

(0.6

)

Total deferred

(5.8

)

(11.7

)

(4.6

)

Provision for income taxes

$

50.8

$

41.4

$

38.8

Income before income taxes included income from domestic
    operations of $141.9 million for 2007, $115.4 million
    for 2006 and $99.5 million for 2005. In 2007 and 2006,
    Teledyne reversed income tax contingency reserves of
    $1.1 million and $3.3 million, respectively. These
    reserves were determined to be no longer needed due to the
    expiration of applicable statutes of limitations. The following
    is a reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to
    the actual effective income tax rate:




U.S. federal statutory tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

State and local taxes, net of federal benefit

4.0

3.9

3.7

Research and development tax credits

(2.9

)

—

—

Reserve reversal

(0.8

)

(2.7

)

—

Qualified production activity deduction

(1.6

)

(0.7

)

(0.9

)

Extraterritorial income exclusion

—

(1.4

)

(1.2

)

Other

0.4

(0.1

)

1.0

Effective income tax rate

34.1

%

34.0

%

37.6

%

Deferred income taxes result from temporary differences in the
    recognition of income and expense for financial and income tax
    reporting purposes, and differences between the fair value of
    assets acquired in business combinations accounted for as
    purchases for financial reporting purposes and their
    corresponding tax bases. Deferred income taxes represent future
    tax benefits or costs to be recognized when those temporary
    differences reverse. A valuation allowance of $0.8 million
    exists against deferred tax assets for 2007. A valuation
    allowance of $0.7 million exists against deferred tax
    assets for 2006.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The categories of assets and liabilities that have resulted in
    differences in the timing of the recognition of income and
    expense were as follows (in millions):



Deferred income tax assets:

Current

Reserves

$

20.0

$

17.7

Inventory valuation

6.9

8.4

Accrued vacation

9.3

8.6

Long-term

Postretirement benefits other than pensions

9.0

10.4

Reserves

27.7

23.8

Deferred compensation and other benefit plans

43.0

20.8

Total deferred income tax assets

115.9

89.7

Deferred income tax liabilities:

Current

Other items

1.7

0.3

Long-term

Property, plant and equipment differences

5.1

6.6

Intangible amortization

17.0

10.4

Other items

0.7

(0.6

)

Total deferred income tax liabilities

24.5

16.7

Net deferred income tax asset

$

91.4

$

73.0

Deferred tax expense includes tax amounts related to reserves of
    $6.5 million, $4.8 million and $4.4 million for
    2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Additional paid in capital
    was credited $3.6 million in 2007, $8.4 million in
    2006 and $5.2 million in 2005 for the tax benefit resulting
    from the exercise of stock options.

On January 1, 2007, Teledyne Technologies adopted
    FIN No. 48. As a result of the implementation the
    Company recognized a $0.2 million increase in the liability
    for unrecognized tax benefits, which were accounted for as a
    cumulative-effect adjustment (decrease) to the beginning balance
    of retained earnings. As of the date of adoption and after the
    impact of recognizing the increase in the liability noted above,
    the Company’s total gross unrecognized tax benefits and
    related interest totaled $5.5 million.

The following presents a rollforward of our unrecognized tax
    benefits (in millions):

Unrecognized

Tax Benefits

Interest

Balance January 1, 2007

$

4.8

$

0.7

Increase in prior year tax positions

0.3

0.3

Increase for tax positions taken during the current period

24.5

—

Reduction related to settlements with taxing authorities

(0.8

)

(0.2

)

Reduction related to lapse of the statue of limitations

(1.0

)

(0.3

)

Balance December 30, 2007

$

27.8

$

0.5



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

We recognized interest related to unrecognized tax benefits of
    $0.3 million within the provision for income taxes on
    continuing operations in our statements of operations. Interest
    in the amount of $0.5 million is recognized in the
    2007 statement of financial position. As of
    December 30, 2007, we estimated that the entire balance of
    unrecognized tax benefits, if resolved in our favor, would
    positively impact the effective tax rate and, therefore, be
    recognized as additional tax benefits in our income statement.

We file income tax returns in the United States federal
    jurisdiction and in various states and foreign jurisdictions.
    Except for refund claims related to credits for research
    activities, the Company has substantially concluded on all
    U.S. federal income tax matters for years through 2003.
    Substantially all other material state and local, and foreign
    income tax matters have been concluded for years through 2002.

The Company anticipates the total unrecognized tax benefit may
    be reduced by $1.0 million due to the expiration of
    statutes of limitation for various federal and state tax issues
    in the next 12 months.

Note 12.  Pension
    Plans and Postretirement Benefits

Prior to the spin-off, certain Teledyne’s employees
    participated in the defined benefit plan sponsored by ATI.
    Benefits under the defined benefit plan are generally based on
    years of service

and/or

final
    average pay. ATI funded the pension plan in accordance with the
    requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
    1974, as amended, and the Internal Revenue Code.

As of the spin-off date, Teledyne assumed the existing defined
    benefit plan obligations for all of Teledyne’s employees,
    both active and inactive, at its companies that perform
    government contract work and for Teledyne’s active
    employees at its companies that do not perform government
    contract work. ATI transferred pension assets to fund the new
    Teledyne’s defined benefit pension plan.

Teledyne’s FAS 87 pension expense was
    $11.9 million in 2007 of which $10.2 million was
    recoverable in accordance with U.S. Government Cost
    Accounting Standards (“CAS”) from certain government
    contracts compared with FAS 87 pension expense of
    $15.4 million in 2006 of which $10.5 million was
    recoverable in accordance with CAS and FAS 87 pension
    expense of $12.7 million in 2005 of which $9.3 million
    was recoverable in accordance with CAS. Teledyne made pretax
    contributions to its pension plans of $7.5 million in 2007
    and $20.9 million in 2006 prior to any recovery from the
    U.S. Government. The Company anticipates making total
    contributions, before any recovery from the
    U.S. Government, of approximately $9.0 million to its
    pension plans in 2008.

As of the spin-off date, Teledyne also participated in a 401(k)
    plan that was open to all full time U.S. employees and was
    sponsored by ATI. Teledyne established its own 401(k) plan
    effective April 1, 2000. As of January 1, 2004,
    non-union new hires participate in an enhanced defined
    contribution plan as opposed to the Company’s existing
    defined benefit plan. The Company’s contribution associated
    with these 401(k) plans were $5.6 million,
    $5.1 million and $4.2 million, for 2007, 2006 and
    2005, respectively.

The Company sponsors several postretirement defined benefit
    plans covering certain salaried and hourly employees. The plans
    provide health care and life insurance benefits for certain
    eligible retirees.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following table sets forth the components of net period
    pension benefit expense for Teledyne’s defined benefit
    pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for 2007, 2006
    and 2005 (in millions):

Pension Benefits

Postretirement Benefits







Service cost — benefits earned during the period

$

16.6

$

14.9

$

13.9

$

0.1

$

0.1

$

—

Interest cost on benefit obligation

36.8

32.2

29.7

1.5

1.3

1.1

Expected return on plan assets

(46.9

)

(38.2

)

(34.6

)

—

—

—

Amortization of prior service cost

1.6

2.0

2.0

(0.5

)

—

—

Recognized actuarial (gain) loss

3.8

4.5

1.7

(0.7

)

(0.6

)

(0.8

)

Net periodic benefit expense

$

11.9

$

15.4

$

12.7

$

0.4

$

0.8

$

0.3

The following table sets forth the reconciliation of the
    beginning and ending balances of the benefit obligation of the
    defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans (in
    millions):

Pension Benefits

Postretirement Benefits





Changes in benefit obligation:

Benefit obligation — beginning of year

$

629.2

$

524.5

$

26.8

$

19.5

Service cost — benefits earned during the year

16.6

14.9

0.1

0.1

Interest cost on projected benefit obligation

36.8

32.2

1.5

1.3

Actuarial (gain) loss

2.4

(0.6

)

(1.3

)

(1.7

)

Benefits paid

(29.5

)

(25.8

)

(2.0

)

(2.0

)

Termination benefits

—

(1.3

)

—

—

Business combination

—

85.1

—

13.6

Plan amendments

0.1

0.2

—

(4.0

)

Benefit obligation — end of year

$

655.6

$

629.2

$

25.1

$

26.8

Accumulated benefit obligation — end of year

$

593.4

$

573.1

The measurement date for the Company’s pension and
    postretirement plans is December 31.

The following table presents the estimated future benefit
    payments for the Company’s pension and postretirement plans
    (in millions):

Pension

Postretirement

Plan

Benefit Plan


$

32.2

2.4


34.6

2.4


37.0

2.3


38.9

2.3


41.1

2.3

2013-2017

239.5

10.3

Total

$

423.3

22.0



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following tables set forth the reconciliation of the
    beginning and ending balances of the fair value of plan assets
    for Teledyne’s defined benefit pension plans and the
    percentage of year-end market value by asset class (in millions):

Pension Benefits



Changes in plan assets:

Fair value of plan assets — beginning of year

$

587.3

$

409.3

Actual return on plan assets

12.2

65.8

Employer contribution — defined benefit plan

6.3

18.8

Employer contribution — other benefit plans

1.2

2.1

Business combination

—

118.4

Benefits paid

(29.5

)

(27.1

)

Fair value of plan assets — end of year

$

577.5

$

587.3

Plan Assets% to Total



Equity instruments

68.3

%

70.8

%

Domestic fixed income instruments

30.7

%

28.4

%

Cash

1.0

%

0.8

%

Total

100.0

%

100.0

%

The Company has an active management policy for a portion of its
    pension assets. The investment policy includes a target
    allocation percentage of 70% in equity instruments and 30% in
    domestic fixed income instruments. The balance in equity
    instruments can range from 65% to 75% before rebalancing is
    required under the Company’s policy.

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is reviewed
    annually, taking into consideration the Company’s asset
    allocation, historical returns on the types of assets held, and
    the current economic environment. We determined the discount
    rate based on a model which matches the timing and amount of
    expected benefit payments to maturities of quality bonds priced
    as of the pension plan measurement date. For some years, there
    were no bonds maturing. In these instances, we chose to estimate
    the missing bond by using bonds that have similar features as
    the prior year’s bond. The yields on the bonds are used to
    derive a discount rate for the liability.

The following assumptions were used to determine the benefit
    obligation and the net benefit cost:

For the year




Weighted average discount rate

6.00

%

6.00

%

6.25

%

Weighted average increase in future compensation levels

3.66

%

3.66

%

3.25

%

Expected weighted-average long-term rate of return

8.5

%

8.5

%

8.5

%

The Company is projecting a long-term rate of return on plan
    assets of 8.5% in 2008. The discount rate used in determining
    the benefit obligations is expected to be 6.0% in 2008 and the
    expected weighted average increase in future compensation levels
    is 3.66%.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following table sets forth the funded status and amounts
    recognized in Teledyne’s consolidated balance sheets for
    the pension and postretirement plans at year-end 2007 and 2006
    (in millions):

Pension Benefits

Postretirement Benefits





Funded status

$

(78.1

)

$

(41.9

)

$

(25.1

)

$

(26.8

)

Unrecognized prior service cost

2.0

3.6

(3.4

)

(3.9

)

Unrecognized net (gain) loss

109.1

75.7

(4.7

)

(4.1

)

Prepaid (accrued) benefit cost

$

33.0

$

37.4

$

(33.2

)

$

(34.8

)

Accrued pension obligation (long-term)

$

(74.3

)

$

(38.4

)

$

—

$

—

Accrued pension obligation (short-term)

(0.8

)

(0.8

)

—

—

Accrued postretirement benefits (long-term)

—

—

(22.9

)

(24.4

)

Accrued postretirement benefits (short-term)

—

—

(2.2

)

(2.4

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income

111.1

79.3

(8.1

)

(8.0

)

Other liabilities

(3.0

)

(2.7

)

—

—

Net amount recognized

$

33.0

$

37.4

$

(33.2

)

$

(34.8

)

In accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 158,
    “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
    Other Postretirement Plans — An Amendment of FASB
    Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R),” at year-end
    2007 the Company had a $62.7 million non-cash reduction to
    stockholders’ equity and a long-term additional liability
    of $103.0 million. At year-end 2006, the Company had a
    $43.4 million non-cash reduction to stockholders’
    equity and a long-term additional liability of
    $71.3 million. The adjustments to equity did not affect net
    income and are recorded net of deferred taxes.

At December 30, 2007, the amounts in the minimum pension
    liability adjustment that have not yet been recognized as
    components of net periodic benefit cost for the pension plans
    are: net loss $109.1 million and net prior service cost
    $2.0 million. At December 30, 2007, the amounts in the
    minimum pension liability adjustment that have not yet been
    recognized as components of net periodic benefit income for the
    retiree medical plans are: net gain $4.7 million and net
    prior service cost $3.4 million.

At December 30, 2007, the estimated amounts of the minimum
    pension liability adjustment that are expected to be recognized
    as components of net periodic benefit cost during 2008 for the
    pension plans are: net loss $3.1 million and net prior
    service cost $0.7 million. At December 30, 2007, the
    estimated amounts in the minimum pension liability expected to
    be recognized as components of net periodic benefit income
    during 2008 for the retiree medical plans are: net gain
    $0.6 million and net prior service cost $0.5 million.

The annual assumed rate of increase in the per capita cost of
    covered benefits (the health care cost trend rate) for health
    care plans was 10.0% in 2007 and was assumed to decrease to 5%
    by the year 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. Assumed
    health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the
    amounts reported for the health care plans. A one percentage
    point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would
    result in an increase in the annual service and interest costs
    by $0.1 million for 2007 and would result in an increase in
    the postretirement benefit obligation by $1.0 million at
    December 30, 2007. A one percentage point decrease in the
    assumed health care cost trend rates would result in a decrease
    in the annual service and interest costs by $0.1 million
    for 2007 and would result in a decrease in the postretirement
    benefit obligation by $0.9 million at December 30,
    2007.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 13.  Business
    Segments

Teledyne is a leading provider of sophisticated electronic
    components and subsystems, instrumentation and communications
    products, engineered systems and information technology
    services, general aviation engines and components, and energy
    generation, energy storage and small propulsion products. Our
    customers include government agencies, aerospace prime
    contractors, energy exploration and production companies, major
    industrial companies, and airlines and general aviation
    companies.

Teledyne operates in four business segments: Electronics and
    Communications, Engineered Systems, Aerospace Engines and
    Components and Energy and Power Systems. In the fourth quarter
    of 2007, the Company realigned two business units to reflect the
    current management and organizational structure. The turbine
    engine business and the battery products business have been
    moved from the Aerospace Engines and Components segment to the
    Energy and Power Systems segment. The former Energy Systems
    segment was renamed to Energy and Power Systems segment. In
    addition to these changes, the Systems Engineering Solutions
    segment has been renamed Engineered Systems. As required by
    SFAS No. 131, the Company has restated its 2006 and
    2005 historical segment information to be consistent with the
    current reportable segment structure. This segment restatement
    had no effect on the Company’s financial position, results
    of operations or cash flows for the periods presented and also
    did not affect the results Electronics and Communications or
    Engineered Systems segments. The factors for determining the
    reportable segments were based on the distinct nature of their
    operations. They are managed as separate business units because
    each requires and is responsible for executing a unique business
    strategy. The Electronics and Communications segment, sometimes
    referred to as Teledyne Electronic Technologies, provides a wide
    range of specialized electronic systems, instruments, components
    and services that address niche market applications in defense,
    commercial aerospace, communications, industrial and scientific
    markets. The Engineered Systems segment, principally through
    Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc., applies the skills of its
    extensive staff of engineers and scientists to provide
    innovative systems engineering, advanced technology, software
    development and manufacturing solutions to defense, space,
    environmental, and homeland security requirements. The Aerospace
    Engines and Components segment, principally through Teledyne
    Continental Motors, Inc., focuses on the design, development and
    manufacture of piston engines and electronic engine controls.
    The Energy and Power Systems segment provides hydrogen gas
    generators, thermoelectric and fuel cell-based power sources,
    turbine engines and aviation batteries.

Segment operating profit includes other income and expense
    directly related to the segment, but excludes minority interest,
    interest income and expense, gains and losses on the disposition
    of assets, sublease rental income and non-revenue licensing and
    royalty income, domestic and foreign income taxes and corporate
    office expenses.

Identifiable assets are those assets used in the operations of
    the segments. Corporate assets primarily consist of cash and
    cash equivalents, deferred tax assets, net pension
    assets/liabilities and other assets.

Information on the Company’s business segments was as
    follows (in millions):




Sales

Electronics and Communications

$

1,071.6

$

899.4

$

717.8

Engineered Systems

301.7

283.0

263.7

Aerospace Engines and Components

180.7

181.6

151.4

Energy and Power Systems

68.3

69.2

73.6

Total sales

$

1,622.3

$

1,433.2

$

1,206.5



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)


2006(a)

2005(a)

Income before taxes

Electronics and Communications

$

143.2

$

109.3

$

84.0

Engineered Systems

26.2

24.5

27.5

Aerospace Engines and Components

19.2

15.5

9.3

Energy and Power Systems

6.3

6.0

5.8

Segment operating profit and other segment income

194.9

155.3

126.6

Corporate expense

(32.6

)

(27.7

)

(20.9

)

Interest and debt expense, net

(12.5

)

(7.4

)

(3.5

)

Minority interest

(3.4

)

(1.0

)

(0.2

)

Other income (expense), net

2.9

2.5

1.0

Income before taxes

$

149.3

$

121.7

$

103.0

a)

Total year 2006 and 2005 segment operating profit includes
    receipts of $2.5 million and $5.0 million,
    respectively, pursuant to an agreement with Honda Motor Co.,
    Ltd., related to the piston engine business. This amount is
    included as part of other income on the income statement table.




Depreciation and amortization

Electronics and Communications

$

29.0

$

25.9

$

19.3

Engineered Systems

1.5

1.8

1.5

Aerospace Engines and Components

2.7

2.8

3.2

Energy and Power Systems

1.4

1.5

1.6

Corporate

0.1

—

—

Total depreciation and amortization

$

34.7

$

32.0

$

25.6




Capital expenditures

Electronics and Communications

$

33.7

$

17.9

$

12.5

Engineered Systems

1.5

1.4

1.3

Aerospace Engines and Components

3.5

5.1

4.1

Energy and Power Systems

1.0

1.9

1.7

Corporate

0.6

0.1

0.2

Total capital expenditures

$

40.3

$

26.4

$

19.8



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)




Identifiable assets

Electronics and Communications

$

861.4

$

804.4

$

522.5

Engineered Systems

79.3

70.8

50.1

Aerospace Engines and Components

66.2

67.2

48.2

Energy and Power Systems

27.2

24.6

20.1

Corporate

125.3

94.4

87.3

Total identifiable assets

$

1,159.4

$

1,061.4

$

728.2

Information on the Company’s sales to the
    U.S. Government, including direct sales as a prime
    contractor and indirect sales as a subcontractor, were as
    follows (in millions):




Electronics and Communications

$

334.4

$

249.1

$

198.5

Engineered Systems

298.0

278.9

260.0

Energy and Power Systems

32.1

41.4

52.1

Total U.S. Government sales

$

664.5

$

569.4

$

510.6

Sales to the U.S. Government included sales to the
    Department of Defense of $481.5 million in 2007,
    $431.4 million in 2006, and $391.7 million in 2005.

Total sales to international customers were $362.7 million
    in 2007, $301.0 million in 2006, and $222.3 million in
    2005. Of these amounts, sales by operations in the United States
    to customers in other countries were $315.1 million in
    2007, $270.7 million in 2006, and $196.9 million in
    2005. There were no sales to individual countries outside of the
    United States in excess of 10 percent of the Company’s
    sales. More than 95% of our total sales were made by our
    operations located in the United States. Sales between business
    segments, which were not material, generally were priced at
    prevailing market prices.

Note 14.  Lease
    Commitments

The Company leases buildings and equipment under capital and
    operating leases. The present value of the minimum capital lease
    payments, net of the current portion, totaled $3.8 million
    at December 30, 2007. Operating lease agreements, which
    include leases for manufacturing facilities and office space
    frequently include renewal options and require the Company to
    pay for utilities, taxes, insurance and maintenance expense.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

At December 30, 2007, future minimum lease payments for
    capital leases and for operating leases with non-cancelable
    terms of more than one year were as follows (in millions):

Capital

Operating


$

0.4

$

16.7


0.4

15.6


0.4

13.9


0.4

9.9


0.3

9.4

Thereafter

4.8

34.1

Total minimum lease payments

6.7

$

99.6

Less:

Imputed interest

(2.8

)

Current portion

(0.1

)

Present value of minimum capital lease payment, net of current
    portion

$

3.8

The 2007 property, plant and equipment accounts included
    $3.7 million of property leased under a capital lease and
    $0.6 million of related accumulated depreciation. The 2006
    property, plant and equipment accounts included
    $3.7 million of property leased under a capital lease and
    $0.6 million of related accumulated depreciation. Rental
    expense under operating leases, net of sublease income, was
    $17.8 million in 2007, $13.2 million in 2006, and
    $11.6 million in 2005.

Note 15.  Commitments
    and Contingencies

The Company is subject to federal, state and local environmental
    laws and regulations which require that it investigate and
    remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at
    sites associated with past and present operations, including
    sites at which the Company has been identified as a potentially
    responsible party under the federal Superfund laws and
    comparable state laws.

In accordance with the Company’s accounting policy
    disclosed in Note 2, environmental liabilities are recorded
    when the Company’s liability is probable and the costs are
    reasonably estimable. In many cases, however, investigations are
    not yet at a stage where the Company has been able to determine
    whether it is liable or, if liability is probable, to reasonably
    estimate the loss or range of loss, or certain components
    thereof. Estimates of the Company’s liability are further
    subject to uncertainties regarding the nature and extent of site
    contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available,
    evolving remediation standards, imprecise engineering
    evaluations and estimates of appropriate cleanup technology,
    methodology and cost, the extent of corrective actions that may
    be required, and the number and financial condition of other
    potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their
    responsibility for the remediation. Accordingly, as
    investigation and remediation of these sites proceeds, it is
    likely that adjustments in the Company’s accruals will be
    necessary to reflect new information. The amounts of any such
    adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations in a given period, but the
    amounts, and the possible range of loss in excess of the amounts
    accrued, are not reasonably estimable. Based on currently
    available information, however, management does not believe that
    future environmental costs in excess of those accrued with
    respect to sites with which the Company has been identified are
    likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    financial condition or liquidity. However, there can be no
    assurance that additional future developments, administrative
    actions or liabilities relating to environmental matters will
    not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    financial condition or results of operations.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

At December 30, 2007, the Company’s reserves for
    environmental remediation obligations totaled approximately
    $4.4 million, of which approximately $1.2 million was
    included in other current liabilities. The Company is evaluating
    whether it may be able to recover a portion of future costs for
    environmental liabilities from its insurance carriers and from
    third parties.

The timing of expenditures depends on a number of factors that
    vary by site, including the nature and extent of contamination,
    the number of potentially responsible parties, the timing of
    regulatory approvals, the complexity of the investigation and
    remediation, and the standards for remediation. The Company
    expects that it will expend present accruals over many years,
    and will complete remediation of all sites with which it has
    been identified in up to thirty years.

Various claims (whether based on U.S. Government or Company
    audits and investigations or otherwise) may be asserted against
    the Company related to its U.S. Government contract work,
    including claims based on business practices and cost
    classifications and actions under the False Claims Act. Although
    such claims are generally resolved by detailed fact-finding and
    negotiation, on those occasions when they are not so resolved,
    civil or criminal legal or administrative proceedings may ensue.
    Depending on the circumstances and the outcome, such proceedings
    could result in fines, penalties, compensatory and treble
    damages or the cancellation or suspension of payments under one
    or more U.S. Government contracts. Under government
    regulations, a company, or one or more of its operating
    divisions or units, can also be suspended or debarred from
    government contracts based on the results of investigations.
    However, although the outcome of these matters cannot be
    predicted with certainty, management does not believe there is
    any audit, review or investigation currently pending against the
    Company of which management is aware that is likely to result in
    suspension or debarment of the Company, or that is otherwise
    likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    financial condition or liquidity, although the resolution in any
    reporting period of one or more of these matters could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
    operations for that period.

A number of other lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or
    may be asserted against the Company relating to the conduct of
    its business, including those pertaining to product liability,
    patent infringement, commercial, employment and employee
    benefits. While the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted
    with certainty, and some of these lawsuits, claims or
    proceedings may be determined adversely to the Company,
    management does not believe that the disposition of any such
    pending matters is likely to have a material adverse effect on
    the Company’s financial condition or liquidity, although
    the resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these
    matters could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations for that period. Teledyne
    has aircraft and product liability insurance with an annual
    self-insured retention for general aviation aircraft liabilities
    incurred in connection with products manufactured by Teledyne
    Continental Motors of $21.0 million. The Company’s
    current aircraft product liability insurance policy expires in
    May 2008.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 16.  Quarterly
    Financial Data (Unaudited)

The following is Teledyne’s quarterly information (in
    millions, except per share amounts):

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

4th Quarter

Fiscal year 2007(a)

Sales

$

385.6

$

400.3

$

408.9

$

427.5

Gross profit

$

113.6

$

125.4

$

124.0

$

122.9

Net income(b)

$

20.5

$

24.3

$

27.1

$

26.6

Basic earnings per share

$

0.59

$

0.69

$

0.77

$

0.76

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.57

$

0.67

$

0.75

$

0.73

(a)

Fiscal year 2007 was a 52-week year, each quarter contained
    13 weeks.

(b)

Includes income tax credits of $4.4 million of which
    $4.0 million was recorded in the third quarter and
    $0.4 million was recorded in the fourth quarter. Includes
    the reversal of $1.1 million in income tax contingency
    reserves which were determined to be no longer needed due to the
    completion of state tax audits and the expiration of applicable
    statutes of limitations, of which $0.5 million was recorded
    in the first quarter, $0.5 million was recorded in the
    third quarter and $0.1 million was recorded in the fourth
    quarter.

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

4th Quarter

Fiscal year 2006(a)

Sales

$

330.2

$

348.1

$

363.6

$

391.3

Gross profit

$

93.4

(b)

$

102.7

$

102.3

$

114.6

Net income

$

17.9

$

20.9

$

22.6

(c)

$

18.9

Basic earnings per share

$

0.53

$

0.61

$

0.65

$

0.54

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.51

$

0.59

$

0.63

$

0.53

Note 17.  Subsequent
    Events (Unaudited)

On February 1, 2008, Teledyne Technologies through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Scientific & Imaging, LLC,
    completed the acquisition of assets of Judson Technologies, LLC
    (“Judson”). Judson, headquartered in Montgomeryville,
    Pennsylvania, is a leading designer and manufacturer of high
    performance infrared detectors and accessory products for
    $27.0 million in cash. Judson manufactures high performance
    infrared detectors utilizing a wide variety of materials such as
    Mercury Cadmium Telluride (“HgCdTe”), Indium
    Antimonide (“InSb”), and Indium Gallium Arsenide
    (“InGaAs”), as well as tactical dewar and cooler
    assemblies and other specialized standard products for military,
    space, industrial and scientific applications. Judson had sales
    of $13.8 million for its fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2006. Teledyne operates this business under
    the name Teledyne Judson Technologies.

On January 31, 2008 Teledyne Technologies through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Limited, acquired all of the outstanding
    stock of S G Brown Limited and its wholly-owned subsidiary TSS
    (International) Limited (together “TSS International”)
    for GBP 29.1 million in cash (approximately
    $57.9 million). TSS International, headquartered in
    Watford, United Kingdom, designs and manufactures inertial
    sensing, gyrocompass



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

navigation and subsea pipe and cable detection systems for
    offshore energy, oceanographic and military marine markets. TSS
    International’s inertial sensing and navigation systems,
    which contain mechanical gyros and solid state sensors, provide
    detailed positioning parameters for marine applications. Such
    systems increase the accuracy of hydrographic surveys by
    correcting for a marine vessel’s motion. TSS had revenue of
    GBP 12.0 million (approximately $23.9 million) for its
    fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. The acquired businesses
    operate under the names Teledyne SG Brown Limited and Teledyne
    TSS Limited.

On December 31, 2007, Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    through its subsidiary, Teledyne Instruments, Inc. completed the
    acquisition of assets of Impulse Enterprise
    (“Impulse”). Impulse, headquartered in San Diego,
    California, is a leading manufacturer of underwater electrical
    interconnection systems for $35.0 million in cash. Impulse
    manufactures waterproof neoprene and glass reinforced epoxy
    connector products for harsh environments, complementing
    Teledyne D.G. O’Brien’s glass-to-metal sealed subsea
    cable and connector systems, as well as Ocean Design,
    Inc.’s lines of wet-mateable interconnect systems. Impulse
    had sales of $16.8 million for its fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2006. Teledyne operates this business under
    the name Teledyne Impulse.

On December 31, 2007, Teledyne Technologies through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Reynolds, Inc., acquired Storm Products Co.
    (“Storm”) for $47.5 million in cash. Storm, with
    principal operations in Dallas, Texas and Woodridge, Illinois,
    manufactures specialty wire, cable and interconnect products, as
    well as flexible and semi-rigid microwave cable assemblies.
    Storm currently operates two business units: Storm-Cable
    Solutions Group and Storm-Microwave. Storm’s Cable
    Solutions Group supplies custom, high-reliability bulk wire and
    cable assemblies to a number of markets including energy
    exploration, environmental monitoring and industrial equipment.
    Storm-Microwave provides coax microwave cable and interconnects
    primarily to defense customers for radar, electronic warfare and
    communications applications. Storm had revenue of
    $45.7 million for its fiscal year ended March 31,
    2007. Teledyne operates this business under the name Teledyne
    Storm Products, Inc.

Each of the companies acquired is part of the Electronics and
    Communications segment. Teledyne funded the acquisitions
    primarily from borrowings under its credit facility and cash on
    hand.



Schedule II

VALUATION
    AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

For the
    Fiscal Years Ended December 30, 2007, December 31,
    2006 and January 1, 2006

(In millions)

Additions

Balance at

Charged to

beginning of

costs and

Balance at

Description

period

expenses

Acquisitions

Deductions(a)

end of period

Fiscal 2007

Reserve for doubtful accounts

$

2.7

2.3

—

(0.4

)

$

4.6

Aircraft product liability reserve

$

46.9

12.0

—

(5.1

)

$

53.8

Environmental reserves

$

5.1

(0.5

)

—

(0.2

)

$

4.4

Fiscal 2006

Reserve for doubtful accounts

$

2.1

1.3

—

(0.7

)

$

2.7

Aircraft product liability reserve

$

37.1

16.3

—

(6.5

)

$

46.9

Environmental reserves

$

3.5

0.3

1.4

(0.1

)

$

5.1

Fiscal 2005

Reserve for doubtful accounts

$

2.6

0.4

—

(0.9

)

$

2.1

Aircraft product liability reserve

$

27.4

17.2

—

(7.5

)

$

37.1

Environmental reserves

$

3.5

0.3

—

(0.3

)

$

3.5

(a)

Represents payments except the amounts for allowance for
    doubtful accounts primarily represents uncollectible accounts
    written off, net of recoveries.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized as of February 27, 2008.

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated (Registrant)

By:

/s/

Robert
    Mehrabian

Robert Mehrabian

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

/s/

Robert
    Mehrabian

Robert
    Mehrabian

Chairman, President and

Chief Executive Officer

(Principal Executive Officer)

and Director

February 27, 2008

/s/

Dale
    A.
    Schnittjer

Dale
    A. Schnittjer

Senior Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

(Principal Financial Officer)

February 27, 2008

/s/

Susan
    L.
    Main

Susan
    L. Main

Vice President and Controller

(Principal Accounting Officer)

February 27, 2008

*

Roxanne
    S. Austin

Director

February 27, 2008

*

Robert
    P.  Bozzone

Director

February 27, 2008

*

Frank
    V. Cahouet

Director

February 27, 2008

*

Charles
    Crocker

Director

February 27, 2008

*

Kenneth
    C. Dahlberg

Director

February 27, 2008

*

Simon
    M. Lorne

Director

February 27, 2008

*

Paul
    D. Miller

Director

February 27, 2008



*

Michael
    T. Smith

Director

February 27, 2008

*

Wesley
    W. von Schack

Director

February 27, 2008

*By:

/s/

Melanie
    S. Cibik

Melanie
    S. Cibik

Pursuant to Power of Attorney

filed as Exhibit 24.1



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

No.

Description


.1

Separation and Distribution Agreement dated as of
    November 29, 1999 by and among Allegheny Teledyne
    Incorporated, TDY Holdings, LLC, Teledyne Industries, Inc. and
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of November 29, 1999 (File

No. 1-15295))


.2

Purchase Agreement dated as of July 26, 2006, by and among
    Rockwell Automation, Inc., Rockwell Collins, Inc. and Teledyne
    Brown Engineering, Inc. (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated July 25, 2006)


.3

Guarantee of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated relating to the
    Purchase Agreement (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.2 of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated July 25, 2006)


.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated (including Certificate of Designation of
    Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock)
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
    Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295))


.2

Amended and Restated Bylaws of Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to
    the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295))


.1

Rights Agreement dated as of November 29, 1999 between
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated and ChaseMellon Shareholder
    Services, L.L.C. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
    to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of November 29, 1999 (File

No. 1-15295))


.1

Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement between Allegheny
    Teledyne Incorporated and Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of November 29, 1999 (File

No. 1-15295))


.2

Employee Benefits Agreement between Allegheny Teledyne
    Incorporated and Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K/A

(Amendment No. 1) dated as of November 29, 1999
    (File

No. 1-15295))†


.3

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999 Incentive Plan
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the
    Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.4

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999 Non-Employee Director
    Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.5

Amendment No. 1 to Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999
    Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295)†


.6

Amendment No. 2 to Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999
    Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295)†


.7

Amendment No. 3 to Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999
    Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 29, 2002 (File

No. 1-15295)†


.8

Amendment No. 4 to Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999
    Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s

Form 10-Q

for the period ended September 28, 2003) (File

No. 1-15295)†


.9

Third Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between Robert
    Mehrabian and Teledyne Technologies Incorporated (incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated September 1, 2007 (File

No. 1-15295))†



Exhibit

No.

Description


.10

Form of Change of Control Severance Agreement (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295)

with regard to Dale A. Schnittjer (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the period ended June 29, 2003 (File

No. 1-15295))

and with regard to Susan L. Main (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 99.2 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated March 29, 2004 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.11

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated Executive Deferred
    Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.10 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.12

Amendment No. 1 to Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 10.12 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295)†


.13

Amendment No. 2 to Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 10.13 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295)†


.14

Amendment No. 3 to Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s

Form 10-Q

for the period ended September 28, 2003) (File

No. 1-15295)†


.15

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated Pension Equalization/Benefit
    Restoration Plan, as amended and restated (incorporated by
    reference to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 1, 2006 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.16

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the
    Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 30, 2001 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.17

Administrative Rules of the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan Related to
    Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 23, 2007)†


.18

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement —
    January 24, 2006 Award (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.23 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 1, 2006 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.19

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement —
    January 23, 2007 Award (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.21 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2007)†


.20

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement —
    January 22, 2008 Award*†


.21

Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of July 14,
    2006, among Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, Bank of America,
    N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer,
    certain lenders thereunder and certain subsidiaries of Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated as guarantors (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated July 14, 2006)


.22

First Amendment to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement,
    dated as of February 8, 2008, by and among Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated, certain subsidiaries of Teledyne as
    Guarantors, the Lender parties thereto and Bank of America, N.A.
    as Administrative Agent (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated February 8, 2008)


.23

Form of Amendment to Stock Options, dated October 1, 2007,
    by and between Teledyne Technologies Incorporated and directors
    Frank V. Cahouet, Charles Crocker, Simon M. Lorne, Paul D.
    Miller and Michael T. Smith (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007)


.24

Description of the 2008 Annual Incentive Plan (contained in and
    incorporated by reference to the Company’s Current Report
    on

Form 8-K

dated January 22, 2008).†


.1

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated Corporate Objectives and
    Guidelines for Employee Conduct — this code of ethics
    may be accessed via the Company’s website at
    www.teledyne.com/aboutus/ethics.asp



Exhibit

No.

Description


.2

Code of Ethics for Financial Executives — this code of
    ethics may be accessed via the Company’s website at
    www.teledyne.com/aboutus/ethics.asp


Subsidiaries of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated*


Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm*


.1

Power of Attorney — Directors*


.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*


.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*


.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*


.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*

*

Submitted electronically herewith.

†

Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
    required to be filed as an Exhibit to this

Form 10-K.

111