10-K


v51550e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR SECTION 15(d)
    OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended
    December 28, 2008

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission file

number: 1-15295

Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)

Delaware

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

25-1843385

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification Number)

1049 Camino Dos Rios

Thousand Oaks, California

91360-2362

(Address of principal executive
    offices) (Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:

(805) 373-4545

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

Preferred Share Purchase Rights

New York Stock Exchange

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or such shorter period that the registrant was
    required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
    such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of

Regulation S-K

is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this

Form 10-K

or any amendment to this

Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
    “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated
    filer” and “smaller reporting company” in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer

þ

Accelerated
    filer

o

Non-accelerated
    filer

o

Smaller
    reporting
    company

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes

o

No

þ

The aggregate market value of the registrant’s Common Stock
    held by non-affiliates was $1,719.3 million, based on the
    closing price of a share of Common Stock on June 29, 2008
    ($48.94), which is the last business day of the
    registrant’s most recently completed fiscal second quarter.
    Shares of Common Stock known by the registrant to be
    beneficially owned as of February 24, 2009 by the
    registrant’s directors and the registrant’s executive
    officers subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934 are not included in the computation. The registrant,
    however, has made no determination that such persons are
    “affiliates” within the meaning of

Rule 12b-2

under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

At February 24, 2009, there were 36,019,970 shares of the
    registrant’s Common Stock issued and outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Selected portions of the registrant’s proxy statement for
    its 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the “2009 Proxy
    Statement”) are incorporated by reference in Part III
    of this Report. Information required by paragraphs (d)(1)-(3)
    and (e)(5) of Item 407 of

Regulation S-K

is not incorporated by reference in this

Form 10-K

or in any other filing of the registrant. Such information shall
    not be deemed “soliciting material” or to be filed
    with the Commission as permitted by Item 407 of

Regulation S-K.

INDEX

Explanatory
    Notes

In this Annual Report on

Form 10-K,

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is sometimes referred to as
    the “Company” or “Teledyne”.

For a discussion of risk factors and uncertainties associated
    with Teledyne and any forward looking statements made by us, see
    the discussion beginning at page 15 of this Annual Report
    on

Form 10-K.

i


PART I

Item 1.

Business.

Who We
    Are

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is a leading provider of
    sophisticated electronic components and subsystems,
    instrumentation and communications products, including defense
    electronics, monitoring and control instrumentation for marine,
    environmental and industrial applications, harsh environment
    interconnect products, data acquisition and communications
    equipment for air transport and business aircraft, and
    components and subsystems for wireless and satellite
    communications. We also provide engineered systems and
    information technology services for defense, space,
    environmental and nuclear applications, manufacture general
    aviation engines and components, and supply energy generation,
    energy storage and small propulsion products.

We serve niche market segments where performance, precision and
    reliability are critical. Our customers include government
    agencies, aerospace prime contractors, energy exploration and
    production companies, major industrial companies, and airlines
    and general aviation companies.

Total sales in 2008 were $1,893.0 million, compared with
    $1,622.3 million and $1,433.2 million in 2007 and
    2006, respectively. Our aggregate segment operating profit and
    other segment income were $218.5 million,
    $194.9 million and $155.3 million in 2008, 2007 and
    2006, respectively. Approximately 60% of our total sales in 2008
    were to commercial customers and the balance was to the
    U.S. Government, as a prime contractor or subcontractor.
    Approximately 48% of these U.S. Government sales were
    attributable to fixed price-type contracts and the balance to
    cost plus fee-type contracts. Sales to international customers
    accounted for approximately 24% of total sales in 2008.

Our businesses are divided into and managed as four business
    segments; namely, Electronics and Communications, Engineered
    Systems, Aerospace Engines and Components and Energy and Power
    Systems. Our four business segments and their respective
    contributions to our total sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006 are
    summarized in the following table:

Segment




Electronics and Communications


%


%


%

Engineered Systems


%


%


%

Aerospace Engines and Components


%


%


%

Energy and Power Systems


%


%


%


%


%


%

We are a Delaware corporation that was spun off as an
    independent company from Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated (now
    known as Allegheny Technologies Incorporated) on
    November 29, 1999. Our principal executive offices are
    located at 1049 Camino Dos Rios, Thousand Oaks, California

91360-2362.

Our telephone number is

(805) 373-4545.

Strategy

Our strategy continues to emphasize growth in our core markets
    of instrumentation, defense electronics and government
    engineered systems. Our core markets are characterized by high
    barriers to entry and include specialized products and services
    not likely to be commoditized. We intend to strengthen and
    expand our core businesses with targeted acquisitions. We
    aggressively pursue operational excellence to continually
    improve our margins and earnings. At Teledyne, operational
    excellence includes the rapid integration of the businesses we
    acquire. Over time, our goal is to create a set of businesses
    that are truly superior in their niches. We intend to continue
    to evaluate our product lines to ensure that they are aligned
    with our strategy.



Our
    Recent Acquisitions

During fiscal 2008, we engaged in a number of acquisitions
    intended to expand and strengthen our product and service
    offerings in our core instrumentation and defense markets, as
    well as our aircraft data acquisition and communications
    business.

•

On December 31, 2007, Teledyne Instruments, Inc. acquired
    assets of Impulse Enterprise. Impulse, located in
    San Diego, California, manufactures underwater electrical
    interconnection systems for harsh environments.

•

On December 31, 2007, Teledyne Reynolds, Inc. acquired
    Storm Products Co. Primarily from its Dallas, Texas facility,
    Storm supplies custom, high-reliability bulk wire and cable
    assemblies to a number of markets, including energy exploration,
    environmental monitoring and industrial equipment. From its
    Woodridge, Illinois facility, Storm provides coax microwave
    cable and interconnect products primarily to defense customers
    for radar, electronic warfare and communications applications.

•

On January 31, 2008, Teledyne Limited acquired S G Brown
    Limited and its wholly-owned subsidiary TSS (International)
    Limited. TSS International, based in Watford, United Kingdom,
    designs and manufactures inertial sensing, gyrocompass
    navigation and subsea pipe and cable detection systems for
    offshore energy, oceanographic and military marine markets.

•

On February 1, 2008, Teledyne Scientific &
    Imaging, LLC, acquired assets of Judson Technologies, LLC.
    Located in Montgomeryville, Pennsylvania, Judson designs and
    manufactures high performance infrared detectors and accessory
    products for military, space, industrial and scientific
    applications.

•

On July 7, 2008, Teledyne Instruments, Inc. acquired assets
    of Webb Research Corp. Webb Research, located in East Falmouth,
    Massachusetts, manufactures autonomous underwater gliding
    vehicles and autonomous profiling drifters and floats.

•

On August 15, 2008, Teledyne Limited acquired the defense
    electronics business of Filtronic PLC. Principally based in
    Shipley, United Kingdom, the defense electronics business
    provides customized microwave subassemblies and integrated
    subsystems to the global defense industry.

•

On October 16, 2008, Teledyne Limited acquired Cormon
    Limited and Cormon Technology Limited. Located in Lancing,
    United Kingdom, Cormon designs and manufactures subsea and
    surface sand and corrosion sensors, as well as flow integrity
    monitoring systems, used in oil and gas production systems.

•

On December 19, 2008, Teledyne RD Instruments, Inc.,
    acquired Odom Hydrographic Systems, Inc. Located in Baton Rouge,
    Louisiana, Odom designs and manufactures hydrographic survey
    instrumentation used in port survey, dredging, offshore energy
    and other applications.

•

On December 24, 2008, Teledyne acquired assets of Demo
    Systems LLC. Located in Moorpark, California, Demo Systems
    designs and manufactures aircraft data loading equipment, flight
    line maintenance terminals and data distribution software used
    by commercial airlines, the U.S. military and aircraft
    manufacturers.

Teledyne spent $246.1 million, net of cash acquired, on
    these acquisitions. All of the acquisitions are part of the
    Electronics and Communications segment.

Available
    Information

Our Annual Report on

Form 10-K,

our Quarterly Reports on

Form 10-Q,

any Current Reports on

Form 8-K,

and any amendments to these reports, are available on our
    website as soon as reasonably practicable after we
    electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). In
    addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Corporate
    Objectives and Guidelines for Employee Conduct, our codes of
    ethics for financial executives, directors and service providers
    and the charters of the standing committees of our Board of
    Directors are available on our website. Our website address is

www.teledyne.com.



You will be responsible for any costs normally associated with
    electronic access, such as usage and telephone charges.
    Alternatively, if you would like a paper copy of any such SEC
    report (without exhibits) or document, please write to John T.
    Kuelbs, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary,
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, 1049 Camino Dos Rios,
    Thousand Oaks, California

91360-2362,

and a copy of such requested document will be provided to you,
    free-of-charge.

In April 2008, we submitted to the New York Stock Exchange the
    CEO certification required by Section 303A.12(a) of the New
    York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual. The certification was
    not qualified in any respect. Additionally, we filed with the
    SEC as exhibits to this

Form 10-K

the CEO and CFO certifications required under Section 302
    of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Our
    Business Segments

Our businesses are divided into and managed as four segments;
    namely, Electronics and Communications, Engineered Systems,
    Aerospace Engines and Components and Energy and Power Systems.
    Financial information about our business segments can be found
    in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements
    appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

Electronics
    and Communications

Our Electronics and Communications segment provides a wide range
    of specialized electronic systems, instrumentation, components
    and services that address niche market applications in defense,
    marine, environmental, industrial, commercial aerospace,
    communications and scientific markets.

Electronic
    Instruments

During 2001, we formed Teledyne Instruments, a group of business
    units drawn from our Electronics and Communications segment and
    our then called Systems Engineering Solutions segment, to focus
    on industrial monitoring and process control applications. Since
    then and through acquisitions, we have grown three additional
    instrumentation platforms, marine, environmental and industrial.

Marine Instrumentation.

Historically, through
    Teledyne Geophysical Instruments, we have manufactured
    geophysical streamer cables, hydrophones and specialty products
    used in offshore hydrocarbon exploration to locate oil and gas
    reserves beneath the ocean floor. We continue to adapt this
    technology for the military market, where these products can be
    used to detect submarines, surface ships and torpedoes.

Through various acquisitions over the last several years, we
    have greatly expanded our underwater acoustic and marine
    instrumentation capabilities.

•

Teledyne RD Instruments, Inc.’s acoustic Doppler current
    profilers perform precise measurement of currents at varying
    depths in oceans and rivers, and its Doppler Velocity Logs are
    used for navigation of civilian and military surface ships and
    unmanned underwater vehicles and by U.S. Navy divers.

•

Teledyne Benthos, Inc. manufactures oceanographic products used
    by the U.S. Navy, energy exploration, oceanographic
    research and port and harbor security services. Its products
    include acoustic modems for networked underwater communication,
    a three-dimensional sidescan sonar system and remotely operated
    underwater vehicles.

•

Teledyne TSS Limited designs and manufactures inertial sensing,
    gyrocompass navigation and subsea pipe and cable detection
    systems for offshore energy, oceanographic and military marine
    markets. Teledyne TSS’ inertial sensing and navigation
    systems, which contain mechanical gyros and solid state sensors,
    provide detailed positioning parameters for marine applications.
    Teledyne TSS’ electromagnetic detection systems are fitted
    to remotely operated vehicles and used for detection and
    maintenance of subsea telecommunications cables, power cables
    and offshore pipelines.

•

Teledyne Webb Research manufactures autonomous underwater
    gliding vehicles and autonomous profiling drifters and floats.
    Our gliders use changes in buoyancy in conjunction with wings
    and tail steering to convert vertical motion to horizontal, and
    thereby propel the system on a programmed route



with very low power consumption. Glider applications range from
    oceanopgraphic research programs to military persistent
    surveillance systems and mobile nodes for subsea communication
    networks.

•

Teledyne Odom Hydrographic, Inc. designs and manufactures
    hydrographic survey instrumentation used in port survey,
    dredging, offshore energy and other applications. Teledyne
    Odom’s single and multibeam echo sounders, coupled with
    Teledyne RD Instruments’ Doppler Velocity Logs, Teledyne
    Benthos’ side scan sonar systems and Teledyne TSS’
    inertial sensing systems, provide an extensive line of precision
    products for marine navigation, detection, sonar imaging and
    bathymetric survey.

We also provide a broader range of end-to-end undersea
    interconnect solutions to the offshore oil and gas, defense,
    oceanographic and telecom markets.

•

Majority-owned Ocean Design, Inc., or ODI, manufactures subsea,
    wet-mateable electrical and fiber-optic interconnect systems
    used in offshore oil and gas production, oceanographic research
    and military applications.

•

Teledyne D.G. O’Brien manufactures glass-to-metal sealed
    subsea cable and connectors systems, primarily for subsea
    military and offshore oil and gas exploration.

•

Teledyne Impulse manufactures waterproof neoprene and glass
    reinforced epoxy connectors that complement Teledyne D.G.
    O’Brien’s interconnect systems, which are typically
    installed before being submerged in the ocean, and also
    complement ODI’s lines of wet-mateable interconnect systems.

•

Through Teledyne Storm Products, Inc., we also provide custom,
    high-reliability bulk wire and cable assemblies to a number of
    marine, environmental and industrial markets.

•

Teledyne Cormon Limited added subsea and surface and corrosion
    sensor technology, as well as flow integrity monitoring systems,
    to our marine instrumentation businesses. Such sensors and
    flow-through systems complement the wet-mateable interconnect
    systems of ODI and Teledyne D.G. O’Brien’s
    glass-to-metal sealed wellhead feedthrough and connector systems.

Environmental Instrumentation.

We offer a wide
    range of products for environmental monitoring.

•

Teledyne Advanced Pollution Instrumentation, Inc. manufactures a
    broad line of instrumentation for monitoring low levels of gases
    such as sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides and
    ozone in order to measure the quality of the air we breathe.

•

Teledyne Monitor Labs, Inc. supplies environmental monitoring
    systems for the detection, measurement and reporting of air
    pollutants from industrial stack emissions.

•

Teledyne Isco, Inc. produces water quality monitoring products
    such as wastewater samplers and open channel flow meters. A
    variety of measurement technologies is offered to meet various
    flow applications found in pump stations, flumes, weirs and
    industrial and municipal sewer systems and storm drains.
    Additionally, Teledyne Isco manufactures high-precision,
    high-pressure syringe pumps for metering various applications
    from liquefied gases to tar with flow rates from sub-micro liter
    to 400 ml per minute and pressures up to 20,000 psi.

Laboratory Instrumentation.

We provide
    laboratory instrumentation that complements our environmental
    monitoring business.

•

Teledyne Tekmar Company manufactures laboratory instrumentation
    that automates the preparation and concentration for the
    analysis of trace levels of volatile organic compounds by a gas
    chromatograph. The company also provides laboratory
    instrumentation for the detection of total organic carbon and
    total nitrogen in water and wastewater samples.

•

Through Teledyne Leeman Labs, we provide inductively coupled
    plasma laboratory spectrometers, atomic absorption
    spectrometers, mercury analyzers and calibration standards. The
    advanced elemental analysis products are used by environmental
    and quality control laboratories to detect trace levels of
    inorganic contaminants in water and other environmental samples.



•

Teledyne Isco, Inc. also manufactures chromatography instruments
    and accessories for purification of organic compounds. Its
    liquid chromatography customers include pharmaceutical
    laboratories involved in drug discovery and development.

Industrial Process Instrumentation.

A group of
    Teledyne businesses serve the process control and monitoring
    needs of industrial plants with instruments that include gas
    analyzers, vacuum and flow measurement devices, package
    integrity inspection systems and torque measurement sensors.

•

Teledyne Analytical Instruments was a pioneer in the development
    of precision oxygen analyzers. We now manufacture a wide range
    of process gas and liquid analysis products for measurement of
    oxygen, combustibles, oil in water, moisture, sulfides, pH and
    many other parameters. We also manufacture custom analyzers
    systems that provide turn-key solutions to complex process
    monitoring

and/or

control applications found in petrochemical and refinery
    facilities.

•

Teledyne Hastings Instruments manufactures a broad line of
    instruments for precise measurement and control of vacuum and
    gas flows. Our instruments are used in varied applications such
    as semiconductor manufacturing, refrigeration, metallurgy and
    food processing.

•

Under the
    Taptone

®

brand, Teledyne Benthos, Inc. provides quality control systems
    to the food, beverage and pharmaceutical industries that inspect
    plastic, glass and metal containers for various types of defects
    and non-conformities.

•

Through Teledyne Test Services, we manufacture torque sensors
    and automatic data acquisition systems that are used to
    instrument critical devices under regulatory oversight, such as
    the requirement to test periodically the torque, thrust and
    force of motor-operated valves used in nuclear power plants.

Defense
    Electronics, Products and Services

Microwave Components and
    Subsystems.

Historically, through Teledyne MEC,
    we have designed and manufactured helix traveling wave tubes
    that are used to provide broadband power amplification of
    microwave signals. Military applications include radar,
    electronic warfare and satellite communication. Through Teledyne
    Microwave, we design, develop and manufactures RF and microwave
    components and subassemblies used in aerospace and defense
    applications, including electronic warfare and radar.

Over the last several years, we have expanded our microwave
    components and subsystems businesses with the goal of providing
    more highly integrated microwave subsystems to our defense
    customers.

•

Teledyne Cougar, Inc. produces cascadable amplifiers,
    voltage-controlled oscillators and microwave mixers, as well as
    performance Instantaneous Frequency Measurement (IFM)-based
    systems and subsystems, including integrated frequency locked
    sources and set-on receiver jammers used for the U.S. Navy
    and Air Force training.

•

Teledyne KW Microwave adds RF filters, multiplexers and
    diplexers to our product mix.

•

Teledyne Defence Limited provides customized microwave
    subassemblies and integrated subsystems, including complex
    microwave receiver front-end subsystems, to the global defense
    industry.

High Reliability Connectors and Cable
    Assemblies.

We have also expanded our connectors
    and cable assemblies businesses.

•

Through Teledyne Reynolds, Inc., we supply specialized high
    voltage connectors and subassemblies for defense, aerospace and
    industrial applications.

•

Through Teledyne Storm Microwave, we provide coax microwave
    cable and interconnects primarily to defense customers for
    radar, electronic warfare and communications applications.

•

We also produce pilot helmet mounted display components and
    subsystems for the Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing System used in
    the F-15, F-16 and F-18 aircrafts. This system is designed to
    give military pilots the ability to designate a target just by
    looking at it.



Imaging Sensors.

We design and produce
    advanced focal plane arrays, sensors, and subsystems covering a
    broad spectrum of light from below 0.3 micron ultra-violet to 18
    micron long-wave infrared.

•

Through Teledyne Imaging Sensors, we provide large focal plane
    array sensors for both military and space-science markets. We
    have been developing manufacturing processes to support
    production of third generation dual band infrared imagers
    designed to allow members of the armed forces to identify
    threats on the battlefield before the enemy can detect their
    presence. We have developed a new type of sensor image array
    using mercury, cadmium and tellurium, called the
    “substrate-removed MCT,” that can detect about 80% of
    the incident light in visible and infrared bands. This substrate
    removed MCT technology is being used on the Moon Mineralogy
    Mapper and is expected to be used in future NASA missions.
    Teledyne Imaging Sensors also designs and manufactures advanced
    military laser protection eyewear.

•

Through Teledyne Judson Technologies, we provide a wider range
    of visible and infrared detectors, integrated subsystems and
    camera products, produce dewar and coolers assemblies and have
    additional detector packaging capabilities.

Military Microelectronics and Electronics
    Manufacturing.

Through Teledyne Microelectronics
    Technologies, we develop and manufacture custom microelectronic
    modules that provide both high reliability and extremely dense
    packaging for military applications. We also develop custom
    tamper-resistant microcircuits designed to provide enhanced
    security in military communication. We also serve the market for
    high-mix, low-volume manufacturing of sophisticated military
    electronics equipment principally from our facility in Tennessee.

Sequencers.

Teledyne Electronic Safety
    Products continues to provide microprocessor-controlled aircraft
    ejection seat sequencers and related support elements to
    military aircraft programs, including the

F/A-18E/F

and

F/A-22

.

Since 2006, under a five-year contract, we have produced the
    Digital Recovery Sequencer to support the F-15, F-16, F-22,
    F-117,

A-10,

B-1 and B-2 aircrafts. We also have developed and produce a new
    sequencer in support of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program.

Relays and Switches.

Teledyne Relays supplies
    electromechanical relays, solid-state power relays and coaxial
    switching devices to military and aerospace markets.

Research and Development Services.

Through
    Teledyne Scientific Company, we provide research and engineering
    services primarily in the areas of electronics, optics,
    information sciences and materials technology. Our scientific
    team delivers research and development services and specialty
    products to military, aerospace and industrial customers. We
    strive to maintain close relationships and collaborations with
    researchers at universities and national laboratories to stay at
    the forefront of cutting-edge technologies. We also license
    various technologies to third parties.

Other
    Commercial Electronics

Aircraft Information Management.

Our aircraft
    information management solutions are designed to increase the
    reliability and efficiency of airline transportation.

•

Through Teledyne Controls, we are a leading supplier of digital
    flight data acquisition and flight safety systems to the civil
    aviation market. These systems acquire data for use by the
    aircraft’s flight data recorder as well as record
    additional data for the airline’s operation, such as
    aircraft and engine condition monitoring. We also provide the
    means to transfer this data, using Teledyne’s patented
    wireless technology, from the aircraft to the airline operation
    center.

•

Our Aviation Information Solutions business designs and
    manufactures aerospace Electronic Flight Bag equipment,
    networking products, and flight deck and cabin displays.

•

Teledyne Demo Systems designs and manufactures aircraft data
    loading equipment, flight line maintenance terminals and data
    distribution software used by commercial airlines, the
    U.S. military and aircraft manufacturers.



Microwave Components and Microelectronic
    Modules.

Through Teledyne MEC, we make traveling
    wave tubes for commercial applications such as electromagnetic
    compatibility test equipment and satellite communication
    terminals for mobile newsgathering. Our line of integrated
    transceiver modules provides high data rate point-to-point
    connectivity in cellular telephone infrastructure. We also
    supply microwave devices used in satellite uplink applications.

In addition to military microelectronic modules, Teledyne
    Microelectronic Technologies develops and manufactures custom
    microelectronic modules that provide both high reliability and
    extremely dense packaging for implantable medical devices, such
    as pacemakers and defibrillators, and commercial communication
    products.

Relays, Switches and Connectors.

In addition
    to military and aerospace markets, Teledyne Relays supplies
    electromechanical relays, solid-state power relays and coaxial
    switching devices to industrial and commercial markets.
    Applications include microwave and wireless communication
    infrastructure, RF and general broadband test equipment, test
    equipment used in semiconductor manufacturing, and industrial
    and commercial machinery and control equipment.

Engineered
    Systems

Our Engineered Systems segment, principally through Teledyne
    Brown Engineering, Inc., applies the skills of its extensive
    staff of engineers and scientists to provide innovative systems
    engineering and integration, advanced technology application,
    software development, and manufacturing solutions to space,
    military, environmental, energy and air and missile defense
    requirements.

Defense
    Systems

Teledyne Brown Engineering is a well-recognized full-service
    missile defense contractor with more than 50 years of
    experience in air and missile defense and related systems
    integration. Our diverse customer base in this field includes
    the U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command
    (“AMCOM”), the U.S. Army’s Space and Missile
    Defense Command (“SMDC”), the Missile Defense Agency
    (“MDA”) and Defense Department major prime contractors.

We play significant roles in diverse missile defense areas,
    which include analyses of alternatives, site operations and
    deployment, systems engineering, modeling and simulation, test
    and evaluation, and complex real time

hardware-in-the-loop

integration with an evolution to Service Oriented Architecture
    (“SOA”) solutions. Our engineering and technological
    capabilities include requirements definition, systems design,
    development, integration and testing, with specialization in SOA
    and real-time distributed systems.

During 2008, we continued our long-standing support of several
    air and missile defense programs, including the Ground-based
    Midcourse Defense (“GMD”), Missile Defense Systems
    Exerciser, the Extended Air Defense Simulation
    (“EADSIM”) and, as part of the MDA, the Targets and
    Countermeasures programs. The associated support tasks involve
    analyses and test and evaluation of ballistic missile defense
    system performance on a large number of major programs,
    including the Ground-based Midcourse Defense, Aegis Ballistic
    Missile Defense, the Patriot Advanced Capability 3, and the
    Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (“THAAD”) systems.
    In 2008, we initiated work on an enhanced development activity
    for a distributed test framework for the entire Ballistic
    Missile Defense System (“BMDS”).

In addition to our missile defense activities, we are supporting
    many other Defense Department programs. Supported programs
    include the Navy’s Tactical Medical Logistics
    (“TML”) program, the Joint Staff Force Structure
    Screening Tool (“FSST”) and Patriot Missile validation
    and verification for the Lower Tier Project Office. Tasking
    spans complex hardware integration and software development and
    testing, from design through systems fielding and operation.



Aerospace
    Systems

We are active in U.S. space programs and continue to be a
    significant contributor to NASA programs.

We have played a key role in the International Space Station
    (“ISS”), and have had various roles in the Space
    Shuttle program. We supply

24-hour-per-day

service for the payload operation cadre for the ISS Payload
    Operations and Integration Center, located at NASA’s
    Marshall Space Flight Center. As a subcontractor to Lockheed
    Martin, we also work on the ISS Cargo Mission Contract at the
    Johnson Space Center. This six-year contract, which began in
    January 2004, involves providing services related to planning,
    preparation and execution of cargo missions to the ISS.

We are the prime contractor on the Marshall Space Flight Center
    Systems Development and Operations Support Contract, which
    provides engineering services and hardware development support
    for a variety of space activities. We also have a prime Blanket
    Purchase Agreement with the Marshall Space Flight Center for
    specialized engineering and program support. We perform
    engineering and software services under this contract for
    NASA’s new Ares launch vehicles.

Chemical,
    Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) Systems

We support the U.S. Government’s efforts to clean up
    dangerous materials and waste. Since 1996, we have supported the
    U.S. Army’s Non-Stockpile Chemical Materiel Program.
    We also have begun to apply sophisticated computer aided
    engineering, design, modeling and manufacturing skills to
    support the U.S. Army’s Edgewood Chemical and
    Biological Center.

In November 2007, we were awarded a contract from the Department
    of Defense to develop and test the Joint Material
    Decontamination System (JMDS) for U.S. military forces. The
    JMDS will be designed to remove toxic contamination as a result
    of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons from sensitive
    electronic equipment, command posts, aircraft and avionics, and
    other applications where water and harsh decontamination
    materials could damage or destroy items being decontaminated.

We operate a Department of Energy-certified radiological
    analysis services laboratory in Knoxville, Tennessee. This
    laboratory has received certification from the National
    Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program in three states,
    including Utah where the largest commercial radiological waste
    disposal site resides. With its Nuclear Utilities Procurement
    Issues Committee certification, the laboratory also serves
    one-third of the nuclear power plants in United States.

Manufactured
    Products

In 2008, we split our manufactured products and related services
    business from our Aerospace Systems business unit, creating a
    new business unit known as “Manufactured Products” for
    external customers across the spectrum of our core business
    base, including NASA, all of the Departments of Defense
    Services, commercial customers and Nuclear Quality Hardware for
    Department of Energy related programs. The products we
    manufacture are primarily highly engineered and high quality
    machined and metal fabricated components and assemblies for
    these specialized markets with identified barriers to entry.
    Additionally, our Manufactured Products group provides
    manufacturing services for all products delivered by our Defense
    Systems, CBRN Systems and Aerospace Systems business units.

Expanding on our core nuclear quality-related manufacturing, in
    February 2008, Fluor Enterprises, Inc., acting as an agent for
    USEC, awarded us a contract to manufacture and deliver an
    initial complement of gas centrifuge service modules to support
    fuel production for commercial nuclear power plants. In May
    2008, we received a $92 million follow-on order from USEC
    to manufacture and deliver 540 gas centrifuge service modules
    through early 2011. USEC’s financing of such project is
    subject to receipt of certain loan guarantees from the
    U.S. Department of Energy.



Teledyne
    Solutions, Inc.

Through Teledyne Solutions, Inc., we are a primary Missile
    Defense systems engineering contractor. Teledyne Solutions is a
    principal prime contractor for the Systems Engineering and
    Technical Assistance Contract in support of the Missile Defense
    Agency. We also provide engineering and services support to
    other major Department of Defense customers including the
    U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command, the Program
    Executive Office for Missiles and Space, the Defense Threat
    Reduction Agency, and the U.S. Army Aviation and Missile
    Command.

Teledyne
    CollaborX, Inc.

Through Teledyne CollaborX, Inc., we provide full system
    acquisition lifecycle support from concept development to
    sustainment. Teledyne CollaborX provides engineering services to
    the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Army, Office of Secretary of
    Defense, Missile Defense Agency and select military combatant
    commands such as the U.S. Joint Forces Command,
    U.S. Strategic Command, and U.S. Northern Command.

Aerospace
    Engines and Components

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment focuses on the
    design, development and manufacture of piston engines,
    aftermarket support and electronic engine controls.

Piston
    Engines

Principally through Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc., we
    design, develop and manufacture piston engines, ignition
    systems, and aftermarket engines and spare parts for general
    aviation airframe manufacturers and the aftermarket. We are one
    of two primary worldwide original equipment producers of piston
    aircraft engines for the general aviation marketplace.

Our current certified OEM product lines include engines for the
    Cirrus SR-20 and SR-22, the Diamond DA20, Cessna 350 Corvalis
    and 400 Corvalis series (formerly built by Columbia Aircraft
    Company), the Liberty XL2, the Beechcraft Bonanza and Baron
    aircraft, Mooney Ovation and Acclaim lines, and the Piper Seneca
    V twin-engine aircraft. Our O-200 Light Weight air-cooled engine
    powers Cessna Aircraft Company’s Light Sport Aircraft known
    as the SkyCatcher.

Aftermarket
    Support

In addition to the sales of OEM engines, we actively support the
    replacement aircraft engine market. Piston aircraft engines have
    a FAA authorized time between overhauls. Our aftermarket support
    includes building and rebuilding of complete engines, as well as
    providing a full complement of spare parts such as cylinders,
    crankcases, fuel systems, crankshafts, camshafts and ignition
    products. Also, through our Factory Services division with
    locations in Mattituck, New York, Fairhope, Alabama and Mobile,
    Alabama, we provide repairs and overhauls of piston engines and
    engine installations to the general aviation marketplace for
    both Teledyne Continental Motors and Textron Lycoming aircraft
    engines.

Electronic
    Engine Controls

Through Aerosance, Inc., we developed the first production
    certified full authority digital electronic controls (FADEC) for
    piston aircraft engines. These controls, known as
    PowerLink

tm

FADEC, are designed to automate many functions that currently
    require manual control, such as fuel flow and power management.
    This system also saves fuel as a result of improved engine
    management and facilitates electronic-centered maintenance of
    our engines. We provided the 100th certified production
    engine to an OEM in 2008. We continue to believe that these
    control systems will become standard equipment on new aircraft
    and will be retrofitted on higher-end piston engine general
    aviation aircraft in the future.



Energy
    and Power Systems

Our Energy and Power Systems segment designs and manufactures
    hydrogen gas generators, thermoelectric, electrochemical and
    fuel cell-based power sources, batteries and small turbine
    engines.

Teledyne
    Energy Systems, Inc.

Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc., a majority owned subsidiary of
    Teledyne, was formed in 2001 by combining Teledyne Brown
    Engineering’s then existing Energy Systems business unit
    with assets and intellectual properties of then Florida-based
    Energy Partners, Inc.

Through Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc., we manufacture
    hydrogen/oxygen gas generators that utilize the principle of
    electrolysis to convert water into high purity hydrogen gas at
    useable pressures. Our Teledyne
    Titan

tm

gas generators are used worldwide in electrical power generation
    plants, semiconductor manufacturing, optical fiber production,
    chemical processing, specialty metals, float glass and other
    industrial processes. Our historic sales of hydrogen generators
    have been largely to developing countries.

For over 50 years, we have supplied high reliability energy
    conversion devices and gas generation products based on
    thermoelectric and electrochemical processes. We provided the
    thermoelectric power systems for the Pioneer 10 and 11
    deep-space missions to Jupiter and Saturn and for the Viking 1
    and Viking 2 Mars Landers. In 2006, in partnership with
    Boeing and under a ten-year $57 million contract signed in
    2003 with the U.S. Department of Energy, we completed all
    of the testing of the Multi-Mission Radioisotope Thermoelectric
    Generator capable of supporting planetary landing and deep space
    probe missions. We began production of this generator for
    potential use to power the Mars Science Laboratory currently
    scheduled to launch in the fall of 2011.

In conjunction with its thermoelectric power systems for space,
    we also have ongoing development and prototyping work with NASA
    on PEM fuel cell stacks and systems. These systems are being
    developed in support of potential manned and robotic missions to
    the moon and Mars.

We have a line of fuel cell test stations designed to provide a
    completely integrated system for fuel cell testing for the PEM
    fuel cell development market. Our Medusa line of fuel cell test
    systems provides high quality, simple to use automated test
    stations for fuel cell and fuel cell stack testing up to 12
    kilowatts.

Aviation
    Batteries

Our
    Gill

®

line of lead acid batteries is widely recognized as the premier
    power source for general aviation. We have developed premium
    Valve Regulated Lead Tin (LT 7000 Series) aviation batteries for
    business and light jet applications. Our LT7000 Series battery
    is now certified as Original Equipment on the Embraer Phenom 100
    Jet. Our LT7000 Series battery has also been selected for the
    Embraer Phenom 300 Jet and the Bell 429 Helicopter, which are
    scheduled for certification in 2009. Teledyne Battery Products
    is also exploring military battery opportunities.

Turbine
    Engines

Teledyne Turbine Engines designs, develops and manufactures
    small turbine engines primarily used in tactical missiles for
    military markets.

Our J402 engine powers the Harpoon missile system. Derivatives
    of this engine power the Standoff Land Attack Missile and the
    Standoff Land Attack Missile-Expanded Response. Lockheed Martin
    Corporation selected a derivative of the J402 engine to power
    the Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile (“JASSM”).
    We are the sole source provider of engines for the baseline
    JASSM system.

Our J700 engine provides the turbine power for the Improved
    Tactical Air Launched Decoy (“ITALD”) built for the
    U.S. Navy. The ITALD system enhances combat aircraft
    survivability by both serving as a decoy and identifying enemy
    radar sources.



In 2008, we continued to work under a contract related to the
    U.S. Army’s Future Combat System for the development
    of new and derivative turbine engines for unmanned air vehicles,
    commonly called UAVs, and other future aircraft. We continue to
    work advanced technology for small turbine engines and
    components under contract to the U.S. Air Force Research
    Laboratory sponsored Versatile Advanced Affordable Turbine
    Engine (VAATE) program. Advanced technology engine and component
    demonstrators continue to be developed for the next generation
    cruise missile and UAVs.

Customers

We have hundreds of customers in the electronics,
    communications, aerospace and defense industries. No commercial
    customer accounted for more than 10% of our total sales during
    2008, 2007 or 2006.

Approximately 40%, 41%, and 40% of our total sales for 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively, were derived from contracts with
    agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government.
    Our principal U.S. Government customer is the
    U.S. Department of Defense. These sales represented 29%,
    30% and 30% of our total sales for 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, our largest program with
    the U.S. Government was the Systems Engineering and
    Technical Assistance contract with the Space and Missile Defense
    Command, and it represented 3.5%, 4.3% and 4.9% of total sales,
    respectively. Set forth below are sales by our segments to
    agencies and prime contractors to the U.S. Government for
    the periods presented:

U.S.
    Government Sales

U.S. Government Sales




(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

386.0

$

334.4

$

249.1

Engineered Systems

322.4

298.0

278.9

Energy and Power Systems

46.1

32.1

41.4

Total U.S. Government sales

$

754.5

$

664.5

$

569.4

As described on pages 17 through 20, there are risks
    associated with doing business with the U.S. Government. In
    2008, approximately 48% of our U.S. Government prime
    contracts and subcontracts were fixed price type contracts,
    compared to 42% in 2007 and 47% in 2006. Under these types of
    contracts, we bear the inherent risk that actual performance
    cost may exceed the fixed contract price. Such contracts are
    typically not subject to renegotiation of profits if we fail to
    anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or
    control costs during performance. Additionally,
    U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the
    U.S. Government at its convenience, without identification
    of any default. When contracts are terminated for convenience,
    we typically recover costs incurred or committed, settlement
    expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination. We
    had five U.S. Government contracts terminated for
    convenience in 2008, compared to four in 2007 and two in 2006.

Our total backlog of confirmed orders was approximately
    $842.8 million at December 28, 2008,
    $707.2 million at December 30, 2007 and
    $582.4 million at December 31, 2006. We expect to
    fulfill 98% of such backlog of confirmed orders during 2009.

Sales to international customers accounted for approximately 24%
    of total sales in 2008, compared with 22% in 2007 and 21% in
    2006. In 2008, we sold products to customers in over 100 foreign
    countries. 90 percent of our sales to foreign customers
    were made to customers in 28 foreign countries.

Sales and
    Marketing

Our sales and marketing approach varies by segment and by
    products within our segments. A shared fundamental tenet is the
    commitment to work closely with our customers to understand
    their needs, with an aim to secure preferred supplier and
    longer-term relationships.

Our business segments use a combination of internal sales
    forces, distributors and commissioned sales representatives to
    market and sell our products and services. As part of on-going
    acquisition integration efforts,



some of our Teledyne Instruments companies and other business
    units have been working to consolidate or share internal sales
    and servicing efforts.

Products are also advertised in appropriate trade journals and
    by means of various websites. To promote our products and other
    capabilities, our personnel regularly participate in relevant
    trade shows and professional associations.

Many of our government contracts are awarded after a competitive
    bidding process in which we seek to emphasize our ability to
    provide superior products and technical solutions in addition to
    competitive pricing.

Through Teledyne Technologies International Corp. and other
    subsidiaries, the Company has established offices in foreign
    countries to facilitate international sales for various
    businesses.

Competition

We believe that technological capabilities and innovation and
    the ability to invest in the development of new and enhanced
    products are critical to obtaining and maintaining leadership in
    our markets and the industries in which we compete. Although we
    have certain advantages that we believe help us compete
    effectively in our markets, each of our markets is highly
    competitive. Our businesses vigorously compete on the basis of
    quality, product performance and reliability, technical
    expertise, price and service. Many of our competitors have, and
    potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a
    larger installed base of products, more extensive engineering,
    manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and
    greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we
    do.

Research
    and Development

Our research and development efforts primarily involve
    engineering and design related to improving product lines and
    developing new products and technologies in the same or similar
    fields. We spent a total of $395.8 million,
    $355.1 million, and $307.0 million on research and
    development and bid and proposal costs for 2008, 2007, and 2006,
    respectively. Customer-funded research and development, most of
    which was attributable to work under contracts with the
    U.S. Government, represented approximately 83% of total
    research and development costs for each of 2008, 2007, and 2006.

In 2008, approximately 80.7% of the $65.6 million in
    Company-funded research and development and bid and proposal
    costs were incurred in our Electronics and Communications
    businesses. We expect the level of Company-funded research and
    development and bid and proposal costs to be approximately
    $71.6 million in 2009.

Intellectual
    Property

While we own and control various intellectual property rights,
    including patents, trade secrets, confidential information,
    trademarks, trade names, and copyrights, which, in the
    aggregate, are of material importance to our business, our
    management believes that our business as a whole is not
    materially dependent upon any one intellectual property or
    related group of such properties. We own several hundred active
    patents and are licensed to use certain patents, technology and
    other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by
    others. Similarly, other companies are licensed to use certain
    patents, technology and other intellectual property rights owned
    and controlled by us.

Patents, patent applications and license agreements will expire
    or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with
    their terms or otherwise. We do not expect the expiration or
    termination of these patents, patent applications and license
    agreements to have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations or financial condition.

Employees

Our total current workforce consists of approximately
    8,800 employees. The International Union of United
    Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of
    America represents approximately



240 active employees in Mobile, Alabama under a collective
    bargaining agreement that expires by its terms on
    February 20, 2010. This union also represents approximately
    20 of our active employees in Toledo, Ohio under a collective
    bargaining agreement that expires by its terms on
    November 10, 2009. We consider our relations with our
    employees to be good.

Executive
    Management

Teledyne’s executive management includes:

Name and Title

Age

Principal Occupations Last 5 Years

Executive Officers:

Robert Mehrabian

*

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Director


Dr. Mehrabian has served as Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer of Teledyne for more than five years. He is a
    director of Teledyne, Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and
    PPG Industries, Inc.

John T. Kuelbs

*

Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary


Mr. Kuelbs has been Executive Vice President, General Counsel
    and Secretary of Teledyne since September 1, 2005. Prior to
    that, he was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
    Secretary of Teledyne.

Dale A. Schnittjer

*

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Mr. Schnittjer has been Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer of the Company since September 1, 2005. From
    January 27, 2004 to September 1, 2005, he was Vice President and
    Chief Financial Officer of Teledyne. He had served as interim
    Chief Financial Officer since July 7, 2003. Mr. Schnittjer first
    became a Vice President on December 19, 2001, and had been the
    Controller of Teledyne from November 29, 1999 to January 27,
    2004.

Susan L. Main

*

Vice President and Controller


Ms. Main has been Vice President and Controller of the Company
    since March 2004. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Main served
    as Vice President Controller of Water Pik Technologies, Inc.
    from November 29, 1999 to March 2004.

Segment Management:

Aldo Pichelli

*

President and Chief Operating Officer, Electronics and
    Communications Segment


Mr. Pichelli has been President and Chief Operating Officer of
    Teledyne’s Electronics and Communications segment since
    September 1, 2007. From July 22, 2003 to that date, he was
    Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of that
    segment. Prior to that, he served as Vice President and General
    Manager of Teledyne Instruments.

Rex D. Geveden

*

President, Engineered Systems and Energy and Power Systems
    Segments


Mr. Geveden has been the President of Teledyne Brown
    Engineering, Inc. and the Engineered Systems segment (formerly
    known as the Systems Engineering Solutions segment) since August
    1, 2007. Since January 1, 2008, he has also been the President
    of the Energy and Power Systems segment. Prior to that, Mr.
    Geveden served as the Associate Administrator of the National
    Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) where he functioned
    as the agency’s chief operating officer. Prior to that, he
    served as NASA’s Chief Engineer and Deputy Director of
    NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama.

Rhett C. Ross

President, Aerospace Engines and Components Segment


Mr. Ross has been the President of Teledyne Continental Motors,
    Inc. since November 5, 2007. Mr. Ross is also referred to as the
    President of the Aerospace Engines and Components segment. Prior
    to that he was the President of Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc.
    since its formation in June 2001 for the purposes of the
    transaction with Energy Partners, Inc.



Name and Title

Age

Principal Occupations Last 5 Years

Other Officers:

Stephen F. Blackwood

Vice President and Treasurer


Mr. Blackwood has been Vice President and Treasurer of Teledyne
    since April 23, 2008.  From March 2007 to April 2008, he
    was Treasurer and Senior Director of Investor Relations of
    MannKind Corporation, a biotechnology company. From September
    2005 until the sale of the company in December 2006, he was Vice
    President and Treasurer of Pacific Energy Partners, L.P., a MLP
    holding company. Prior to that, he was Director of Global
    Treasury at Amgen, Inc., a biotechnology company.

Ivars R. Blukis

Chief Business Risk Assurance Officer


Mr. Blukis has been the Chief Business Risk Assurance Officer
    since January 22, 2002 and is responsible for the internal audit
    function. Prior to that, Mr. Blukis was the Vice President,
    Finance and Administration, for Teledyne Electronic Technologies.

Melanie S. Cibik

Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary


Miss Cibik has been Vice President, Associate General Counsel
    and Assistant Secretary of the Company for more than five years.

Robyn E. McGowan

Vice President, Administration and Human Resources and Assistant
    Secretary


Ms. McGowan has been Vice President — Administration
    and Human Resources of the Company since April 2003 and Vice
    President — Administration since December 2000. Prior
    to becoming a Vice President, she served as Director of
    Administration. She has been an Assistant Secretary of Teledyne
    since November 29, 1999.

Robert L. Schaefer

Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary, General
    Counsel of the Electronics and Communications Segment


Mr. Schaefer has been an Associate General Counsel and an
    Assistant Secretary of Teledyne and the General Counsel of
    Teledyne’s Electronics and Communications segment for more
    than five years.

Robert W. Steenberge

Vice President and Chief Technology Officer


Mr. Steenberge became a Vice President of the Company on
    February 21, 2006, and has been Teledyne’s Chief Technology
    Officer for more than five years.

Jason VanWees

Vice President, Corporate Development and Investor Relations


Mr. VanWees has been Vice President, Corporate Development and
    Investor Relations since February 21, 2006. Prior to that, he
    was Director of Corporate Development and Investor Relations of
    Teledyne for more than five years.

*

Such officers are subject to the reporting and other
    requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act
    of 1934, as amended.

Dr. Mehrabian and Teledyne have entered into a Fourth
    Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of
    January 21, 2009. Under the agreement, we will employ
    Dr. Mehrabian as the Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer through at least December 31, 2010,
    because 12 months notice of nonrenewal has not been given
    prior to the expiration of the current term of December 31,
    2009. The agreement automatically renews for a successive one
    year unless either party gives the other written notice of its
    election not to renew at least 12 months before the
    expiration of the current term or any successive renewal terms.
    If notice is given, Dr. Mehrabian would then retire on
    December 31st of the year following the
    12th month after receipt of the notice. Under the
    agreement, Dr. Mehrabian’s annual base salary is
    $840,000. The agreement provides that Dr. Mehrabian is
    entitled to participate in Teledyne’s annual incentive
    bonus plan and other executive compensation and benefit
    programs. The agreement provides Dr. Mehrabian with a
    non-qualified pension arrangement, under which Teledyne will pay
    him annually starting six months following his retirement and
    for a period of 10 years, as payments supplemental to any
    accrued pension under our qualified pension plan, an amount
    equal to 50% of his base compensation as in effect at retirement.



Sixteen current members of management have entered into Change
    in Control Severance Agreements with Teledyne. The agreements
    have a three-year, automatically renewing term. Under the
    agreements, the executive is entitled to severance benefits if
    (1) there is a change in control of Teledyne and
    (2) within three months before or 24 months after the
    change in control, either we terminate the executive’s
    employment for reasons other than for cause or the executive
    terminates employment for good reason. “Severance
    benefits” consist of:

•

A cash payment equal to three times (in the case of
    Dr. Mehrabian, Messrs. Kuelbs and Schnittjer) or two
    times (in the case of Mr. Pichelli, Ms. Main and 11
    other executives) the sum of (i) the executive’s
    highest annual base salary within the year preceding the change
    in control and (ii) the AIP bonus target for the year in
    which the change in control occurs or the actual bonus payout
    for the year immediately preceding the change in control,
    whichever is higher.

•

A cash payment for the current AIP bonus cycle based on the
    fraction of the year worked times the AIP target objectives at
    120% (with payment of the prior year bonus if not yet paid).

•

Payment in cash for unpaid Performance Share Program awards,
    assuming applicable goals are met at 120% of performance.

•

Continued equivalent health and welfare (e.g., medical, dental,
    vision, life insurance and disability) benefits at
    Teledyne’s expense for a period of up to 36 months
    (24 months in some agreements) after termination (with the
    executive bearing any portion of the cost the executive bore
    prior to the change in control); provided, however, such
    benefits would be discontinued to the extent the executive
    receives similar benefits from a subsequent employer.

•

Immediate vesting of all stock options, with options being
    exercisable for the full remaining term.

•

Removal of restrictions on restricted stock issued by the
    Company under our Restricted Stock Award Programs.

•

Full vesting under the Company’s pension plans (within
    legal parameters) such that the executive shall be entitled to
    receive the full accrued benefit under all such plans in effect
    as of the date of the change in control, without any actuarial
    reduction for early payment.

•

Up to $25,000 ($15,000 in some agreements) reimbursement for
    actual professional outplacement services.

•

A

“gross-up-payment”

to hold the executive harmless against the impact, if any, of
    federal excise taxes imposed on the executive as a result of the
    payments constituting an “excess parachute” as defined
    in Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code.

The agreements were amended as of December 31, 2008 to
    defer certain payments for six months following a separation of
    service to assure compliance with Section 409A of the
    Internal Revenue Code.

Item 1A.

Risk
    Factors.

Risk
    Factors; Cautionary Statement as to Forward-Looking
    Statements

The following text highlights various risks and uncertainties
    associated with Teledyne. These factors could materially affect
    “forward-looking statements” (within the meaning of
    the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that
    we may from time to time make, including forward-looking
    statements contained in “Item 1. Business” and
    “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this

Form 10-K

and in Teledyne’s 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders. It is
    not possible for management to predict all of such factors, and
    new factors may emerge. Additionally, management cannot assess
    the impact of each such factor on Teledyne or the extent to
    which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual
    results to differ materially from those contained in any
    forward-looking statements.



Continuing
    disruptions in the global economy, the financial markets, the
    currency markets and the energy markets, as well as government
    responses to these disruptions, may adversely impact our
    business and results of operations.

Continuing distress in the financial markets has had an adverse
    impact on the availability of credit and liquidity resources,
    although we do not believe that any lender commitments under our
    current $590 million credit facility, which expires in July
    2011, have been adversely affected. Continued market
    deterioration, however, could jeopardize certain counterparty
    obligations, including those of the insurers and financial
    institutions with which we do business. Some of our customers
    may face issues gaining access to sufficient credit, which could
    result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments
    to us or a determination to cancel, delay or otherwise not
    purchase our products. Due to reduced credit availability, many
    of our marine survey customers have been delaying the building
    of new exploration vessels and also reducing maintenance
    expenditures on their existing fleet, which would adversely
    affect sales of our geophysical streamer cables and hydrophones.
    Lack of availability of consumer credit and the general economic
    downturn have adversely impacted the market for general aviation
    aircraft, which generally means lower sales of piston engines
    and related components by us. Some of our suppliers may also
    face issues gaining access to sufficient credit to maintain
    their businesses, which could reduce the availability of some
    components and, to the extent such suppliers are single source
    suppliers, could adversely affect our ability to continue to
    manufacture and sell our products. As a result of recent
    fluctuations in currency markets and the stronger
    U.S. Dollar relative to many other major currencies, our
    products priced in U.S. Dollars may be more expensive
    relative to products of our foreign competitors, which could
    result in lower sales. In addition, the non-dollar denominated
    earnings of our foreign operations may be lower when reported by
    us in U.S. Dollars. A slowdown in economic activity caused
    by a recession would likely reduce worldwide demand for energy
    and result in lower oil and natural gas prices, which could
    result in lower sales at our business units that supply the oil
    and gas industry. Government responses to these market
    disruptions, such as the approved emergency economic
    stabilization and stimulus legislation, could result in
    reductions in spending for defense programs and other government
    programs in which we participate.

Our
    pension expenses and the value of our pension assets are
    affected by factors outside of our control, including the
    performance of plan assets, the stock market, interest rates and
    actuarial data.

We have a defined benefit pension plan covering most of our
    employees hired prior to 2004. The value of the combined pension
    assets is currently less than our accumulated pension benefit
    obligation. Given our pension plan’s underfunded status, in
    2004 we began making required cash contributions to our pension
    plan. In 2008, given the market conditions and the reduction in
    pension asset values, we made additional contributions of
    $50.0 million beyond what was required under ERISA. In
    February 2009, we made voluntary cash contributions of
    $80.0 million and currently anticipate making additional
    contributions of about $37.1 million during the year. For
    2008, 2007 and 2006, cash contributions totaled
    $58.7 million, $7.5 million and $20.9 million,
    respectively. The lower contribution level in 2007 is due
    primarily to the merger into our pension plan of the overfunded
    Rockwell Scientific Company pension plan in September 2006,
    which was part of our September 2006 acquisition of Rockwell
    Scientific Company. The accounting rules applicable to our
    pension plan require that amounts recognized in the financial
    statements be determined on an actuarial basis, rather than as
    contributions are made to the plan. Two significant elements in
    determining our pension income or pension expense are the
    expected return on plan assets and the discount rate used in
    projecting pension benefit obligations. Declines in the stock
    market and lower rates of return could increase required
    contributions to our pension plan. Any decreases or increases in
    market interest rates will affect the discount rate assumption
    used in projecting pension benefit obligations. If and to the
    extent decreases are not offset by contributions and asset
    returns, our cash contributions and SFAS No. 87
    expense could increase under the plans. For additional
    discussion of pension matters, see the discussion under
    “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Results of Operations and Financial Condition” and
    Notes 2 and 12 to Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements. At the end of 2007, we changed some investment
    allocations to reduce exposure to deterioration in the subprime
    mortgage market. In 2008, given market disruptions and
    volatility, we maintained a greater amount in fixed income
    investments, including in U.S. Treasury notes, to achieve
    some stability in our pension assets. However, our investment
    strategy may not be successful if problems in the credit,
    financial



and stock markets persist. Due to timing of investment
    allocation changes, we also may not benefit from any upswings in
    certain investments.

We sell
    products and services to customers in industries that are
    cyclical and sensitive to changes in general economic
    activity.

We develop and manufacture products for customers in the energy
    exploration and production markets, each of which has been
    cyclical and suffered from fluctuating market demands. Strong
    demand and increased prices for oil and natural gas contributed
    to substantial revenue growth at Teledyne Geophysical
    Instruments, ODI and other members of our Marine Group. A
    cyclical downturn in these markets may materially affect future
    operating results, particularly given our broader range of
    marine instrumentation businesses acquired since 2003.

Domestic and international commercial aerospace markets are
    cyclical in nature. Historic demand for new commercial aircraft
    has been related to the stability and health of domestic and
    international economies. As a result of economic conditions and
    significant tightening of the credit markets, it may be
    difficult for the commercial airlines and aircraft leasing
    companies to obtain credit to buy new airplanes. Delays or
    changes in aircraft and component orders could impact the future
    demand for our Teledyne Controls and other products and have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
    and financial condition.

Many of the OEM customers of our Aerospace Engines and
    Components segment are privately-held and may not be
    well-capitalized. In 2007, one of the airplane manufacturer
    customers of Teledyne Continental Motors filed a petition for
    bankruptcy, resulting in a $1.7 million write down of our
    accounts receivable. In February 2008, Adam Aircraft filed for
    bankruptcy protection. While at the time of filing, we had no
    unpaid receivables from Adam Aircraft, we recently had to pay
    back a small amount to the bankruptcy administrator due to the
    purported preferential timing of payments from Adam Aircraft to
    us. Any future credit problems with our customers could result
    in similar or larger write downs or reimbursements, and have a
    material adverse effect on the business, results of operations
    and financial condition of our Aerospace Engines and Components
    segment.

Some of our businesses are also suppliers to the semiconductor
    industry, which is highly cyclical by nature. The semiconductor
    industry has experienced significant, and sometimes prolonged,
    downturns. Any downturn in the semiconductor industry or any
    other industry that uses a significant number of semiconductor
    devices, such as consumer electronic products, telecommunication
    devices, or computing devices could have a material adverse
    effect on our business and operating results.

In addition, we sell products and services to customers in
    industries that are sensitive to the level of general economic
    activity and consumer spending habits and in mature industries
    that are sensitive to capacity. Adverse economic conditions
    affecting these industries may reduce demand for our products
    and services, which may reduce our profits, or our production
    levels, or both. Some of our businesses serve industries such as
    power generation and petrochemical refining, which may be
    negatively impacted by reductions in global capital expenditures
    and manufacturing capacity.

Our
    dependence on revenue from government contracts subjects us to
    many risks:

Our
    revenue from government contracts depends on the continued
    availability of funding from the U.S. Government, and,
    accordingly, we have the risk that funding for our existing
    contracts may be diverted to other uses or delayed.

We perform work on a number of contracts with the Department of
    Defense and other agencies and departments of the
    U.S. Government including sub-contracts with government
    prime contractors. Sales under contracts with the
    U.S. Government as a whole, including sales under contracts
    with the Department of Defense, as prime contractor or
    subcontractor, represented approximately 40% of our total
    revenue for 2008, as compared to 41% and 40% of our total
    revenue for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Performance under
    government contracts has certain inherent risks that could have
    a material effect on our business, results of operations, and
    financial condition.



Government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing
    availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress typically
    appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis
    even though contract performance may take more than one year. As
    a result, at the beginning of a major program, a contract is
    typically only partially funded, and additional monies are
    normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only
    as Congress makes appropriations available for future fiscal
    years. The timing of program cycles can also affect our results
    of operations for a particular quarter or year. It is not
    uncommon for the Department of Defense to delay the timing of
    awards for major programs for six to twelve months, or more,
    beyond the original anticipated timeframe.

While U.S. defense spending increased as a result of the
    September 11th terrorist attacks and the war in Iraq,
    it is currently expected to moderate and then decline over the
    next few years. The continued war on terrorism and the Iraqi and
    Afghanistan situations could result in a diversion of funds from
    programs in which Teledyne participates. In addition, continued
    defense spending does not necessarily correlate to continued
    business for us, because not all of the programs in which we
    participate or have current capabilities may be provided with
    continued funding. Further, our new President and leadership of
    the U.S. Government could implement, over time, reductions
    in defense spending and further changes in programs in which we
    participate.

Changes in policy and budget priorities by our new President,
    Administration and Congress for various Defense and NASA
    programs could impact our Engineered Systems segment. For
    example, changes in national space policy that affect
    NASA’s budget are likely and we anticipate significant
    scrutiny of missile defense budgets.

Our Electronics and Communications segment provides a variety of
    products for newer military platforms such as the

F/A-22

and
    F-35 aircraft. Development and production of these aircraft are
    very expensive and there is no guarantee that the Department of
    Defense, as it balances budget priorities, will continue to
    provide funding to manufacture and support these platforms.
    Reallocation of funding priorities within the Department of
    Defense could also affect repair and spares sales for older
    military platforms, including, by way of example, sales of our
    traveling wave tubes for F-15, F-16, F-18, EA-6B, B-52, B-1,
    C-130 and U-2 aircraft. The late 2007 grounding of the Air
    Force’s F-15 fleet as a result of apparent structural
    failures resulted in decreased 2008 sales for products we supply
    to the F-15 program.

Our
    participation in government programs may decrease or be subject
    to renegotiation as those programs evolve over time.

The relocation to Huntsville, Alabama of the Missile Defense
    Agency or MDA has resulted in the transfer to the MDA of certain
    missions and functions from the U.S. Army Space and Missile
    Defense Command or SMDC. New leadership at the MDA is conducting
    solicitations that could impact support by our Engineered
    Systems segment to the Agency. For example, all MDA government
    engineering support services work is now to be recompeted at the
    conclusion of each existing contract, and several major prime
    contracts under which we perform such services are nearing the
    end of their respective periods of performance. MDA is also
    reconsidering its policy on Organizational Conflict of Interest
    or OCI. It is reviewing all OCI mitigation plans and may be more
    restrictive of the risk of successful mitigation which the
    Agency accepts going forward, potentially limiting our
    participation in certain major MDA programs, such as Ground
    Based Midcourse Defense. Additionally, the General Accounting
    Office or GAO has issued rulings which favor small businesses
    interests under multiple award IDIQ or Indefinite
    Delivery/Indefinite Quantity contracts. Several of the contracts
    under which we perform engineering support services for MDA are
    this type and, as a result, our engineering services business
    could be significantly impacted.

Over time, and for a variety of reasons, programs can evolve and
    affect the extent of our participation. For example, Teledyne
    Brown Engineering’s Ground-based Midcourse Defense
    (“GMD”) program has been moving toward the end of the
    program cycle resulting in declining revenues. Revenues from
    this contract in 2006 and 2007 totaled approximately
    $48 million and $45 million, respectively. In 2008,
    revenues related to this program declined to $43 million,
    and are expected to continue to decline in 2009 and 2010, even
    though Teledyne Brown Engineering remains a major subcontractor.
    This anticipated decline is due to a number of factors including
    the completion of the current GMD deployment cycle, the change
    in political environment



which might impact the proposed European GMD defense sites and a
    possible refocus of MDA resources towards Ballistic Missile
    Defense Systems research and development applications.

We have been a significant participant in NASA programs,
    traditionally through our Engineered Systems segment and through
    Teledyne Scientific Company. Our current NASA activities focus
    on the International Space Station and the James Webb Space
    Telescope. As NASA approaches completion of the International
    Space Station and retirement of the Space Shuttle, our
    Engineered Systems segment has moved away from its historical
    role in scientific payload development and integration and
    toward supporting NASA with concept development, engineering
    services, and prototype development for the new Ares vehicles
    for space exploration. It is possible that the new President,
    Administration and Congress will shift funding away from
    exploration toward other priorities such as Earth Science and
    aeronautics. Such policy and priority changes would likely
    negatively impact our business.

We may
    not be successful in bidding for future contracts, which would
    reduce our revenues or slow our growth.

We obtain many U.S. Government prime contracts and
    subcontracts through the process of competitive bidding. We may
    not be successful in having our bids accepted. In addition, we
    may spend substantial amounts of time, money and effort,
    including design, development and marketing activities, required
    to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be
    awarded to us.

Our
    contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to termination
    rights that could adversely affect us.

Most of our U.S. Government contracts are subject to
    termination by the U.S. Government either at its
    convenience or upon the default of the contractor. Even when not
    expressly included in a U.S. Government contract, courts
    have found termination for convenience to be present as a matter
    of public procurement policy. Termination-for-convenience
    provisions provide only for the recovery of costs incurred or
    committed, settlement expenses, and profit on work completed
    prior to termination. Termination-for-default clauses impose
    liability on the contractor for excess costs incurred by the
    U.S. Government in reprocuring undelivered items from
    another source. During 2008, Teledyne had five U.S. Government
    contracts terminated for convenience. We did not have any of our
    U.S. Government contracts terminated for default during
    2008.

We may
    lose money or generate less than expected profits on our
    fixed-price government contracts and we may lose money if we
    fail to meet certain pre-specified targets in government
    contracts.

There is no guarantee that U.S. Government contracts will
    be profitable. A number of our U.S. Government prime
    contracts and subcontracts are fixed-price type contracts (48%
    in 2008, 42% in 2007 and 47% in 2006). Under these types of
    contracts, we bear the inherent risk that actual performance
    cost may exceed the fixed contract price. This is particularly
    true where the contract was awarded and the price finalized in
    advance of final completion of design. Under such contracts, we
    must absorb cost overruns, notwithstanding the difficulty of
    estimating all of the costs we will incur in performing these
    contracts. Our failure to anticipate technical problems,
    estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance of
    a fixed-price contract may reduce the profitability of a
    fixed-price contract or cause a loss. We have also experienced
    some volatility in the pricing of certain raw materials and
    components underlying our fixed price contracts. Such contracts
    are typically not subject to renegotiation of profits if we fail
    to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or
    control costs during performance. We cannot assure that our
    contract loss provisions in our financial statements will be
    adequate to cover all actual future losses. We may lose money on
    some contracts if we fail to meet these estimates.

Certain fees under some of our U.S. Government contracts
    are linked to meeting specified technical, cost

and/or

schedule targets, including development or testing deadlines.
    Fees may also be influenced or be dependent on the collective
    efforts and success of other defense contractors over which we
    had no or limited control.



Our
    business is subject to government contracting regulations and
    our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm
    our operating results and prospects.

We, like other government contractors, are subject to various
    audits, reviews and investigations (including private party
    “whistleblower” lawsuits) relating to our compliance
    with federal and state laws. Generally, claims arising out of
    these U.S. Government inquiries and voluntary disclosures
    can be resolved without resorting to litigation. However, should
    the business unit or division involved be charged with
    wrongdoing, or should the U.S. Government determine that
    the business unit or division is not a “presently
    responsible contractor,” that business unit or division,
    and conceivably our Company as a whole, could be temporarily
    suspended or, in the event of a conviction, could be debarred
    for up to three years from receiving new government contracts or
    government-approved subcontracts. In addition, we could expend
    substantial amounts in defending against such charges and in
    damages, fines and penalties if such charges are proven or
    result in negotiated settlements.

United
    States and global responses to terrorism, the Iraq situation,
    Mexican border town violence and nuclear proliferation concerns
    increase uncertainties with respect to many of our businesses
    and may adversely affect our business and results of
    operations.

United States’ and global responses to terrorism, the Iraq
    situation, Mexican border town violence and nuclear
    proliferation concerns increase uncertainties with respect to
    U.S. and other business and financial markets. Several
    factors associated, directly or indirectly, with terrorism, the
    Iraq situation and perceived nuclear threats and responses may
    adversely affect us. The reaction to Iran’s continuing
    desire to explore nuclear capabilities could affect adversely
    oil prices and some of our businesses.

While some of our businesses that provide products or services
    to the U.S. Government experienced greater demand for their
    products and services as a result of increased
    U.S. Government defense spending, various responses could
    realign government programs and affect the composition, funding
    or timing of our government programs. Our new President,
    Administration and Congress could also further affect responses
    and government programs. Government spending could shift to the
    Department of Defense or Homeland Security programs in which we
    may not participate or may not have current capabilities and
    curtail less pressing non-defense programs in which we do
    participate, including Department of Energy or NASA programs.
    Government spending could also shift towards non-defense
    programs in which we do not currently participate, such as
    medical research programs of the National Institutes of Health.

Air travel declines have occurred after terrorist attacks and
    heightened security alerts, as well as after the SARS and bird
    flu scares. Additional declines in air travel resulting from
    such factors and other factors could adversely affect the
    financial condition of many of our commercial airline and
    aircraft manufacturer customers and in turn could adversely
    affect our Electronics and Communications segment.

Deterioration of financial performance of airlines could result
    in a reduction of discretionary spending for upgrades of
    avionics and in-flight communications equipment, which would
    adversely affect our Electronics and Communications segment.

The government continues to evaluate potential security issues
    associated with general aviation. Increased government
    regulations, including but not limited to increased airspace
    regulations (including user fees), could lead to an overall
    decline in air travel and have an adverse affect on our
    Aerospace Engines and Components and Energy & Power
    Systems segments. As happened after the
    September 11th terrorist attacks, reinstatement of
    flight restrictions would negatively impact the market for
    general aviation aircraft piston engines and components of our
    Aerospace Engines and Components segment and associated products
    of Teledyne Battery Products. Potential reductions in the need
    for general aviation aircraft maintenance as a result of
    declines in air travel could also adversely affect our Aerospace
    Engines and Components segment.

Higher oil prices could reduce general aviation air travel,
    negatively affecting our Aerospace Engines and Components
    segment. Higher oil prices could also adversely affect
    commercial airline-related customers of our Electronics and
    Communications segment. Conversely, lower oil prices could
    decrease oil exploration and petrochemical refining activities
    and hinder our marine and other instrumentation businesses,
    including Teledyne Geophysical Instruments, Teledyne TSS
    Limited, Teledyne Benthos, Teledyne D.G. O’Brien and



majority-owned ODI, as well as some of our other businesses such
    as Teledyne Storm Products. In addition, instability in the
    Middle East or other oil-producing regions could adversely
    affect expansion plans of the oil and gas industry customers of
    our instrumentation and cable solutions businesses.

Violence and crime in Mexico, particularly in border towns where
    we conduct some manufacturing activities, could adversely affect
    our relays and cable solutions businesses.

Acquisitions
    involve inherent risks that may adversely affect our operating
    results and financial condition.

Our growth strategy includes acquisitions. Acquisitions involve
    various inherent risks, such as:

•

our ability to assess accurately the value, strengths,
    weaknesses, internal controls, contingent and other liabilities
    and potential profitability of acquisition candidates;

•

the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business;

•

our ability to integrate acquired businesses and to achieve
    identified financial, operating and other synergies anticipated
    to result from an acquisition;

•

our ability to assess, integrate and implement internal controls
    of acquired businesses in accordance with Section 404 of
    the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002;

•

the distraction of management resulting from the need to
    integrate acquired businesses;

•

increased competition for acquisition targets, which may
    increase acquisition costs; and

•

unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions
    affecting an acquired business.

While we conduct financial and other due diligence in connection
    with our acquisitions and generally seek some form of
    protection, including indemnification from a seller and
    sometimes an escrow of a portion of the purchase price to cover
    potential issues, such acquired companies may have weaknesses or
    liabilities that are not accurately assessed or brought to our
    attention at the time of the acquisition. Further, indemnities
    or escrows may not fully cover such matters, particularly
    matters identified after a closing.

We also have acquired several private companies, including the
    recent acquisitions of Cormon Limited and Odom Hydrographic
    Systems, Inc. and the assets of Webb Research Corp. and Demo
    Systems LLC. Private companies generally may not have as formal
    or comprehensive internal controls and compliance systems in
    place as public companies. While we have required various
    sellers to take certain compliance actions prior to the closing
    of an acquisition, including making voluntary disclosures under
    various export control laws and regulations, and have sought
    protections in the purchase agreement for such matters, there is
    no assurance that we have identified all issues or will be fully
    protected from historic liabilities. After acquiring a company,
    notwithstanding pre-closing due diligence, we have discovered
    issues that required further action, including making voluntary
    disclosures under various defense and export control laws and
    regulations.

While the products and customer base of the companies we
    acquired in 2008 are complementary to some of Teledyne’s
    existing businesses, there is no assurance that we will achieve
    all identified financial, operating and marketing synergies. We
    may also experience problems that arise in entering new markets
    through acquisitions in which we may have little or no
    experience.

Additionally, in 2008, we expanded our United Kingdom presence
    with the acquisitions of TSS (International) Limited, Filtronic
    Defence Limited and Cormon Limited. There are additional risks
    associated with owning and operating businesses internationally,
    including those arising from U.S. and foreign government
    policy changes or actions and exchange rate fluctuations.

In connection with acquisitions, we may consolidate one or more
    acquired facilities with other Teledyne facilities to obtain
    synergies and cost-savings. For example, we have recently
    combined and relocated, with minimal disruption, the operations
    of the

2008-acquired

Teledyne Impulse and long-time owned Teledyne Interconnect
    Devices to a new leased facility in San Diego, CA. In 2009,
    we plan to consolidate the



2008-acquired

Moorpark, CA-based operations and assets of Demo Systems LLC,
    principally with Teledyne Controls, El Segundo, CA. We also plan
    to relocate the principal operations of both

2008-acquired

Teledyne TSS Limited and Teledyne Cormon Limited to more modern
    and larger facilities close to their current locations.
    Nonetheless, despite planning, relocation and consolidation of
    manufacturing operations has inherent risks, as it tends to
    involve, among other things, change of personnel, application of
    a new business system software and learning or adaptation of
    manufacturing processes and techniques. As a result, production
    delays at a new operating location may occur.

As permitted by SEC rules, our current management’s report
    as to our assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls
    over financial reporting excludes in its scope and coverage our
    2008 acquisitions of Filtronic Defence Limited, Cormon Limited
    and Odom Hydrographic Systems, Inc. and the assets of Webb
    Research Corp. and Demo Systems LLC. We plan to evaluate more
    fully the internal controls of such companies and subsequently
    acquired companies and implement a formal and rigorous system of
    internal controls at those acquired companies. We can provide no
    assurance that we will be able to provide a report that contains
    no significant deficiencies or material weaknesses with respect
    to these acquired companies or other acquisitions.

Our
    future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset
    impairment charges.

Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
    Intangible Assets”, we are required to test both acquired
    goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for
    impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach,
    rather than amortizing them over time. We have chosen to perform
    our annual impairment reviews of goodwill and other indefinite-
    lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of each fiscal
    year. We also are required to test goodwill for impairment
    between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change
    that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise fair value
    below its book value. These events or circumstances could
    include a significant change in the business climate, including
    a significant sustained decline in an entity’s market
    value, legal factors, operating performance indicators,
    competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of the
    business, or other factors. If the fair market value is less
    than the book value of goodwill, we could be required to record
    an impairment charge. The valuation of reporting units requires
    judgment in estimating future cash flows, discount rates and
    estimated product life cycles. In making these judgments, we
    evaluate the financial health of the business, including such
    factors as industry performance, changes in technology and
    operating cash flows. As we have grown through acquisitions, we
    have accumulated $502.5 million of goodwill, and have
    $117.0 million of acquired intangible assets, which
    includes $30.1 million of indefinite-lived intangible
    assets, out of total assets of $1,534.5 million at
    December 28, 2008. As a result, the amount of any annual or
    interim impairment could be significant and could have a
    material adverse effect on our reported financial results for
    the period in which the charge is taken. We also may be required
    to record an earnings charge or incur unanticipated expenses if,
    as a result of a change in strategy or other reason, we
    determined the value of other assets has been impaired.

We account for the impairment of long-lived assets to be held
    and used in accordance with SFAS No. 144,
    “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived
    Assets” (“SFAS No. 144”).
    SFAS No. 144 requires that a long-lived asset to be
    disposed of be reported at the lower of its carrying amount or
    fair value less cost to sell. An asset (other than goodwill and
    indefinite-lived intangible assets) is considered impaired when
    estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying amount of
    the asset. In the event the carrying amount of such asset is not
    deemed recoverable, the asset is adjusted to its estimated fair
    value. Fair value is generally determined based upon estimated
    discounted future cash flows.

We may
    not have sufficient resources to fund all future research and
    development and capital expenditures or possible
    acquisitions.

In order to remain competitive, we must make substantial
    investments in research and development of new or enhanced
    products and continuously upgrade our process technology and
    manufacturing capabilities. Although we believe that anticipated
    cash flows from operations and available borrowings under our
    $590.0 million credit facility will be sufficient to
    satisfy our anticipated working capital, research and
    development and capital investment needs, we may be unable to
    fund all of these needs or possible



acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional capital will
    depend on a variety of factors, some of which will not be within
    our control, including the existence of a public offering
    market, investor perceptions of us, our businesses and the
    industries in which we operate, and general economic conditions.
    We may be unable to successfully raise additional capital, if
    needed. Failure to successfully raise needed capital on a timely
    or cost-effective basis could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our
    indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our
    business.

As of December 28, 2008, we had $333.2 million in total
    outstanding indebtedness, including $326.0 million under
    our $590.0 million credit facility. On February 24,
    2009, we had $403.6 million outstanding under our
    $590.0 million credit facility. Our indebtedness could harm
    our business by, among other things, reducing the funds
    available to make new strategic acquisitions. Our indebtedness
    could also have a material adverse effect on our business by
    increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions or a downturn in our business. General
    adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our
    business could result in our inability to repay this
    indebtedness in a timely manner.

We may be
    unsuccessful in our efforts to increase our participation in
    certain new markets.

We intend to both adapt our existing technologies and develop
    new products to expand into new market segments. For example, we
    continue to work towards developing new fuel cell related
    technologies. The market for fuel cell technologies is not well
    established and there are a number of companies that have
    announced intentions to develop and market fuel cell products.
    Some of these companies have greater financial

and/or

technological resources than we do.

We have also been developing new electronic products, including
    high-power millimeter traveling wave tubes and imaging sonar
    systems, which are intended to access markets in which Teledyne
    does not currently participate or has limited participation. We
    may be unsuccessful in accessing these and other new markets if
    our products do not meet our customers’ requirements, as a
    result of changes in either technology and industry standards or
    because of actions taken by our competitors.

Limitations in funding for applied research and development and
    technology insertion projects due to the present economic
    downturn and the significant expenditures in Iraq and
    Afghanistan may reduce our ability to apply our ongoing
    investments in nascent market areas. For example, our Engineered
    Systems segment’s development of Service Oriented
    Architectures for Department of Defense applications relies
    heavily on funding from customers who are actively competing for
    resources with war driven recapitalization, resupply and
    modernization requirements.

Our Engineered Systems segment is also actively pursuing
    engineered systems work and associated manufacturing
    opportunities in support of the aviation refurbishment market
    that is driven by ongoing global conflict. Limitations on
    capital investment for facilities

and/or

equipment would reduce the likelihood of significant penetration
    into this market area.

As discussed elsewhere herein, there has been a deterioration in
    the general aviation market as a direct result of the current
    economic and credit conditions plaguing the United States and
    the world generally. In addition to our Aerospace Engines and
    Components segment, as previously stated, this deterioration
    could impact battery sales of our Energy and Power Systems
    segment. While we will try to offset such impact with potential
    battery sales to the military and in other ways, we may not be
    able to offset any such impact.

We may be
    unable to successfully introduce new and enhanced products in a
    timely and cost-effective manner, which could harm our growth
    and prospects.

Our operating results depend in part on our ability to introduce
    new and enhanced products on a timely basis. Successful product
    development and introduction depend on numerous factors,
    including our ability to anticipate customer and market
    requirements, changes in technology and industry standards, our
    ability to differentiate our offerings from offerings of our
    competitors, and market acceptance. We may not be able to



develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely and
    cost-effective manner or to develop and introduce products that
    satisfy customer requirements. For example, sales of our Total
    Organic Carbon or TOC laboratory instruments have been adversely
    affected by enhanced products of several competitors.

Our new products also may not achieve market acceptance or
    correctly anticipate new industry standards and technological
    changes. As an example, we have been working to develop high
    power solid state power amplifiers, which could replace our
    traveling wave tubes in some applications, and, in this area,
    there is a larger base of potential competitors than for tube
    amplifiers. As a result, it may be more difficult for our solid
    state power amplifier products to gain market acceptance. We may
    also lose any technological advantage to competitors if we fail
    to develop new products in a timely manner. For example, if
    Teledyne Continental Motors fails to fully launch
    Aerosance’s PowerLink FADEC, its electronic engine control
    product, competitors may be able to introduce similar products
    that are able to gain market acceptance to the disadvantage of
    Teledyne’s product. However, in today’s economy,
    general aviation aircraft owners may disregard technological
    advancements for upfront costs-savings and determine that they
    do yet need such electronic engine controls.

Additionally, new products may trigger increased warranty costs
    as such products are tested further by actual usage. Accelerated
    entry of new products to meet heightened market demand and
    competitive pressures may cause additional warranty costs as
    development and testing time periods might be condensed. In
    2009, for example, Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc. currently
    believes it will continue to incur additional warranty costs as
    it continues to roll out two new hydrogen generation product
    lines.

Technological
    change and evolving industry and regulatory standards could
    cause certain of our products or services to become obsolete or
    non-competitive.

The markets for a number of our products and services are
    generally characterized by rapid technological development,
    evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements
    and new product introductions and enhancements. A faster than
    anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to
    our products or services, or in market demand for products or
    services based on a particular technology, could result in
    faster than anticipated obsolescence of certain of our products
    or services and could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition. For
    example, Teledyne Reynolds’ high voltage connector business
    could be negatively impacted by marketplace shifts to lower
    voltage requirements where the number of competitors is larger.
    Most lighting displays in legacy aircraft use tubes that require
    high voltage connectors. LED backlights, which are increasingly
    being used for aircraft lighting displays, have substantially
    lower voltage requirements.

Currently accepted industry and regulatory standards are also
    subject to change, which may contribute to the obsolescence of
    our products or services. For example, a European directive that
    certain electronic products must not contain impermissible
    levels of lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium,
    polybrominated biphenyls or polybrominated diphenyl ethers, took
    effect on July 1, 2006. As a result, we must make sure that
    certain of our electronic products sold into European member
    states comply with this new directive. Although many of our
    products are exempt from the European directive, we expect that,
    over time, component manufacturers may discontinue selling
    components that have the restricted substances. This will, in
    turn, require us to accommodate changes in parameters, such as
    the way parts are soldered, and may, in some cases, require
    redesign of certain products. This could lead to increased
    costs, which we may not be able to recover from our customers,
    delays in product shipments and loss of market share to
    competitors. Our sales of environmental monitoring equipment
    could be negatively impacted if regulatory requirements change
    to deemphasize environmental monitoring. Similarly, revenues of
    our Teledyne Test Services business, which provides testing and
    certification for products used in nuclear power plants, could
    be negatively impacted in the event of any changes in
    certification standards by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
    Additionally, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has
    targeted general aviation fuel as a key contributor to lead in
    the atmosphere and could try to impose lead-free fuel
    regulations on general aviation. Such a change in the fuel
    standard could have an adverse impact on sales of our Aerospace
    Engines and Components segment and also require a significant
    investment in engine research and development.



We may
    not be able to reduce the costs of our products to satisfy
    customers’ cost reduction mandates, which could harm our
    sales or margins.

Given the current economic situation, more and more customers
    are seeking price reductions of our products. While we
    continually try to reduce our manufacturing and other costs of
    our products, without affecting product quality and reliability,
    there is no assurance that we will be able to do so and do so in
    a timely manner to satisfy the pricing pressures of our
    customers. Cost reductions of raw materials and other components
    used in our products may be beyond our control depending on
    market, credit and economic conditions. Customers may seek lower
    cost products from China and other developing countries where
    manufacturing costs are already lower.

The
    airline industry is heavily regulated, and if we fail to comply
    with applicable requirements, our results of operations could
    suffer.

Governmental agencies throughout the world, including the
    U.S. Federal Aviation Administration, or the FAA, prescribe
    standards and qualification requirements for aircraft
    components, including virtually all commercial airline and
    general aviation products, as well as regulations regarding the
    repair and overhaul of aircraft engines. Specific regulations
    vary from country to country, although compliance with FAA
    requirements generally satisfies regulatory requirements in
    other countries. We include, with the products and replacement
    parts that we sell to our aircraft manufacturing industry
    customers, documentation certifying that each part complies with
    applicable regulatory requirements and meets applicable
    standards of airworthiness established by the FAA or the
    equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. In order to
    sell our products, we and the products we manufacture must also
    be certified by our individual original equipment manufacturer,
    or OEM, customers. If any material authorization or approval
    qualifying us to supply our products is revoked or suspended,
    then the sale of the subject product would be prohibited by law,
    which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.

From time to time, the FAA or equivalent regulatory agencies in
    other countries propose new regulations or changes to existing
    regulations, which are usually more stringent than existing
    regulations. If these proposed regulations are adopted and
    enacted, we may incur significant additional costs to achieve
    compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.

Product
    liability claims, product recalls and field service actions
    could have a material adverse effect on our reputation,
    business, results of operations and financial
    condition.

As a manufacturer and distributor of a wide variety of products,
    including aircraft engines and medical devices, our results of
    operations are susceptible to adverse publicity regarding the
    quality or safety of our products. In part, product liability
    claims challenging the safety of our products may result in a
    decline in sales for a particular product, which could adversely
    affect our results of operations. This could be the case even if
    the claims themselves are proven untrue or settled for
    immaterial amounts.

While we have general liability and other insurance policies
    concerning product liabilities, we have self-insured retentions
    or deductibles under such policies with respect to a portion of
    these liabilities. For example, our current annual self-insured
    retention for general aviation aircraft liabilities incurred in
    connection with products manufactured by Teledyne Continental
    Motors, Inc., is approximately $20.1 million, a decrease
    from $21.0 million for the prior annual period. Our
    existing aircraft product liability insurance policy expires on
    May 31, 2009. Additionally, based on facts and
    circumstances of claims, we have not always accrued amounts up
    to the applicable annual self-insured retentions. Awarded
    damages could be more than our accruals.

Product recalls can be expensive and tarnish our reputation and
    have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products. In
    February 2009, Teledyne Continental Motors commenced a voluntary
    recall of certain aircraft piston engine cylinders produced
    since November 2007. We recorded a pretax charge of
    $18.0 million during the fourth quarter of 2008 to cover
    estimated costs related to the recall and replacement of
    affected cylinders. In 2000, Teledyne Continental Motors engaged
    in a product recall of piston engine crankshafts as a result of
    which we recorded a $12.0 million pretax charge in the
    second quarter of 2000.



Through Aerosance, Inc., we have developed electronic controls,
    known as PowerLink FADEC, for piston aircraft engines that
    automate many functions requiring manual control, such as fuel
    flow and power management. While such control systems should
    improve engine management and facilitate maintenance of engines,
    we could face additional claims as they become standard
    equipment on selected new piston engine aircraft or are
    retrofitted on some piston engine aircraft. New products can
    trigger additional product liability claims as such products are
    further tested by actual usage. Additionally, general aviation
    aircraft crash lawsuits tend to name as defendants manufacturers
    of a multitude of aircraft-related products as discovery and
    recoveries are pursued.

We have been joined, among a number of defendants (often over
    100), in lawsuits alleging injury or death as a result of
    exposure to asbestos. We have not incurred material liabilities
    in connection with these lawsuits. The filings typically do not
    identify any of our products as a source of asbestos exposure,
    and we have been dismissed from cases for lack of product
    identification, but only after some defense costs have been
    incurred. Also, because of the prominent “Teledyne”
    name, we may be mistakenly joined in lawsuits involving a
    company or business that was not assumed by us as part of our
    1999 spin-off. Our historic insurance coverage, including that
    of its predecessors, may not fully cover such claims and defense
    of such matters, as coverage depends on the year of purported
    exposure and other factors. Nonetheless, we intend to defend
    these claims vigorously. Congress from time to time has
    considered tort reform to deal with asbestos-related claims, but
    to date nothing has materialized.

Certain gas generators manufactured by Teledyne Energy Systems,
    Inc. contain a sealed, wetted asbestos component. While the
    company has been transitioning to a replacement material, has
    placed warning labels on its products and takes care in handling
    of this material by employees, there is no assurance that the
    Company will not face product liability claims involving this
    component.

Our Teledyne Brown Engineering’s laboratory in Knoxville,
    Tennessee performs radiological analyses. While the laboratory
    is certified by the Department of Energy and the Nuclear
    Procurement Issues Committee, also known as NUPIC, and has other
    nuclear-related certifications and internal quality controls in
    place, errors and omissions in analyses may occur. We currently
    have errors and omissions insurance coverage and nuclear
    liability insurance coverage that might apply depending on the
    circumstances. We also have sought indemnities from some of our
    customers. Our insurance coverage or indemnities, however, may
    not be adequate to cover potential problems associated with
    faulty radiological analyses.

We cannot assure that we will not have additional product
    liability claims or that we will not recall any additional
    products.

We may
    have difficulty obtaining product liability and other insurance
    coverages, or be subject to increased costs for such
    coverage.

As a manufacturer of a variety of products including aircraft
    engines used in general aviation aircraft, we have general
    liability and other insurance policies that provide coverage
    beyond self-insured retentions or deductibles. We cannot assure
    that, for 2009 and in future years, insurance carriers will be
    willing to renew coverage or provide new coverage for product
    liability, especially as it relates to general aviation. Over
    the last several years, the number of insurance companies
    providing general aviation product liability insurance coverage
    has decreased. If such insurance is available, we may be
    required to pay substantially higher prices for coverage

and/or

increase our levels of self-insured retentions or reserves. Our
    current aircraft product liability insurance policy expires in
    May 2009 and has an annual self-insured retention of
    approximately $20.1 million.

To offset aircraft product liability insurance costs, we
    continue to try to reduce manufacturing and other costs and also
    to pass on such insurance costs through price increases on its
    aircraft engines and spare parts. We cannot provide assurances
    that further cost reduction efforts will prove successful or
    that customers will accept additional price increases. Aircraft
    engines and spare part cost increases, coupled with increased
    costs of insurance for general aviation aircraft owners, tend to
    result in decreasing aftermarket sales of our piston engines and
    component parts. This, in turn, leaves our Aerospace Engines and
    Components segment more dependent on sales to OEMs, which is
    more dependent on general economic conditions.



For certain electronic components for medical applications that
    we manufacture, such as those that go into cardiac
    defibrillators, we have asked for indemnities from our customers

and/or

to be
    included under their insurance policies. We cannot, however,
    provide any assurance that such indemnities or insurance will
    offset potential liabilities that we may incur as a result of
    our manufacture of such components.

Aside from the uncertainties created by external events that can
    affect insurance coverages, such as the American International
    Group, Inc. 2008 failure and bailout, the devastating 2005
    hurricane season or September 11th events, our ability
    to obtain product liability insurance and the cost for such
    insurance are affected by our historical claims experience.
    While we have taken steps to improve our claims management
    process over the last few years, we cannot assure that, for 2009
    and in future years, our ability to obtain insurance, or the
    cost for such insurance, or the amount of self-insured
    retentions or reserves will not be negatively impacted by our
    experience in prior years.

Increasing
    competition could reduce the demand for our products and
    services.

Although we believe that we have certain advantages that help us
    compete in our markets, each of our markets is highly
    competitive. Many of our competitors have, and potential
    competitors could have, greater name recognition, a larger
    installed base of products, more extensive engineering,
    manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and
    greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we
    do. New or existing competitors may also develop new
    technologies that could adversely affect the demand for our
    products and services. Industry consolidation trends,
    particularly among aerospace and defense contractors, could
    adversely affect demand for our products and services if prime
    contractors seek to control more aspects of vertically
    integrated projects. For example, the combination of the network
    activities of Nokia and Siemens negatively impacted our wireless
    transceivers business. Low-cost competition from China and other
    developing countries could also result in decreased demand for
    our products.

We sell
    products to customers in industries that may undergo rapid and
    unpredictable changes, which could adversely affect our
    operations results or production levels.

We develop and manufacture products for customers in industries
    that have undergone rapid changes in the past. For example, we
    manufacture products and provide manufacturing services to
    companies that serve telecommunications markets. During 2001,
    many segments of the telecommunications market experienced a
    dramatic and rapid downturn that resulted in cancellations or
    deferrals of orders for our products and services. This market,
    or others that we serve, may exhibit rapid changes in the future
    and may adversely affect our operating results, or our
    production levels, or both. We also manufacture products using
    fuel cell technology, which is a market that is not well
    established and subject to significant change and evolution.

Our Engineered Systems segment would be severely impacted if
    United States Enrichment Corporation (“USEC”) were
    unable to continue the American Centrifuge Project as planned.
    USEC is the ultimate customer for the gas centrifuge service
    modules being manufactured by us. USEC has been anticipating
    approval of about $2 billion in U.S. Government loan
    guarantees through the Department of Energy to secure the
    balance of funding required to complete the American Centrifuge
    Project. Failure to secure such guarantees would seriously
    jeopardize USEC’s ability to finance, and therefore
    complete, the project.

We are
    subject to the risks associated with international
    sales.

During 2008, sales to international customers accounted for
    approximately 24% of our total revenues, as compared to 22% in
    2007 and 21% in 2006. We anticipate that future sales to
    international customers will continue to account for a
    significant percentage of our revenues. Risks associated with
    these sales include:

•

political and economic instability;

•

international terrorism;

•

export controls, including U.S. export controls related to
    China;

•

changes in legal and regulatory requirements;

•

U.S. and foreign government policy changes affecting the
    markets for our products;



•

changes in tax laws and tariffs;

•

changes in

U.S.-China

relations; and

•

exchange rate fluctuations.

Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition.
    Exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect the cost of our
    products to international customers and therefore reduce our
    competitive position. If the U.S. Dollar continues to
    strengthen against the British Pound Sterling or Euro, our
    European customers may no longer find our product prices more
    attractive than European competitors.

Sales of our products and services internationally are subject
    to U.S. and local government regulations and procurement
    policies and practices including regulations relating to
    import-export control. Violations of export control rules could
    result in suspension of our ability to export items from one or
    more business units or the entire corporation. Depending on the
    scope of the suspension, this could have a material effect on
    our ability to perform certain international contracts. Concerns
    over theft of technology for military uses, nuclear
    proliferation concerns, terrorism and other factors have
    resulted in increased export scrutiny of international sales,
    including some of our products to international customers. There
    has also been increasing export oversight and regulation of
    sales to China. Travel restrictions to Middle Eastern and other
    countries may negatively affect continuing international sales
    or service revenues from such regions. There are also
    U.S. and international regulations relating to investments,
    exchange controls and repatriation of earnings, as well as
    varying currency, political and economic risks.

Among other things, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits
    U.S. companies and their intermediaries from bribing
    foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping
    business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. In
    particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our
    strategic or local partners even though our partners are not
    subject to the FCPA. Any determination that we have violated the
    FCPA could result in sanctions that could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.

Compliance
    with increasing environmental regulations and the effects of
    potential environmental liabilities could have a material
    adverse financial effect on us.

We, like other industry participants, are subject to various
    federal, state, local and international environmental laws and
    regulations. We may be subject to increasingly stringent
    environmental standards in the future, particularly as climate
    change initiatives increase in focus. Future developments,
    administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental
    and climate change matters could have a material adverse effect
    on our business, results of operations or financial condition.

While we have, as part of our overall risk management program,
    an environmental management and compliance program applicable to
    our operating facilities, including a “review and
    audit” program to monitor compliance where each facility is
    reviewed and audited by an internal environmental team every
    three years, such program does not eliminate potential
    environmental liabilities. In addition, while we conduct
    environmental-related due diligence in acquisitions and
    generally seek some form of protection, including
    indemnification from a seller, companies we acquire may have
    environmental liabilities that are not accurately assessed or
    brought to our attention at the time of the acquisition.

For additional discussion of environmental matters, see the
    discussion under the caption “Other Matters —
    Environmental” of “Item 7. Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operation and Financial
    Condition” and Note 15 to Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Increased environmental regulatory monitoring requirements of
    the air we breathe and the water we drink could have a favorable
    effect on the results of operations or financial condition of
    our instrumentation businesses, including the sulfur dioxide,
    carbon monoxide and ozone gas monitoring business of Teledyne
    Advanced Pollution Instrumentation, Inc. and the water quality
    monitoring business of Teledyne Isco, Inc. In contrast, the
    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s efforts to
    limit lead emissions from general aviation



gasoline could adversely affect our Aerospace Engines and
    Components segment unless we develop an engine that uses
    unleaded fuel or diesel fuel.

Our
    inability to attract and retain key personnel could have a
    material adverse effect on our future success.

Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the
    continued service of our executive officers and other key
    management and technical personnel and on our ability to
    continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.
    Recruiting and retaining skilled technical and engineering
    personnel has become even more competitive as the domestic
    economy has improved in recent years. Also, our Engineered
    Systems segment has already begun to face increasing competition
    for qualified engineering personnel as a result of the
    Department of Defense 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (also
    known as BRAC) decisions, particularly as positions continue to
    move to Huntsville, Alabama over the next several years. While
    we have engaged in succession planning, the loss of the services
    of one or more of our key employees or our failure to attract,
    retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.

We may
    not be able to sell, or exit on acceptable terms, product lines
    that we determine no longer meet with our growth
    strategy.

Consistent with our growth strategy to focus on markets to
    expand our profitable niche businesses, we continually evaluate
    our product lines to ensure that they are aligned with our
    strategy. For example, after the June 2004 acquisition of Isco,
    Inc., we determined that the on-line process control
    instrumentation business of its German subsidiary was not
    aligned with our strategy, and in March 2005, we sold this
    non-strategic business. In 2007, principally because of the
    decision of a customer to manufacture certain medical products
    at its facilities in India, we closed our contract manufacturing
    operations in El Rubi, Mexico and transferred the remaining
    operations to our La Mesa, Mexico facility and our
    Lewisburg, Tennessee facility.

Our ability to dispose of or exit product lines that may no
    longer be aligned with our growth strategy will depend on many
    factors, including the terms and conditions of any asset
    purchase and sale agreement, as well as industry, business and
    economic conditions. We cannot provide any assurance that we
    will be able to sell non-strategic product lines on terms that
    are acceptable to us, or at all. Also, if the sale of any
    non-strategic product line cannot be consummated or is not
    practical, alternative courses of action, including closure, may
    not be available to us or may be more costly than anticipated.

Provisions
    of our governing documents, applicable law, and our Change in
    Control Severance Agreements could make an acquisition of
    Teledyne Technologies more difficult.

Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and Restated
    Bylaws and Rights Agreement and the General Corporation Law of
    the State of Delaware contain several provisions that could make
    the acquisition of control of Teledyne Technologies in a
    transaction not approved by our board of directors more
    difficult. We have also entered into Change in Control Severance
    Agreements with 16 members of our management, which could have
    an anti-takeover effect.

The
    market price of our Common Stock has fluctuated significantly
    since our spin-off from ATI, and could continue to do
    so.

Since the spin-off from ATI on November 29, 1999, the
    market price of our Common Stock has ranged from a low of
    $7.6875 to a high of $66.21 per share. During 2008 alone, the
    market price of our Common Stock ranged from $33.90 to $66.21
    per share. At February 24, 2009, our closing stock price was
    $23.29. Fluctuations in our stock price could continue. Among
    the factors that could affect our stock price are:

•

quarterly variations in our operating results;

•

strategic actions by us or our competitors;

•

acquisitions;



•

adverse business developments;

•

war in the Middle East or elsewhere;

•

additional terrorist activities;

•

increased military or homeland defense activities;

•

changes to the Federal budget;

•

changes in the energy exploration or production, semiconductor,
    telecommunications, commercial and general aviation, and
    electronic manufacturing services markets;

•

general market conditions;

•

changes in tax laws;

•

general economic factors unrelated to our performance; and

•

one or more of the other risk factors described in this report.

The stock markets in general, and the markets for high
    technology companies in particular, have experienced a high
    degree of volatility not necessarily related to the operating
    performance of these companies. We cannot provide assurances as
    to our stock price.

Our
    financial statements are based on estimates required by GAAP,
    and actual results may differ materially from those estimated
    under different assumptions or conditions.

Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with
    generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
    These principles require our management to make estimates and
    assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
    liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
    reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting
    period. For example, estimates are used when accounting for
    items such as asset valuations, allowances for doubtful
    accounts, depreciation and amortization, impairment assessments,
    employee benefits, taxes, recall costs, aircraft product and
    general liability and contingencies. While we base our estimates
    on historical experience and on various assumptions that we
    believe to be reasonable under the circumstances at the time
    made, actual results may differ materially from those estimated.

While we
    believe our control systems are effective, there are inherent
    limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to
    error or fraud may occur and not be detected.

We continue to take action to assure compliance with the
    internal controls, disclosure controls and other requirements of
    the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management, including our
    Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot
    guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls
    will prevent all possible errors or all fraud. A control system,
    no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only
    reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the
    control system are met. In addition, the design of a control
    system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints
    and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs.
    Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no
    system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all
    control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the
    Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include
    the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty
    and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or
    mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual
    acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by
    management override of the controls. The design of any system of
    controls also is based, in part, upon certain assumptions about
    the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance
    that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under
    all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be
    inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of
    compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
    Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control
    system, misstatements resulting from error or fraud may occur
    and may not be detected.



Natural
    disasters, such as a serious earthquake or wildfire in
    California or a major hurricane in Alabama or Florida, could
    adversely affect our business, results of operations and
    financial condition.

Several of our facilities, as a result of their locations could
    be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by an earthquake, a
    hurricane or a tornado. Many of our production facilities and
    our headquarters are located in California and thus are in areas
    with above average seismic activity and may also be at risk of
    damage in wildfires. In addition, we have manufacturing
    facilities in the Southeastern United States and Texas that have
    been threatened and struck by major hurricanes. Our facilities
    in Alabama, Florida, Kansas, Nebraska and Tennessee have also
    been threatened by tornados. In 2007, prior to our acquisition
    of Storm Products Co., a tornado caused minor damage to one of
    its Dallas, Texas facilities. While Teledyne Continental
    Motors’ piston-engines manufacturing facility and Teledyne
    Turbine Engines’ advanced manufacturing cell, each located
    in Mobile, Alabama, Teledyne Geophysical Instruments’
    facility in Houston, Texas, ODI’s facility in Daytona
    Beach, Florida and Teledyne Odom’s facility in Baton Rouge,
    Louisiana were relatively fortunate with respect to the building
    damage and business interruption they suffered during the severe
    2005 hurricane season, there can be no assurance that any one of
    them will be as fortunate in the future. If any of our
    California facilities, including our California headquarters,
    were to experience a catastrophic earthquake or wildfire loss or
    if any of our Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Nebraska, Kansas,
    Tennessee or Texas facilities were to experience a catastrophic
    hurricane, storm or tornado, such event could disrupt our
    operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result
    in large expenses to repair or replace the facility or
    facilities. While Teledyne has property insurance to partially
    reimburse it for losses caused by windstorm and earth movement,
    such insurance would not cover all possible losses. In addition,
    our existing disaster recovery plans (including those relating
    to our information technology systems) may not be fully
    responsive to, or minimize losses associated with, catastrophic
    events.

Item 1B.

Unresolved
    Staff Comments.

None.



Item 2.

Properties.

Our principal U.S. facilities as of February 24, 2009
    are listed below. Although the facilities vary in terms of age
    and condition, our management believes that these facilities
    have generally been well maintained and are adequate for current
    operations.

Facility Location

Principal Use

Owned/Leased

Electronics and Communications Segment

Electronic Instruments

City of Industry, California

Development and production of precision oxygen analyzers

Owned

San Diego, California

Development and production of environmental monitoring
    instrumentation

Leased

San Diego, California

Development and production of electrical interconnection systems

Leased

Poway, California

Development and production of underwater acoustic instrumentation

Leased

Englewood, Colorado

Development and production of environmental monitoring systems

Leased

Daytona Beach, Florida

Development of subsea, wet-mateable electrical and fiber-optic
    interconnect systems

Leased

Baton Rouge, Louisiana

Development and production of hydrographic survey instrumentation

Leased

East Falmouth, Massachusetts

Development and production of autonomous underwater gliding
    vehicles, profilers, drifters and floats

Leased

North Falmouth, Massachusetts

Development and production of underwater acoustic
    instrumentation and package inspection systems

Owned

Lincoln, Nebraska

Development and production of water quality monitoring products,
    chemical separation instruments and flash chromatography
    instruments and consumables

Owned

Hudson, New Hampshire

Development and production of elemental analysis instruments

Leased

Seabrook, New Hampshire

Development and production of electrical and fiber optic
    interconnect systems

Leased

Mason, Ohio

Development and production of chemical analysis instruments

Leased

Dallas, Texas

Development and production of specialty wire and cable assemblies

Leased

Houston, Texas

Development and production of geophysical streamer cables and
    hydrophones for seismic monitoring

Owned

Hampton, Virginia

Development and production of vacuum and flow measurement
    instruments

Owned

Defense Electronics, Products and Services

Camarillo, California

Production of focal plane arrays and imaging sensors and systems

Leased

Los Angeles, California

Development and production of electronic components and
    subsystems

Owned and

Leased

Los Angeles, California

Development and production of high voltage connectors and
    subassemblies and pilot helmet mounted display components and
    subsystems

Leased

Mountain View, California

Production of microwave integrated circuits and systems

Owned

Northridge, California

Production of electronic seat ejection sequencers

Leased

Poway, California

Development and production of defense microwave components and
    subsystems

Leased

Rancho Cordova, California

Development and production of traveling wave tubes

Owned

Santa Maria, California

Development and production of high voltage capacitor products

Leased

Sunnyvale, California

Development and production of RF and microwave amplifiers and
    components

Owned and

Leased

Thousand Oaks, California

Provision of research and development services

Owned



Facility Location

Principal Use

Owned/Leased

Tracy, California

Development and production of precision secondary explosive
    components

Leased

Woodridge, Illinois

Development and production of microwave cable and interconnect
    products

Leased

Hudson, New Hampshire

Production of circuit boards

Owned

Montgomeryville, Pennsylvania

Development and production of infrared devices and accessory
    products

Owned and

Leased

Lewisburg, Tennessee

Development and manufacturing of electronic components and
    subsystems

Owned

Avionics and Other Commercial Electronics

El Segundo, California

Development and production of digital data acquisition systems
    for monitoring commercial aircraft and engines

Leased

Hawthorne, California

Production of electromechanical relays

Owned

Engineered Systems Segment

Huntsville, Alabama

Provision of engineering services and products, including
    systems engineering, optical engineering, software and hardware
    engineering, and instrumentation technology

Owned and

Leased

Huntsville, Alabama

Production of gas centrifuge modules

Leased

Colorado Springs, Colorado

Provision of engineering services

Leased

Knoxville, Tennessee

Laboratories and offices in support of environmental services

Leased

Arlington, Virginia

Defense program offices supporting governmental customers

Leased

Aerospace Engines and Components Segment

Mobile, Alabama

Design, development and production of new and rebuilt piston
    engines, ignition systems and spare parts for the general
    aviation market

Leased

Mattituck, New York

Supply of aftermarket parts, services and engine overhauls for
    the general aviation market

Leased

Energy and Power Systems Segment

Redlands, California

Manufacturing of batteries for the general aviation and business
    jet market

Owned

Hunt Valley, Maryland

Manufacturing, assembling and maintenance of hydrogen gas
    generators, power generating systems and fuel cell test stations

Leased

Toledo, Ohio

Design, development and production of small turbine engines for
    aerospace and military markets

Leased

We also own or lease facilities and offices elsewhere in the
    United States and outside the United States, including
    facilities in: Tijuana, Mexico; Mitcheldean, Lancing, Newbury,
    Shipley, Surrey, West Drayton and Watford, England; Cumbernauld
    and Aberdeen, Scotland; Singapore; Cwmbran, Wales; Kreuztal,
    Germany; La Gaude, France; Shanghai, China; and Ottawa,
    Canada. Our corporate executive offices are located at 1049
    Camino Dos Rios, Thousand Oaks, California

91360-2362.

Item 3.

Legal
    Proceedings.

From time to time, we become involved in various lawsuits,
    claims and proceedings related to the conduct of our business,
    including those pertaining to product liability, patent
    infringement, commercial, employment and employee benefits.
    While we cannot predict the outcome of any lawsuit, claim or
    proceeding, our management does not believe that the disposition
    of any pending matters is likely to have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition or liquidity. The resolution
    in any reporting period of one or more of these matters,
    however, could have a material adverse effect on the results of
    operations for that period.

Item 4.

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

No matters were submitted to a vote of Teledyne’s
    stockholders during the fourth quarter of 2008.



PART II

Item 5.

Market
    for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder
    Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities.

Price
    Range of Common Stock and Dividend Policy

Our Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and
    traded under the symbol “TDY.” The following table
    sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sale
    prices for the Common Stock as reported by the New York Stock
    Exchange.

High

Low


1st Quarter

$

40.73

$

35.75

2nd Quarter

$

48.95

$

36.91

3rd Quarter

$

55.00

$

42.86

4th Quarter

$

57.21

$

47.68


1st Quarter

$

54.65

$

42.89

2nd Quarter

$

59.98

$

46.71

3rd Quarter

$

66.21

$

47.96

4th Quarter

$

57.38

$

34.70


1st Quarter (through February 24, 2009)

$

46.75

$

22.52

On February 24, 2009, the closing sale price of our Common
    Stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange was $23.29 per
    share. As of February 24, 2009, there were 5,595 holders of
    record of the Common Stock.

We currently intend to retain any future earnings to fund the
    development and growth of our businesses, including through
    acquisitions. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash
    dividends in the foreseeable future.



Item 6.

Selected
    Financial Data.

The following table presents our summary consolidated financial
    data. We derived the following historical selected financial
    data from our audited consolidated financial statements. Our
    fiscal year is determined based on a 52 or 53-week convention
    ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. The five-year
    summary of selected financial data should be read in conjunction
    with the discussion under “Item 7 —
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operation.”

Five-Year
    Summary of Selected Financial Data






(In millions, except per-share amounts)

Sales

$

1,893.0

$

1,622.3

$

1,433.2

$

1,206.5

$

1,016.6

Net income

$

111.3

$

98.5

$

80.3

$

64.2

$

41.7

Working capital

$

281.3

$

213.7

$

216.4

$

154.0

$

124.4

Total assets

$

1,534.5

$

1,159.4

$

1,061.4

$

728.2

$

624.8

Long-term debt and capital lease obligations

$

332.1

$

142.4

$

230.7

$

47.0

$

74.4

Stockholders’ equity

$

530.0

$

530.2

$

431.8

$

326.0

$

262.1

Basic earnings per common share

$

3.14

$

2.82

$

2.34

$

1.93

$

1.29

Diluted earnings per common share

$

3.05

$

2.72

$

2.26

$

1.85

$

1.24



Item 7.

Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operation.

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is a leading provider of
    sophisticated electronic components and subsystems,
    instrumentation and communications products, including defense
    electronics, monitoring and control instrumentation for marine,
    environmental and industrial applications, harsh environment
    interconnect products, data acquisition and communications
    equipment for air transport and business aircraft, and
    components and subsystems for wireless and satellite
    communications. We also provide engineered systems and
    information technology services for defense, space and
    environmental applications, manufacture general aviation engines
    and components, and supply energy generation, energy storage and
    small propulsion products.

We serve niche market segments where performance, precision and
    reliability are critical. Our customers include government
    agencies, aerospace prime contractors, energy exploration and
    production companies, major industrial companies, and airlines
    and general aviation companies.

Strategy

Our strategy continues to emphasize growth in our core markets
    of instrumentation, defense electronics and government
    engineered systems. Our core markets are characterized by high
    barriers to entry and include specialized products and services
    not likely to be commoditized. We intend to strengthen and
    expand our core businesses with targeted acquisitions. We
    aggressively pursue operational excellence to continually
    improve our margins and earnings. At Teledyne, operational
    excellence includes the rapid integration of the businesses we
    acquire. Over time, our goal is to create a set of businesses
    that are truly superior in their niches. We intend to continue
    to evaluate our product lines to ensure that they are aligned
    with our strategy.

Recent
    Acquisitions

The table below summarizes the acquisitions we made during
    fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006. See also Note 3 to our
    Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
    about these acquisitions.

Pre-acquisition

Transaction

Purchase

Name and Description(1)

Date Acquired

Primary Location

Sales Volume

Type

Price (2)(6)

(In millions)


Impulse Enterprise (“Impulse”)

Manufactures underwater electrical interconnection systems for
    harsh environments.

December 31, 2007

San Diego, CA

$16.8 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2006

Asset

$

35.0

Storm Products Co. (“Storm”)

Supplies custom, high-reliability bulk wire and cable
    assemblies to a number of markets, including energy exploration,
    environmental monitoring and industrial equipment. Also provides
    coax microwave cable and interconnect products primarily to
    defense customers for radar, electronic warfare and
    communications applications.

December 31, 2007

Dallas, TX

Woodridge, IL

$45.7 million for its

fiscal year ended

March 31, 2007

Stock

47.7

SG Brown Limited and its wholly owned subsidiary TSS
    (International) Limited (together “TSS”)

Designs and manufactures inertial sensing, gyrocompass
    navigation and subsea pipe and cable detection systems for
    offshore energy, oceanographic and military marine markets.

January 31, 2008

Watford, United

Kingdom

£12.0 million for its

fiscal year ended

March 31, 2007

Stock

54.8

Judson Technologies, LLC (“Judson”)

Supplies custom, high-reliability bulk wire and cable
    assemblies to a number of markets, including energy exploration,
    environmental monitoring and industrial equipment. Also provides
    coax microwave cable and interconnect products primarily to
    defense customers for radar, electronic warfare and
    communications applications.

February 1, 2008

Montgomeryville,

PA

$13.8 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2006

Asset

27.0

Webb Research Corp. (“Webb”)

Manufactures autonomous underwater gliding vehicles and
    autonomous profiling drifters and floats.

July 7, 2008

East Falmouth,

MA

$12.2 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2007

Asset

24.3

Defense Electronics business of Filtronic PLC
    (“Filtronic”)

Provides customized microwave subassemblies and integrated
    subsystems to the global defense industry.

August 15, 2008

Shipley, United

Kingdom

£14.5 million for its

fiscal year ended

May 31, 2008

Stock

24.1

Cormon Limited and Cormon Technology Limited (together
    “Cormon”)

Designs and manufactures subsea and surface sand and
    corrosion sensors, as well as flow integrity monitoring systems,
    used in oil and gas production systems.

October 16, 2008

Lancing, United

Kingdom

£6.8 million for its

fiscal year ended

March 31, 2008

Stock

20.9

(3)

Odom Hydrographic Systems, Inc. (“Odom”)

Designs and manufactures hydrographic survey instrumentation
    used in port survey, dredging, offshore energy and other
    applications.

December 19, 2008

Baton Rouge, LA

$10.9 million for its

fiscal year ended

September 30, 2008

Stock

7.0

(3)



Pre-acquisition

Transaction

Purchase

Name and Description(1)

Date Acquired

Primary Location

Sales Volume

Type

Price (2)(6)

(In millions)

Demo Systems LLC (“Demo”)

Designs and manufactures aircraft data loading equipment,
    flight line maintenance terminals, and data distribution
    software used by commercial airlines, the U.S. military and
    aircraft manufacturers.

December 24, 2008

Moorpark, CA

$7.3 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2007

Asset

$

5.3

(3)


D.G. O’Brien, Inc. (“DGO”)

Manufactures highly reliable electrical and fiber-optic
    interconnect systems, primarily for subsea military and offshore
    oil and gas applications.

March 30, 2007

Seabrook, NH

$26.2 million for its

fiscal year ended

September 30, 2006

Asset

37.1

Tindall Technologies, Inc. (“Tindall”)

Designs and supplies microwave subsystems for defense
    applications.

June 30, 2007

Sunnyvale, CA

$2.7 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2006

Stock

5.9(4

)


Benthos, Inc. (“Benthos”)

Manufactures oceanographic products and package inspection
    systems.

January 27, 2006

North Falmouth,

MA

$24.0 million for its

fiscal year ended

September 30, 2005

Stock

32.2

KW Microwave Corporation (“KW”)

Manufactures defense microwave components and subsystems.

April 28, 2006

Poway, CA

$6.7 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2005

Asset

10.3

Ocean Design, Inc. (“ODI”)

Manufactures subsea, wet-mateable electrical and
    fiber-optic interconnect systems used in offshore oil and gas
    production, oceanographic research, and military applications.

August 16, 2006

Daytona Beach,

FL

$31.6 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2005

A majority of

stock(5)

73.8

CollaborX, Inc. (“CollaborX”)

Provides government engineering services primarily to the
    U.S. Air Force and also to select joint military commands, such
    as the Missile Defense Agency, the United States Joint Forces
    Command and the United States  Northern Command.

August 16, 2006

Colorado Springs,

CO

$13.6 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2005

Stock

14.9

Rockwell Scientific Company LLC (“Teledyne Scientific
    and Imaging”)

Provides research and development services to the Department
    of Defense, NASA and major defense and aerospace companies, as
    well as develops and manufactures infrared and visible light
    imaging sensors for surveillance applications.

September 15, 2006

Thousand Oaks,

CA

$114.0 million for its

fiscal year ended

September 30, 2005

Stock

158.6



Financial
    Highlights

Our fiscal year is determined based on a 52 or 53-week
    convention ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. The
    following is our financial information for 2008, 2007 and 2006
    (in millions, except per-share amounts):




Sales

$

1,893.0

$

1,622.3

$

1,433.2

Costs and Expenses

Cost of sales

1,339.5

1,136.4

1,020.2

Selling, general and administrative expenses

364.6

323.6

287.9

Total costs and expenses

1,704.1

1,460.0

1,308.1

Income before other income and expense and income taxes

188.9

162.3

125.1

Interest and debt expense, net

(10.9

)

(12.5

)

(7.4

)

Minority interest

(2.3

)

(3.4

)

(1.0

)

Other income, net(a)

0.6

2.9

5.0

Income before income taxes

176.3

149.3

121.7

Provision for income taxes(b)

65.0

50.8

41.4

Net income

$

111.3

$

98.5

$

80.3

Basic earnings per common share

$

3.14

$

2.82

$

2.34

Diluted earnings per common share

$

3.05

$

2.72

$

2.26

(a)

Fiscal year 2006 include the receipt of $2.5 million,
    pursuant to an agreement that expired in 2006 with Honda Motor
    Co., Ltd. related to the piston engine business.

(b)

Fiscal year 2008 includes income tax credits of
    $2.5 million and the reversal of $0.8 million in
    income tax contingency reserves which were determined to be no
    longer needed due to the expiration of applicable statutes of
    limitations. Fiscal year 2007 includes income tax credits of
    $4.4 million and also reflects the reversal of
    $1.1 million in income tax contingency reserves which were
    determined to be no longer needed due to the completion of state
    tax audits and the expiration of applicable statutes of
    limitations. Fiscal year 2006 includes the reversal of income
    tax contingency reserves of $3.3 million which were
    determined to be no longer needed due to the expiration of
    applicable statutes of limitations.

Our businesses are divided into and managed as four business
    segments; namely, Electronics and Communications, Engineered
    Systems, Aerospace Engines and Components and Energy and Power
    Systems. Our four business segments and their respective
    contributions to our total sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006 are
    summarized in the following table:

Percentage of Sales

Segment




Electronics and Communications


%


%


%

Engineered Systems


%


%


%

Aerospace Engines and Components


%


%


%

Energy and Power Systems


%


%


%


%


%


%



Results
    of Operations

    Compared with 2007 (in millions)

%

Sales



Change

Electronics and Communications

$

1,276.6

$

1,071.6

19.1

%

Engineered Systems

361.2

301.7

19.7

%

Aerospace Engines and Components

171.0

180.7

(5.4

)%

Energy and Power Systems

84.2

68.3

23.3

%

Total sales

$

1,893.0

$

1,622.3

16.7

%

%

Operating Profit (Loss) and Other Segment Income



Change

Electronics and Communications

$

183.0

$

143.2

27.8

%

Engineered Systems

35.0

26.2

33.6

%

Aerospace Engines and Components

(9.7

)

19.2

*

Energy and Power Systems

10.2

6.3

61.9

%

Segment operating profit and other segment income

218.5

194.9

12.1

%

Corporate expense

(29.6

)

(32.6

)

(9.2

)%

Interest and debt expense, net

(10.9

)

(12.5

)

(12.8

)%

Minority interest

(2.3

)

(3.4

)

(32.4

)%

Other income, net

0.6

2.9

(79.3

)%

Income before taxes

176.3

149.3

18.1

%

Provision for income taxes(a)

65.0

50.8

28.0

%

Net income

$

111.3

$

98.5

13.0

%

*

not meaningful

(a)

Fiscal year 2008 includes income tax credits of
    $2.5 million and the reversal of $0.8 million in
    income tax contingency reserves which were determined to be no
    longer needed due to the expiration of applicable statutes of
    limitations. Fiscal year 2007 includes income tax credits of
    $4.4 million and also reflects the reversal of
    $1.1 million in income tax contingency reserves which were
    determined to be no longer needed due to the completion of state
    tax audits and the expiration of applicable statutes of
    limitations.

We reported 2008 sales of $1,893.0 million, compared with
    sales of $1,622.3 million for 2007, an increase of 16.7%.
    Net income was $111.3 million ($3.05 per diluted share) for
    2008, compared with $98.5 million ($2.72 per diluted share)
    for 2007, an increase of 13.0%.

The increase in sales in 2008, compared with 2007, reflected
    improvement in the Electronic and Communications, Engineered
    Systems and Energy and Power Systems segments. The largest
    increase in sales was in the Electronic and Communications
    segment which grew both organically and through strategic
    acquisitions made in 2008 and in 2007. The incremental increase
    in revenue in 2008 from businesses acquired since 2006 was
    $142.9 million (see “Recent Acquisitions” table).

The increase in segment operating profit and other segment
    income for 2008, compared with 2007, reflected the impact of
    higher sales. Operating profit and other segment income was
    higher in each operating segment except the Aerospace Engines
    and Components segment. The $39.8 million increase in
    operating profit in the Electronics and Communications segment
    included incremental operating profit from acquisitions and
    related synergies of $17.8 million. The Aerospace Engines
    and Components segment includes the impact of an
    $18.0 million estimated charge for a voluntary product
    recall and replacement program.



Cost of sales in total dollars was higher in 2008, compared with
    2007, primarily due to higher sales which resulted from organic
    growth and acquisitions. Fiscal year 2008 included
    $0.9 million in LIFO expense, compared with
    $1.3 million in LIFO expense in 2007. Cost of sales as a
    percentage of sales for 2008 was 70.8%, compared with 70.0% for
    2007. The higher cost of sales percentage reflects the impact of
    the estimated $18.0 million voluntary product recall and
    replacement charge for the Aerospace Engines and Components
    segment. Of the total $18.0 million charge,
    $15.8 million was related to the costs associated with the
    return and replacement of product and $1.4 million was
    related to the disposal and write-off of inventory which were
    recorded as cost of sales; $0.8 million was related to
    estimated customer returns and was recorded as a reduction to
    sales.

Selling, general and administrative expenses, including research
    and development and bid and proposal expense, in total dollars
    were higher in 2008 compared with 2007. This $41.0 million
    increase was primarily due to higher sales which resulted from
    organic growth and acquisitions and also reflected higher
    acquired intangible asset amortization of $15.8 million in
    2008, compared with $6.4 million in 2007. Corporate
    administrative expense in 2008 was lower by $3.0 million
    compared with 2007 and reflected lower employee compensation and
    relocation expense and lower professional fee expenses. For
    fiscal year 2008, we recorded a total of $7.5 million in
    stock option expense, of which $2.5 million was recorded as
    corporate expense and $5.0 million was recorded in the
    operating segment results. For fiscal year 2007, we recorded a
    total of $6.8 million in stock option expense, of which
    $2.3 million was recorded as corporate expense and
    $4.5 million was recorded in the operating segment results.
    Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2008, as a
    percentage of sales, were 19.3%, compared with 19.9% for 2007,
    which reflected the impact of higher sales while controlling
    general and administrative expenses.

Included in operating profit in 2008 was pension expense of
    $9.6 million, in accordance with the pension accounting
    requirements of SFAS No. 87, “Employers’
    Accounting for Pensions,”
    (“SFAS No. 87”) offset by $9.8 million
    recoverable in accordance with U.S. Government Cost
    Accounting Standards (“CAS”) from certain government
    contracts. Included in operating profit in 2007 was pension
    expense of $11.9 million, of which $10.2 million was
    recoverable in accordance with CAS. Pension expense determined
    under CAS can generally be recovered through the pricing of
    products and services sold to the U.S. Government.

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2008 was 36.9%,
    compared with 34.1% for 2007. The effective tax rate for 2008
    reflects the impact of expected research and development income
    tax credits of $2.5 million and also reflects the reversal
    of $0.8 million in income tax contingency reserves that
    were determined to be no longer needed due to the expiration of
    applicable statutes of limitations. Excluding these items the
    effective tax rate for 2008 would have been 38.7%. The effective
    tax rate for 2007 reflects the impact of expected research and
    development income tax credits of $4.4 million and also
    reflects the reversal of $1.1 million in income tax
    contingency reserves. The reserves were determined to be no
    longer needed due to the completion of state tax audits and the
    expiration of applicable statutes of limitations. Excluding
    these items the effective tax rate for 2007 would have been
    37.7%.

Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government were
    approximately 40% of sales in 2008 and 41% of sales in 2007.
    Sales to international customers represented approximately 24%
    of sales in 2008, compared with 22% of sales in 2007.

Total interest expense, including credit facility fees and other
    bank charges, was $11.7 million in 2008 and
    $13.1 million in 2007. Interest income was
    $0.8 million in 2008 and $0.6 million in 2007. The
    decrease in interest expense in 2008 primarily reflected lower
    average interest rates, partially offset by higher outstanding
    debt levels due to acquisitions.

Minority interest reflects the minority ownership interests in
    Ocean Design, Inc. and Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc. The
    minority interest ownership percentage in ODI decreased to 14%
    at year-end 2008 since the initial 51% purchase of ODI in August
    2006.

Fiscal years 2008 and 2007 include sublease rental income and
    royalty income in other income. Other income in 2007 included
    $0.8 million received for the early return of leased
    property.



    Compared with 2006 (in millions)

%

Sales



Change

Electronics and Communications

$

1,071.6

$

899.4

19.1

%

Engineered Systems

301.7

283.0

6.6

%

Aerospace Engines and Components

180.7

181.6

(0.5

)%

Energy and Power Systems

68.3

69.2

(1.3

)%

Total sales

$

1,622.3

$

1,433.2

13.2

%

%

Operating Profit (Loss) and Other Segment Income



Change

Electronics and Communications

$

143.2

$

109.3

31.0

%

Engineered Systems

26.2

24.5

6.9

%

Aerospace Engines and Components(a)

19.2

15.5

23.9

%

Energy and Power Systems

6.3

6.0

5.0

%

Segment operating profit and other segment income

194.9

155.3

25.5

%

Corporate expense

(32.6

)

(27.7

)

17.7

%

Interest and debt expense, net

(12.5

)

(7.4

)

68.9

%

Minority interest

(3.4

)

(1.0

)

240.0

%

Other income, net

2.9

2.5

16.0

%

Income before taxes(b)

149.3

121.7

22.7

%

Provision for income taxes

50.8

41.4

22.7

%

Net income

$

98.5

$

80.3

22.7

%

(a)

Fiscal year 2006 include the receipt of $2.5 million,
    pursuant to an agreement that expired in 2006 with Honda Motor
    Co., Ltd. related to the piston engine business.

(b)

Fiscal year 2007 includes income tax credits of
    $4.4 million and also reflects the reversal of
    $1.1 million in income tax contingency reserves which were
    determined to be no longer needed due to the completion of state
    tax audits and the expiration of applicable statutes of
    limitations. Fiscal year 2006 includes the reversal of income
    tax contingency reserves of $3.3 million, which were
    determined to be no longer needed due to the expiration of
    applicable statutes of limitations.

We reported 2007 sales of $1,622.3 million, compared with
    sales of $1,433.2 million for 2006, an increase of 13.2%.
    Net income was $98.5 million ($2.72 per diluted share) for
    2007, compared with $80.3 million ($2.26 per diluted share)
    for 2006, an increase of 22.7%.

The increase in sales in 2007, compared with 2006, reflected
    improvement in the Electronic and Communications and Engineered
    Systems segments. The largest increase in sales was in the
    Electronic and Communications segment which grew both
    organically and through strategic acquisitions. The increase in
    sales for the Engineered Systems segment included the
    acquisition of CollaborX in August 2006. The incremental
    increase in revenue in 2007 from businesses acquired since 2005
    was $161.5 million (see “Recent Acquisitions”
    table).

The increase in segment operating profit and other segment
    income for 2007, compared with 2006, reflected the impact of
    higher sales. Operating profit and other segment income was
    higher in each operating segment. The $33.9 million
    increase in operating profit in the Electronics and
    Communications segment, included incremental operating profit
    from acquisitions and related synergies of $15.5 million.
    Fiscal year 2006 included the receipt of $2.5 million
    pursuant to an agreement that expired in 2006 with Honda Motor
    Co., Ltd.



Cost of sales in total dollars was higher in 2007, compared with
    2006, primarily due to higher sales which resulted from organic
    growth and acquisitions. Fiscal year 2007 included
    $1.3 million in LIFO expense, compared with
    $0.7 million in LIFO expense in 2006. Cost of sales as a
    percentage of sales for 2007 was 70.0%, compared with 71.2% for
    2006. The lower cost of sales percentage in 2007 primarily
    reflected sales mix differences and a continued emphasis on
    margin improvement and cost control.

Selling, general and administrative expenses, including research
    and development and bid and proposal expense, in total dollars
    were higher in 2007 compared with 2006. This $35.7 million
    increase was primarily due to higher sales which resulted from
    organic growth and acquisitions and also reflected higher
    corporate expense of $4.9 million compared with 2006 due to
    higher employee compensation and relocation expense and higher
    professional fee expenses. For fiscal year 2007, we recorded a
    total of $6.8 million in stock option expense, of which
    $2.3 million was recorded as corporate expense and
    $4.5 million was recorded in the operating segment results.
    For fiscal year 2006, we recorded a total of $5.9 million
    in stock option expense, of which $2.2 million was recorded
    as corporate expense and $3.7 million was recorded in the
    operating segment results. Selling, general and administrative
    expenses for 2007, as a percentage of sales, decreased slightly
    to 19.9%, compared with 20.1% for 2006.

Included in operating profit in 2007 was pension expense of
    $11.9 million, in accordance with the pension accounting
    requirements of SFAS No. 87, of which
    $10.2 million was recoverable in accordance with CAS from
    certain government contracts. Included in operating profit in
    2006 was pension expense of $15.4 million, of which
    $10.5 million was recoverable in accordance with CAS. The
    decrease in pension expense in 2007, compared with 2006,
    reflects, in part, pension contributions made in 2006, the
    impact of favorable market returns on plan assets in 2006 and
    changes to the Company’s pension assets and liabilities
    resulting from the merger of the Teledyne Scientific &
    Imaging pension plan with Teledyne Technologies pension plan.

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2007 was 34.1%,
    compared with 34.0% for 2006. The Company completed an analysis
    of research and development spending for 2000 through 2006, as
    well as the base period years, and anticipates the receipt of
    income tax refunds for those years. The effective tax rate for
    2007 reflects the impact of expected research and development
    income tax refunds of $4.4 million and also reflects the
    reversal of $1.1 million in income tax contingency reserves
    which were determined to be no longer needed due to the
    completion of state tax audits and the expiration of applicable
    statutes of limitations. Excluding these items the effective tax
    rate for 2007 would have been 37.7%. The effective tax rate for
    the 2006 reflects the impact of the reversal of income tax
    contingency reserves of $3.3 million which were determined
    to be no longer needed due to the expiration of applicable
    statutes of limitations. Excluding the impact of the reversal,
    the effective tax rate for 2006 would have been 36.7%.

Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government were
    approximately 41% of sales in 2007 and 40% of sales in 2006.
    Sales to international customers represented approximately 22%
    of sales in 2007, compared with 21% of sales in 2006.

Total interest expense, including credit facility fees and other
    bank charges, was $13.1 million in 2007 and
    $7.7 million in 2006. Interest income was $0.6 million
    in 2007 and $0.3 million in 2006. The higher interest
    expense in 2007 primarily reflected higher outstanding debt
    levels due to acquisitions.

Minority interest reflects the minority ownership interests in
    Ocean Design, Inc. and Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc. The
    minority interest ownership percentage in ODI decreased to 38%
    at year-end 2007, since the initial 51% purchase of ODI in
    August 2006.

Other income for 2006 included the receipt of $2.5 million
    pursuant to an agreement that expired in 2006 with Honda Motor
    Co., Ltd. which is included as part of the Aerospace Engines and
    Components segment operating profit and other segment income for
    segment reporting purposes. Fiscal years 2007 and 2006 also
    include sublease rental income and royalty income in other
    income. Other income in 2007 included $0.8 million received
    for the early return of leased property.



Segments

The following discussion of our four segments should be read in
    conjunction with Note 13 to the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Electronics
    and Communications




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

1,276.6

$

1,071.6

$

899.4

Operating profit

$

183.0

$

143.2

$

109.3

Operating profit % of sales

14.3

%

13.4

%

12.2

%

International sales % of sales

30.5

%

29.0

%

29.1

%

Governmental sales % of sales

30.2

%

31.2

%

27.7

%

Capital expenditures

$

33.8

$

33.7

$

17.9

Our Electronics and Communications segment provides
    sophisticated electronic components and subsystems,
    instrumentation and communications products, including defense
    electronics, monitoring and control instrumentation for marine,
    environmental, laboratory and industrial applications, harsh
    environment interconnect products, data acquisition and
    communications equipment for air transport and business
    aircraft, and components and subsystems for wireless and
    satellite communications.

    compared with 2007

Our Electronics and Communications segment sales were
    $1,276.6 million in 2008, compared with sales of
    $1,071.6 million in 2007, an increase of 19.1%. Operating
    profit was $183.0 million in 2008, compared with
    $143.2 million in 2007, an increase of 27.8%.

The 2008 sales growth of $205.0 million resulted primarily
    from revenue growth in electronic instruments and defense
    electronics, partially offset by lower sales of other commercial
    electronics. The revenue growth of $141.9 million in
    electronic instruments was driven by organic sales growth and
    the acquisitions, including DGO, Impulse, Storm, TSS, Webb and
    Cormon. Organic sales growth in electronic instruments reflected
    increased sales of geophysical sensors for the energy
    exploration market, other marine instruments and environmental
    instruments for the air and water monitoring markets. We
    currently expect a contraction in the second half of 2009 in
    sales of marine instruments that serve the offshore exploration
    market. The incremental increase in revenue from acquisitions in
    electronic instruments for 2008, compared with 2007, was
    $98.0 million. The revenue growth of $66.9 million in
    defense electronics was driven by organic sales growth and
    acquisitions, including Storm, Judson and the Defense
    Electronics business of Filtronic PLC. The increase in revenue
    from acquisitions in defense electronics products for 2008,
    compared with 2007, was $44.9 million. Organic growth of
    defense electronics for 2008 was primarily due to higher sales
    of defense manufacturing services, as well as increased sales of
    imaging sensors and subsystems and greater sales of microwave
    components and subsystems. Revenue in avionics and other
    commercial electronics decreased by $3.8 million and
    primarily reflected decreased sales of medical electronic
    manufacturing services. In 2008, for the Electronics and
    Communications segment, revenues increased by
    $142.9 million and operating profit, including synergies,
    increased by $17.8 million due to the incremental impact of
    acquisitions that we acquired since 2006. Segment operating
    profit was favorably impacted by the increase in revenue and
    sales mix. Segment operating profit was negatively impacted by
    $3.5 million of stock option compensation expense in 2008
    compared with $3.1 million of stock option compensation
    expense in 2007. Fiscal year 2008 also reflected lower LIFO
    expense of $1.0 million compared with fiscal year 2007.
    Pension expense, in accordance with the pension accounting
    requirements of SFAS No. 87, was $3.5 million in
    2008 compared with $4.0 million in 2007. Pension expense
    allocated to contracts pursuant to CAS was $1.9 million in
    2008, compared with $1.7 million for 2007.



    compared with 2006

Our Electronics and Communications segment sales were
    $1,071.6 million in 2007, compared with sales of
    $899.4 million in 2006, an increase of 19.1%. Operating
    profit was $143.2 million in 2007, compared with
    $109.3 million in 2006, an increase of 31.0%.

The 2007 sales growth of $172.2 million resulted primarily
    from revenue growth in defense electronics and electronic
    instruments, partially offset by lower sales of other commercial
    electronics. The revenue growth of $98.0 million in defense
    electronics was primarily driven by the acquisition of Teledyne
    Scientific & Imaging. The increase in revenue from
    acquisitions in defense electronics products for 2007, compared
    with 2006, was $89.7 million. Organic growth of defense
    electronics for 2007 was due to higher sales of microwave
    components and subsystems. The revenue growth of
    $88.6 million in electronic instruments was driven by
    acquisitions and organic growth. Revenue growth in electronic
    instruments included the acquisition of the majority interest in
    ODI, Benthos and DGO. The increase in revenue from acquisitions
    in electronic instruments for 2007, compared with 2006, was
    $63.1 million. Sales of electronic instruments for 2007
    increased due to organic sales growth of instruments for the
    industrial and environmental monitoring instrumentation markets.
    Revenue in avionics and other commercial electronics decreased
    by $14.4 million and primarily reflected decreased sales of
    medical electronic manufacturing services. In 2007, for the
    Electronics and Communications segment, revenues increased by
    $152.8 million and operating profit, including synergies,
    increased by $15.5 million due to the incremental impact of
    acquisitions that we acquired since 2005. Segment operating
    profit was favorably impacted by the increase in revenue and
    margin improvement from cost control initiatives. Segment
    operating profit was negatively impacted by $3.1 million of
    stock option compensation expense in 2007 compared with
    $2.4 million of stock option compensation expense in 2006.
    Fiscal year 2007 also reflected higher LIFO expense of
    $0.2 million compared with fiscal year 2006. Pension
    expense, in accordance with the pension accounting requirements
    of SFAS No. 87, was $4.0 million in 2007,
    compared with $3.8 million in 2006. Pension expense
    allocated to contracts pursuant to CAS was $1.7 million in
    2007, compared with $1.6 million for 2006. Fiscal year 2006
    also included $0.7 million in charges in our commercial
    electronics business for warranty reserves and inventory
    obsolescence related to the termination of a product line.

Engineered
    Systems




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

361.2

$

301.7

$

283.0

Operating profit

$

35.0

$

26.2

$

24.5

Operating profit % of sales

9.7

%

8.7

%

8.7

%

International sales % of sales

0.3

%

0.5

%

0.6

%

Governmental sales % of sales

89.3

%

98.8

%

98.6

%

Capital expenditures

$

2.2

$

1.5

$

1.4

Our Engineered Systems segment, principally through Teledyne
    Brown Engineering, Inc., applies the skills of its extensive
    staff of engineers and scientists to provide innovative
    engineered and information technology services for defense,
    space, environmental and nuclear applications.

    compared with 2007

Our Engineered Systems segment sales were $361.2 million in
    2008, compared with sales of $301.7 million in 2007, an
    increase of 19.7%. Operating profit was $35.0 million in
    2008, compared with $26.2 million in 2007, an increase of
    33.6%.

Sales for 2008, compared with 2007, reflected revenue growth in
    aerospace and defense programs and higher environmental sales.
    The revenue growth of $51.1 million in aerospace and
    defense programs primarily reflected revenue growth in certain
    manufacturing programs including gas centrifuge service modules
    for nuclear power applications, as well as other aerospace
    programs and specialized engineering and project



support for NASA. The revenue growth in environmental programs
    reflected engineering support for the gas centrifuge service
    modules program. Operating profit for 2008 reflected the impact
    of higher revenue and higher margins in aerospace programs and
    certain manufacturing programs, increased award fees and
    improved overhead rates. Segment operating profit also included
    pension expense under SFAS No. 87 of $5.0 million
    in 2008 compared with $6.4 million of pension expense in
    2007. Pension expense allocated to contracts pursuant to CAS was
    $7.7 million in 2008 compared with $8.1 million in
    2007.

    compared with 2006

Our Engineered Systems segment sales were $301.7 million in
    2007, compared with sales of $283.0 million in 2006, an
    increase of 6.6%. Operating profit was $26.2 million in
    2007, compared with $24.5 million in 2006, an increase of
    6.9%.

Sales for 2007, compared with 2006, reflected revenue growth in
    aerospace and defense programs, partially offset by lower
    environmental sales. The revenue growth of $31.7 million in
    aerospace and defense programs included $8.7 million in
    incremental revenue from the acquisition of CollaborX. The
    revenue growth in aerospace programs was primarily due to
    increased support for NASA. The revenue decrease of
    $13.0 million in environmental programs was primarily due
    to decreased support of the U.S. Army at Pine Bluff
    Arsenal. Operating profit for 2007, compared with 2006, was
    favorably impacted by higher segment revenue in 2007, and
    incremental operating profit of $0.5 million from
    CollaborX, partially offset by lower margins in certain defense
    programs. Segment operating profit also included pension expense
    under SFAS No. 87 of $6.4 million in 2007
    compared with $9.5 million of pension expense in 2006.
    Pension expense allocated to contracts pursuant to CAS was
    $8.1 million in 2007 compared with $8.6 million in
    2006. Fiscal year 2006 included a favorable overhead claim
    settlement of $1.3 million.

Aerospace
    Engines and Components




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

171.0

$

180.7

$

181.6

Operating profit (loss)

$

(9.7

)

$

19.2

$

15.5

Operating profit (loss) % of sales

(5.7

)%

10.6

%

8.5

%

International sales % of sales

18.2

%

16.0

%

15.2

%

Capital expenditures

$

3.7

$

3.5

$

5.1

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment, principally
    through Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc., focuses on the
    design, development and manufacture of piston engines,
    aftermarket support and electronic engine controls.

    compared with 2007

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment sales were
    $171.0 million in 2008, compared with sales of
    $180.7 million in 2007, a decrease of 5.4%. The 2008
    operating loss was $9.7 million, compared with operating
    income of $19.2 million in 2007. We currently expect sales
    in this segment to decrease further in 2009.

Sales for 2008, compared with 2007, reflected reduced OEM piston
    engine and spare parts sales. The decrease in operating profit
    in 2008, compared with 2007, reflected an estimated charge of
    $18.0 million for product recall and replacement costs, the
    impact of lower sales and higher defense and settlement fees.
    The charge was required to replace certain aircraft piston
    engine cylinders produced since November 2007. The replacement
    program should be completed by the end of 2009. Operating profit
    in 2007 included the receipt of a litigation settlement of
    $1.4 million, net of expenses and the $1.7 million
    writedown of accounts receivable related to a customer
    bankruptcy. Segment operating profit also included pension
    expense, under SFAS No. 87 of $0.6 million in
    2008 compared with $0.7 million for 2007. Segment operating
    profit for 2008 also reflected higher LIFO expense of
    $0.5 million.



    compared with 2006

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment sales were
    $180.7 million in 2007, compared with sales of
    $181.6 million in 2006, a decrease of 0.5%. Operating
    profit was $19.2 million in 2007, compared with
    $15.5 million in 2006, an increase of 23.9%.

Sales for 2007, compared with 2006, reflected slightly lower OEM
    engine sales. The improvement in operating profit in 2007,
    compared with 2006 reflected the impact of improved operating
    performance including lower aircraft product liability expense,
    the receipt of a litigation settlement of $1.4 million, net
    of expenses, partially offset by a $1.7 million writedown
    of accounts receivable related to a customer bankruptcy. Segment
    operating profit for 2006, included the receipt of
    $2.5 million, pursuant to an agreement that expired in 2006
    with Honda Motor Co., Ltd. related to the piston engine
    business. Segment operating profit also included pension
    expense, under SFAS No. 87 of $0.7 million in
    2007, compared with $1.2 million for 2006. Segment
    operating profit for 2007 also reflected lower LIFO expense of
    $0.5 million.

Energy
    and Power Systems




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

84.2

$

68.3

$

69.2

Operating profit

$

10.2

$

6.3

$

6.0

Operating profit % of sales

12.1

%

9.3

%

8.7

%

International sales % of sales

34.3

%

31.2

%

14.9

%

Governmental sales % of sales

54.8

%

47.0

%

59.8

%

Capital expenditures

$

2.1

$

1.0

$

1.9

Our Energy and Power Systems segment provides hydrogen gas
    generators, thermoelectric and fuel cell-based power sources,
    turbine engines and aviation batteries.

    compared with 2007

Our Energy and Power Systems segment sales were
    $84.2 million in 2008, compared with sales of
    $68.3 million in 2007, an increase of 23.3%. Operating
    income was $10.2 million in 2008, compared with
    $6.3 million in 2007, an increase of 61.9%.

The increase in sales for 2008, compared with 2007, primarily
    resulted from higher government power systems sales and higher
    turbine engine sales, primarily due to Joint Air-to-Surface
    Standoff Missile (“JASSM”) engines. Commercial
    hydrogen generator sales increased slightly. Operating profit
    reflected the impact of higher sales, higher margins in the
    turbine engine business and the reversal of $1.3 million
    for environmental reserves no longer needed due to a final
    settlement.

    compared with 2006

Our Energy and Power Systems segment sales were
    $68.3 million in 2007, compared with sales of
    $69.2 million in 2006, a decrease of 1.3%. Operating income
    was $6.3 million in 2007, compared with $6.0 million
    in 2006, an increase of 5.0%.

The decrease in sales for 2007, compared with 2006, primarily
    resulted from higher commercial hydrogen generator sales and
    higher aviation battery sales, which were more than offset by
    lower turbine engine sales. Operating profit reflected higher
    margins and sales in the hydrogen generator business, which were
    partially offset by the impact of lower sales and lower margins
    in the turbine engine business. Segment operating profit for
    2007 also reflected higher LIFO expense of $0.9 million.
    Turbine engine sales and operating profit for 2007 were
    unfavorable, compared with 2006, due to lower JASSM engine
    sales, partially offset by higher research and development sales.



Financial
    Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources

Principal
    Capital Requirements

Our principal capital requirements are to fund working capital
    needs, capital expenditures, voluntary and required pension
    contributions and debt service requirements, as well as to fund
    our stock repurchase program and acquisitions, including the
    purchase of the remaining minority shares of ODI which we expect
    to complete by the third quarter of 2009. It is anticipated that
    operating cash flow, together with available borrowings under
    the credit facility described below, will be sufficient to meet
    these requirements and could be used to fund some acquisitions
    in the year 2009. To support acquisitions, we may need to raise
    additional capital. Our liquidity is not dependent upon the use
    of off-balance sheet financial arrangements. We have no
    off-balance sheet financing arrangements that incorporate the
    use of special purpose entities or unconsolidated entities.

Revolving
    Credit Agreement

On February 8, 2008, Teledyne Technologies entered into a
    First Amendment to its Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
    dated as of July 14, 2006. The amended and restated credit
    facility has lender commitments totaling $590.0 million and
    expires on July 14, 2011. Excluding interest and fees, no
    payments are due under the amended and restated credit facility
    until it matures. The credit agreement requires the Company to
    comply with various financial and operating covenants, including
    maintaining certain consolidated leverage and interest coverage
    ratios, as well as minimum net worth levels and limits on
    acquired debt. At December 28, 2008, the Company was in
    compliance with these covenants. Available borrowing capacity
    under the $590.0 million credit facility, which is reduced
    by borrowings, outstanding letters of credit and certain
    guarantees was $254.8 million at December 28, 2008. In
    February 2009, Teledyne made a pretax $80.0 million
    voluntary contribution to its pension plan, funded from its
    credit facility and cash on hand. For a description of some
    terms of our credit facility, see “Financing
    Activities” beginning on page 51.

Contractual
    Obligations

The following table summarizes our expected cash outflows
    resulting from financial contracts and commitments at
    December 28, 2008. We have not included information on our
    normal recurring purchases of materials for use in our
    operations. These amounts are generally consistent from year to
    year, closely reflect our levels of production, and are not
    long-term in nature (in millions):

2014 and






beyond

Total

Long-term debt obligations(a)

$

0.6

$

—

$

326.0

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

326.6

Interest expense(b)

7.2

7.2

3.7

—

—

—

18.1

Operating lease obligations

17.9

16.2

12.4

10.5

7.9

28.9

93.8

Capital lease obligations(c)

0.7

0.7

0.6

0.6

0.6

6.9

10.1

Purchase obligations(d)

34.3

2.8

0.8

0.1

—

0.3

38.3

Total

$

60.7

$

26.9

$

343.5

$

11.2

$

8.5

$

36.1

$

486.9

At December 28, 2008, the Company had a minimum pension
    plan funding requirement of $13.8 million for 2009. In
    February 2009, Teledyne made a pretax $80.0 million
    voluntary contribution to its pension plan, funded primarily
    from its credit facility. The Company expects to make an
    additional contribution to its



pension plan of $37.1 million in 2009. Based on current
    assumptions and actual and expected contributions made in 2009,
    the Company would not have a minimum pension plan funding
    requirement, as set forth by ERISA, in 2010. Our minimum funding
    requirements after 2008 are dependent on several factors as
    discussed under “Accounting for Pension Plans” in the
    Critical Accounting Policies section of this Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operation. Estimates beyond 2010 have not been provided due to
    the significant uncertainty of these amounts, which are subject
    to change until the Company’s SFAS No. 87
    assumptions can be updated at the appropriate times. In
    addition, certain pension contributions are eligible for future
    recovery through the pricing of products and services to the
    U.S. government under certain government contracts,
    therefore, the amounts noted are not necessarily indicative of
    the impact these contributions may have on the Company’s
    liquidity. We also have payments due under our other
    postretirement benefits plans. These plans are not required to
    be funded in advance, but are pay as you go. See further
    discussion in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Pursuant to agreements in connection with our August 2006
    acquisition of an initial majority interest in ODI, the ODI
    minority stockholders have the contractual option to sell their
    shares to Teledyne Instruments following the end of each quarter
    through the quarter ended March 31, 2009, at a
    formula-determined price based principally on ODI’s
    earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
    (EBITDA) for the twelve months preceding each applicable quarter
    end. All shares not sold to Teledyne Instruments following the
    quarter ended March 31, 2009, are required to be purchased
    by Teledyne Instruments following the quarter ended
    June 30, 2009, at a same formula-determined price, at which
    time Teledyne Instruments will own all of the ODI shares held by
    the participating stockholders. At December 28, 2008, total
    cash paid, including the initial investment and subsequent share
    purchases, for Teledyne’s interest in ODI, net of cash
    acquired, was $73.8 million. Based on the
    formula-determined purchase price as of the quarter ended
    December 28, 2008, the aggregate amount of funds required
    to purchase all the shares held by the remaining minority ODI
    stockholders would be approximately $24.3 million. However,
    the actual aggregate amount of funds that we will spend to
    purchase the shares held by minority stockholders through
    June 30, 2009, could be significantly higher or lower than
    this amount, as that amount will depend on when individual
    stockholders elect to exercise their put options and on the
    financial performance of ODI. Teledyne Technologies has
    guaranteed the payment obligation of its subsidiary, Teledyne
    Instruments.

Operating
    Activities

In 2008, net cash provided from operations was
    $120.4 million, compared with $166.7 million in 2007
    and $78.4 million in 2006.

The lower net cash provided for 2008, compared with 2007, was
    primarily due to higher pretax pension contributions of
    $52.4 million, higher aircraft product defense and
    settlement payments of $25.5 million and higher working
    capital requirements, partially offset by higher net income, the
    incremental cash contribution from recent acquisitions and lower
    income tax payments of $22.5 million.

The higher net cash provided for 2007, compared with 2006, was
    primarily due to incremental cash contribution from recent
    acquisitions, higher net income, higher customer advance
    payments and deposits, improved accounts receivable collections
    due to timing and $12.4 million in lower pension
    contributions.

Free cash flow (cash from operating activities less capital
    expenditures) was $78.5 million compared with
    $126.4 million in 2007 and $52.0 million in 2006.

Fiscal Year

Free Cash Flow(a)




(In millions,

brackets indicate use of funds)

Cash provided by operating activities

$

120.4

$

166.7

$

78.4

Capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment

(41.9

)

(40.3

)

(26.4

)

Free cash flow

$

78.5

$

126.4

$

52.0



(a)

The Company defines free cash flow as cash provided by operating
    activities (a measure prescribed by generally accepted
    accounting principles) less capital expenditures for property,
    plant and equipment. The company believes that this supplemental
    non-GAAP information is useful to assist management and the
    investment community in analyzing the company’s ability to
    generate cash flow.

Working
    Capital

Working capital increased to $281.3 million at year-end
    2008, compared with $213.7 million at year-end 2007. The
    increase in working capital reflects working capital from
    businesses acquired in fiscal 2008, higher income taxes
    receivable, higher accounts receivable due to increased fourth
    quarter 2008 sales and higher inventory balances.

Balance
    Sheet Changes

The changes in the following selected components of
    Teledyne’s balance sheet are discussed below (in millions):



Accounts receivable, net

$

281.4

$

241.1

Inventories, net

$

207.0

$

174.6

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

$

41.6

$

13.1

Long-term deferred income taxes, net

$

89.2

$

56.9

Goodwill, net

$

502.5

$

351.6

Acquired intangible assets, net

$

117.0

$

61.7

Accrued liabilities — short term

$

202.4

$

157.1

Long-term debt and capital lease obligations, net of current
    portion

$

332.1

$

142.4

Accrued pension obligation

$

227.9

$

74.3

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

$

(205.8

)

$

(61.2

)

The higher balances in accounts receivable, inventory and
    short-term accrued liabilities reflected the impact of organic
    sales growth, as well as businesses acquired in fiscal 2008. The
    higher balance in short-term accrued liabilities also includes
    $15.8 million in product recall and replacement reserves in
    2008. The increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets
    reflects higher income tax receivables of $19.6 million.
    Long-term deferred income taxes reflected a $78.5 million
    increase related to the minimum benefit plan liability
    adjustment in 2008. The increase in goodwill primarily reflected
    the acquisitions made in fiscal 2008. The increase in acquired
    intangible assets primarily reflected the acquisitions made in
    fiscal 2008, partially offset by current year amortization. The
    increase in long-term debt and capital lease obligations
    primarily reflected the use of cash flow to purchase businesses
    and to make pension contributions. The accrued pension
    obligation increased primarily as a result of an increase in the
    unfunded pension liability in 2008 due, in part, to lower
    returns on pension assets, partially offset by higher pension
    contributions. The change in the accumulated other comprehensive
    loss reflected the $121.2 million non-cash adjustment
    related to the increase in the unfunded pension liability in
    2008 and higher foreign currency translation adjustments.



Investing
    Activities

Net cash used in investing activities included capital
    expenditures as presented below:

Capital
    Expenditures

Capital Expenditures




(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

33.8

$

33.7

$

17.9

Engineered Systems

2.2

1.5

1.4

Aerospace Engines and Components

3.7

3.5

5.1

Energy and Power Systems

2.1

1.0

1.9

Corporate

0.1

0.6

0.1

$

41.9

$

40.3

$

26.4

During 2009 we plan to invest approximately $45.0 million
    in capital expenditures, principally to upgrade capital
    equipment, reduce manufacturing costs and introduce new
    products. Commitments at December 28, 2008 for capital
    expenditures were approximately $4.8 million.

Investing activities used cash for acquisitions of
    $285.1 million, $48.1 million and $252.0 million,
    in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively (see “Recent
    Acquisitions” table). We received $0.4 million,
    $0.8 million and $0.7 million, in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, from the sale of assets.

Teledyne funded the acquisitions primarily from borrowings under
    its credit facility and cash on hand.

In all acquisitions, the results of operations and cash flows
    are included in the Company’s consolidated financial
    statements from the date of each respective acquisition. Each of
    the companies acquired, except for CollaborX, is part of the
    Electronics and Communications segment. CollaborX is part of the
    Engineered Systems segment. During 2008, the Company completed
    the process of specifically identifying the amount to be
    assigned to intangible assets, as well as certain assets and
    liabilities for the Storm, Impulse, Judson and TSS International
    acquisitions. The Company is in the process of specifically
    identifying the amount to be assigned to intangible assets, as
    well as certain assets and liabilities for the Webb, Filtronic,
    Cormon, Odom and Demo acquisitions made in fiscal 2008. The
    Company made preliminary estimates as of December 28, 2008,
    since there was insufficient time between the acquisition dates
    and the end of the period to finalize the valuations.

The following table shows the purchase price, goodwill acquired
    and intangible assets acquired for the acquisitions made in
    fiscal 2008 (in millions):

Acquired

Purchase

Goodwill

Intangible

Acquisition Date

Name

Price

Acquired

Assets

December 31, 2007

Impulse

$

35.0

$

15.3

$

16.2

December 31, 2007

Storm

47.7

31.4

10.0

January 31, 2008

TSS

54.8

28.6

23.0

February 1, 2008

Judson

27.0

13.9

7.9

July 7, 2008

Webb

24.3

14.6

(a)

7.0

(a)

August 15, 2008

Filtronic

24.1

4.6

(a)

6.5

(a)

August 16, 2008

Cormon

20.9

17.0

(a)

3.0

(a)

December 19, 2008

Odom

7.0

5.3

(a)

1.5

(a)

December 24, 2008

Demo

5.3

3.1

(a)

1.2

(a)

$

246.1

$

133.8

$

76.3



(a)

These preliminary amounts were based on estimates that are
    subject to change pending the completion of the Company’s
    internal review and the receipt of certain third party valuation
    reports as there was insufficient time between the acquisition
    dates and the end of the period to finalize the valuations.

Except for the Storm and Demo acquisitions, goodwill resulting
    from the acquisitions made in fiscal 2008 will be deductible for
    tax purposes.

The following is a summary at the acquisition date of the
    estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed for the acquisitions made in fiscal 2008 (in millions):

Current assets, excluding cash acquired

$

62.5

Property, plant and equipment

18.0

Goodwill

133.8

Intangible assets

76.3

Total assets acquired

290.6

Current liabilities, including short-term debt

32.8

Other long-term liabilities

11.7

Total liabilities assumed

44.5

Purchase price, net of cash acquired

$

246.1

Financing
    Activities

Cash provided by financing activities for 2008 reflected net
    borrowings of $189.9 million, primarily under our revolving
    credit agreement, to acquire businesses and fund the pension
    plan. Cash used by financing activities for 2007 reflected the
    net repayments of borrowings of $88.8 million. Cash
    provided by financing activities for 2006 reflected net
    borrowings of $182.1 million, primarily under our revolving
    credit agreement, to acquire businesses. Fiscal years 2008, 2007
    and 2006 all reflect proceeds from the exercise of stock options
    of $13.0 million, $6.5 million and $12.3 million,
    respectively. Fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006 included
    $10.3 million, $3.6 million and $8.6 million,
    respectively, in excess tax benefits related to stock-based
    compensation.

On February 8, 2008, Teledyne Technologies entered into a
    First Amendment to its $400.0 million Amended and Restated
    Credit Agreement dated as of July 14, 2006. The amended and
    restated credit facility has lender commitments of
    $590.0 million and expires in July 2011. At year-end 2008,
    we had $254.8 million of available committed credit under
    the credit facility, which can be utilized, as needed, for daily
    operating and periodic cash needs, including acquisitions. In
    February 2009, Teledyne made a pretax $80.0 million
    voluntary contribution to its pension plan, funded primarily
    from its credit facility. Excluding interest and fees, no
    payments are due under the amended and restated credit facility
    until it matures. Borrowings under our credit facility are at
    variable rates which are, at our option, tied to a eurodollar
    base rate equal to LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate) plus an
    applicable rate or a base rate as defined in our credit
    agreement. LIBOR based loans under the facility typically have
    terms of one, two, three or six months and the interest rate for
    each such loan is subject to change if the loan is continued or
    converted following the applicable maturity date. Base rate
    loans have interest rates that primarily fluctuate with changes
    in the prime rate. Interest rates are also subject to change
    based on our debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
    depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) ratio. The credit
    agreement also provides for facility fees that vary between
    0.10% and 0.25% of the credit line, depending on our
    consolidated leverage ratio as calculated from time to time. The
    credit agreement requires the Company to comply with various
    financial and operating covenants, including maintaining certain
    consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios, as well as
    minimum net worth levels and limits on acquired debt. We also
    have a $5.0 million uncommitted credit line available. This
    credit line is utilized, as needed, for periodic cash needs.
    Total debt at year-end 2008 includes $326.0 million
    outstanding under the $590.0 million credit facility and
    $0.6 million in other debt. No amounts were outstanding
    under the uncommitted bank facility at December 28, 2008.
    The Company also has a $6.6 million



outstanding under capital leases, of which $0.5 million is
    current. At year-end 2008, Teledyne had $9.2 million in
    outstanding letters of credit.

On February 24, 2009, our Board of Directors approved a
    stock repurchase program authorizing the company to repurchase
    up to 1,500,000 shares of its common stock. At
    February 24, 2009, the Company had outstanding
    36,019,970 shares of its common stock. Under the program,
    shares may be repurchased from time to time in open market
    transactions at prevailing market prices or in privately
    negotiated transactions through February 28, 2010. The
    timing and actual number of shares purchased will depend on a
    variety of factors, such as price, corporate and regulatory
    requirements, alternative investment opportunities, and other
    market and economic conditions. Repurchases will be funded with
    cash on hand and borrowings under our credit facility.

Pension
    and Postretirement Plans

As of January 1, 2004, non-union new hires participate in
    an enhanced defined contribution plan as opposed to the
    Company’s existing defined benefit pension plan. Teledyne
    anticipates making after-tax cash contributions of approximately
    $71.1 million to its pension plans in 2009 before recovery
    from the U.S. Government, of which an after-tax cash
    contribution of $48.6 million was made in February 2009.

Other
    Matters

Income
    Taxes

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2008 was 36.9%,
    compared with 34.1% for 2007 and 34.0% for 2006. The Company
    completed an analysis of research and development spending for
    2000 through 2006, as well as the base period years, and
    anticipates the receipt of income tax refunds for those years.
    The effective tax rate for 2008 reflects the impact of expected
    research and development income tax credits of $2.5 million
    and also reflects the reversal of $0.8 million in income
    tax contingency reserves which were determined to be no longer
    needed due to the expiration of applicable statutes of
    limitations. Excluding these items the effective tax rate for
    2008 would have been 38.7%. The effective tax rate for 2007
    reflects the impact of expected research and development income
    tax refunds of $4.4 million and also reflects the reversal
    of $1.1 million in income tax contingency reserves which
    were determined to be no longer needed due to the completion of
    state tax audits and the expiration of applicable statutes of
    limitations. Excluding these items the effective tax rate for
    2007 would have been 37.7%. The effective tax rate for the 2006
    reflects the impact of the reversal of income tax contingency
    reserves of $3.3 million which were determined to be no
    longer needed due to the expiration of applicable statutes of
    limitations. Excluding the impact of the reversal, the effective
    tax rate for 2006 would have been 36.7%. Based on the
    Company’s history of operating earnings, expectations of
    future operating earnings and potential tax planning strategies,
    it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax assets
    at December 28, 2008 will be realized.

Costs and
    Pricing

Inflationary trends in recent years have been moderate. Current
    inventory costs, the increasing costs of equipment and other
    costs are considered in establishing sales pricing polices. The
    Company emphasizes cost containment in all aspects of its
    business.

Hedging
    Activities; Market Risk Disclosures

We have not entered into any derivative financial instruments
    such as futures contracts, options and swaps, forward foreign
    exchange contracts or interest rate swaps and futures during
    2008 or 2007. We have no derivative financial instruments
    outstanding at December 28, 2008. We believe that adequate
    controls are in place to monitor any hedging activities. Our
    primary exposure to market risk relates to changes in interest
    rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We periodically
    evaluate these risks and have taken measures to mitigate these
    risks. We own assets and operate facilities in countries that
    have been politically stable. Also, our foreign risk management
    objectives are geared towards stabilizing cash flow from the
    effects of foreign currency fluctuations. Most of the
    Company’s sales are denominated in U.S. dollars which
    mitigates the effect



of exchange rate changes. Borrowings under our credit facility
    are at fixed rates that vary with the term and timing of each
    loan under the facility. Loans under the facility typically have
    terms of one, two, three or six months and the interest rate for
    each such loan is subject to change if the loan is continued or
    converted following the applicable maturity date. Interest rates
    are also subject to change based on our debt to earnings before
    interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ratio. As of
    December 28, 2008, we had $326.0 million in
    outstanding indebtedness under our amended and restated credit
    facility. A 100 basis point change in interest rates would
    result in an increase in annual interest expense of
    approximately $3.3 million, assuming the
    $326.0 million in debt was outstanding for the full year.
    Any borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit line
    are based on a fluctuating market interest rate and,
    consequently, the fair value of any outstanding debt should not
    be affected materially by changes in market interest rates.
    Overall, we believe that our exposure to interest rate risk and
    foreign currency exchange rate changes is not material to our
    financial condition or results of operations.

Related
    Party Transactions

Our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer is a
    director of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, as is one
    of our other directors. The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation
    is the successor to Mellon Financial Corporation following its
    merger with The Bank of New York in 2007. Another of our
    directors was a former chief executive officer of Mellon
    Financial Corporation. All transactions with The Bank of New
    York Mellon Corporation and its respective affiliates are
    effected under normal commercial terms, and we believe that our
    relationships with The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and
    its respective affiliates are arms-length. The Bank of New York
    Mellon Corporation is one of 13 lenders under our
    $590.0 million credit facility, having committed up to
    $90.0 million under the facility. The Bank of New York
    Mellon Corporation also provides cash management services,
    serves as trustee for the Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    Pension Plan and, through its subsidiaries and affiliates,
    provides asset management and transition management services for
    the Pension Plan. Mellon Investor Services LLC, dba BNY
    Mellon Shareowner Services, serves as our transfer agent and
    registrar, as well as the agent under our stockholders rights
    plan and also handles administration of our stock options.

Environmental

We are subject to various federal, state, local and
    international environmental laws and regulations which require
    that we investigate and remediate the effects of the release or
    disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present
    operations. These include sites at which Teledyne has been
    identified as a potentially responsible party under the
    Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
    Act, commonly known as Superfund, and comparable state laws. We
    are currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a
    number of sites. Reserves for environmental investigation and
    remediation totaled approximately $2.9 million at
    December 28, 2008 and $4.4 million at
    December 30, 2007. As investigation and remediation of
    these sites proceed and new information is received, the Company
    expects that accruals will be adjusted to reflect new
    information. Based on current information, we do not believe
    that future environmental costs, in excess of those already
    accrued, will materially and adversely affect our financial
    condition or liquidity. However, resolution of one or more of
    these environmental matters or future accrual adjustments in any
    one reporting period could have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations for that period.

For additional discussion of environmental matters, see
    Notes 2 and 15 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Government
    Contracts

We perform work on a number of contracts with the Department of
    Defense and other agencies and departments of the
    U.S. Government including sub-contracts with government
    prime contractors. Sales under these contracts with the
    U.S. Government, which included contracts with the
    Department of Defense, were approximately 40% of total sales in
    2008, 41% of total sales in 2007 and 40% of total sales in 2006.
    For a summary of sales to the U.S. Government by segment,
    see Note 13 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial



Statements. Sales to the Department of Defense represented
    approximately 29%, 30% and 30% of total sales for 2008, 2007 and
    2006, respectively.

Performance under government contracts has certain inherent
    risks that could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s business, results of operations and financial
    condition. Government contracts are conditioned upon the
    continuing availability of Congressional appropriations, which
    usually occurs on a fiscal year basis even though contract
    performance may take more than one year. See also our government
    contracts risk factor disclosure beginning at page 17.

For information on accounts receivable from the
    U.S. Government, see Note 5 to the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Estimates
    and Reserves

Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results
    of operations are based upon our consolidated financial
    statements, which have been prepared in accordance with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
    The preparation of these financial statements requires us to
    make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of
    assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
    disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we
    evaluate our estimates, including those related to product
    returns and replacements, allowance for doubtful accounts,
    inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty
    obligations, pension and other postretirement benefits,
    long-term contracts, environmental, workers’ compensation
    and general liability, aircraft product liability, employee
    dental and medical benefits and other contingencies and
    litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and
    on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable
    under the circumstances at the time, the results of which form
    the basis for making our judgments. Actual results may differ
    materially from these estimates under different assumptions or
    conditions. In some cases, such differences may be material. See
    “Other Matters — Critical Accounting
    Policies”.

The following table reflects significant reserves and valuation
    accounts, which are estimates and based on judgments as
    described above, at December 28, 2008 and December 30,
    2007:

Reserves
    and Valuation Accounts (a)



(In millions)

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

3.2

$

4.6

LIFO reserves

$

26.5

$

25.6

Other inventory reserves

$

31.6

$

23.6

Aircraft product liability reserves(b)

$

39.6

$

53.8

Workers’ compensation and general liability reserves(b)

$

12.0

$

10.7

Warranty reserves

$

14.0

$

11.4

Environmental reserves(b)

$

2.9

$

4.4

Other accrued liability reserves(b)

$

20.6

$

5.8

(a)

This table should be read in conjunction with the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b)

Includes both long-term and short-term reserves.

Some of the Company’s products are subject to specified
    warranties and the Company provides for the estimated cost of
    product warranties. We regularly assess the adequacy of our
    pre-existing warranty liabilities and adjust amounts as
    necessary based on a review of historic warranty experience with
    respect to the applicable business or products, as well as the
    length and actual terms of the warranties, which are typically



one year. The product warranty reserve is included in current
    accrued liabilities on the balance sheet. Changes in the
    Company’s product warranty reserve are as follows (in
    millions):




Balance at beginning of year

$

11.4

$

11.4

$

10.3

Accruals for product warranties charged to expense

9.0

7.4

9.7

Cost of product warranty claims

(8.7

)

(7.6

)

(9.1

)

Acquisitions

2.3

0.2

0.5

Balance at year-end

$

14.0

$

11.4

$

11.4

Critical
    Accounting Policies

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with United States generally accepted accounting
    principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions
    that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
    the notes to the financial statements. Some of those judgments
    can be subjective and complex, and therefore, actual results
    could differ materially from those estimates under different
    assumptions or conditions. Our critical accounting policies are
    those that are reflective of significant judgment, complexity
    and uncertainty, and may potentially result in materially
    different results under different assumptions and conditions. We
    have identified the following as critical accounting policies:
    revenue recognition; aircraft product liability reserve;
    accounting for pension plans; accounting for business
    combinations, goodwill and other long-lived assets; and
    accounting for income taxes. For additional discussion of the
    application of these and other accounting policies, see
    Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Revenue
    Recognition

Commercial sales and sales from U.S. Government fixed-price
    type contracts are generally recorded as shipments are made or
    as services are rendered. We account for these contracts in
    accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commissions’
    Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No. 104,
    “Revenue Recognition”, or other relevant revenue
    recognition accounting literature. Occasionally, for certain
    fixed-price type contracts that require substantial performance
    over a long time period (generally one or more years), in
    accordance with the requirements of American Institute of
    Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position

81-1

“Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and
    Certain Production-Type Contracts,”

(“SOP 81-1”)

revenues are recorded under the percentage-of-completion method.
    We measure the extent of progress toward completion using the
    units-of-delivery method, cost-to-cost method or upon attainment
    of scheduled performance milestones which could be time, event
    or expense driven. Occasionally, invoices are submitted to and
    paid by the customer under a contractual agreement which has a
    different time schedule than the related revenue recognition.
    Sales under cost-reimbursement contracts, usually from the
    U.S. Government, are recorded as allowable costs are
    incurred and fees are earned.

The development of cost of sales percentages used to record
    costs under certain fixed-price type contracts and fees under
    certain cost-reimbursement type contracts requires
    management’s judgment to make reasonably dependable cost
    estimates for the design, manufacture and delivery of products
    and services, generally over a long time period. Since certain
    fixed-price and cost-reimbursement type contracts extend over a
    long period of time, the impact of revisions in cost and revenue
    estimates during the progress of work may adjust the current
    period earnings on a cumulative

catch-up

basis. This method recognizes in the current period the
    cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior quarters.
    For fixed-price contracts, if the current contract estimate
    indicates a loss, a provision is made for the total anticipated
    loss in the period that it becomes evident. Contract cost and
    revenue estimates for significant contracts are generally
    reviewed and reassessed quarterly. These types of contracts and
    estimates are most frequently related to our sales to the
    U.S. Government or sales to other defense contractors for
    ultimate sale to the U.S. Government. For our sales to the
    U.S. Government in 2008, 2007 and 2006, operating income as
    a percent of sales did not vary by more than 0.5%. If operating
    income as a percent of sales to the U.S. Government had
    been higher or lower by 0.5% in 2008, the Company’s
    operating income would have changed by approximately
    $4.7 million.



Aircraft
    Product Liability Reserve

We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings related
    to aircraft product liability claims. We have accrued an
    estimate for the probable costs for the resolution of these
    claims. At December 28, 2008, we have a reserve of
    $39.6 million for aircraft product liability claims, of
    which $2.5 is current. This estimate has been developed in
    consultation with our insurers, outside counsel handling our
    defense in these matters, historical experience, the number and
    nature of claims, the level of annual self-insurance retentions,
    past payment history and is based upon an analysis of potential
    results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement
    strategies. We do not believe these proceedings will have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position.
    It is possible, however, that future results of operations for
    any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially
    affected by specific events occurring in the period, changes in
    our assumptions, or the effectiveness of our strategies, related
    to these proceedings. The Company has aircraft and product
    liability insurance. The current annual self-insurance retention
    is $20.1 million compared with $21.0 million in 2007.
    If a significant liability claim or combination of claims were
    identified, even taking into account insurance coverage,
    operating profit in a given period could be reduced
    significantly. Accruals could be made in a given period for
    amounts up to our annual self-insurance retention. Based on the
    facts and circumstances of the claims, we have not always
    accrued amounts up to our annual self-insurance retention. Also,
    we cannot assure that, for 2009 and in future years, our ability
    to obtain insurance, or the premiums for such insurance, or the
    amount of our self-insured retention or reserves will not be
    negatively impacted by our experience in prior years or other
    factors. Our current aircraft product liability insurance policy
    expires in May 2009.

Accounting
    for Pension Plans

The Company accounts for its defined benefit pension plan in
    accordance with SFAS No. 87, “Employers’
    Accounting for Pensions,” and SFAS No. 158
    “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
    Other Postretirement Plans — An Amendment of FASB
    Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R),” which
    requires that amounts recognized in financial statements be
    determined on an actuarial basis, rather than as contributions
    are made to the plan. A significant element in determining the
    Company’s pension income or expense is the expected return
    on plan assets, as well as the assumed discount rate on pension
    liabilities. The Company has assumed, based upon the types of
    securities the plan assets are invested in and the long-term
    historical returns of these investments, that the long-term
    expected return on pension assets will be 8.25% in 2009 and its
    assumed discount rate will be 6.25% in 2009. The Company
    long-term expected return on pension assets used in 2008 was
    8.5% and the assumed discount rate used in 2008 was 6.0%. The
    actual rate of return on pension assets was a negative 28.2% in
    2008 and 2.5% in 2007. If the actual rate of return on pension
    assets is above the projection, the Company may be able to
    reduce its contributions to the pension trust. If the actual
    rate of return on pension assets is below the projection, the
    Company may be required to make additional contributions to the
    pension trust. The Company made after-tax contributions of
    $36.2 million to its pension benefit plans in 2008 and
    currently anticipates making an after-tax cash contribution of
    approximately $71.1 million to its pension benefit plans in
    2009, before recovery from the U.S. Government, of which an
    after-tax cash contribution of $48.6 million was made in
    February 2009. The assumed long-term rate of return on assets is
    applied to the market-related value of plan assets at the end of
    the previous year. This produces the expected return on plan
    assets that is included in annual pension income or expense
    calculation for the current year. The cumulative difference
    between this expected return and the actual return on plan
    assets is deferred and amortized into pension income or expense
    over future periods. In accordance with the requirements of
    SFAS No. 158, at year-end 2008 the Company has a
    $191.3 million non-cash reduction to stockholders’
    equity and a long-term additional liability of
    $315.0 million related to its pension plans. At year-end
    2007, the Company had a $67.6 million non-cash reduction to
    stockholders’ equity and a long-term additional liability
    of $111.1 million related to its pension plans. See
    Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    for additional pension disclosures.



Differences in the discount rate and expected long-term rate of
    return on assets within the indicated range would have had the
    following impact on 2008 pension expense:

0.25 Percentage

0.25 Percentage

Point Increase

Point Decrease

$ in millions

Increase (decrease) to pension expense resulting from:

Change in discount rate

$

(2.1

)

$

2.2

Change in long-term rate of return on plan assets

$

(1.5

)

$

(1.5

)

See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for additional pension disclosures.

Accounting
    for Business Combinations, Goodwill, Acquired Intangible Assets
    and Other Long-Lived Assets

The Company accounts for goodwill and purchased intangible
    assets under SFAS No. 141 “Business
    Combinations” and SFAS No. 142 “Goodwill and
    Other Intangible Assets”. In all acquisitions, the results
    are generally included in the Company’s consolidated
    financial statements from the date of each respective
    acquisition. Business acquisitions are accounted for under the
    purchase method by assigning the purchase price to tangible and
    intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Assets
    acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their fair
    values and the excess of the purchase price over the amounts
    assigned is recorded as goodwill. Purchased intangible assets
    with finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful
    lives. Adjustments to fair value assessments are recorded to
    goodwill over the purchase price allocation period (generally
    not longer than twelve months) with the exception of certain
    adjustments related to income tax uncertainties, the resolution
    of which may extend beyond the purchase price allocation period.

Goodwill and acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives
    are not amortized. We review goodwill and acquired
    indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever
    events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
    amount of these assets may not be recoverable. The Company also
    performs an annual impairment test in the fourth quarter of each
    year. Based on the annual impairment test completed in the
    fourth quarter of 2008, no impairment of goodwill or intangible
    assets with indefinite lives was indicated. The Company
    estimates the fair value of the reporting units, which are our
    four business segments, using a discounted cash flow model based
    on our best estimate of amounts and timing of future revenues
    and cash flows and our most recent business and strategic plans,
    and compares the estimated fair value to the net book value of
    the reporting unit, including goodwill. The development of
    future revenue and cash flow projections for our business and
    strategic plan, and the annual impairment test involve
    significant judgments. Changes in these projections could affect
    the estimated fair value of certain of the Company’s
    reporting units and could result in a goodwill impairment charge
    in a future period. However, a 10 percent decrease in the
    current fair value estimate of each of the Company’s
    reporting units would not result in a goodwill impairment charge.

We monitor the recoverability of the carrying value of our
    long-lived assets. An impairment charge is recognized when
    events and circumstances indicate that the undiscounted cash
    flows expected to be generated by an asset (including any
    proceeds from dispositions) are less than the carrying value of
    the asset and the asset’s carrying value is less than its
    fair value. Our cash flow estimates are based on historical
    results adjusted to reflect our best estimate of future market
    and operating conditions. The net carrying value of assets not
    recoverable is reduced to fair value. Our estimates of fair
    value represent our best estimate based on industry trends and
    reference to market rates and transactions. Our determination of
    what constitutes an indication of possible impairment, the
    estimation of future cash flows and the determination of
    estimated fair value are all significant judgments.

Accounting
    for Income Taxes

Income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities
    reflect management’s assessment of actual future taxes to
    be paid on items reflected in the financial statements.
    Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions
    and determining our provision for income taxes. Uncertainty
    exists regarding tax positions taken in previously filed tax
    returns still under examination and positions expected to be
    taken in



future returns. Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise due to
    differences between the consolidated financial statement
    carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their
    respective tax bases and tax carryforwards. Although we believe
    our income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities
    are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax
    outcome will not be different from that which is reflected in
    our historical income tax provisions and accruals. To the extent
    that the final tax outcome is different than the amounts
    recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income
    taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The
    provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve
    provisions and changes to reserves that are considered
    appropriate, as well as the related net interest.

Significant judgment is required in determining any valuation
    allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the
    need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available
    evidence including past operating results, estimates of future
    taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies.
    In the event that we change our determination as to the amount
    of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our
    valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision
    for income taxes in the period in which such determination is
    made.

Our effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate primarily
    due to the tax impact of the research and development tax
    credits, state taxes and tax audit settlements. The effective
    tax rate was 36.9%, 34.1% and 34.0% in fiscal 2008, 2007 and
    2006, respectively. See New Accounting Pronouncements Adopted
    and Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for disclosures regarding the adoption of
    FIN No. 48.

Accounting
    Pronouncements Adopted

SFAS No. 159

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,
    “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities — Including an Amendment of FASB Statement
    No. 115.” SFAS No. 159 permits entities to
    choose to measure eligible items at fair value at specified
    election dates and report unrealized gains and losses on items
    for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at
    each subsequent reporting date. SFAS No. 159 is
    effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
    2007. The Company adopted SFAS No. 159 effective,
    December 31, 2007 and did not elect the fair value
    measurement option for any of our financial assets or
    liabilities.

EITF

No. 07-3

In June 2007 the FASB ratified EITF

No. 07-3,

(“EITF 07-3”),

“Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or
    Services to Be Used in Future Research and Development
    Activities”.

EITF 07-3

requires non-refundable advance payments for goods and services
    to be used in future research and development activities to be
    recorded as an asset and the payments to be expensed when the
    research and development activities are performed.

EITF 07-3

is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007.
    The Company adopted

EITF 07-3

effective December 31, 2007 and it did not have an effect
    on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or
    financial position.

FIN No. 48

On January 1, 2007, Teledyne Technologies adopted FASB
    Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes (“FIN No. 48”). FIN No. 48
    prescribes a minimum recognition threshold and measurement
    methodology that a tax position taken or expected to be taken in
    a tax return is required to meet before being recognized in the
    financial statements. It also provides guidance for
    derecognition, classification, interest and penalties,
    accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. As a
    result of the implementation the Company recognized a
    $0.2 million increase in the liability for unrecognized tax
    benefits, which were accounted for as a cumulative-effect
    adjustment (decrease) to the beginning balance of retained
    earnings. As of the date of adoption and after the impact of
    recognizing the increase in the liability noted above, the
    Company’s total gross unrecognized tax benefits and related
    interest totaled $5.5 million.



The following presents a rollforward of our unrecognized tax
    benefits (in millions):



Unrecognized

Unrecognized

Tax Benefits

Interest

Tax Benefits

Interest

Beginning of year

$

27.8

$

0.5

$

4.8

$

0.7

Increase in prior year tax positions

0.2

0.3

0.3

0.3

Increase for tax positions taken during the current period

9.8

0.2

24.5

—

Reduction related to settlements with taxing authorities

—

—

(0.8

)

(0.2

)

Reduction related to lapse of the statue of limitations

(1.0

)

(0.2

)

(1.0

)

(0.3

)

End of year

$

36.8

$

0.8

$

27.8

$

0.5

We recognized interest related to unrecognized tax benefits of
    $0.5 million and $0.3 million within the provision for
    income taxes in our statements of operations for fiscal year
    2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 28, 2008, we
    estimated that the entire balance of unrecognized tax benefits,
    if resolved in our favor, would positively impact the effective
    tax rate and, therefore, be recognized as additional tax
    benefits in our income statement.

We file income tax returns in the United States federal
    jurisdiction and in various states and foreign jurisdictions.
    Except for refund claims related to credits for research
    activities, the Company has substantially concluded on all
    U.S. federal and California income tax matters for all
    years through 2004. Substantially all other material state and
    local and foreign income tax matters have been concluded for
    years through 2003.

The Company anticipates the total unrecognized tax benefit may
    be reduced by $1.5 million due to the expiration of
    statutes of limitation for various federal and state tax issues
    in the next 12 months.

Pending
    Accounting Pronouncements

SFAS No. 141R

In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141R, “Business
    Combinations” (“SFAS No. 141R”). This
    statement replaces FASB Statement No. 141, “Business
    Combinations”. SFAS No. 141R establishes
    principles and requirements for how the acquirer of a business
    recognizes and measures in its financial statements the
    identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any
    noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. The statement also
    provides guidance for recognizing and measuring the goodwill
    acquired in the business combination and determines what
    information to disclose to enable users of the financial
    statement to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the
    business combination. SFAS No. 141R applies
    prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition
    date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting
    period beginning on or after December 15, 2008, and
    accordingly will not impact the accounting for acquisitions made
    prior to its adoption, except for the accounting for any
    deferred tax valuation allowances and acquired tax contingencies
    related to acquisitions completed before the effective date.
    SFAS No. 141R, amends SFAS No. 109 to
    require adjustments, made after the adoption of
    SFAS No. 141R, for acquired deferred tax assets and
    income tax positions to be recognized in the income statement.
    For any acquisitions completed after our 2008 fiscal year, we
    expect SFAS No. 141R will have an impact on our
    consolidated financial statements, however the nature and
    magnitude of the specific effects will depend upon the nature,
    terms and size of the acquisitions we consummate.

SFAS No. 160

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,
    “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
    Statements — an amendment of ARB No. 51”
    (“SFAS No. 160”). SFAS No. 160
    changes the way the consolidated income statement is presented
    and establishes a single method of accounting for changes in a



parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that does not
    result in deconsolidation. It also requires that a parent
    recognize a gain or loss in net income when a subsidiary is
    deconsolidated. Under the new standard, noncontrolling interests
    are considered equity and are to be reported as an element of
    stockholders’ equity rather than within the liability
    section of the balance sheet. In addition, the current practice
    of reporting minority interest expense or benefit also will
    change. Under the new standard, net income will be shown before
    minority interest income or expense. The income statement will
    include separate disclosure of the attribution of income between
    the controlling and noncontrolling interests. Increases and
    decreases in the noncontrolling ownership interest amount are to
    be accounted for as equity transactions. This Statement will be
    effective for Teledyne’s 2009 fiscal year and interim
    periods within that fiscal year. SFAS No. 160 will be
    applied prospectively as of the beginning of the fiscal year
    2009, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements.
    The presentation and disclosure requirements must be applied
    retrospectively for all periods presented. As of
    December 28, 2008, other long-term liabilities included
    $5.2 million for minority interests. The Company is
    currently evaluating the impact of adopting this Statement.

SFAS No. 157

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
    “Fair Value Measurements,”
    (“SFAS No. 157”) which defines fair value,
    establishes a framework in generally accepted accounting
    principles for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures
    about fair value measurements. This standard only applies when
    other standards require or permit the fair value measurement of
    assets and liabilities. It does not increase the use of fair
    value measurement. SFAS No. 157 is effective for
    financial assets and financial liabilities for fiscal years
    beginning after November 15, 2007. In February 2008, the
    FASB issued FASB Staff Position

157-1

“Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB
    Statement No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That
    Address Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease
    Classification or Measurement under Statement 13”

(“FSP 157-1”)

which removed leasing transactions accounted for under
    SFAS No. 13 and related guidance from the scope of
    SFAS No. 157. Also in February 2008, the FASB issued

FSP 157-2

“Partial Deferral of the Effective Date of Statement
    No. 157”

(“FSP 157-2”),

deferred the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for all
    nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities to fiscal years
    beginning after November 15, 2008. The implementation of
    SFAS No. 157 for financial assets and financial
    liabilities, effective December 31, 2007, did not have a
    material impact on our consolidated financial position and
    results of operations. The Company is currently assessing the
    impact of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and
    nonfinancial liabilities on its consolidated financial position
    and results of operations.

Safe
    Harbor Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking
    Data

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operation contains forward-looking
    statements, as defined in the Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995, directly and indirectly relating to
    earnings, growth opportunities, capital expenditures, pension
    matters, stock option compensation expense, taxes and strategic
    plans. All statements made in this Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation
    that are not historical in nature should be considered
    forward-looking. Actual results could differ materially from
    these forward-looking statements. Many factors, including
    continuing disruptions in the global economy and insurance and
    credit markets, changes in demand for products sold to the
    defense electronics, instrumentation and energy exploration and
    production, commercial aviation, semiconductor and
    communications markets, funding, continuation and award of
    government programs, continued liquidity of our customers
    (including commercial and military aviation customers) and
    availability of credit to our customers, could change the
    anticipated results. Increasing fuel costs could negatively
    affect the markets of our commercial aviation businesses. In
    addition, financial market fluctuations affect the value of our
    pension assets.

Global responses to terrorism and other perceived threats
    increase uncertainties associated with forward-looking
    statements about our businesses. Various responses to terrorism
    and perceived threats could realign government programs, and
    affect the composition, funding or timing of our programs.
    Flight restrictions would negatively impact the market for
    general aviation aircraft piston engines and components. The new
    leadership



of the U.S. Government could result, over time, in
    reductions in defense spending and further changes in programs
    in which the Company participates.

The Company continues to take action to assure compliance with
    the internal controls, disclosure controls and other
    requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we believe
    our control systems are effective, there are inherent
    limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to
    error or fraud may occur and may not be detected.

While Teledyne Technologies’ growth strategy includes
    possible acquisitions, we cannot provide any assurance as to
    when, if or on what terms any acquisitions will be made.
    Acquisitions involve various inherent risks, such as, among
    others, our ability to integrate acquired businesses, retain
    customers and achieve identified financial and operating
    synergies. There are additional risks associated with acquiring,
    owning and operating businesses outside of the United States,
    including those arising from U.S. and foreign government
    policy changes or actions and exchange rate fluctuations.

Additional information concerning factors that could cause
    actual results to differ materially from those projected in the
    forward-looking statements is contained beginning on
    page 15 of this

Form 10-K

under the caption “Risk Factors; Cautionary Statements as
    to Forward-Looking Statements.” Forward-looking statements
    are generally accompanied by words such as “estimate”,
    “project”, “predict”, “believes”
    or “expect”, that convey the uncertainty of future
    events or outcomes. We assume no obligation to publicly update
    or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of
    new information or otherwise.

Item 7A.

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

The information required by this item is included in this Report
    at page 52 under the caption “Other
    Matters — Hedging Activities; Market Risk
    Disclosures” of “Item 7. Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operation.”

Item 8.

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data.

The information required by this item is included in this Report
    at pages 67 through 106. See the “Index to Financial
    Statements and Related Information” at page 66.

Item 9.

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure.

None.

Item 9A.

Controls
    and Procedures.

Disclosure
    Controls

Teledyne’s disclosure controls and procedures are designed
    to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports
    that it files or submits, under the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, was recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
    the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the
    Securities and Exchange Commission and to provide reasonable
    assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in
    such reports is accumulated and communicated to the
    Company’s management, including its principal executive
    officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow
    timely decisions regarding required disclosure. The
    Company’s Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
    and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, with the
    participation and assistance of other members of management,
    have evaluated the effectiveness, as of December 28, 2008,
    of the Company’s “disclosure controls and
    procedures,” as that term is defined in

Rule 13a-15(e)

under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
    (“the Exchange Act”). Based upon that evaluation, our
    Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer
    concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures as of
    December 28, 2008, are effective.



Internal
    Controls

See Management Statement on page 67 for management’s
    annual report on internal control over financial reporting. See
    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
    page 68 for Ernst & Young LLP’s attestation
    report on management’s assessment of internal control over
    financial reporting.

There was no change in the Company’s “internal control
    over financial reporting” (as such term is defined in

Rule 13a-15(f)

under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the quarter ended
    December 28, 2008, that has materially affected, or is
    reasonably likely to materially effect, the Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting. There also were no
    significant deficiencies or material weaknesses identified for
    which corrective action needed to be taken.

Sarbanes-Oxley
    Disclosure Committee

The Company’s Sarbanes-Oxley Disclosure Committee include
    the following members:

Stephen F. Blackwood, Vice President and Treasurer

Ivars R. Blukis, Chief Business Risk Assurance Officer (Internal
    Audit)

Melanie S. Cibik, Vice President, Associate General Counsel and
    Assistant Secretary

John T. Kuelbs, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
    Secretary

Brian A. Levan, Director of External Financial Reporting and
    Assistant Controller

Susan L. Main, Vice President and Controller

Robyn E. McGowan, Vice President, Administration and Human
    Resources and Assistant Secretary

S. Paul Sassalos, Senior Corporate Counsel

Dale A. Schnittjer, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
    Officer

Jason VanWees, Vice President, Corporate Development and
    Investor Relations

Among its tasks, the Sarbanes-Oxley Disclosure Committee
    discusses and reviews disclosure issues to help us fulfill our
    disclosure obligations on a timely basis in accordance with SEC
    rules and regulations and is intended to be used as an
    additional resource for employees to raise questions regarding
    accounting, auditing, internal controls and disclosure matters.
    Our toll-free Ethics Help Line (1-877-666-6968) continues to be
    an alternative means to communicate concerns to the
    Company’s management.

Item 9B.

Other
    Information.

None.



PART III

Item 10.

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.

In addition to the information set forth under the caption
    “Executive Management” beginning at page 13 in
    Part I of this Report, the information required by this
    item is set forth in the 2009 Proxy Statement under the captions
    “Item 1 on Proxy Card — Election of
    Directors,” “Board Composition and Practices,”
    “Corporate Governance,” “Committees of Our Board
    of Directors — Audit Committee” and “Report
    of the Audit Committee” and “Stock
    Ownership — Sections 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
    Reporting Compliance.” Other than the “Report of the
    Audit Committee,” this information is incorporated herein
    by reference.

Item 11.

Executive
    Compensation.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2009
    Proxy Statement under the captions “Executive and Director
    Compensation” “Compensation Committee Interlocks and
    Insider Participation” and “Personnel and Compensation
    Committee Report.” Other than the “Personnel and
    Compensation Committee Report,” this information is
    incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters.

Except for the table below, the information required by this
    item is set forth in the 2009 Proxy Statement under the caption
    “Stock Ownership Information.”

Equity
    Compensation Plans Information

The following table summarizes information with respect to
    equity compensation plans as of December 28, 2008:

Number of Securities

Remaining Available

for Future Issuance

Number of Securities

under Equity

to be Issued upon

Compensation Plans

Exercise of

Weighted-Average

[excluding securities

Outstanding Options,

Exercise Price of Options,

reflected in

Warrants and Rights

Warrants or Rights

column (a)]

Plan Category

(a)

(b)

(c)

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders:

1999 Incentive Plan(1)

1,086,607

$

32.65

—

2002 Stock Incentive Plan(1)

1,321,863

29.54

—

2008 Incentive Plan(2)

7,426

42.23

1,600,402

1999 Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan(1)

316,076

20.17

—

Employee Stock Purchase Plan(3)

—

—

1,000,000

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders

—

—

—

Total

2,731,972

$

29.73

2,600,402

(1)

The 1999 Incentive Plan, the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan and the
    1999 Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan terminated
    following stockholder approval of the 2008 Incentive Award Plan
    at our 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, and no additional
    awards under these plans may be made thereafter.

(2)

The amount includes: up to 285,301 shares of our common
    stock potentially issuable at December 28, 2008 under our
    Performance Share Plan (PSP) for the

2006-2008

performance cycle, of which 53,834 shares were issued on
    February 2, 2009 with respect to the first installment
    thereto.



(3)

We maintain an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (commonly known as
    The Stock Advantage Plan) for eligible employees. It enables
    employees to invest in our common stock through automatic,
    after-tax payroll deductions, within specified limits. We add a
    25% matching company contribution up to $1,200 annually. Our
    contribution is currently paid in cash and the plan
    administrator purchases shares of our common stock in the open
    market.

Item 13.

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2009
    Proxy Statement under the captions “Corporate
    Governance” and “Certain Transactions” and is
    incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2009
    Proxy Statement under the captions “Fees Billed by
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” and
    “Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policies” under
    “Item 2 on Proxy Card — Ratification of
    Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm” and is incorporated herein by reference.



PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules.

(a) Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules:

(1) Financial Statements

See the “Index to Financial Statements and Related
    Information” at page 66 of this Report, which is
    incorporated herein by reference.

(2) Financial Statement Schedules

See Schedule II captioned “Valuation and Qualifying
    Accounts” at page 106 of this Report, which is
    incorporated herein by reference.

(3) Exhibits

A list of exhibits filed with this

Form 10-K

or incorporated by reference is found in the Exhibit Index
    immediately following the certifications of this Report and
    incorporated herein by reference.

(b) Exhibits:

See Item 15(a)(3) above.

(c) Financial Schedules:

See Item 15(a)(2) above.


INDEX TO
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RELATED INFORMATION

Page

Financial Statements and Related Information:

Management Statement


Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting


Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm


Consolidated Statements of Income


Consolidated Balance Sheets


Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’
    Equity


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Financial Statement Schedule:

Schedule II — Valuation and
    Qualifying Accounts




MANAGEMENT
    STATEMENT

RESPONSIBILITY
    FOR PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND ESTABLISHING AND
    MAINTAINING ADEQUATE INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

We are responsible for the preparation of the financial
    statements included in this Annual Report. The financial
    statements were prepared in accordance with accounting
    principles generally accepted in the United States of America
    and include amounts that are based on the best estimates and
    judgments of management. The other financial information
    contained in this Annual Report is consistent with the financial
    statements.

Our internal control system is designed to provide reasonable
    assurance concerning the reliability of the financial data used
    in the preparation of Teledyne Technologies’ financial
    statements, as well as to safeguard the Company’s assets
    from unauthorized use or disposition.

All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have
    inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined
    to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with
    respect to financial statement presentation.

REPORT OF
    MANAGEMENT ON TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED’S INTERNAL
    CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

We are also responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting. We conducted
    an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 28, 2008. In making this evaluation, we used the
    criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
    of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”) in Internal
    Control — Integrated Framework. Our evaluation
    included reviewing the documentation of our controls, evaluating
    the design effectiveness of our controls and testing their
    operating effectiveness. Our evaluation did not include
    assessing the effectiveness of internal control over financial
    reporting for the 2008 acquisitions of assets of Webb,
    Filtronic, Cormon, Odom and Demo, which are included in the 2008
    consolidated financial statements of the Company and
    constituted: $86.7 million and $74.3 million of total
    and net assets, respectively, as of December 28, 2008 and:
    $17.0 million and $0.8 million of total revenues and
    net loss, respectively, for the year then ended. We did not
    assess the effectiveness of internal control over financial
    reporting at these newly acquired entities due to the
    insufficient time between the date acquired and year-end and the
    complexity associated with assessing internal controls during
    integration efforts making the process impractical. Based on
    this evaluation we believe that, as of December 28, 2008,
    the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting
    were effective.

Ernst and Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting
    firm, has issued their report on the effectiveness of Teledyne
    Technologies’ internal control over financial reporting.
    Their report appears on page 68 of this Annual Report.

Date:
    February 23, 2009

/s/

Robert
    Mehrabian

Robert Mehrabian

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Date:
    February 23, 2009

/s/

Dale
    A. Schnittjer

Dale A. Schnittjer

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer



REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

We have audited Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 28, 2008, based on criteria established in
    Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    (the COSO criteria). Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s
    management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
    control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the
    effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
    included in the accompanying Report of Management on Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated’s Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
    company’s internal control over financial reporting based
    on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

As indicated in the accompanying Report of Management on
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting, management’s assessment of and
    conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting did not include the internal controls of the
    recent acquisitions of assets of Webb Research Corp., the
    Defense Electronics business of Filtronic PLC, Cormon Limited
    and Cormon Technology Limited, Odom Hydrographic Systems, Inc.
    and Demo Systems LLC, which are included in the 2008
    consolidated financial statements of Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated and constituted $86.7 million and
    $74.3 million of total and net assets, respectively, as of
    December 28, 2008 and $17.0 million and
    $0.8 million of revenues and net loss, respectively, for
    the year then ended. Our audit of internal control over
    financial reporting of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated also
    did not include an evaluation of the internal control over
    financial reporting of Webb, the Defense Electronics business of
    Filtronic PLC, Cormon, Odom and Demo.

In our opinion, Teledyne Technologies Incorporated maintained,
    in all material respects, effective internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 28, 2008, based on the
    COSO criteria.



We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated balance sheets of Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated as of December 28, 2008 and December 30,
    2007, and the related consolidated statements of income,
    stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended December 28, 2008 of Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated and our report dated February 23, 2009
    expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. Our audits also
    included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at
    Item 15(a) and our report dated February 23, 2009 expressed
    an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/

Ernst &
    Young LLP

Los Angeles,
    California

February 23, 2009



REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board
    of Directors and Stockholders

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated as of December 28, 2008
    and December 30, 2007, and the related consolidated
    statements of income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows
    for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 28, 2008. Our audits also included the financial
    statement schedule listed in the index at Item 15(a)(2).
    These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility
    of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to
    express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule
    based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated at
    December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, and the
    consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for
    each of the three years in the period ended December 28,
    2008, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial
    statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
    financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
    material respects the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial
    statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for
    Share-Based Payments in accordance with Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) on
    January 2, 2006. As discussed in Note 12 to the
    consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its
    method of accounting for its defined-benefit pension and other
    postretirement plans in accordance with Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 158 on December 31, 2006. As
    discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial
    statements, the Company adopted the provisions of FASB
    Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes (FIN No. 48) on January 1, 2007.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 28, 2008, based on
    criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework
    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission and our report dated February 23, 2009
    expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/

Ernst &
    Young LLP

Los Angeles,
    California

February 23, 2009



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(In
    millions, except per-share amounts)




Sales

$

1,893.0

$

1,622.3

$

1,433.2

Costs and Expenses

Cost of sales

1,339.5

1,136.4

1,020.2

Selling, general and administrative expenses

364.6

323.6

287.9

Total costs and expenses

1,704.1

1,460.0

1,308.1

Income before other income and expense and income taxes

188.9

162.3

125.1

Interest and debt expense, net

(10.9

)

(12.5

)

(7.4

)

Minority interest

(2.3

)

(3.4

)

(1.0

)

Other income, net

0.6

2.9

5.0

Income before income taxes

176.3

149.3

121.7

Provision for income taxes

65.0

50.8

41.4

Net income

$

111.3

$

98.5

$

80.3

Basic earnings per common share

$

3.14

$

2.82

$

2.34

Diluted earnings per common share

$

3.05

$

2.72

$

2.26

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
    statements.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS

(In
    millions, except share amounts)



Assets

Cash and cash equivalents

$

20.4

$

13.4

Accounts receivable, net

281.4

241.1

Inventories, net

207.0

174.6

Deferred income taxes, net

42.6

34.5

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

41.6

13.1

Total current assets

593.0

476.7

Property, plant and equipment, net

202.6

177.2

Deferred income taxes, net

89.2

56.9

Goodwill, net

502.5

351.6

Acquired intangibles, net

117.0

61.7

Other assets, net

30.2

35.3

Total Assets

$

1,534.5

$

1,159.4

Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity

Accounts payable

$

108.2

$

105.1

Accrued liabilities

202.4

157.1

Current portion of long-term debt and capital lease

1.1

0.8

Total current liabilities

311.7

263.0

Long-term debt and capital lease obligations

332.1

142.4

Accrued pension obligation

227.9

74.3

Accrued postretirement benefits

16.7

22.9

Other long-term liabilities

116.1

126.6

Total Liabilities

1,004.5

629.2

Commitments and Contingencies

Stockholders’ equity

Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; outstanding
    shares — none

—

—

Common stock, $0.01 par value; authorized 125 million
    shares;

Outstanding shares: 2008 — 35,926,224 and
    2007 — 35,150,117

0.4

0.4

Additional paid-in capital

240.0

206.9

Retained earnings

495.4

384.1

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(205.8

)

(61.2

)

Total Stockholders’ Equity

530.0

530.2

Total Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity

$

1,534.5

$

1,159.4

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
    statements.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(In
    millions)

Accumulated

Additional

Other

Total

Common

Paid-in

Retained

Comprehensive

Stockholders’

Stock

Capital

Earnings

Income (Loss)

Equity

Balance, January 1, 2006

$

0.3

$

159.4

$

205.5

$

(39.2

)

$

326.0

Net income

—

—

80.3

—

80.3

Other comprehensive loss, net of tax:

Foreign currency translation losses

—

—

—

1.4

1.4

Minimum pension liability adjustment

—

—

—

36.6

36.6

Comprehensive income

—

—

80.3

38.0

118.3

Cumulative effect of the adoption of SFAS No. 158

—

—

—

(41.1

)

(41.1

)

Stock option compensation expense

—

5.9

—

—

5.9

Exercise of stock options and other, net

—

22.7

—

—

22.7

Balance, December 31, 2006

0.3

188.0

285.8

(42.3

)

431.8

Net income

—

—

98.5

—

98.5

Cumulative effect of the adoption of FIN No. 48

—

—

(0.2

)

—

(0.2

)

Other comprehensive loss, net of tax:

Foreign currency translation gains

—

—

—

0.4

0.4

Minimum benefit plan liability adjustment

—

—

—

(19.3

)

(19.3

)

Comprehensive income

—

—

98.3

(18.9

)

79.4

Stock option compensation expense

—

6.8

—

—

6.8

Exercise of stock options and other, net

0.1

12.1

—

—

12.2

Balance, December 30, 2007

0.4

206.9

384.1

(61.2

)

530.2

Net income

—

—

111.3

—

111.3

Other comprehensive loss, net of tax:

Foreign currency translation losses

—

—

—

(23.4

)

(23.4

)

Minimum benefit plan liability adjustment

—

—

—

(121.2

)

(121.2

)

Comprehensive loss

—

—

111.3

(144.6

)

(33.3

)

Stock option compensation expense

—

7.5

—

—

7.5

Exercise of stock options and other, net

—

25.6

—

—

25.6

Balance, December 28, 2008

$

0.4

$

240.0

$

495.4

$

(205.8

)

$

530.0

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
    statements.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In
    millions)




Operating activities

Net income

$

111.3

$

98.5

$

80.3

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
    operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization of assets

47.3

34.7

32.0

Deferred income taxes

(41.0

)

(21.3

)

(12.1

)

Stock option expense

7.5

6.8

5.9

Minority interest

2.3

3.2

1.0

Excess income tax benefits from stock options

(10.3

)

(3.6

)

(8.6

)

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, excluding the
    effect of businesses acquired:

Increase in accounts receivable

(16.0

)

(8.7

)

(17.5

)

Increase in inventories

(2.3

)

(10.2

)

(23.2

)

Decrease (increase) in prepaid expenses and other assets

(2.0

)

0.8

1.7

Decrease (increase) in long-term assets

5.2

(6.9

)

(3.2

)

Increase (decrease) in accounts payable

(6.1

)

8.7

8.7

Increase in accrued liabilities

25.3

25.0

8.3

Decrease (increase) in current income taxes payable, net

(6.7

)

6.3

3.8

Increase (decrease) in other long-term liabilities

(16.2

)

17.2

6.4

Decrease in accrued postretirement benefits

(6.2

)

(1.5

)

(3.7

)

Increase (decrease) in accrued pension obligation

32.4

17.0

(1.6

)

Other operating, net

(4.1

)

0.7

0.2

Net cash provided by operating activities

120.4

166.7

78.4

Investing activities

Purchases of property, plant and equipment

(41.9

)

(40.3

)

(26.4

)

Purchase of businesses and other investments, net of cash
    acquired

(285.1

)

(48.1

)

(252.0

)

Proceeds from sale of assets

0.4

0.8

0.7

Net cash used by investing activities

(326.6

)

(87.6

)

(277.7

)

Financing activities

Net proceeds from (repayments of) long-term debt

189.9

(88.8

)

182.1

Tax benefit from stock options exercised

10.3

3.6

8.6

Proceeds from exercise of stock options

13.0

6.5

12.3

Net cash provided (used) by financing activities

213.2

(78.7

)

203.0

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

7.0

0.4

3.7

Cash and cash equivalents — beginning of year

13.4

13.0

9.3

Cash and cash equivalents — end of year

$

20.4

$

13.4

$

13.0

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
    statements.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1.  Description
    of Business

Effective November 29, 1999 (the “Distribution
    Date”), Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    (“Teledyne” or the “Company”), became an
    independent, public company as a result of the distribution by
    Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated, now known as Allegheny
    Technologies Incorporated (“ATI”), of the
    Company’s Common Stock, $.01 par value per share, to
    holders of ATI Common Stock at a distribution ratio of one for
    seven (the “spin-off”). The spin-off has been treated
    as a tax-free distribution for federal income tax purposes. The
    spin-off included the transfer of certain of the businesses of
    ATI’s Aerospace and Electronics segment to the new
    corporation, immediately prior to the Distribution Date. ATI no
    longer has a financial investment in Teledyne.

Teledyne is a leading provider of sophisticated electronic
    components and subsystems, instrumentation and communications
    products, including defense electronics, monitoring and control
    instrumentation for marine, environmental and industrial
    applications, harsh environment interconnect products, data
    acquisition and communications equipment for air transport and
    business aircraft, and components and subsystems for wireless
    and satellite communications. We also provide engineered systems
    and information technology services for defense, space,
    environmental and nuclear applications, manufacture general
    aviation engines and components, and supply energy generation,
    energy storage and small propulsion products.

Teledyne serves niche market segments where performance,
    precision and reliability are critical. Teledyne’s
    customers include government agencies, aerospace prime
    contractors, energy exploration and production companies, major
    industrial companies, and airlines and general aviation
    companies.

Teledyne consists of the operations of the Electronics and
    Communications segment with operations in the United States,
    United Kingdom, Mexico, Singapore, China and France; the
    Engineered Systems segment with operations in the United States;
    the Aerospace Engines and Components segment with operations in
    the United States; and the Energy and Power Systems segment with
    operations in the United States.

Note 2.  Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles
    of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    Teledyne and all wholly-owned and majority-owned domestic and
    foreign subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts and transactions
    have been eliminated.

Fiscal
    Year

The Company operates on a 52 or 53-week fiscal year convention
    ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. Fiscal year
    2008 was a 52-week fiscal year and ended on December 28,
    2008. Fiscal year 2007 was a 52-week fiscal year and ended on
    December 30, 2007. Fiscal year 2006 was a 52-week fiscal
    year and ended on December 31, 2006. References to the
    years 2008, 2007 and 2006 are intended to refer to the
    respective fiscal year unless otherwise noted.

Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
    make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of
    assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
    disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, the
    Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to
    product returns and replacements, allowance for doubtful
    accounts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty
    obligations, pension and other postretirement benefits,
    long-term contracts, environmental, workers’ compensation
    and general liability, aircraft product liability, employee
    dental and medical benefits and other contingencies, and
    litigation. The Company bases its



estimates on historical experience and on various other
    assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the
    circumstances at the time, the results of which form the basis
    for making its judgments. Actual results may differ materially
    from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
    Management believes that the estimates are reasonable.

Revenue
    Recognition

Commercial sales and revenue from U.S. Government
    fixed-price-type contracts generally are recorded as shipments
    are made, as services are rendered or in some cases, on a
    percentage-of-completion basis. Sales under cost-reimbursement
    contracts are recorded as work is performed. The Company follows
    the requirements of Securities and Exchange Commission Staff
    Accounting Bulletin No. 104 on revenue recognition.
    Occasionally, for certain fixed-price type contracts that
    require substantial performance over a long time period
    (generally one or more years), in accordance with the
    requirements of Statement of Position

81-1

“Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and
    Certain Production-Type Contracts,” revenues are recorded
    under the percentage-of-completion method. We measure the extent
    of progress toward completion using the units-of-delivery
    method, cost-to-cost method or based upon attainment of
    scheduled performance milestones which could be time, event or
    expense driven. Occasionally, invoices are submitted to be paid
    by the customer under a contractual agreement which has a
    different time schedule than the related revenue recognition.
    Since certain contracts extend over a long period of time, all
    revisions in cost and revenue estimates during the progress of
    work have the effect of adjusting the current period earnings on
    a cumulative

catch-up

basis. If the current contract estimate indicates a loss,
    provision is made for the total anticipated loss in the period
    that it becomes evident. Sales under cost-reimbursement
    contracts are recorded as allowable costs are incurred and fees
    are earned.

Shipping
    and Handling

Shipping and handling fees charged to customers are classified
    as revenue while shipping and handling costs retained by
    Teledyne are classified as cost of sales in the accompanying
    consolidated statements of income.

Product
    Warranty and Recall and Replacement Costs

Some of the Company’s products are subject to specified
    warranties and the Company provides for the estimated cost of
    product warranties. The adequacy of the preexisting warranty
    liabilities is assessed regularly and the reserve is adjusted as
    necessary based on a review of historic warranty experience with
    respect to the applicable business or products, as well as the
    length and actual terms of the warranties, which are typically
    one year. The product warranty reserve is included in current
    accrued liabilities on the balance sheet. Changes in the
    Company’s product warranty reserve are as follows (in
    millions):




Balance at beginning of year

$

11.4

$

11.4

$

10.3

Accruals for product warranties charged to expense

9.0

7.4

9.7

Cost of product warranty claims

(8.7

)

(7.6

)

(9.1

)

Acquisitions

2.3

0.2

0.5

Balance at year-end

$

14.0

$

11.4

$

11.4

The Company establishes reserves for product returns and
    replacements on a product-specific basis when circumstances
    giving rise to the return become known. Facts and circumstances
    related to a return, including where the product affected by the
    return is located (e.g., the end user, customers’
    inventory, or in Teledyne’s inventory), cost estimates to
    return, repair

and/or

replace the product are considered when establishing a product
    return reserve. The reserve is reevaluated each period and is
    adjusted when the reserve is either not sufficient to cover or
    exceeds the estimated product return expenses. The Company
    recorded an $18.0 million charge in 2008 for a product
    recall and replacement program. The Company had no such charges
    in 2007 or 2006.



Research
    and Development

Selling, general and administrative expenses include
    company-funded research and development and bid and proposal
    costs which are expensed as incurred and were $65.6 million
    in 2008, $59.7 million in 2007, and $52.5 million in
    2006. Costs related to customer-funded research and development
    contracts were $330.2 million in 2008, $295.4 million
    in 2007, and $254.5 million in 2006 and are charged to cost
    of sales as the related sales are recorded. A portion of the
    costs incurred for company-funded research and development is
    recoverable through overhead cost allocations on government
    contracts.

Income
    Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with
    SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.”
    Under this method, deferred income tax assets and liabilities
    are determined on the estimated future tax effects of
    differences between the financial reporting and tax basis of
    assets and liabilities given the application of enacted tax
    laws. Deferred income tax provisions and benefits are based on
    changes to the asset or liability from year to year. A valuation
    allowance is recorded when it is more likely than not that some
    of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.

In July 2006 the FASB issued Interpretation
    FIN No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes — An Interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 109, (“FIN No. 48”).
    FIN No. 48 provides detailed guidance for the
    financial statement recognition, measurement and disclosure of
    uncertain tax positions recognized in an enterprise’s
    financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109.
    Income tax positions must meet a more-likely-than-not
    recognition threshold at the effective date to be recognized
    upon the adoption of FIN No. 48 and in subsequent
    periods. We adopted FIN No. 48 effective
    January 1, 2007 and the provisions of FIN No. 48
    have been applied to all income tax positions commencing from
    that date. We recognize potential accrued interest and penalties
    related to unrecognized tax benefits within operations as income
    tax expense. As a result of the implementation the Company
    recognized a $0.2 million increase in the liability for
    unrecognized tax benefits, which was accounted for as a
    cumulative-effect adjustment (decrease) to the beginning balance
    of retained earnings.

Prior to 2007 we determined our tax contingencies in accordance
    with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. We
    recorded estimated tax liabilities to the extent the
    contingencies were probable and could be reasonably estimated.

Net
    Income Per Common Share

Basic and diluted earnings per share were computed based on net
    earnings. The weighted average number of common shares
    outstanding during the period was used in the calculation of
    basic earnings per share. This number of shares was increased by
    contingent shares that could be issued under various
    compensation plans as well as by the dilutive effect of stock
    options based on the treasury stock method in the calculation of
    diluted earnings per share.



The following table sets forth the computations of basic and
    diluted earnings per share (amounts in millions, except per
    share data):




Basic earnings per share

Net income

$

111.3

$

98.5

$

80.3

Weighted average common shares outstanding

35.5

34.9

34.3

Basic earnings per common share

$

3.14

$

2.82

$

2.34

Diluted earnings per share

Net income

$

111.3

$

98.5

$

80.3

Weighted average common shares outstanding

35.5

34.9

34.3

Dilutive effect of contingently issuable shares

1.0

1.3

1.2

Weighted average diluted common shares outstanding

36.5

36.2

35.5

Diluted earnings per common share

$

3.05

$

2.72

$

2.26

For 2008, 194,897 stock options were excluded in the computation
    of diluted earnings per share because they had exercise prices
    that were greater than the average market price of the
    Company’s common stock during 2008. For 2007 and 2006, no
    stock options were excluded in the computation of diluted
    earnings per share.

Stock options to purchase 2.5 million, 3.0 million and
    2.8 million shares of common stock at fiscal year-end 2008,
    2007, and 2006, respectively, had exercise prices that were less
    than the average market price of the Company’s common stock
    during the respective periods and are included in the
    computation of diluted earnings per share.

In addition 5,902 and 85,608 contingent shares of the
    Company’s common stock under a compensation plan were
    excluded from fully diluted shares outstanding for 2008 and
    2006, respectively, since performance and other conditions for
    issuance have not yet been met. No shares were excluded for 2007.

Accounts
    Receivable

Receivables are presented net of a reserve for doubtful accounts
    of $3.2 million at December 28, 2008 and
    $4.6 million at December 30, 2007. Expense recorded
    for the reserve for doubtful accounts was $1.0 million,
    $2.3 million, and $1.3 million for 2008, 2007, and
    2006, respectively. An allowance for doubtful accounts is
    established for losses expected to be incurred on accounts
    receivable balances. Judgment is required in the estimation of
    the allowance and is based upon specific identification,
    collection history and creditworthiness of the debtor. The
    Company markets its products and services principally throughout
    the United States, Europe, Japan and Canada to commercial
    customers and agencies of, and prime contractors to, the
    U.S. Government. Trade credit is extended based upon
    evaluations of each customer’s ability to perform its
    obligations, which are updated periodically.

Cash
    Equivalents

Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid money-market mutual
    funds and bank deposits with initial maturities of three months
    or less. Cash equivalents totaled $0.6 million at
    December 28, 2008 and $1.0 million at
    December 30, 2007.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, less
    progress payments. The majority of inventory values are stated
    at cost based on the

last-in,

first-out method, while the remainder are principally valued on



an average cost, or

first-in,

first-out method. Costs include direct material, direct labor,
    applicable manufacturing and engineering overhead, and other
    direct costs.

Property,
    Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment is capitalized at cost. Property,
    plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated
    depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are
    determined using a combination of accelerated and straight-line
    methods over the estimated useful lives of the various asset
    classes. Buildings are depreciated over periods not exceeding
    45 years, equipment over 5 to 18 years, computer
    hardware and software over 3 to 5 years and leasehold
    improvements over the shorter of their estimated remaining lives
    or lease terms. Significant improvements are capitalized while
    maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred.
    Depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment, including
    assets under capital leases, was $31.5 million in 2008,
    $28.3 million in 2007 and $24.3 million in 2006.

Goodwill
    and Other Intangible Assets

The Company accounts for goodwill and purchased intangible
    assets under SFAS No. 141 “Business
    Combinations” and SFAS No. 142 “Goodwill and
    Other Intangible Assets”. Using the two-step goodwill
    impairment model approach outlined in SFAS No. 142,
    the Company performs an annual impairment test in the fourth
    quarter of each year, or more often as circumstances require.
    The two-step impairment test is used to first identify potential
    goodwill impairment and then measure the amount of goodwill
    impairment loss, if any. When it is determined that an
    impairment has occurred, an appropriate charge to operations is
    recorded. Based on the annual impairment test completed in the
    fourth quarter of 2008, no impairment of goodwill or intangible
    assets was indicated.

Business acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase
    method by assigning the purchase price to tangible and
    intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Assets
    acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their fair
    values and the excess of the purchase price over the amounts
    assigned is recorded as goodwill. Purchased intangible assets
    with finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful
    lives. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are
    not amortized, but tested at least annually for impairment.

Other
    Long-Lived Assets

The carrying value of long-lived assets is periodically
    evaluated in relation to the operating performance and sum of
    undiscounted future cash flows of the underlying businesses. An
    impairment loss is recognized when the sum of expected
    undiscounted future net cash flows is less than book value.

Environmental

Costs that mitigate or prevent future environmental
    contamination or extend the life, increase the capacity or
    improve the safety or efficiency of property utilized in current
    operations are capitalized. Other costs that relate to current
    operations or an existing condition caused by past operations
    are expensed. Environmental liabilities are recorded when the
    Company’s liability is probable and the costs are
    reasonably estimable, but generally not later than the
    completion of the feasibility study or the Company’s
    recommendation of a remedy or commitment to an appropriate plan
    of action. The accruals are reviewed periodically and, as
    investigations and remediations proceed, adjustments are made as
    necessary. Accruals for losses from environmental remediation
    obligations do not consider the effects of inflation, and
    anticipated expenditures are not discounted to their present
    value. The accruals are not reduced by possible recoveries from
    insurance carriers or other third parties, but do reflect
    anticipated allocations among potentially responsible parties at
    federal Superfund sites or similar state-managed sites and an
    assessment of the likelihood that such parties will fulfill
    their obligations at such sites. The measurement of
    environmental liabilities by the Company is based on currently
    available facts, present laws and regulations, and current
    technology. Such estimates take into consideration the
    Company’s prior experience in site investigation and
    remediation, the data concerning cleanup costs available from
    other companies and regulatory authorities, and the professional
    judgment of the Company’s environmental personnel in
    consultation with outside environmental specialists, when
    necessary.



Foreign
    Currency Translation

The Company’s foreign entities’ accounts are generally
    measured using local currency as the functional currency. Assets
    and liabilities of these entities are translated at the exchange
    rate in effect at year-end. Revenues and expenses are translated
    at average month end rates of exchange prevailing during the
    year. Unrealized translation gains and losses arising from
    differences in exchange rates from period to period are included
    as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in
    stockholders’ equity. Most of the Company’s sales are
    denominated in U.S. dollars which mitigates the effect of
    exchange rate changes.

Accounting
    Pronouncements Adopted

SFAS No. 159

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,
    “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities — Including an Amendment of FASB Statement
    No. 115.” SFAS No. 159 permits entities to
    choose to measure eligible items at fair value at specified
    election dates and report unrealized gains and losses on items
    for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at
    each subsequent reporting date. SFAS No. 159 is
    effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
    2007. The Company adopted SFAS No. 159 effective,
    December 31, 2007 and did not elect the fair value
    measurement option for any of its financial assets or
    liabilities.

EITF

No. 07-3

In June 2007 the FASB ratified EITF

No. 07-3,

(“EITF 07-3”),

“Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or
    Services to Be Used in Future Research and Development
    Activities”.

EITF 07-3

requires non-refundable advance payments for goods and services
    to be used in future research and development activities to be
    recorded as an asset and the payments to be expensed when the
    research and development activities are performed.

EITF 07-3

is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
    2007. The Company adopted

EITF 07-3

effective December 31, 2007 and it did not have an effect
    on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or
    financial position.

Pending
    Accounting Pronouncements

SFAS No. 141R

In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141R, “Business
    Combinations” (“SFAS No. 141R”). This
    statement replaces FASB Statement No. 141, “Business
    Combinations”. SFAS No. 141R establishes
    principles and requirements for how the acquirer of a business
    recognizes and measures in its financial statements the
    identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any
    noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. The statement also
    provides guidance for recognizing and measuring the goodwill
    acquired in the business combination and determines what
    information to disclose to enable users of the financial
    statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the
    business combination. SFAS No. 141R applies
    prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition
    date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting
    period beginning on or after December 15, 2008, and
    accordingly will not impact the accounting for acquisitions made
    prior to its adoption, except for the accounting for any
    deferred tax valuation allowances and acquired tax contingencies
    related to acquisitions completed before the effective date.
    SFAS No. 141R, amends SFAS No. 109 to
    require adjustments, made after the adoption of
    SFAS No. 141R, for acquired deferred tax assets and
    income tax positions to be recognized in the income statement.
    For any acquisitions completed after our 2008 fiscal year, we
    expect SFAS No. 141R will have an impact on our
    consolidated financial statements, however the nature and
    magnitude of the specific effects will depend upon the nature,
    terms and size of the acquisitions we consummate.



SFAS No. 160

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,
    “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
    Statements — an amendment of ARB No. 51”
    (“SFAS No. 160”). SFAS No. 160
    changes the way the consolidated income statement is presented
    and establishes a single method of accounting for changes in a
    parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that does not
    result in deconsolidation. It also requires that a parent
    recognize a gain or loss in net income when a subsidiary is
    deconsolidated. Under the new standard, noncontrolling interests
    are considered equity and are to be reported as an element of
    stockholders’ equity rather than within the liability
    section of the balance sheet. In addition, the current practice
    of reporting minority interest expense or benefit also will
    change. Under the new standard, net income will be shown before
    minority interest income or expense. The income statement will
    include separate disclosure of the attribution of income between
    the controlling and noncontrolling interests. Increases and
    decreases in the noncontrolling ownership interest amount are to
    be accounted for as equity transactions. This Statement will be
    effective for Teledyne’s 2009 fiscal year and interim
    periods within that fiscal year. SFAS No. 160 will be
    applied prospectively as of the beginning of the fiscal year
    2009, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements.
    The presentation and disclosure requirements must be applied
    retrospectively for all periods presented. As of
    December 28, 2008, other long-term liabilities included
    $5.2 million for minority interests. The Company is
    currently evaluating the impact of adopting this Statement.

SFAS No. 157

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
    “Fair Value Measurements,”
    (“SFAS No. 157”) which defines fair value,
    establishes a framework in generally accepted accounting
    principles for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures
    about fair value measurements. This standard only applies when
    other standards require or permit the fair value measurement of
    assets and liabilities. It does not increase the use of fair
    value measurement. SFAS No. 157 is effective for
    financial assets and financial liabilities for fiscal years
    beginning after November 15, 2007. In February 2008, the
    FASB issued FASB Staff Position

157-1

“Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB
    Statement No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That
    Address Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease
    Classification or Measurement under Statement 13”

(“FSP 157-1”)

which removed leasing transactions accounted for under
    SFAS No. 13 and related guidance from the scope of
    SFAS No. 157. Also in February 2008, the FASB issued

FSP 157-2

“Partial Deferral of the Effective Date of Statement
    No. 157”

(“FSP 157-2”),

deferred the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for all
    nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities to fiscal years
    beginning after November 15, 2008. The implementation of
    SFAS No. 157 for financial assets and financial
    liabilities, effective December 31, 2007, did not have a
    material impact on our consolidated financial position and
    results of operations. The Company is currently assessing the
    impact of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and
    nonfinancial liabilities on its consolidated financial position
    and results of operations.

Hedging
    Activities

The Company has not entered into any derivative financial
    instruments such as futures contracts, options and swaps,
    forward foreign exchange contracts or interest rate swaps and
    futures during 2008 or 2007. We have no derivative financial
    instruments outstanding at December 28, 2008.

Supplemental
    Cash Flow Information

Cash payments for federal, foreign and state income taxes were
    $29.3 million for 2008 which is net of refunds of
    $0.5 million. Cash payments for federal, foreign and state
    income taxes were $52.0 million for 2007 which is net of
    refunds of $0.2 million. Cash payments for federal, foreign
    and state income taxes were $49.5 million for 2006 which is
    net of refunds of $0.1 million. Cash payments for interest
    and credit facility fees totaled approximately
    $10.4 million, $12.7 million and $6.2 million for
    2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.



Comprehensive
    Income (Loss)

The Company’s comprehensive income consists of net income,
    the minimum benefit plan liability adjustment, foreign currency
    translation adjustments and for 2006 only, the cumulative effect
    of the adoption of FIN No. 48. See Note 12 for a
    further discussion of the minimum benefit plan liability
    adjustment. The Company’s comprehensive income (loss) was a
    loss of $33.3 million for 2008, compared with comprehensive
    income of $79.4 million for 2007 and $118.3 million
    for 2006.

The year-end components of accumulated other comprehensive loss
    are shown in the following table (in millions):

Balance at year end




Foreign currency translation gains (losses)

$

(21.9

)

$

1.5

$

1.1

Minimum benefit plan liability adjustment(a)

(183.9

)

(62.7

)

(43.4

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

$

(205.8

)

$

(61.2

)

$

(42.3

)

(a)

Net of deferred taxes of $118.9 million in 2008,
    $40.4 million in 2007 and $27.9 million in 2006.

Note 3.  Business
    Acquisitions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets

The table below summarizes the acquisitions we made during
    fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006.

Pre-acquisition

Transaction

Purchase

Name and Description(1)

Date Acquired

Primary Location

Sales Volume

Type

Price (2)(6)

(In millions)


Impulse Enterprise (“Impulse”)

Manufactures underwater electrical interconnection systems for
    harsh environments.

December 31, 2007

San Diego, CA

$16.8 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2006

Asset

$

35.0

Storm Products Co. (“Storm”)

Supplies custom, high-reliability bulk wire and cable
    assemblies to a number of markets, including energy exploration,
    environmental monitoring and industrial equipment. Also provides
    coax microwave cable and interconnect products primarily to
    defense customers for radar, electronic warfare and
    communications applications.

December 31, 2007

Dallas, TX

Woodridge, IL

$45.7 million for its

fiscal year ended

March 31, 2007

Stock

47.7

SG BrownLimited and its wholly owned subsidiary TSS
    (International) Limited (together “TSS”)

Designs and manufactures inertial sensing, gyrocompass
    navigation and subsea pipe and cable detection systems for
    offshore energy, oceanographic and military marine markets.

January 31, 2008

Watford, United

Kingdom

£12.0 million for its

fiscal year ended

March 31, 2007

Stock

54.8

Judson Technologies, LLC (“Judson”)

Supplies custom, high-reliability bulk wire and cable
    assemblies to a number of markets, including energy exploration,
    environmental monitoring and industrial equipment. Also provides
    coax microwave cable and interconnect products primarily to
    defense customers for radar, electronic warfare and
    communications applications.

February 1, 2008

Montgomeryville,

PA

$13.8 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2006

Asset

27.0

Webb Research Corp. (“Webb”)

Manufactures autonomous underwater gliding vehicles and
    autonomous profiling drifters and floats.

July 7, 2008

East Falmouth,

MA

$12.2 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2007

Asset

24.3

Defense Electronics business of Filtronic PLC
    (“Filtronic”)

Provides customized microwave subassemblies and integrated
    subsystems to the global defense industry.

August 15, 2008

Shipley, United

Kingdom

£14.5 million for its

fiscal year ended

May 31, 2008

Stock

24.1

Cormon Limited and Cormon Technology Limited (together
    “Cormon”)

Designs and manufactures subsea and surface sand and
    corrosion sensors, as well as flow integrity monitoring systems,
    used in oil and gas production systems.

October 16, 2008

Lancing, United

Kingdom

£6.8 million for its

fiscal year ended

March 31, 2008

Stock

20.9

(3)

Odom Hydrographic Systems, Inc. (“Odom”)

Designs and manufactures hydrographic survey instrumentation
    used in port survey, dredging, offshore energy and other
    applications.

December 19, 2008

Baton Rouge, LA

$10.9 million for its

fiscal year ended

September 30, 2008

Stock

7.0

(3)

Demo Systems LLC (“Demo”)

Designs and manufactures aircraft data loading equipment,
    flight line maintenance terminals, and data distribution
    software used by commercial airlines, the U.S. military and
    aircraft manufacturers.

December 24, 2008

Moorpark, CA

$7.3 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2007

Asset

5.3

(3)



Pre-acquisition

Transaction

Purchase

Name and Description(1)

Date Acquired

Primary Location

Sales Volume

Type

Price (2)(6)

(In millions)


D.G. O’Brien, Inc. (“DGO”)

Manufactures highly reliable electrical and fiber-optic
    interconnect systems, primarily for subsea military and offshore
    oil and gas applications.

March 30, 2007

Seabrook, NH

$26.2 million for its

fiscal year ended

September 30, 2006

Asset

$

37.1

Tindall Technologies, Inc. (“Tindall”)

Designs and supplies microwave subsystems for defense
    applications.

June 30, 2007

Sunnyvale, CA

$2.7 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2006

Stock

5.9(4

)


Benthos, Inc. (“Benthos”)

Manufactures oceanographic products and package inspection
    systems.

January 27, 2006

North Falmouth,

MA

$24.0 million for its

fiscal year ended

September 30, 2005

Stock

32.2

KW Microwave Corporation (“KW”)

Manufactures defense microwave components and subsystems.

April 28, 2006

Poway, CA

$6.7 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2005

Asset

10.3

Ocean Design, Inc. (“ODI”)

Manufactures subsea, wet-mateable electrical and fiber-optic
    interconnect systems used in offshore oil and gas production,
    oceanographic research, and military applications.

August 16, 2006

Daytona Beach,

FL

$31.6 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2005

A majority of

stock(5)

73.8

CollaborX, Inc. (“CollaborX”)

Provides government engineering services primarily to the
    U.S. Air Force and also to select joint military commands, such
    as the Missile Defense Agency, the United States Joint Forces
    Command and the United States Northern Command.

August 16, 2006

Colorado Springs,

CO

$13.6 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2005

Stock

14.9

Rockwell Scientific Company LLC (“Teledyne Scientific
    and Imaging”)

Provides research and development services to the Department
    of Defense, NASA and major defense and aerospace companies, as
    well as develops and manufactures infrared and visible light
    imaging sensors for surveillance applications.

September 15, 2006

Thousand Oaks,

CA

$114.0 million for its

fiscal year ended

September 30, 2005

Stock

158.6

The unaudited pro forma information for the periods set forth
    below gives effect to the nine acquisitions made in fiscal year
    2008 as if they had been acquired at the beginning of each
    fiscal year and includes the effect of estimated amortization of
    acquired identifiable intangible assets, increased depreciation
    expense for fixed assets, as well as increased interest expense
    on acquisition debt. This pro forma financial information is
    presented for informational purposes only and is not necessarily
    indicative of the results of operations that actually would have
    resulted had the acquisition been in effect at the beginning of
    the respective periods. In addition, the pro forma results are
    not intended to be a projection of future results and do not
    reflect any operating efficiencies or cost savings that might be
    achievable.





(unaudited in millions, except per-share amounts)

Sales

$

1,942.6

$

1,789.9

Net income

$

108.9

$

93.0

Basic earnings per common share

$

3.07

$

2.66

Diluted earning per common share

$

2.98

$

2.57

On September 15, 2006, Teledyne Technologies through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc. acquired Rockwell
    Scientific. The unaudited pro forma information below assumes
    that Teledyne Scientific & Imaging had been acquired
    at the beginning of each fiscal year and includes the effect of
    estimated amortization of acquired identifiable intangible
    assets, increased depreciation expense for fixed assets, as well
    as increased interest expense on acquisition debt. This pro
    forma financial information is presented for informational
    purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results
    of operations that actually would have resulted had the
    acquisition been in effect at the beginning of the respective
    periods. In addition, the pro forma results are not intended to
    be a projection of future results and do not reflect any
    operating efficiencies or cost savings that might be achievable.


(unaudited in millions,

except per-share

amounts)

Sales

$

1,519.2

Net income

$

77.1

Basic earnings per common share

$

2.23

Diluted earning per common share

$

2.17

The primary reason for the above acquisitions was to strengthen
    and expand our core businesses through adding complementary
    product and service offerings, allowing greater integrated
    products and services, enhancing our technical capabilities or
    increasing our addressable markets. The significant factors that
    resulted in recognition of goodwill were: (a) the purchase
    price was based on cash flow and return on capital projections
    assuming integration with our businesses and (b) the
    calculation of the fair value of tangible and intangible assets
    acquired that qualified for recognition.

Teledyne’s goodwill was $502.5 million at
    December 28, 2008 and $351.6 million at
    December 30, 2007. Teledyne’s acquired intangible
    assets were $117.0 million at December 28, 2008 and
    $61.7 million at December 30, 2007. The increase in
    goodwill in 2008 reflected acquisitions made in fiscal 2008, a
    $32.4 increase related to the additional share purchases of ODI,
    a decrease for foreign currency changes and a decrease for
    adjustments for acquisitions made prior to fiscal 2008. The
    change in the balance of acquired intangible assets in 2008
    resulted from the acquisitions made in fiscal 2008 and
    amortization of acquired intangible assets.

The Company is in the process of specifically identifying the
    amount to be assigned to intangible assets, as well as certain
    assets and liabilities for the Webb, Filtronic, Cormon, Odom and
    Demo acquisitions made in 2008. The Company made preliminary
    estimates as of December 28, 2008, since there was
    insufficient time between the acquisition dates and the end of
    the period to finalize the valuations.



The following table shows the purchase price, goodwill acquired
    and intangible assets acquired for the acquisitions made in
    fiscal 2008 (in millions):

Acquired

Purchase

Goodwill

Intangible

Acquisition Date

Name

Price

Acquired

Assets

December 31, 2007

Impulse

$

35.0

$

15.3

$

16.2

December 31, 2007

Storm

47.7

31.4

10.0

January 31, 2008

TSS

54.8

28.6

23.0

February 1, 2008

Judson

27.0

13.9

7.9

July 7, 2008

Webb

24.3

14.6

(a)

7.0

(a)

August 15, 2008

Filtronic

24.1

4.6

(a)

6.5

(a)

August 16, 2008

Cormon

20.9

17.0

(a)

3.0

(a)

December 19, 2008

Odom

7.0

5.3

(a)

1.5

(a)

December 24, 2008

Demo

5.3

3.1

(a)

1.2

(a)

$

246.1

$

133.8

$

76.3

(a)

These preliminary amounts were based on estimates that are
    subject to change pending the receipt of certain valuation
    information and the completion of the Company’s internal
    review.

Goodwill resulting from the acquisitions made in fiscal 2008
    will be deductible for tax purposes, except for the Storm and
    Demo acquisitions.

The following table summarized the changes in the carrying value
    of goodwill (in millions):

Aerospace

Energy

Electronics and

Engineered

Engines and

and Power

Communications

Systems

Components

Systems

Total

Balance at December 31, 2006

$

297.1

$

15.8

$

0.7

$

—

$

313.6

Current year acquisitions, including ODI

21.8

—

—

—

21.8

Adjustment to prior year acquisitions(a)

16.2

—

—

—

16.2

Balance at December 30, 2007

335.1

15.8

0.7

—

351.6

Current year acquisitions, including ODI

165.9

—

0.3

—

166.2

Impact of foreign currency changes

(10.7

)

—

—

—

(10.7

)

Adjustment to prior year acquisitions(b)

(4.6

)

—

—

—

(4.6

)

Balance at December 28, 2008

$

485.7

$

15.8

$

1.0

$

—

$

502.5

(a)

The adjustments to prior year acquisitions primarily related to
    final estimates of fair value for assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed in connection with business acquisitions
    completed prior to 2007, including a $10.7 million increase
    to reflect changes in the estimated amount of acquired
    intangible assets based on the completed appraisal report for
    the valuation of acquired intangible assets for the 2006
    Teledyne Scientific & Imaging acquisition.

(b)

The adjustments to prior year acquisitions primarily related to
    final estimates of fair value for assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed in connection with business acquisitions
    completed prior to 2008.



The following table summarizes the carrying value of other
    acquired intangible assets (in millions):



Gross

Net

Gross

Net

carrying

Accumulated

Carrying

carrying

Accumulated

Carrying

amount

amortization

Amount

amount

amortization

Amount

Other acquired intangible assets:

Proprietary Technology

$

70.5

$

17.0

$

53.5

$

43.6

$

10.1

$

33.5

Customer List/Relationships

37.9

8.4

29.5

16.9

4.1

12.8

Patents

0.7

0.4

0.3

0.3

0.1

0.2

Non-compete agreements

0.9

0.6

0.3

0.8

0.3

0.5

Trademarks

3.2

0.5

2.7

3.6

0.3

3.3

Backlog

8.0

7.4

0.6

4.4

4.3

0.1

Other acquired intangible assets subject to amortization

$

121.2

$

34.3

86.9

$

69.6

$

19.2

$

50.4

Other acquired intangible assets not subject to
    amortization

Trademarks

30.1

—

30.1

11.3

—

11.3

Total other acquired intangible assets:

$

151.3

$

34.3

$

117.0

$

80.9

$

19.2

$

61.7

Amortizable other intangible assets are amortized on a
    straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives ranging
    from one to 20 years. The Company recorded
    $15.8 million and $6.4 million in amortization expense
    in 2008 and 2007, respectively, for other acquired intangible
    assets. The expected future amortization expense for the next
    five years is as follows (in millions): 2009 — $13.6;
    2010 — $13.0; 2011 — $12.3; 2012 —
    $10.7; 2013 — $9.4.

The estimated remaining useful lives by asset category as of
    December 28, 2008 are as follows:

Weighted

average

remaining

useful life

Intangibles subject to amortization

in years

Proprietary Technology

6.5

Customer List/Relationships

6.5

Patents

5.1

Non-compete

2.7

Trademarks

12.7

Backlog

0.5

Total intangibles subject to amortization

6.4



The following is a summary at the acquisition date of the
    estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed for the acquisitions made in 2008 (in millions):

Current assets, excluding cash acquired

$

62.5

Property, plant and equipment

18.0

Goodwill

133.8

Intangible assets

76.3

Total assets acquired

290.6

Current liabilities, including short-term debt

32.8

Other long-term liabilities

11.7

Total liabilities assumed

44.5

Purchase price, net of cash acquired

$

246.1

The following table summarizes the intangible assets acquired as
    part of the acquisitions made in 2008 (dollars in millions):

Weighted average

remaining useful life

in years

Intangibles assets not subject to amortization:

Goodwill

$

133.8

n/a

Trademarks

$

18.4

n/a

Intangibles assets subject to amortization:

Proprietary Technology

$

31.9

8.4

Customer List/Relationships

22.0

7.2

Trademarks

0.2

0.2

Backlog

3.8

0.7

$

57.9

5.5

Note 4.  Financial
    Instruments

Teledyne values financial instruments as required by
    SFAS No. 107 — “Disclosures about Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments,” as amended. The carrying
    amounts of cash and cash equivalents approximate fair value
    because of the short maturity of those instruments. Teledyne
    estimates the fair value of its long-term debt based on the
    quoted market prices for debt of similar rating and similar
    maturity and at comparable interest rates. The estimated fair
    value of Teledyne’s long-term debt at December 28,
    2008 approximated the carrying value of $326.0 million. The
    estimated fair value of Teledyne’s long-term debt at
    December 30, 2007 approximated the carrying value of
    $138.0 million. The estimated fair value of Teledyne’s
    long-term debt at December 31, 2006 approximated the
    carrying value of $226.9 million.



The carrying value of other on-balance-sheet financial
    instruments approximates fair value, and the cost, if any, to
    terminate off-balance sheet financial instruments (primarily
    letters of credit) is not significant.

Note 5.  Accounts
    Receivable

Accounts receivable are summarized as follows (in millions):

Balance at year-end



U.S. Government and prime contractors contract receivables:

Billed receivables

$

28.1

$

28.3

Unbilled receivables

39.4

39.2

Commercial and other receivables

217.1

178.2

284.6

245.7

Reserve for doubtful accounts

(3.2

)

(4.6

)

Total accounts receivable, net

$

281.4

$

241.1

The billed contract receivables from the U.S. Government
    and prime contractors contain $17.9 million and
    $20.8 million at December 28, 2008 and
    December 30, 2007, respectively, due to long-term
    contracts. The unbilled contract receivables from the
    U.S. Government and prime contractors contain
    $22.4 million and $36.3 million at December 28,
    2008 and December 30, 2007, respectively, due to long-term
    contracts.

Unbilled contract receivables represent accumulated costs and
    profits earned but not yet billed to customers. The Company
    believes that substantially all such amounts will be billed and
    collected within one year.

Note 6.  Inventories

Inventories consisted of the following (in millions):

Balance at year-end



Raw materials and supplies

$

89.8

$

64.7

Work in process

125.8

122.6

Finished goods

22.2

17.6

Total inventories at cost, net

237.8

204.9

LIFO reserve

(26.5

)

(25.6

)

Progress payments

(4.3

)

(4.7

)

Total inventories, net

$

207.0

$

174.6

Inventories at cost determined on the

last-in,

first-out method were $126.2 million at December 28,
    2008 and $123.9 million at December 30, 2007. The
    remainder of the inventories using average cost or the

first-in,

first-out methods, were $111.6 million at December 28,
    2008 and $81.0 million at December 30, 2007.

The Company recorded LIFO expense of $0.9 million,
    $1.3 million and $0.7 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, which resulted from higher inventory levels in
    each year.

Total inventories at current cost were net of reserves for
    excess, slow moving and obsolete inventory of $30.2 million
    and $23.6 million at December 28, 2008 and
    December 30, 2007, respectively. The reserve for excess,
    slow moving and obsolete inventory at December 28, 2008
    reflected reserves of $6.2 million acquired as part of the
    acquisitions made in 2008.

Inventories, before progress payments, related to long-term
    contracts were $24.0 million and $25.6 million at
    December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, respectively.
    Progress payments related to long-term contracts



were $0.8 million and $4.3 million at
    December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, respectively.
    Under the contractual arrangements by which progress payments
    are received, the customer has an ownership right in the
    inventories associated with specific contracts.

Note 7.  Supplemental
    Balance Sheet Information

Property, plant and equipment were as follows (in millions):

Balance at year-end



Land

$

20.9

$

19.4

Buildings

96.8

85.3

Equipment and software

329.7

290.8

447.4

395.5

Accumulated depreciation and amortization

(244.8

)

(218.3

)

Total property, plant and equipment, net

$

202.6

$

177.2

Other long-term assets included amounts related to deferred
    compensation of $18.6 million and $24.2 million at
    December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, respectively.
    Accrued liabilities included salaries and wages and other
    related compensation reserves of $77.8 million and
    $69.9 million at December 28, 2008 and
    December 30, 2007, respectively. Accrued liabilities also
    included customer related deposits and credits of
    $42.4 million and $28.1 million at December 28,
    2008 and December 30, 2007, respectively and a product
    replacement reserve of $15.8 million at December 28,
    2008. Other long-term liabilities included aircraft product
    liability reserves of $37.1 million and $50.6 million
    at December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007,
    respectively and deferred compensation liabilities of
    $19.2 million and $23.8 million at December 28,
    2008 and December 30, 2007, respectively. Other long-term
    liabilities also included reserves for self-insurance,
    environmental liabilities and the long-term portion of
    compensation reserves.

Note 8.  Stockholders’
    Equity

The following is an analysis of Teledyne’s common stock
    share activity:

Balance, January 1, 2006

33,683,671

Stock options exercised and other

1,036,029

Balance, December 31, 2006

34,719,700

Stock options exercised and other

430,417

Balance, December 30, 2007

35,150,117

Stock options exercised and other

776,107

Balance, December 28, 2008

35,926,224

Shares issued in all three fiscal years include stock options
    exercised as well as shares issued under certain compensation
    plans.

Preferred
    Stock

Authorized preferred stock may be issued with designations,
    powers and preferences designated by the Board of Directors.
    There were no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding in
    2008, 2007 or 2006.

Stockholder
    Rights Plan

On November 12, 1999, the Company’s Board of Directors
    unanimously adopted a stockholder rights plan under which
    preferred share purchase rights were distributed as a dividend
    on each share of Teledyne’s Common Stock distributed to
    ATI’s stockholders in connection with the spin-off and each
    share to become



outstanding between the effective date of the spin-off and the
    earliest of the distribution date, redemption date and final
    expiration date. The rights will be exercisable only if a person
    or group acquires 15 percent or more of the Company’s
    Common Stock or announces a tender offer, the consummation of
    which would result in ownership by a person or group of
    15 percent or more of the Common Stock. Each right will
    entitle stockholders to then buy one-hundredth of a share of a
    new series of junior participating preferred stock at an
    exercise price of $60 per share. There are 1,250,000 shares
    of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock authorized
    for issuance under the plan. The record date for the
    distribution was the close of business of November 22,
    1999. The rights will expire on November 12, 2009, subject
    to earlier redemption or exchange by Teledyne as described in
    the plan. The rights distribution is not taxable to stockholders.

Stock
    Incentive Plan

ATI sponsored an incentive plan that provided for ATI stock
    option awards to officers and key employees. Teledyne had
    officers and key employees that participated in this plan prior
    to the spin-off. In connection with the spin-off, outstanding
    stock options held by Teledyne’s employees were converted
    into options to purchase Teledyne’s Common Stock. The
    number of shares and the exercise price of each ATI option that
    was converted to a Teledyne option was based upon a formula
    designed to preserve the inherent economic value, vesting and
    term provisions of such ATI options as of the Distribution Date.
    The exchange ratio and fair market value of the Teledyne’s
    Common Stock, upon active trading, also impacted the number of
    options issued to Teledyne’s employees.

Teledyne has established its own long-term incentive plans which
    provide its Board of Directors the flexibility to grant
    restricted stock, performance shares, non-qualified stock
    options, incentive stock options and stock appreciation rights
    to officers and employees of Teledyne. Stock options become
    exercisable in one-third increments on the first, second and
    third anniversary of the grant and have a maximum 10 year
    life.

The following disclosures are based on stock options held by
    Teledyne’s employees and include the stock options that
    have been converted from ATI options to Teledyne’s options
    as noted above. The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R)
    effective January 2, 2006, using the modified prospective
    method. No modifications to outstanding stock options were made
    prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). The
    valuation methodologies and assumptions in estimating the fair
    value of stock options granted in 2008 were similar to those
    used in estimating the fair value of stock options granted in
    2007 and 2006. Stock option compensation expense is recorded on
    a straight line basis over the appropriate vesting period,
    generally three years. The Company recorded $7.5 million,
    $6.8 million and $5.9 million for stock option
    expense, for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company
    issues shares of common stock upon the exercise of stock options.

The Company used a combination of its historical stock price
    volatility and the volatility of exchange traded options on the
    Company stock to compute the expected volatility for purposes of
    valuing stock options issued. The period used for the historical
    stock price corresponded to the expected term of the options and
    was between five and six years. The period used for the exchange
    traded options extended to the longest-dated options publicly
    available, generally six to nine months. The expected dividend
    yield is based on Teledyne’s practice of not paying
    dividends. The risk-free rate of return is based on the yield of
    U.S. Treasury Strips with terms equal to the expected life
    of the option as of the grant date. The expected life in years
    is based on historical actual stock option exercise experience.
    The following assumptions were used in the valuation of stock
    options granted in 2008, 2007 and 2006:

For the year




Expected dividend yield

—

—

—

Expected volatility

34.7

%

33.0

%

36.0

%

Risk-free interest rate

3.3

%

4.9

%

4.7

%

Expected lives

5.6

5.6

5.5

Based on the assumptions in the table above, the grant date fair
    value of stock options granted in 2008, 2007 and 2006 was
    $19.35, $15.54 and $13.30, respectively.



Stock option transactions for Teledyne’s employee stock
    option plans are summarized as follows:




Weighted

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Average

Exercise

Exercise

Exercise

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Beginning balance

2,702,157

$

24.71

2,537,559

$

20.97

3,039,311

$

16.82

Granted

356,298

$

50.81

533,153

$

39.48

466,063

$

32.36

Exercised

(693,197

)

$

18.66

(345,487

)

$

18.82

(942,196

)

$

13.02

Canceled or expired

(25,288

)

$

31.91

(23,068

)

$

24.46

(25,619

)

$

27.76

Ending balance

2,339,970

$

30.39

2,702,157

$

24.71

2,537,559

$

20.97

Options exercisable at year-end

1,513,815

$

23.39

1,752,624

$

18.90

1,649,681

$

16.92

The following table provides certain information with respect to
    stock options outstanding and stock options exercisable at
    December 28, 2008 under the employee stock option plans:

Stock Options Outstanding

Stock Options Exercisable

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Exercise

Remaining

Exercise

Range of Exercise Prices

Shares

Price

Life

Shares

Price

$8.42-$10.00

67,833

$

9.67

1.1

67,833

$

9.67

$10.01-$20.00

722,886

$

16.70

3.8

722,886

$

16.70

$20.01-$30.00

321,504

$

26.97

6.1

321,504

$

26.97

$30.01-$40.00

874,204

$

36.32

7.7

398,926

$

35.07

$40.01-$50.00

2,000

$

45.41

8.4


$

45.41

$50.01-$59.05

351,543

$

50.85

9.1

1,998

$

50.79

2,339,970

$

30.39

6.3

1,513,815

$

23.46

Non-Employee
    Director Stock Compensation Plan

Teledyne also sponsors a stock plan for non-employee directors
    pursuant to which non-employee directors receive annual stock
    options and may receive stock or stock options in lieu of their
    respective retainer and meeting fees. The options become
    exercisable one year after issuance and have a maximum
    10 year life.

Stock option transactions for Teledyne’s non-employee
    director stock option plan are summarized as follows:




Weighted

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Average

Exercise

Exercise

Exercise

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Beginning balance

348,266

$

22.44

301,186

$

19.32

246,412

$

16.33

Granted

43,736

$

50.15

48,271

$

41.59

55,464

$

32.52

Exercised

—

$

—

(1,191

)

$

10.08

(690

)

$

10.86

Ending balance

392,002

$

25.53

348,266

$

22.44

301,186

$

19.32

Options exercisable at year-end

348,266

$

22.44

299,995

$

19.36

247,474

$

16.38



The following table provides certain information with respect to
    stock options outstanding and stock options exercisable at
    December 28, 2008 under the non-employee director stock
    option plan:

Stock Options Outstanding

Stock Options Exercisable

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Exercise

Remaining

Exercise

Range of Exercise Prices

Shares

Price

Life

Shares

Price

$6.31-$10.00

32,776

$

8.90

2.7

32,776

$

8.90

$10.01-$20.00

174,753

$

15.14

4.1

174,753

$

15.14

$20.01-$30.00

59,965

$

26.87

6.7

59,321

$

26.86

$30.01-$40.00

50,508

$

35.33

7.7

43,416

$

35.58

$40.01-$50.00

38,000

$

45.79

8.4

38,000

$

45.79

$50.01-$53.76

36,000

$

53.76

9.4

—

$

—

392,002

$

25.53

5.7

348,266

$

22.44

The total pretax intrinsic value of options exercised during
    2008 and 2007 (which is the amount by which the stock price
    exceeded the exercise price of the options on the date of
    exercise) was $26.8 million and $9.3 million,
    respectively. At December 28, 2008, the intrinsic value of
    stock options outstanding was $33.7 million and the
    intrinsic value of stock options exercisable was
    $32.5 million. During 2008 and 2007, the amount of cash
    received from the exercise of stock options was
    $13.0 million and $6.5 million, respectively.

At December 28, 2008, there was $8.0 million of total
    unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock
    option awards which is expected to be recognized over a
    weighted-average period of 1.3 years.

Performance
    Share Plan

Teledyne’s Performance Share Plan (“PSP”)
    provides grants of performance share units, which key officers
    and executives may earn if Teledyne meets specified performance
    objectives over a three-year period. Awards are payable in cash
    and shares of Teledyne common stock. Awards are generally paid
    to the participants in three annual installments after the end
    of the performance cycle so long as they remain employed by
    Teledyne (with exceptions for retirement, disability and death).

In January 2006, the performance cycle for the three-year period
    ending December 28, 2008 was set. Based on the estimated
    performance over the three-year period, an aggregate of
    169,713 shares are expected to be issued in three equal
    installments during 2009, 2010 and 2011.

The calculated expense for each plan year was based on the
    expected cash payout and the expected shares to be issued,
    valued at the share price at the inception of the performance
    cycle, except for the shares that can be issued based on a
    market comparison. The expected expense for these shares was
    calculated using a Monte-Carlo type simulation which takes into
    consideration several factors including volatility, risk free
    interest rates and correlation of Teledyne’s stock price
    with the comparator, the Russell 2000 Index. No adjustment to
    the calculated expense for the shares issued based on a market
    based comparison will be made regardless of the actual
    performance. The Company recorded $3.9 million,
    $5.3 million and $3.8 million in compensation expense
    related to the PSP program for fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. At December 28, 2008, there was no
    unrecognized compensation cost related to the PSP program.

Restricted
    Stock Award Program

Under Teledyne’s restricted stock award program selected
    officers and key executives receive a grant of stock equal to
    30% of the participant’s annual base salary at the date of
    grant. The Restricted Stock is subject to transfer and
    forfeiture restrictions during an applicable “restricted
    period”. The restrictions have both time-based and
    performance-based components. The restricted period expires (and
    the restrictions lapse) on the third anniversary of the date of
    grant, subject to the achievement of stated performance
    objectives over a



specified three-year performance period. If employment is
    terminated (other than via death, retirement or disability)
    during the restricted period, stock is forfeited. Under the 2005
    to 2007 and 2006 to 2008 and 2007 to 2009 performance periods an
    aggregate of 100,903 shares of restricted stock were issued
    and outstanding at year-end 2008.

The following table summarizes Teledyne’s restricted stock
    activity:

Weighted

average

fair value

Shares

per share

Balance, January 1, 2006

157,164

$

18.98

Granted

38,812

$

21.24

Issued

(65,526

)

$

13.10

Balance, December 31, 2006

130,450

$

22.61

Granted

34,223

$

27.43

Issued

(52,368

)

$

19.18

Balance, December 30, 2007

112,305

$

25.68

Granted

27,868

$

37.89

Issued

(39,270

)

$

28.54

Balance, December 28, 2008

100,903

$

27.94

Prior to 2006, the calculated expense for each plan year was
    based on the expected number of shares to be issued valued at
    the share price at the grant inception date. This calculated
    expense was adjusted downward if performance conditions were not
    met. Under SFAS No. 123(R), the calculated expense for
    each plan year is based on a Monte-Carlo type simulation which
    takes into consideration several factors including volatility,
    risk free interest rates and the correlation of Teledyne’s
    stock price with the comparator, the Russell 2000 Index. No
    adjustment to the calculated expense will be made regardless of
    actual performance. The Company recorded $0.9 million,
    $1.0 million and $1.0 million in compensation expense
    related to the restricted stock award program for fiscal years
    2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. At December 28, 2008,
    there was $1.0 million of total unrecognized compensation
    cost related to non-vested awards which is expected to be
    recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.3 years.

Note 9.  Related
    Party Transactions

The Company’s Chairman, President and Chief Executive
    Officer is a director of The Bank of New York Mellon
    Corporation, as is one of our other directors. The Bank of New
    York Mellon Corporation is the successor to Mellon Financial
    Corporation following its merger with The Bank of New York in
    2007. Another of the Company’s directors was a former chief
    executive officer and director of Mellon Financial Corporation.
    The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation is one of 13 lenders
    under the Company’s $590.0 million credit facility,
    having committed up to $90.0 million under the facility.
    The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation also provides cash
    management services, serves as trustee for the Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated Pension Plan and, through its
    subsidiaries and affiliates, provides asset management and
    transition management services for the Pension Plan. Mellon
    Investor Services LLC, dba BNY Mellon Shareowner Services,
    serves as our transfer agent and registrar, as well as the agent
    under our stockholders rights plan and also handles
    administration of our stock options.

Note 10.  Long-Term
    Debt

At December 28, 2008, Teledyne had $326.0 million in
    long-term debt outstanding. At December 30, 2007, Teledyne
    had $138.6 million in long-term debt outstanding.

In February 2008, Teledyne Technologies entered into a First
    Amendment to its $400.0 million Amended and Restated Credit
    Agreement dated as of July 14, 2006. The amended and
    restated credit facility has lender



commitments of $590.0 million and expires in July 2011. At
    year-end 2008, we had $254.8 million of available committed
    credit under the credit facility, which can be utilized, as
    needed, for daily operating and periodic cash needs, including
    acquisitions. In February 2009, Teledyne made an
    $80.0 million voluntary contribution to its pension plan,
    funded primarily from its credit facility. Excluding interest
    and fees, no payments are due under the amended and restated
    credit facility until it matures. Borrowings under our credit
    facility are at variable rates which are at our option tied to a
    eurodollar base rate equal to LIBOR (London Interbank Offered
    Rate) plus an applicable rate or a base rate as defined in our
    credit agreement. LIBOR based loans under the facility typically
    have terms of one, two, three or six months and the interest
    rate for each such loan is subject to change if the loan is
    continued or converted following the applicable maturity date.
    Base rate loans have interest rates that primarily fluctuate
    with changes in the prime rate. Interest rates are also subject
    to change based on our debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
    depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) ratio. Borrowings under
    the credit facility bear interest, at our option, at a rate
    based on either a defined base rate or the London Interbank
    Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), plus applicable margins. The
    credit agreement also provides for facility fees that vary
    between 0.10% and 0.25% of the credit line, depending on our
    consolidated leverage ratio as calculated from time to time. The
    credit agreement requires the Company to comply with various
    financial and operating covenants, including maintaining certain
    consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios, as well as
    minimum net worth levels and limits on acquired debt. At
    December 28, 2008, the company was in compliance with these
    covenants. We also have a $5.0 million uncommitted credit
    line available. This credit line is utilized, as needed, for
    periodic cash needs. Total debt at year-end 2008 includes
    $326.0 million outstanding under the $590.0 million
    credit facility and $0.6 million in other debt. No amounts
    were outstanding under the uncommitted bank facility at
    December 28, 2008. The Company also has a $6.6 million
    outstanding under capital leases, of which $0.5 million is
    current. At year-end 2008, Teledyne had $9.2 million in
    outstanding letters of credit.

Total interest expense including credit facility fees and other
    bank charges was $11.7 million in 2008, $13.1 million
    in 2007 and $7.7 million in 2006.

At December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, long-term
    debt consisted of the following (in millions):



Revolving credit facility, at a weighted average rate of 2.0%

at December 28, 2008

$

326.0

$

138.0

Other unsecured debt due through 2009 at varying rates

0.6

1.3

Total

326.6

139.3

Less:

Current portion

(0.6

)

(0.7

)

Total long-term debt

$

326.0

$

138.6

At December 28, 2008, future minimum principal payments on
    long-term debt subsequent to December 28, 2008 were as
    follows: $0.6 million in 2009 and $326.0 million in
    2011.



Note 11.  Income
    Taxes

Provision for income taxes was as follows (in millions):




Current

Federal

$

30.1

$

46.2

$

42.8

State

6.7

7.9

8.7

Foreign

4.2

2.5

1.6

Total current

41.0

56.6

53.1

Deferred

Federal

20.0

(4.8

)

(9.3

)

State

4.0

(1.0

)

(2.4

)

Total deferred

24.0

(5.8

)

(11.7

)

Provision for income taxes

$

65.0

$

50.8

$

41.4

Income before income taxes included income from domestic
    operations of $165.1 million for 2008, $141.9 million
    for 2007 and $115.4 million for 2006. In 2008, 2007 and
    2006, Teledyne reversed income tax contingency reserves of
    $0.8 million, $1.1 million and $3.3 million,
    respectively. These reserves were determined to be no longer
    needed due to the expiration of applicable statutes of
    limitations. The following is a reconciliation of the statutory
    federal income tax rate to the actual effective income tax rate:




U.S. federal statutory tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

State and local taxes, net of federal benefit

4.3

4.0

3.9

Reseach and development tax credits

(1.4

)

(2.9

)

—

Reserve reversal

(0.5

)

(0.8

)

(2.7

)

Qualified production activity deduction

(1.4

)

(1.6

)

(0.7

)

Extraterritorial income exclusion

—

—

(1.4

)

Other

0.9

0.4

(0.1

)

Effective income tax rate

36.9

%

34.1

%

34.0

%

Deferred income taxes result from temporary differences in the
    recognition of income and expense for financial and income tax
    reporting purposes, and differences between the fair value of
    assets acquired in business combinations accounted for as
    purchases for financial reporting purposes and their
    corresponding tax bases. Deferred income taxes represent future
    tax benefits or costs to be recognized when those temporary
    differences reverse. A valuation allowance of $0.6 million
    exists against deferred tax assets for 2008. A valuation
    allowance of $0.8 million exists against deferred tax
    assets for 2007. A valuation allowance of $0.7 million
    exists against deferred tax assets for 2006.

Teledyne had net deferred tax assets of $131.8 million at
    the end of 2008 and $91.4 million at the end of 2007. The
    amount of future taxable income required to realize the deferred
    tax assets was $335.5 million and $232.7 million
    respectively.



The categories of assets and liabilities that have resulted in
    differences in the timing of the recognition of income and
    expense were as follows (in millions):



Deferred income tax assets:

Current

Reserves

$

22.4

$

20.0

Inventory valuation

9.9

6.9

Accrued vacation

10.3

9.3

Long-term

Postretirement benefits other than pensions

9.1

9.0

Reserves

20.8

27.7

Deferred compensation and other benefit plans

96.4

43.0

Other items

0.9

—

Total deferred income tax assets

169.8

115.9

Deferred income tax liabilities:

Current

Other items

1.8

1.7

Long-term

Property, plant and equipment differences

10.3

5.1

Intangible amortization

25.9

17.0

Other items

—

0.7

Total deferred income tax liabilities

38.0

24.5

Net deferred income tax assets

$

131.8

$

91.4

Additional paid in capital was credited $10.3 million in
    2008, $3.6 million in 2007 and $8.4 million in 2006
    for the tax benefit resulting from the exercise of stock options.

On January 1, 2007, Teledyne Technologies adopted
    FIN No. 48. As a result of the implementation the
    Company recognized a $0.2 million increase in the liability
    for unrecognized tax benefits, which were accounted for as a
    cumulative-effect adjustment (decrease) to the beginning balance
    of retained earnings. As of the date of adoption and after the
    impact of recognizing the increase in the liability noted above,
    the Company’s total gross unrecognized tax benefits and
    related interest totaled $5.5 million.

The following presents a rollforward of our unrecognized tax
    benefits (in millions):



Unrecognized

Unrecognized

Tax Benefits

Interest

Tax Benefits

Interest

Beginning of year

$

27.8

$

0.5

$

4.8

$

0.7

Increase in prior year tax positions

0.2

0.3

0.3

0.3

Increase for tax positions taken during the current period

9.8

0.2

24.5

—

Reduction related to settlements with taxing authorities

—

—

(0.8

)

(0.2

)

Reduction related to lapse of the statue of limitations

(1.0

)

(0.2

)

(1.0

)

(0.3

)

End of year

$

36.8

$

0.8

$

27.8

$

0.5

We recognized interest related to unrecognized tax benefits of
    $0.5 million and $0.3 million within the provision for
    income taxes in our statements of operations for fiscal year
    2008 and 2007, respectively.



As of December 28, 2008, we estimated that the entire
    balance of unrecognized tax benefits, if resolved in our favor,
    would positively impact the effective tax rate and, therefore,
    be recognized as additional tax benefits in our income statement.

We file income tax returns in the United States federal
    jurisdiction and in various states and foreign jurisdictions.
    Except for refund claims related to credits for research
    activities, the Company has substantially concluded on all
    U.S. federal and California income tax matters for all
    years through 2004. Substantially all other material state and
    local and foreign income tax matters have been concluded for
    years through 2003.

The Company anticipates the total unrecognized tax benefit may
    be reduced by $1.5 million due to the expiration of
    statutes of limitation for various federal and state tax issues
    in the next 12 months.

The Economic Stimulus Act allowed 50-percent first-year bonus
    depreciation for new assets acquired in 2008. The 2008 Extenders
    Act extended the 20-percent research credit for the 2008 and
    2009 tax years. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of
    2009 extended 50-percent first-year bonus depreciation to 2009
    for the types of assets which Teledyne purchases for its
    operations.

Note 12.
    Pension Plans and Postretirement Benefits

Prior to the spin-off, certain Teledyne’s employees
    participated in the defined benefit plan sponsored by ATI.
    Benefits under the defined benefit plan are generally based on
    years of service

and/or

final
    average pay. ATI funded the pension plan in accordance with the
    requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
    1974, as amended, and the Internal Revenue Code.

As of the spin-off date, Teledyne assumed the existing defined
    benefit plan obligations for all of Teledyne’s employees,
    both active and inactive, at its companies that perform
    government contract work and for Teledyne’s active
    employees at its companies that do not perform government
    contract work. As of January 1, 2004, non-union new hires
    participate in an enhanced defined contribution plan as opposed
    to the Company’s existing defined benefit plan.

Teledyne’s FAS 87 pension expense was
    $9.6 million in 2008 of which $9.8 million was
    recoverable in accordance with U.S. Government Cost
    Accounting Standards (“CAS”) from certain government
    contracts compared with FAS 87 pension expense of
    $11.9 million in 2007 of which $10.2 million was
    recoverable in accordance with CAS and FAS 87 pension
    expense of $15.4 million in 2006 of which
    $10.5 million was recoverable in accordance with CAS.
    Teledyne made pretax contributions to its pension plans of
    $58.7 million in 2008 and $7.5 million in 2007, prior
    to any recovery from the U.S. Government. The Company
    anticipates making total pretax contributions, before any
    recovery from the U.S. Government, of approximately
    $117.1 million to its pension plans in 2009 of which
    $80.0 million was made in February 2009.

The Company’s contribution associated with 401(k) plans
    were $7.5 million, $5.6 million and $5.1 million,
    for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

The Company sponsors several postretirement defined benefit
    plans covering certain salaried and hourly employees. The plans
    provide health care and life insurance benefits for certain
    eligible retirees.



The following table sets forth the components of net period
    pension benefit expense for Teledyne’s defined benefit
    pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for 2008, 2007
    and 2006 (in millions):

Pension Benefits

Postretirement Benefits







Service cost — benefits earned during the period

$

17.1

$

16.6

$

14.9

$

0.1

$

0.1

$

0.1

Interest cost on benefit obligation

38.4

36.8

32.2

1.4

1.5

1.3

Expected return on plan assets

(49.7

)

(46.9

)

(38.2

)

—

—

—

Amortization of prior service cost

0.7

1.6

2.0

(0.5

)

(0.5

)

—

Recognized actuarial (gain) loss

3.1

3.8

4.5

(0.8

)

(0.7

)

(0.6

)

Net periodic benefit expense

$

9.6

$

11.9

$

15.4

$

0.2

$

0.4

$

0.8

The following table sets forth the reconciliation of the
    beginning and ending balances of the benefit obligation of the
    defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans (in
    millions):





Changes in benefit obligation:

Benefit obligation — beginning of year

$

655.6

$

629.2

$

25.1

$

26.8

Service cost — benefits earned during the year

17.1

16.6

0.1

0.1

Interest cost on projected benefit obligation

38.4

36.8

1.4

1.5

Actuarial (gain) loss

(12.0

)

2.4

(6.2

)

(1.3

)

Benefits paid

(32.2

)

(29.5

)

(1.5

)

(2.0

)

Plan amendments

0.9

0.1

—

—

Benefit obligation — end of year

$

667.8

$

655.6

$

18.9

$

25.1

Accumulated benefit obligation — end of year

$

611.3

$

593.4

The measurement date for the Company’s pension and
    postretirement plans is December 31.

The following table presents the estimated future benefit
    payments for the Company’s pension and postretirement plans
    (in millions):

Pension

Postretirement

Plan

Benefit Plan


$

35.7

$

1.9


38.2

1.9


39.9

1.9


42.0

1.8


49.0

1.8

2014-2018

254.0

8.8

Total

$

458.8

$

18.1



The following tables set forth the reconciliation of the
    beginning and ending balances of the fair value of plan assets
    for Teledyne’s defined benefit pension plans and the
    percentage of year-end market value by asset class (in millions):

Pension Benefits



Changes in plan assets:

Fair value of plan assets — beginning of year

$

577.5

$

587.3

Actual return on plan assets

(169.0

)

12.2

Employer contribution — defined benefit plan

58.7

6.3

Employer contribution — other benefit plan

1.0

1.2

Benefits paid

(32.2

)

(29.5

)

Fair value of plan assets — end of year

$

436.0

$

577.5

Plan Assets % to Total



Equity instruments

55.0

%

68.3

%

Domestic fixed income instruments

44.0

%

30.7

%

Cash

1.0

%

1.0

%

Total

100.0

%

100.0

%

The Company has an active management policy for a portion of its
    pension assets. The investment policy includes a target
    allocation percentage of 70% in equity instruments and 30% in
    domestic fixed income instruments. The balance in equity
    instruments can range from 65% to 75% before rebalancing is
    required under the Company’s policy. In 2008 and at this
    time, Teledyne has elected not to rebalance the equity
    investment allocations of the pension assets due to the
    uncertainty in the equity markets and general economic
    conditions.

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is reviewed
    annually, taking into consideration the Company’s asset
    allocation, historical returns on the types of assets held, and
    the current economic environment. We determined the discount
    rate based on a model which matches the timing and amount of
    expected benefit payments to maturities of quality bonds priced
    as of the pension plan measurement date. For some years, there
    were no bonds maturing. In these instances, we chose to estimate
    the missing bond by using bonds that have similar features as
    the prior year’s bond. The yields on the bonds are used to
    derive a discount rate for the liability.

The following assumptions were used to determine the benefit
    obligation and the net benefit cost:

For the year




Weighted average discount rate

6.00

%

6.00

%

6.00

%

Weighted average increase in future compensation levels

3.66

%

3.66

%

3.66

%

Expected weighted-average long-term rate of return

8.50

%

8.50

%

8.50

%

The Company is projecting a long-term rate of return on plan
    assets of 8.25% in 2009. The discount rate used in determining
    the benefit obligations is expected to be 6.25% in 2009 and the
    expected weighted average increase in future compensation levels
    is 3.50%.



The following table sets forth the funded status and amounts
    recognized in Teledyne’s consolidated balance sheets for
    the pension and postretirement plans at year-end 2008 and 2007
    (in millions):

Pension Benefits

Postretirement Benefits





Funded status

$

(231.8

)

$

(78.1

)

$

(18.9

)

$

(25.1

)

Unrecognized prior service cost

2.2

2.0

(2.9

)

(3.4

)

Unrecognized net (gain) loss

312.7

109.1

(9.3

)

(4.7

)

Prepaid (accrued) benefit cost

$

83.1

$

33.0

$

(31.1

)

$

(33.2

)

Accrued pension obligation (long-term)

$

(227.9

)

$

(74.3

)

$

—

$

—

Accrued pension obligation (short-term)

(0.8

)

(0.8

)

—

—

Accrued postretirement benefits (long-term)

—

—

(16.7

)

(22.9

)

Accrued postretirement benefits (short-term)

—

—

(2.2

)

(2.2

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income

315.0

111.1

(12.2

)

(8.1

)

Other liabilities

(3.2

)

(3.0

)

—

—

Net amount recognized

$

83.1

$

33.0

$

(31.1

)

$

(33.2

)

In accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 158,
    “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
    Other Postretirement Plans — An Amendment of FASB
    Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R),” at year-end
    2008 the Company had a $183.9 million non-cash reduction to
    stockholders’ equity and a long-term additional liability
    of $302.8 million. At year-end 2007, the Company had a
    $62.7 million non-cash reduction to stockholders’
    equity and a long-term additional liability of
    $103.0 million. The adjustments to equity did not affect
    net income and are recorded net of deferred taxes.

At December 28, 2008, the amounts in the minimum liability
    adjustment that have not yet been recognized as components of
    net periodic benefit cost for the pension plans are: net loss
    $312.8 million and net prior service cost
    $2.2 million. At December 28, 2008, the amounts in the
    minimum liability adjustment that have not yet been recognized
    as components of net periodic benefit income for the retiree
    medical plans are: net gain $9.3 million and net prior
    service cost $2.9 million.

At December 28, 2008, the estimated amounts of the minimum
    liability adjustment that are expected to be recognized as
    components of net periodic benefit cost during 2009 for the
    pension plans are: net loss $16.9 million and net prior
    service cost $0.4 million. At December 28, 2008, the
    estimated amounts in the minimum liability expected to be
    recognized as components of net periodic benefit income during
    2009 for the retiree medical plans are: net gain
    $1.3 million and net prior service cost $0.5 million.

The annual assumed rate of increase in the per capita cost of
    covered benefits (the health care cost trend rate) for health
    care plans was 9.0% in 2009 and was assumed to decrease to 5.0%
    by the year 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. Assumed
    health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the
    amounts reported for the health care plans. A one percentage
    point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would
    result in an increase in the annual service and interest costs
    by $0.1 million for 2008 and would result in an increase in
    the postretirement benefit obligation by $0.8 million at
    December 28, 2008. A one percentage point decrease in the
    assumed health care cost trend rates would result in a decrease
    in the annual service and interest costs by $0.1 million
    for 2008 and would result in a decrease in the postretirement
    benefit obligation by $0.7 million at December 28,
    2008.

Note 13.
    Business Segments

Teledyne is a leading provider of sophisticated electronic
    components and subsystems, instrumentation and communications
    products, engineered systems and information technology
    services, general aviation engines and components, and energy
    generation, energy storage and small propulsion products. Our
    customers



include government agencies, aerospace prime contractors, energy
    exploration and production companies, major industrial
    companies, and airlines and general aviation companies.

Teledyne operates in four business segments: Electronics and
    Communications, Engineered Systems, Aerospace Engines and
    Components and Energy and Power Systems. The factors for
    determining the reportable segments were based on the distinct
    nature of their operations. They are managed as separate
    business units because each requires and is responsible for
    executing a unique business strategy. The Electronics and
    Communications segment provides a wide range of specialized
    electronic systems, instruments, components and services that
    address niche market applications in defense, commercial
    aerospace, communications, industrial and scientific markets.
    The Engineered Systems segment, principally through Teledyne
    Brown Engineering, Inc., applies the skills of its extensive
    staff of engineers and scientists to provide innovative systems
    engineering, advanced technology, software development and
    manufacturing solutions to defense, space, environmental, and
    homeland security requirements. The Aerospace Engines and
    Components segment, principally through Teledyne Continental
    Motors, Inc., focuses on the design, development and manufacture
    of piston engines and electronic engine controls. The Energy and
    Power Systems segment provides hydrogen gas generators,
    thermoelectric and fuel cell-based power sources, turbine
    engines and aviation batteries.

Segment operating profit includes other income and expense
    directly related to the segment, but excludes minority interest,
    interest income and expense, gains and losses on the disposition
    of assets, sublease rental income and non-revenue licensing and
    royalty income, domestic and foreign income taxes and corporate
    office expenses.

Identifiable assets are those assets used in the operations of
    the segments. Corporate assets primarily consist of cash and
    cash equivalents, deferred tax assets, net pension
    assets/liabilities and other assets.

Information on the Company’s business segments was as
    follows (in millions):




Sales

Electronics and Communications

$

1,276.6

$

1,071.6

$

899.4

Engineered Systems

361.2

301.7

283.0

Aerospace Engines and Components

171.0

180.7

181.6

Energy and Power Systems

84.2

68.3

69.2

Total sales

$

1,893.0

$

1,622.3

$

1,433.2



2006(a)

Income before taxes

Electronics and Communications

$

183.0

$

143.2

$

109.3

Engineered Systems

35.0

26.2

24.5

Aerospace Engines and Components

(9.7

)

19.2

15.5

Energy and Power Systems

10.2

6.3

6.0

Segment operating profit and other segment income

218.5

194.9

155.3

Corporate expense

(29.6

)

(32.6

)

(27.7

)

Interest and debt expense, net

(10.9

)

(12.5

)

(7.4

)

Minority interest

(2.3

)

(3.4

)

(1.0

)

Other income, net

0.6

2.9

2.5

Income before taxes

$

176.3

$

149.3

$

121.7



a)

Total year 2006 segment operating profit includes receipts of
    $2.5 million, pursuant to an agreement that expired in 2006
    with Honda Motor Co., Ltd., related to the piston engine
    business. This amount is included as part of other income on the
    income statement table.




Depreciation and amortization

Electronics and Communications

$

41.8

$

29.0

$

25.9

Engineered Systems

1.6

1.5

1.8

Aerospace Engines and Components

2.3

2.7

2.8

Energy and Power Systems

1.5

1.4

1.5

Corporate

0.1

0.1

—

Total depreciation and amortization

$

47.3

$

34.7

$

32.0




Capital expenditures

Electronics and Communications

$

33.8

$

33.7

$

17.9

Engineered Systems

2.2

1.5

1.4

Aerospace Engines and Components

3.7

3.5

5.1

Energy and Power Systems

2.1

1.0

1.9

Corporate

0.1

0.6

0.1

Total capital expenditures

$

41.9

$

40.3

$

26.4




Identifiable assets

Electronics and Communications

$

1,184.5

$

861.4

$

804.4

Engineered Systems

91.3

79.3

70.8

Aerospace Engines and Components

58.1

66.2

67.2

Energy and Power Systems

30.2

27.2

24.6

Corporate

170.4

125.3

94.4

Total identifiable assets

$

1,534.5

$

1,159.4

$

1,061.4

Information on the Company’s sales to the
    U.S. Government, including direct sales as a prime
    contractor and indirect sales as a subcontractor, were as
    follows (in millions):




Electronics and Communications

$

386.0

$

334.4

$

249.1

Engineered Systems

322.4

298.0

278.9

Energy and Power Systems

46.1

32.1

41.4

Total U.S. Government sales

$

754.5

$

664.5

$

569.4

Sales to the U.S. Government included sales to the
    Department of Defense of $557.1 million in 2008,
    $481.5 million in 2007, and $431.4 million in 2006.
    Total sales to international customers were $450.3 million
    in 2008, $362.7 million in 2007, and $301.0 million in
    2006. Of these amounts, sales by operations in the United States
    to customers in other countries were $329.4 million in
    2008, $315.1 million in 2007, and $270.7 million in
    2006. There were no sales to individual countries outside of the
    United States in excess of 10 percent of the Company’s
    sales. More than 95 percent of our total sales were made by our
    operations located in the United States. Sales between business
    segments, which were not material, generally were priced at
    prevailing market prices.



Note 14.
    Lease Commitments

The Company leases buildings and equipment under capital and
    operating leases. The present value of the minimum capital lease
    payments, net of the current portion, totaled $6.1 million
    at December 28, 2008. Operating lease agreements, which
    include leases for manufacturing facilities and office space
    frequently include renewal options and require the Company to
    pay for utilities, taxes, insurance and maintenance expense.

At December 28, 2008, future minimum lease payments for
    capital leases and for operating leases with non-cancelable
    terms of more than one year were as follows (in millions):

Capital

Operating


$

0.7

$

17.9


0.7

16.2


0.6

12.4


0.6

10.5


0.6

7.9

Thereafter

6.9

28.9

Total minimum lease payments

10.1

$

93.8

Less:

Imputed interest

(3.5

)

Current portion

(0.5

)

Present value of minimum capital lease payments, net of current
    portion

$

6.1

The 2008 property, plant and equipment accounts included
    $6.3 million of property leased under a capital lease and
    $0.6 million of related accumulated depreciation. The 2007
    property, plant and equipment accounts included
    $3.7 million of property leased under a capital lease and
    $0.6 million of related accumulated depreciation. Rental
    expense under operating leases, net of sublease income, was
    $20.9 million in 2008, $17.8 million in 2007, and
    $13.2 million in 2006.

Note 15.
    Commitments and Contingencies

The Company is subject to federal, state and local environmental
    laws and regulations which require that it investigate and
    remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at
    sites associated with past and present operations, including
    sites at which the Company has been identified as a potentially
    responsible party under the federal Superfund laws and
    comparable state laws.

In accordance with the Company’s accounting policy
    disclosed in Note 2, environmental liabilities are recorded
    when the Company’s liability is probable and the costs are
    reasonably estimable. In many cases, however, investigations are
    not yet at a stage where the Company has been able to determine
    whether it is liable or, if liability is probable, to reasonably
    estimate the loss or range of loss, or certain components
    thereof. Estimates of the Company’s liability are further
    subject to uncertainties regarding the nature and extent of site
    contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available,
    evolving remediation standards, imprecise engineering
    evaluations and estimates of appropriate cleanup technology,
    methodology and cost, the extent of corrective actions that may
    be required, and the number and financial condition of other
    potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their
    responsibility for the remediation. Accordingly, as
    investigation and remediation of these sites proceeds, it is
    likely that adjustments in the Company’s accruals will be
    necessary to reflect new information. The amounts of any such
    adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations in a given period, but the
    amounts, and the possible range of loss in excess of the amounts
    accrued, are not reasonably estimable. Based on currently
    available information, however, management does not believe that
    future environmental costs in excess of those accrued with
    respect to sites with which the Company has been identified are
    likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s



financial condition or liquidity. However, there can be no
    assurance that additional future developments, administrative
    actions or liabilities relating to environmental matters will
    not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    financial condition or results of operations.

At December 28, 2008, the Company’s reserves for
    environmental remediation obligations totaled approximately
    $2.9 million, of which approximately $0.4 million was
    included in other current liabilities. The Company is evaluating
    whether it may be able to recover a portion of future costs for
    environmental liabilities from its insurance carriers and from
    third parties.

The timing of expenditures depends on a number of factors that
    vary by site, including the nature and extent of contamination,
    the number of potentially responsible parties, the timing of
    regulatory approvals, the complexity of the investigation and
    remediation, and the standards for remediation. The Company
    expects that it will expend present accruals over many years,
    and will complete remediation of all sites with which it has
    been identified in up to thirty years.

Various claims (whether based on U.S. Government or Company
    audits and investigations or otherwise) may be asserted against
    the Company related to its U.S. Government contract work,
    including claims based on business practices and cost
    classifications and actions under the False Claims Act. Although
    such claims are generally resolved by detailed fact-finding and
    negotiation, on those occasions when they are not so resolved,
    civil or criminal legal or administrative proceedings may ensue.
    Depending on the circumstances and the outcome, such proceedings
    could result in fines, penalties, compensatory and treble
    damages or the cancellation or suspension of payments under one
    or more U.S. Government contracts. Under government
    regulations, a company, or one or more of its operating
    divisions or units, can also be suspended or debarred from
    government contracts based on the results of investigations.
    However, although the outcome of these matters cannot be
    predicted with certainty, management does not believe there is
    any audit, review or investigation currently pending against the
    Company of which management is aware that is likely to result in
    suspension or debarment of the Company, or that is otherwise
    likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    financial condition or liquidity, although the resolution in any
    reporting period of one or more of these matters could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
    operations for that period.

A number of other lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or
    may be asserted against the Company relating to the conduct of
    its business, including those pertaining to product liability,
    patent infringement, commercial, employment and employee
    benefits. While the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted
    with certainty, and some of these lawsuits, claims or
    proceedings may be determined adversely to the Company,
    management does not believe that the disposition of any such
    pending matters is likely to have a material adverse effect on
    the Company’s financial condition or liquidity, although
    the resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these
    matters could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations for that period. Teledyne
    has aircraft and product liability insurance with an annual
    self-insured retention for general aviation aircraft liabilities
    incurred in connection with products manufactured by Teledyne
    Continental Motors of $20.1 million. The Company’s
    current aircraft product liability insurance policy expires in
    May 2009.

Note 16.
    Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

The following is Teledyne’s quarterly information (in
    millions, except per-share amounts):

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

4th Quarter

Fiscal year 2008(a)

Sales

$

451.8

$

478.8

$

497.6

$

464.8

Gross profit

$

136.5

$

147.9

$

149.1

$

120.0

(c)

Net income(b)

$

27.9

$

32.6

$

30.9

$

19.9

Basic earnings per share

$

0.79

$

0.92

$

0.87

$

0.56

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.77

$

0.89

$

0.84

$

0.54

(a)

Fiscal year 2008 was a 52-week year, each quarter contained
    13 weeks.



(b)

Includes income tax credits of $2.5 million of which
    $1.3 million was recorded in the first quarter and
    $1.2 million was recorded in the fourth quarter. Includes
    the third quarter reversal of $0.8 million in income tax
    contingency reserves which were determined to be no longer
    needed due to the completion of state tax audits and the
    expiration of applicable statutes of limitations.

(c)

Includes an $18.0 million pretax charge for a product
    recall and replacement program.

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

4th Quarter

Fiscal year 2007(a)

Sales

$

385.6

$

400.3

$

408.9

$

427.5

Gross profit

$

113.6

$

125.4

$

124.0

$

122.9

Net income(b)

$

20.5

$

24.3

$

27.1

$

26.6

Basic earnings per share

$

0.59

$

0.69

$

0.77

$

0.76

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.57

$

0.67

$

0.75

$

0.73

(a)

Fiscal year 2007 was a 52-week year, each quarter contained
    13 weeks.

(b)

Includes income tax credits of $4.4 million of which
    $4.0 million was recorded in the third quarter and
    $0.4 million was recorded in the fourth quarter. Includes
    the reversal of $1.1 million in income tax contingency
    reserves which were determined to be no longer needed due to the
    completion of state tax audits and the expiration of applicable
    statutes of limitations, of which $0.5 million was recorded
    in the first quarter, $0.5 million was recorded in the
    third quarter and $0.1 million was recorded in the fourth
    quarter.

Note 17.
    Subsequent Events

In February 2009, the Company made an $80.0 million
    voluntary contribution to its pension plan, funded primarily
    from its credit facility.

On February 12, 2009, Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    through its subsidiary, Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc. issued
    a voluntary product recall of certain aircraft piston engine
    cylinders produced since November 2007. The total cost of the
    recall program is approximately $18.0 million to cover
    estimated costs related to the recall and replacement of
    affected cylinders. Although the company did not learn about the
    cylinder production matter until after the issuance of our
    fourth quarter earning press release, in accordance with
    Generally Accepted Accounting Principals we are required to
    recognize this subsequent event in our 2008 fiscal year results
    since it related to conditions that existed at the balance sheet
    date of December 28, 2008 but prior to the filing of our
    2008 Form 10K. Of the total $18.0 million charge,
    $15.8 million was related to the costs associated with the
    return and replacement of product and $1.4 million was
    related to the disposal and write-off of inventory which were
    recorded as cost of sales; $0.8 million was related to
    estimated customer returns and was recorded as a reduction to
    sales. The recall program is expected to be completed by year
    end 2009.

On February 24, 2009, our Board of Directors approved a
    stock repurchase program authorizing the company to repurchase
    up to 1,500,000 shares of its common stock. At
    February 24, 2009, the Company had outstanding
    36,019,970 shares of its common stock. Under the program,
    shares may be repurchased from time to time in open market
    transactions at prevailing market prices or in privately
    negotiated transactions through February 28, 2010. The
    timing and actual number of shares purchased will depend on a
    variety of factors, such as price, corporate and regulatory
    requirements, alternative investment opportunities, and other
    market and economic conditions. Repurchases will be funded with
    cash on hand and borrowings under our credit facility.
    (unaudited)



Schedule II

VALUATION
    AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

For the
    Fiscal Years Ended December 28, 2008, December 30,
    2007 and December 31, 2006

(In
    millions)

Additions

Balance at

Charged to

beginning of

costs and

Balance at end

Description

period

expenses

Acquisitions

Deductions(a)

of period

Fiscal 2008

Reserve for doubtful accounts

$

4.6

1.0

—

(2.4

)

$

3.2

Aircraft product liability reserve

$

53.8

11.8

—

(26.0

)

$

39.6

Product recall and replacement reserve

$

—

15.8

—

—

$

15.8

Environmental reserves

$

4.4

0.5

—

(2.0

)

$

2.9

Fiscal 2007

Reserve for doubtful accounts

$

2.7

2.3

—

(0.4

)

$

4.6

Aircraft product liability reserve

$

46.9

12.0

—

(5.1

)

$

53.8

Environmental reserves

$

5.1

(0.5

)

—

(0.2

)

$

4.4

Fiscal 2006

Reserve for doubtful accounts

$

2.1

1.3

—

(0.7

)

$

2.7

Aircraft product liability reserve

$

37.1

16.3

—

(6.5

)

$

46.9

Environmental reserves

$

3.5

0.3

1.4

(0.1

)

$

5.1

(a)

Represents payments except the amounts for allowance for
    doubtful accounts primarily represents uncollectible accounts
    written off, net of recoveries.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized as of February 26, 2009.

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated (Registrant)

By:

/s/

Robert
    Mehrabian

Robert Mehrabian

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

/s/

Robert
    Mehrabian

Robert
    Mehrabian

Chairman, President and

Chief Executive Officer

(Principal Executive Officer)

and Director

February 26, 2009

/s/

Dale
    A. Schnittjer

Dale
    A. Schnittjer

Senior Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

(Principal Financial Officer)

February 26, 2009

/s/

Susan
    L. Main

Susan
    L. Main

Vice President and Controller

(Principal Accounting Officer)

February 26, 2009

*

Roxanne
    S. Austin

Director

February 26, 2009

*

Robert
    P.  Bozzone

Director

February 26, 2009

*

Frank
    V. Cahouet

Director

February 26, 2009

*

Charles
    Crocker

Director

February 26, 2009

*

Kenneth
    C. Dahlberg

Director

February 26, 2009

*

Simon
    M. Lorne

Director

February 26, 2009

*

Paul
    D. Miller

Director

February 26, 2009

*

Michael
    T. Smith

Director

February 26, 2009

*

Wesley
    W. von Schack

Director

February 26, 2009

*By:

/s/

Melanie
    S. Cibik

Melanie
    S. Cibik

Pursuant to Power of Attorney

filed as Exhibit 24.1



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

No.

Description


.1

Separation and Distribution Agreement dated as of
    November 29, 1999 by and among Allegheny Teledyne
    Incorporated, TDY Holdings, LLC, Teledyne Industries, Inc. and
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of November 29, 1999 (File

No. 1-15295))


.2

Purchase Agreement dated as of July 26, 2006, by and among
    Rockwell Automation, Inc., Rockwell Collins, Inc. and Teledyne
    Brown Engineering, Inc. (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated July 25, 2006)


.3

Guarantee of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated relating to the
    Purchase Agreement (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.2 of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated July 25, 2006)


.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated (including Certificate of Designation of
    Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock)
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
    Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295))


.2

Amended and Restated Bylaws of Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to
    the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000

(File No. 1-15295))


.1

Rights Agreement dated as of November 29, 1999 between
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated and ChaseMellon Shareholder
    Services, L.L.C. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
    to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of November 29, 1999 (File

No. 1-15295))


.1

Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement between Allegheny
    Teledyne Incorporated and Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of November 29, 1999 (File

No. 1-15295))


.2

Employee Benefits Agreement between Allegheny Teledyne
    Incorporated and Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K/A

(Amendment No. 1) dated as of November 29, 1999
    (File

No. 1-15295))†


.3

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999 Incentive Plan
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the
    Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.4

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999 Non-Employee Director
    Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.5

Amendment No. 1 to Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999
    Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295)†


.6

Amendment No. 2 to Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999
    Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295)†


.7

Amendment No. 3 to Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999
    Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 29, 2002 (File

No. 1-15295)†


.8

Amendment No. 4 to Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999
    Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s

Form 10-Q

for the period ended September 28, 2003) (File

No. 1-15295)†


.9

Fourth Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of
    January 21, 2009, by and between Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated and Dr. Robert Mehrabian (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 20, 2009 (File

No. 1-15295))†



Exhibit

No.

Description


.10

Form of Change of Control Severance Agreement (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295)

with regard to Dale A. Schnittjer (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the period ended June 29, 2003 (File

No. 1-15295))

and with regard to Susan L. Main (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 99.2 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated March 29, 2004 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.11

Form of Amendment to the Change of Control Severance Agreement
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated December 31, 2008

(File No. 1-15295))†


.12

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated Executive Deferred
    Compensation Plan, as originally effective as of
    November 29, 1999, as amended and restated effective
    December 31, 2004 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated December 31, 2008)

(File No. 1-15295)†


.13

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated Pension Equalization/Benefit
    Restoration Plan, as originally effective as of
    November 29, 1999, as amended and restated effective
    December 31, 2004 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated December 31, 2008) (File

No. 1-15295))†


.14

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the
    Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 30, 2001 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.15

Administrative Rules of the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan Related to
    Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 23, 2007)†


.16

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 2008 Incentive Award Plan
    (incorporated by reference to Annex A of the Company’s
    Definitive Proxy Statement filed March 7, 2008 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.17

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated Adminstrative Rules of the
    2008 Incentive Award Plan Related to Non-Employee Director Stock
    Compensation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
    the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the fiscal quarter ended March 30, 2008 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.18

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement —
    January 23, 2007 Award (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.21 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31,

2007(File No. 1-15295))††


.19

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement —
    January 22, 2008 Award (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.21 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 30, 2008

(File No. 1-15295))†


.20

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement —
    January 20, 2009 Award (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 20, 2009 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.21

Administrative Rules for the Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    Restricted Stock Award Program under the 2008 Incentive Award
    Plan, effective as of January 20, 2009 (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 20, 2009 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.22

Summary Plan Description for the Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated Performance Share Plan under the 2008 Incentive
    Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
    the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 20, 2009 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.23

Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of July 14,
    2006, among Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, Bank of America,
    N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer,
    certain lenders thereunder and certain subsidiaries of Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated as guarantors (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated July 14, 2006 (File

No. 1-15295))


.24

First Amendment to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement,
    dated as of February 8, 2008, by and among Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated, certain subsidiaries of Teledyne as
    Guarantors, the Lender parties thereto and Bank of America, N.A.
    as Administrative Agent (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated February 8, 2008 (File

No. 1-15295))



Exhibit

No.

Description


.25

Form of Amendment to Stock Options, dated October 1, 2007,
    by and between Teledyne Technologies Incorporated and directors
    Frank V. Cahouet, Charles Crocker, Simon M. Lorne, Paul D.
    Miller and Michael T. Smith (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.1

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated Corporate Objectives and
    Guidelines for Employee Conduct — this code of ethics
    may be accessed via the Company’s website at
    www.teledyne.com/aboutus/ethics.asp


.2

Code of Ethics for Financial Executives — this code of
    ethics may be accessed via the Company’s website at
    www.teledyne.com/aboutus/ethics.asp


.3

Directors Code of Business Conduct and Ethics — this
    code of ethics may be accessed via the Company’s website at
    www.teledyne.com/aboutus/ethics.asp


Subsidiaries of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated*


Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm*


.1

Power of Attorney — Directors*


.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*


.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*


.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*


.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*

*

Submitted electronically herewith.

†

Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
    required to be filed as an Exhibit to this

Form 10-K.

110