10-K


v17886e10vk.htm

TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED - 1/1/2006

e10vk


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM

10-K

(Mark One)

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR SECTION 15(d)
    OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended January 1, 2006

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission file number:     1-15295

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

25-1843385

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification Number)

12333 West Olympic Boulevard

Los Angeles, California 90064-1021

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:
(310)

893-1600

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

New York Stock Exchange

Preferred Share Purchase Rights

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past
90 days.    Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation

S-K

is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form

10-K

or any
amendment to this
Form

10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer” in
Rule

12b-2

of the
Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
filer

þ

Accelerated
filer

o

Non-accelerated
filer

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in
Rule

12b-2

of the
Exchange
Act).    Yes

o

No

þ

The aggregate market value of the registrant’s Common Stock
held by non-affiliates was $1,060.5 million, based on the
closing price of a share of Common Stock on June 30, 2005
($32.58), which is the last business day of the
registrant’s most recently completed fiscal second quarter.
Shares of Common Stock known by the registrant to be
beneficially owned by the registrant’s directors and the
registrant’s executive officers subject to Section 16
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are not included in the
computation. The registrant, however, has made no determination
that such persons are “affiliates” within the meaning
of Rule

12b-2

under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

At February 28, 2006, there were 33,845,213 shares of
the registrant’s Common Stock issued and outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Selected portions of the registrant’s proxy statement for
its 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the “2006 Proxy
Statement”) are incorporated by reference in Part III
of this Report. Information required by
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Item 306 of
Regulation S-K and by paragraphs (k) and (l) of
Item 402 of
Regulation

S-K

is
not incorporated by reference in this
Form

10-K

or in
any other filing of the registrant. Such information shall not
be deemed “soliciting material” or to be filed with
the Commission as permitted by paragraph (c) of
Item 306 and paragraph (a) (9) to Item 402
of Regulation

S-K.

INDEX

Explanatory Notes

In this Annual Report on
Form

10-K,

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is sometimes referred to as
the “Company” or “Teledyne”. References to
“ATI” mean Allegheny Technologies Incorporated,
formerly known as Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated, the company
from which we were spun-off on November 29, 1999.

For a discussion of risk factors and uncertainties associated
with Teledyne and any forward looking statements made by us, see
the discussion beginning at page 13 of this Annual Report
on Form

10-K.

i


PART I

Item 1.

Business.

Who We Are

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is a leading provider of
sophisticated electronic components, instruments and
communications products, including defense electronics, data
acquisition and communications equipment for airlines and
business aircraft, monitoring and control instruments for
industrial and environmental applications and components, and
subsystems for wireless and satellite communications. We also
provide systems engineering solutions and information technology
services for defense, space and environmental applications, and
manufacture general aviation and missile engines and components,
as well as

on-site

gas
and power generation systems.

We serve niche market segments where performance, precision and
reliability are critical. Our customers include major industrial
and communications companies, government agencies, aerospace
prime contractors and general aviation companies.

Total sales in 2005 were $1,206.5 million, compared with
$1,016.6 million and $840.7 million in 2004 and 2003,
respectively. Our aggregate segment operating profit and other
segment income were $126.6 million, $89.2 million and
$61.9 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Approximately 58% of our total sales in 2005 were to commercial
customers and the balance was to the U.S. Government, as a
prime contractor or subcontractor. Approximately 47% of these
U.S. Government sales were attributable to fixed price-type
contracts and the balance to cost plus fee-type contracts.
International sales accounted for approximately 18% of total
sales in 2005.

Our four business segments and their respective contributions to
our total sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003 are summarized in the
following table:

Percentage of Sales

Segment




Electronics and Communications


%


%


%

Systems Engineering Solutions


%


%


%

Aerospace Engines and Components


%


%


%

Energy Systems


%


%


%


%


%


%

Our principal executive offices are located at 12333 West
Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90064-1021. Our
telephone number is
(310)

893-1600.

Strategy

Our strategy emphasizes growth in our core markets of defense
electronics, environmental instruments and government systems
engineering. We intend to strengthen and expand our core
businesses with targeted acquisitions. We intend to aggressively
pursue operational excellence to continually improve our margins
and earnings. Operational excellence to Teledyne includes the
rapid integration of the businesses we acquire. Over time, our
goal is to create a set of businesses that are truly superior in
their niches. We intend to continue to evaluate our product
lines to ensure that they are aligned with our strategy.

Our Recent Acquisitions

During 2005 and subsequently, Teledyne has engaged in a number
of acquisitions intended to add to its product and service
offerings in the electronic instrumentation market.

•

In August 2005, we acquired RD Instruments, Inc., a designer and
    manufacturer of acoustic Doppler instrumentation principally
    located in San Diego, California. In October 2005, our new



subsidiary Teledyne RD Instruments, Inc., purchased assets of
    software developer GeoPerception, Inc., and in November 2005, we
    purchased the remaining stock of MGD Technologies, Inc., a
    provider of acoustic Doppler flow meter products, that had been
    majority owned by RD Instruments, Inc.

•

In January 2006, we completed the acquisition of Benthos, Inc.,
    a manufacturer of oceanographic products and package inspection
    systems located in North Falmouth, Massachusetts.

In addition to complementing each other, the above-listed
acquisitions expand the existing underwater acoustic instruments
of Teledyne Geophysical Instruments and the existing water flow
measurement instruments of Teledyne Isco, Inc., the latter
itself being a June 2004 acquisition.

Other acquisitions have continued to focus on broadening our
line of microwave products for defense and other commercial
customers:

•

In June 2005, we completed the acquisition of Cougar Components
    Corporation, a designer and manufacturer of RF and microwave
    cascadable amplifiers and subsystems for signal processing
    equipment located in Sunnyvale, California.

•

In October 2005, our subsidiary, Teledyne Cougar, Inc., acquired
    assets of the microwave technical solutions business of Avnet,
    Inc., relating to its standard RF and microwave components and
    high reliability screening and value-added testing services.
    Such assets have been primarily consolidated with Teledyne
    Cougar’s operations.

These acquisitions serve the same markets and customers as our
other defense electronics businesses and also complement our
2004 acquisitions of the defense electronics assets of Filtronic
Solid State and Celeritek, Inc.

Teledyne spent $58.4 million, net of cash acquired, on
acquisitions in 2005. Teledyne spent $32.2 million, net of
cash acquired, in 2006 for the Benthos acquisition.

Each of the acquired businesses is part of our Electronics and
Communications segment. Their results are included in our
consolidated financial statements since their respective dates
of acquisition. The Benthos acquisition was completed in fiscal
year 2006.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on
Form

10-K,

our
Quarterly Reports on
Form

10-Q,

any
Current Reports on
Form

8-K,

and any
amendments to these reports, are available on our Internet
website as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the
SEC. In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our
Corporate Objectives and Guidelines for Employee Conduct and the
charters of the standing committees of our Board of Directors
are available on our website. Our website address is

www.teledyne.com

.

You will be responsible for any costs normally associated with
electronic access, such as usage and telephone charges.
Alternatively, if you would like a paper copy of any such SEC
report (without exhibits) or document, please write to John T.
Kuelbs, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary,
Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, 12333 West Olympic
Blvd., Los Angeles, California 90064-1021, and a copy of such
requested document will be provided to you, free of charge.

In April 2005, we submitted to the New York Stock Exchange the
CEO certification required by Section 303A.12(a) of the New
York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual. The certification was
not qualified in any respect. Additionally, we filed with the
SEC as exhibits to our
Form

10-K

the CEO
and CFO certifications required under Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.



Our Business Segments

Electronics and Communications

Our Electronics and Communications segment, sometimes referred
to as Teledyne Electronic Technologies, provides a wide range of
specialized electronic systems, instruments, components and
services that address niche market applications in defense,
commercial aerospace, communications, industrial, scientific and
medical markets.

Defense Electronics

Traveling Wave Tubes.

Our helix traveling wave tubes are
used to provide broadband power amplification of microwave
signals. Military applications include radar, electronic warfare
and satellite communication. Commercial applications for
traveling wave tubes include electromagnetic compatibility test
equipment and satellite communication terminals for mobile
newsgathering.

Microwave Components and Subsystems.

We design, develop,
and manufacture RF and microwave components and subassemblies
used in aerospace and defense applications, including electronic
warfare and radar. With the 2005 acquisition of Cougar
Components, our products include cascadable amplifiers,
voltage-controlled oscillators and microwave mixers.

High Voltage Connectors and Subassemblies.

Through
Teledyne Reynolds, Inc., we supply specialized high voltage
connectors and subassemblies for defense, aerospace and
industrial applications. We also produce pilot helmet mounted
display components and subsystems for the Joint Helmet Mounted
Cueing System, which is designed to give military pilots the
ability to designate a target just by looking at it.

Microelectronic Modules.

We develop and manufacture
custom microelectronic modules that provide both high
reliability and extremely dense packaging for military
applications. We also develop custom tamper-resistant
microcircuits designed to provide enhanced security in military
communication.

Rigid-Flex Printed Circuit Boards.

Our patented
rigid-flex printed circuit boards permit our customers to
assemble reliable high-density electronic modules that are used
in a variety of military and commercial aerospace applications.

Sequencers.

Teledyne Electronic Safety Products continues
to provide microprocessor-controlled aircraft ejection seat
sequencers and related support elements to military aircraft
programs, including the F/ A-18E/ F and F/ A-22. We have
developed a new sequencer, which is currently undergoing
testing, in support of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program.

Relays and Switches.

Teledyne Relays supplies
electromechanical relays, solid-state power relays and coaxial
switching devices to military and aerospace markets.

Electronic Manufacturing Services.

We serve the market
for high-mix, low-volume manufacturing of sophisticated military
electronics equipment principally from our facility in Tennessee.

Electronic Instruments

During 2001, we formed Teledyne Instruments, a group of business
units drawn from our Electronics and Communications segment and
our Systems Engineering Solutions segment, to focus on
monitoring and process control instrumentation. Since then,
through acquisitions, we have greatly expanded our presence in
the environmental instrumentation markets. In addition to
environmental monitoring instruments, we also serve a range of
other market applications including industrial process control,
petrochemical manufacturing, semiconductor manufacturing, drug
discovery and energy exploration and production.

Environmental Instruments.

As a result of our
acquisitions, we offer a wide range of products for
environmental monitoring. Teledyne Advanced Pollution
Instrumentation, Inc. manufactures a broad line of instruments
for monitoring low levels of gases such as sulfur dioxide,
carbon monoxide and ozone in the air we breathe. Teledyne
Monitor Labs, Inc. supplies environmental monitoring systems for
the detection,



measurement and reporting of air pollutants from industrial
stack emissions. Teledyne Tekmar Company manufactures
instruments that automate the preparation and concentration of
drinking water and wastewater samples for the analysis of
volatile organic compounds in gas chromatographs. It also
provides laboratory analytical systems for the detection of
total organic carbon. Through Teledyne Leeman Labs, we provide
inductively coupled plasma laboratory spectrometers that are
used by environmental and quality control laboratories to detect
low levels of inorganic contaminants in water and other
environmental samples.

Teledyne Isco, Inc. produces water quality monitoring products
such as wastewater samplers and open channel flow meters. Flow
meters detect leaks in sewer systems and monitor run off in
storm drains. Teledyne Isco, Inc. also manufactures
chromatography instruments and accessories for purification of
organic compounds. Its liquid chromatography customers include
pharmaceutical laboratories involved in drug discovery and
development. Additionally, Teledyne Isco manufactures chemical
separation instruments for industrial and research use.

Underwater Acoustic Instruments.

We manufacture
geophysical streamer cables, hydrophones and specialty products
used in offshore hydrocarbon exploration to locate oil and gas
reserves beneath the ocean floor. We continue to adapt this
technology for the military market, where these products can be
used to detect submarines, surface ships and torpedoes.

With the acquisitions of RD Instruments, Inc. and Benthos, Inc.,
we have expanded our underwater acoustic instrumentation
capabilities. Teledyne RD Instruments, Inc.’s acoustic
Doppler current profilers perform precise measurement of
currents at varying depths in oceans and rivers, and its Doppler
Velocity Logs are used for navigation of civilian and military
surface ships and unmanned underwater vehicles and by
U.S. Navy divers. Teledyne Benthos, Inc. is a leading
provider of oceanographic products used by the U.S. Navy,
energy exploration, oceanographic research and port and harbor
security services. Its products include acoustic modems for
networked underwater communication, a three-dimensional sidescan
sonar system and remotely operated underwater vehicles.

Industrial Gas Analysis.

Teledyne Analytical Instruments
was a pioneer in the development of precision oxygen analyzers
and now offers a broad range of products with various
sensitivities for petrochemical, semiconductor manufacturing and
other industrial applications. We also manufacture analyzers for
a variety of other gases for such market applications. In
addition, we sell gas analyzers to a leading supplier of carbon
dioxide to the food and beverage market.

Vacuum and Flow Measurement.

Teledyne Hastings
Instruments manufactures a broad line of instruments for precise
measurement and control of vacuum and gas flows. Our instruments
are used in varied applications such as semiconductor
manufacturing, refrigeration, metallurgy and food processing.

Package Inspection Systems.

Since the acquisition of
Benthos, Inc., under the
Taptone

®

brand, we develop quality control equipment for flexible
plastic, glass and other packaging used in the beverage, food
and pharmaceutical markets.

Test Services.

We manufacture torque sensors and provide
technical services for critical applications such as monitoring
valves in nuclear power plants.

Other Commercial Electronics

Aircraft Information Management.

Our aircraft information
management solutions are designed to increase the reliability
and efficiency of airline transportation. Through Teledyne
Controls, we are a leading supplier of digital flight data
acquisition and flight safety systems to civil aviation
customers. These systems acquire data for use by the
aircraft’s flight data recorder, and record additional data
for the airline’s operation, such as performance and engine
condition monitoring. We have provided these systems for over
one-half of Boeing aircraft models in existing airline fleets.
We have been increasingly providing our systems to the Airbus
A320 and A330/340 family aircraft, and we estimate that our
forward fit market share was over 50% at the end of 2005. In
addition, our Aviation Information Solutions (AIS) business



designs and manufactures aerospace data acquisition devices,
networking products, and flight deck and cabin displays.

Microelectronic Modules.

In addition to military
microelectronic modules, we develop and manufacture custom
microelectronic modules that provide both high reliability and
extremely dense packaging for implantable medical devices, such
as pacemakers and defibrillators, and commercial communication
products.

Relays and Switches.

In addition to military and
aerospace markets, Teledyne Relays supplies electromechanical
relays, solid-state power relays and coaxial switching devices
to industrial and commercial markets. Applications include
microwave and wireless communication infrastructure, RF and
general broadband test equipment, test equipment used in
semiconductor manufacturing, and industrial and commercial
machinery and control equipment.

Wireless Transceivers and Amplifiers.

Our line of
integrated transceiver modules provides high data rate

point-to

-point
connectivity in cellular telephone infrastructure. We also
supply solid-state microwave power amplifiers used in satellite
uplink terminals for corporate networking. They are also used to
provide two-way internet access via satellite for both consumer
and commercial customers.

Connectors.

We manufacture custom surface mount
connectors for applications in computer disk drives and consumer
medical electronic devices.

Electronics Equipment and Printed Circuit Card Assembly.

We serve the market for high-mix, low-volume manufacturing of
electronic products principally through facilities in Tennessee
and Mexico. We manufacture, principally for one customer, key
subsystems in medical equipment such as magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI) and x-ray systems.

Systems Engineering Solutions

Our Systems Engineering Solutions segment, principally through
Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc., applies the skills of its
extensive staff of engineers and scientists to provide
innovative systems engineering, advanced technology, and
manufacturing solutions to defense, space, environmental, and
homeland security requirements.

Defense

Teledyne Brown Engineering is a well-recognized full-service
missile defense contractor with over 50 years of experience
in missile defense and related systems integration. Our diverse
customer base in this field includes the U.S. Army Aviation
and Missile Command (“AMCOM”), the
U.S. Army’s Space and Missile Defense Command
(“SMDC”), the Missile Defense Agency (“MDA”)
and Defense Department major prime contractors.

We play significant roles in diverse missile defense areas,
which range from targets and countermeasures, systems
engineering and modeling and simulation, to test and evaluation,
as well as other related areas. Our engineering and
technological services include systems design, development,
integration and testing, with specialization in real-time
distributed systems.

During 2005, we continued our long-standing support of several
missile defense programs, including the Ground-based Midcourse
Defense (“GMD”) Program, Missile Defense Systems
Exerciser and, as part of the Lockheed Martin team, the Targets
and Countermeasures Program. These programs involve the test and
verification of ballistic missile defense system performance on
a large number of major programs, including the Airborne Laser,
the Kinetic Energy Interceptor, the Ground-based Midcourse
Defense, the Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense, the Patriot
Advanced Capability 3, and the Terminal High Altitude Area
Defense (“THAAD”). Additionally, we have commenced
work on an enhanced test program, launched in December 2005, to
support an integrated test lab for the GMD system.

In addition to our missile defense activities, we are supporting
several other U.S. Army programs. After reaching agreement
with Germany’s Rheinmetall Defence Electronics in November
2004 to market



its Unmanned Aircraft Systems in the United States, we won
Phase I of a three-phase down select program to develop a
Class III Unmanned Aerial Vehicle under the Future Combat
System Program. During 2005, we also introduced a Multipurpose
Troop Transport Carrier System, which is designed to protect
soldiers from small arms fire and fragments from improvised
explosive devises. This system can be mounted on the Army’s
standard trucks or dismounted and configured on the ground to
provide fixed-position armor protection.

Aerospace

We have been active in U.S. space programs for almost
50 years and continue to be a significant contributor to
NASA programs. We have played a key role in the International
Space Station (“ISS”), and have had roles in the Space
Shuttle program. We currently supply

24-hour

-per-day service
for the payload operation cadre for the ISS Payload Operations
and Integration Center, located at NASA’s Marshall Space
Flight Center. As a subcontractor to Lockheed Martin, we also
work on the ISS Cargo Mission Contract at the Johnson Space
Center in 2005. This six-year contract, which began in 2003,
involves providing services related to planning, preparation and
execution of cargo missions to the ISS.

We are the prime contractor on the Marshall Space Flight Center
Systems Development and Operations Support Contract, which
provides engineering services and hardware development support
for a variety of space activities. We have been the prime
contractor for the Propellants, Pressurants and Calibration
Services Contract at Marshall Space Flight Center since 1971. We
furnish management, personnel, equipment and materials to
operate and maintain the propellant and pressurant generating
systems, storage and distribution systems, as well as management
and operation of the calibration facilities at the Marshall
Space Flight Center.

Environmental Systems

We support the U.S. Government’s efforts to clean up
dangerous materials and waste. Since 1996, we have supported the
U.S. Army’s Non-Stockpile Chemical Materiel Program
and we continue to operate the U.S. Army’s Rapid
Response System, a mobile chemical waste treatment system used
to process chemical agents for disposal. These chemical agents
had been used in the past to train military personnel in the
detection, measurement and decontamination of dangerous
chemicals. During 2005, we continued our work on the
U.S. Army’s Non-Stockpile Chemical Materiel Program in
support of the destruction of binary chemical warfare materiel
stored at the Pine Bluff Arsenal in Arkansas. We also began
applying sophisticated computer aided engineering, design,
modeling and manufacturing skills to support the
U.S. Army’s Edgewood Chemical and Biological Center.
In addition, we produce canisters for the processing,
stabilization and storage of nuclear-waste products.

We operate a Department of Energy-certified radiological
analysis services laboratory in Knoxville, Tennessee. This
laboratory has received certification from the National
Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program in
12 states, including Utah where the largest commercial
radiological waste disposal site resides. With its Nuclear
Utilities Procurement Issues Committee certification, the
laboratory also serves one-third of the nuclear power plants in
United States.

Homeland Security

We continue to work to leverage our broad capabilities into the
Homeland Defense market. As part of homeland security
initiatives, we are supporting the Federal Aviation
Administration in the development of an Automated Airborne
Flight Alert System. This system, developed in conjunction with
Teledyne Controls, is designed to detect flight irregularities
by providing selected aircraft flight data and situational
awareness data to ground agencies over existing communications
links.

Teledyne Solutions, Inc.

Through Teledyne Solutions, Inc., we are a primary Ballistic
Missile Defense (“BMD”) systems engineering and
technical assistance contractor for the U.S. Army. Teledyne
Solutions is a principal prime



contractor for the Systems Engineering and Technical Assistance
Contract (“SETAC”) in support of the U.S. Army
Space and Missile Defense Command. We also provide engineering
and services support to other major Department of Defense
customers including the Missile Defense Agency, the Program
Executive Office for Missiles and Space, the Defense Threat
Reduction Agency, the Mobile, Alabama Army Corps of Engineers
and the Army Environmental Center.

Aerospace Engines and Components

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment focuses on the
design, development and manufacture of piston engines, turbine
engines, electronic engine controls and aviation batteries.

Piston Engines

Principally through Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc., we
design, develop and manufacture piston engines and ignition
systems for major general aviation airframe manufacturers and
provide spare parts and engine rebuilding services to the
corresponding aftermarket. We are one of two primary worldwide
original equipment producers of piston aircraft engines for the
general aviation marketplace.

Our current OEM product lines include engines powering
high-speed composite aircraft, such as the Cirrus SR-20 and
SR-22, the Diamond C1, and Lancair Columbia 350 and 400 series,
the Liberty XL2 two seat aircraft, and the twin engine Adam
A500. In addition, our engines power the Raytheon Beech Bonanza
and Baron aircraft, the Mooney Aircraft line of advanced single
engine aircraft, and the New Piper Seneca V twin-engine
aircraft. We also continue to work with Honda Motor Company to
explore the development of a new aircraft piston engine
primarily targeted at lower power markets not currently served
by our existing business.

In addition to the sales of new aircraft engines to aircraft
producers, we actively support the aircraft engine aftermarket.
Piston aircraft engines have a defined life limit generally
expressed as time between overhauls or TBO. Our aftermarket
support includes building and rebuilding of complete engines, as
well as providing a full complement of spare parts such as
cylinders, crankcases, fuel systems, crankshafts, camshafts and
ignition products. In addition, through Teledyne Mattituck
Services, Inc., located in Long Island, New York, and our
Fairhope, Alabama service center, we serve as an aftermarket
supplier of overhauled piston engines and engine installations
to the general aviation marketplace.

Through Aerosance, Inc., we developed the first production full
authority digital electronic controls for piston aircraft
engines. These controls, known as
PowerLink

tm

FADEC (Full Authority Digital Electronic Control), are designed
to automate many functions that currently require manual
control, such as fuel flow and power management. This system
also saves fuel as a result of improved engine management and
facilitates modern electronic driven maintenance of our engines.
During 2005, a milestone was realized when Liberty Aircraft
began production and delivery of the XL-2 two seat aircraft
bearing the
PowerLink

tm

controls, We continue the development of FADEC-equipped engines
targeted at the most popular models of four and six cylinder
piston aircraft engines in use throughout the world. We continue
to believe that these control systems will become standard
equipment on selected new aircraft and will be retrofitted on
higher-end piston engine general aviation aircraft.

In addition, our
Gill

®

line of lead acid batteries is widely recognized as the premier
power source for general aviation. We have developed sealed
recombinant batteries for business and light jet applications.
Teledyne Battery Products, in conjunction with Teledyne
Controls, jointly developed an onboard charging and cockpit
display kit that permits existing NiCad battery systems to be
replaced with
Gill

®

sealed lead acid batteries.

Turbine Engines

We design, develop and manufacture small turbine engines
primarily used in tactical missiles for military markets.



Our J402 engine powers the Harpoon missile system. Derivatives
of this engine power the Standoff Land Attack Missile and the
Standoff Land Attack Missile-Expanded Response. Lockheed Martin
Corporation selected a derivative of the J402 engine to power
the Joint

Air-to

-Surface Standoff
Missile (“JASSM”). We are the sole source provider of
engines for the baseline JASSM system.

Our J700 engine provides the turbine power for the Improved
Tactical Air Launched Decoy (“ITALD”) built for the
U.S. Navy. The ITALD system enhances combat aircraft
survivability by both serving as a decoy and identifying enemy
radar sources.

In 2005, we continued to work under a contract related to the
U.S. Army’s Future Combat System for the development
of new and derivative turbine engines for unmanned air vehicles,
commonly called UAVs, and other future aircraft.

Energy Systems

Our Energy Systems segment, through Teledyne Energy Systems,
Inc., provides hydrogen gas generators and thermoelectric and
fuel cell-based power sources. Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc., a
majority owned subsidiary of Teledyne, was formed in 2001 by
combining Teledyne Brown Engineering’s Energy Systems
business unit with assets and intellectual properties of then
Florida-based Energy Partners, Inc.

We manufacture hydrogen/oxygen gas generators that utilize the
principle of electrolysis to convert water into high purity
hydrogen gas at useable pressures. Our Teledyne
Titan

tm

gas generators are used worldwide in electrical power generation
plants, semiconductor manufacture, optical fiber production,
chemical processing, specialty metals, float glass and other
industrial processes. Historically, our sales of hydrogen
generators have been largely to the developing countries.
Recently, however, the combination of rising hydrogen prices and
weather-induced supply disruptions has increased our sales and
sales opportunities in the North American market.

For over 50 years, we have supplied high reliability energy
conversion devices and gas generation products based on
thermoelectric and electrochemical processes. We provided the
thermoelectric power systems for the Pioneer 10 and 11
deep-space missions to Jupiter and Saturn and for the Viking 1
and Viking 2 Mars Landers. In 2005, in partnership with Boeing
and under a ten-year $57 million contract signed in 2003
with the U.S. Department of Energy, we produced and tested
an operational prototype of the new Multi-Mission Radioisotope
Thermoelectric Generator capable of supporting planetary landing
and deep space probe missions. If selected for flight, the first
of two production units could be used to power the Mars Science
Laboratory scheduled to launch in 2009.

We have a line of fuel cell test stations designed to provide a
completely integrated system for fuel cell testing for the PEM
fuel cell development market. Our Medusa line of fuel cell test
systems provides high quality, simple to use automated test
stations for fuel cell and fuel cell stack testing up to
12 kilowatts.

In 2005, we successfully supplied NASA with a 12 kilowatt PEM
full cell engineering unit, and have obtained additional work
from NASA to continue development of advanced PEM fuel cell
technologies for space.



Customers

We have hundreds of customers in the electronics,
communications, aerospace and defense industries. No commercial
customer accounted for more than 10% of our total sales during
2005, 2004 or 2003.

Approximately 42%, 43%, and 46% of our total sales for 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively, were derived from contracts with
agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government.
Our principal U.S. Government customer is the
U.S. Department of Defense. These sales represented 32%,
33% and 31% of our total sales for 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. In 2005, our largest program with the
U.S. Government was the Systems Engineering and Technical
Assistance contract with the Space and Missile Defense Command,
and it represented 5.5% of total sales. In 2004 and 2003, our
largest program with the U.S. Government was The Boeing
Company — Ground-based Midcourse Defense contract,
representing 5.4%, and 5.8% of total sales, respectively. Set
forth below are sales by our segments to agencies and prime
contractors to the U.S. Government for the periods
presented:

U.S. Government Sales




(in millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

198.5

$

147.3

$

142.0

Systems Engineering Solutions

260.0

240.4

210.3

Aerospace Engines and Components

32.3

26.0

24.7

Energy Systems

19.8

19.4

10.7

Total U.S. Government sales

$

510.6

$

433.1

$

387.7

Our total backlog of confirmed orders was approximately
$521.9 million at January 1, 2006, $471.3 million
at January 2, 2005, and $369.7 million at
December 28, 2003. We expect to fulfill 99% of such backlog
of confirmed orders during 2006.

Sales and Marketing

Our sales and marketing approach varies by segment and by
products within our segments. A shared fundamental tenet is the
commitment to work closely with our customers to understand
their needs, with an aim to secure preferred supplier and
longer-term relationships.

Our business segments use a combination of internal sales
forces, distributors and commissioned sales representatives to
market and sell our products and services. As part of on-going
acquisition integration efforts, some of our Teledyne
Instruments companies have been consolidating internal sales and
servicing efforts.

Products are also advertised in appropriate trade journals and
by means of various websites. To promote our products and other
capabilities, our personnel regularly participate in relevant
trade shows and professional associations.

Many of our government contracts are awarded after a competitive
bidding process in which we seek to emphasize our ability to
provide superior products and technical solutions in addition to
competitive pricing.

Through Teledyne Technologies International Corp. and other
subsidiaries, the Company has established branch offices in
foreign countries to facilitate international sales for various
businesses.



Competition

We believe that technological capabilities and innovation and
the ability to invest in the development of new and enhanced
products are critical to obtaining and maintaining leadership in
our markets and the industries in which we compete. Although we
have certain advantages that we believe help us compete
effectively in our markets, each of our markets is highly
competitive. Our businesses vigorously compete on the basis of
quality, product performance and reliability, technical
expertise, price and service. Many of our competitors have, and
potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a
larger installed base of products, more extensive engineering,
manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and
greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we
do.

Research and Development

Our research and development efforts primarily involve
engineering and design related to improving product lines and
developing new products and technologies in the same or similar
fields. We spent a total of $291.5 million,
$263.3 million, and $218.1 million on research and
development and bid and proposal costs for 2005, 2004, and 2003,
respectively. Customer-funded research and development, most of
which was attributable to work under contracts with the
U.S. Government, represented approximately 85%, 88%, and
87% of total research and development costs for 2005, 2004, and
2003, respectively.

In 2005, approximately 73.6% of the $44.9 million in
Company-funded research and development and bid and proposal
costs were incurred in our electronics and communications
businesses. We expect the level of Company-funded research and
development and bid and proposal costs to be approximately
$54.4 million in 2006.

Intellectual Property

While we own and control various intellectual property rights,
including patents, trade secrets, confidential information,
trademarks, trade names, and copyrights, which, in the
aggregate, are of material importance to our business, our
management believes that our business as a whole is not
materially dependent upon any one intellectual property or
related group of such properties. We own several hundred active
patents and are licensed to use certain patents, technology and
other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by
others. Similarly, other companies are licensed to use certain
patents, technology and other intellectual property rights owned
and controlled by us.

Patents, patent applications and license agreements will expire
or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with
their terms or otherwise. We do not expect the expiration or
termination of these patents, patent applications and license
agreements to have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations or financial condition.

Employees

Our total current workforce consists of approximately 7,270
employees. The International Union of United Automobile,
Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America
represents approximately 265 active employees in Mobile, Alabama
under a collective bargaining agreement that expires by its
terms on February 20, 2007. This union also represents
approximately 15 of our active employees in Toledo, Ohio under a
collective bargaining agreement that expires by its terms on
November 9, 2006. We consider our relations with our
employees to be good.



Executive Management

Teledyne’s executive management includes:



*

Such officers are subject to the reporting and other
    requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act
    of 1934, as amended.

Dr. Mehrabian and Teledyne have entered into a Second
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of
January 24, 2006. The agreement provides that we will
employ him as the Chairman, President and Chief Executive
Officer. The agreement terminates on December 31, 2006, but
will automatically be extended annually unless either party
gives the other written notice prior to October 31 of the
year of such term that it will not be extended. Under the
agreement, Dr. Mehrabian’s annual base salary is
$700,003. The agreement provides that Dr. Mehrabian is
entitled to participate in Teledyne’s annual incentive
bonus plan and other executive compensation and benefit
programs. The agreement provides Dr. Mehrabian with a
non-qualified pension arrangement, under which Teledyne will pay
him starting six months following his retirement, as payments
supplemental to any accrued pension under our qualified pension
plan, an amount equal to 50% of his base compensation as in
effect at retirement. The number of years for which such annual
amount shall be paid will be equal to the number of years of his
service to Teledyne (including service to ATI), but not more
than 10 years.

Fifteen current members of management have entered into Change
in Control Severance Agreements with Teledyne. The agreements
have a three-year, automatically renewing term. Under the
agreements, the executive is entitled to severance benefits if
(1) there is a change in control of Teledyne and
(2) within three months before or 24 months after the
change in control, either we terminate the executive’s



employment for reasons other than for cause or the executive
terminates employment for good reason. “Severance
benefits” consist of:

Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Risk Factors; Cautionary Statement as to Forward-Looking
Statements

The following text highlights various risks and uncertainties
associated with Teledyne. These factors could materially affect
“forward-looking statements” (within the meaning of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that we
may from time to time make, including forward-looking statements
contained in “Item 1. Business” and
“Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this
Form

10-K

and in
Teledyne’s 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders. It is not
possible for management to predict all of such factors, and new
factors may emerge. Additionally, management cannot assess the
impact of each such factor on Teledyne or the extent to which
any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results
to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking
statements.

Our dependence on revenue from government contracts subjects
us to many risks, including the risk that we may not be
successful in bidding for future contracts and the risk that
U.S. Government funding for our existing contracts may be
diverted to other uses or delayed.

We perform work on a number of contracts with the Department of
Defense and other agencies and departments of the
U.S. Government including sub-contracts with government
prime contractors. Sales under contracts with the
U.S. Government as a whole, including sales under contracts
with the Department of Defense, as prime contractor or
subcontractor, represented approximately 42% of our total



revenue for 2005, as compared to 43% and 46% of our total
revenue for 2004 and 2003, respectively. Performance under
government contracts has certain inherent risks that could have
a material effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.

Government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing
availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress typically
appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis
even though contract performance may take more than one year. As
a result, at the beginning of a major program, a contract is
typically only partially funded, and additional monies are
normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only
as Congress makes appropriations available for future fiscal
years.

While U.S. defense spending increased as a result of the
September 11th terrorist attacks and the war in Iraq,
it is currently expected to moderate over the next few years.
Hurricane relief efforts, the continued war on terrorism and the
Middle East situation could result in a diversion of funds from
programs in which Teledyne participates. Also, continued defense
spending does not necessarily correlate to continued business
for the Company, because not all the programs in which Teledyne
participates or has current capabilities may be provided with
continued funding.

Our Electronics and Communications segment provides a variety of
products for newer military platforms such as the F/ A-22
aircraft and F-35 aircraft. Development and production of these
aircrafts are very expensive, and there is no guarantee that the
Department of Defense, as it balances budget priorities, will
continue to provide funding to manufacture and support these
platforms.

Also, over time and for a variety of reasons, programs can
evolve and affect the extent of our participation. For example,
Teledyne Brown Engineering’s Ground-based Midcourse Defense
program was restructured in 2003 to change the emphasis from a
focus on test and evaluation to a focus on deployment and
sustainment. This resulted in a nearly 16% decline in revenues
from this contract that year compared to 2002 (from
$58 million to $49 million). Then, in 2004 and 2005,
revenues related to this program totaled approximately
$54 million and $51 million, respectively, with the
increases over 2003 resulting from unanticipated ground tests.
The Company expects revenues from this program to decline
further in 2006.

In addition, the U.S. Missile Defense Agency or MDA has
been undergoing changes that could affect our Systems
Engineering Solution segment. The MDA is in the process of
relocating personnel from the Washington, DC area to Huntsville,
Alabama. It is difficult to predict the effects of such move and
the efficiencies and costs-savings that the U.S. Government
will try to extract from such relocation, including possible
consolidation with functions of the U.S. Army Space and
Missile Defense Command and other government units. Further, a
new director has begun additional restructuring of the
Ground-based Midcourse Defense program and redefining roles of
program participants, and it is too early to tell the impact of
such changes.

The Company, principally and traditionally through its Systems
Engineering Solutions segment, has been a significant
participant in NASA programs. The centerpiece of our current
NASA activities is the International Space Station. While the
Company anticipates participating in NASA’s lunar and
interplanetary exploration activities, funding for these
activities may be reduced to the extent additional funding is
sought to return the Space Shuttle to flight.

Furthermore, we obtain many U.S. Government prime contracts
and subcontracts through the process of competitive bidding. We
may not be successful in having our bids accepted.

Until November 29, 2004, under one of our spin-off
agreements, we were not able to charge pension costs to the
U.S. Government under our various government contracts.
Since such date, we have been able to charge these pension
costs. The addition of such costs in a bid for
U.S. Government contracts, which is in essence an increase
to the contract price to be paid, may itself negatively affect
an award decision being made to the Company.

Most of our U.S. Government contracts are subject to
termination by the U.S. Government either at its
convenience or upon the default of the contractor.
Termination-for-convenience provisions provide only for the
recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses,
and profit on work completed prior to



termination. Termination-for-default clauses impose liability on
the contractor for excess costs incurred by the
U.S. Government in reprocuring undelivered items from
another source. During 2005, other than a small contract of
Teledyne Reynolds relating to the U.S. Navy’s Fleet
Ballistic, Trident II (D-5) program, no
U.S. Government contract was terminated for convenience. We
did not have any of our U.S. Government contracts
terminated for default during 2005.

There is no guarantee that U.S. Government contracts will
be profitable. A number of our U.S. Government prime
contracts and subcontracts are fixed-price type contracts (47%
in 2005, as compared to 43% in 2004 and 44% in 2003). Under
these types of contracts, we bear the inherent risk that actual
performance cost may exceed the fixed contract price. This is
particularly true where the contract was awarded and the price
finalized in advance of final completion of design.

Certain fees under some of our U.S. Government contracts
are linked to meeting development or testing deadlines. Fees may
also be influenced or dependent on the collective efforts and
success of other defense contractors over which we have no or
limited control.

We, like other government contractors, are subject to various
audits, reviews and investigations (including private party
“whistleblower” lawsuits) relating to our compliance
with federal and state laws. We have a compliance program
designed to surface issues that may lead to voluntary
disclosures of contracting irregularities to the
U.S. Government. Generally, claims arising out of these
U.S. Government inquiries and voluntary disclosures can be
resolved without resorting to litigation. However, should the
business unit or division involved be charged with wrongdoing,
or should the U.S. Government determine that the unit or
division is not a “presently responsible contractor,”
that unit or division, and conceivably our Company as a whole,
could be temporarily suspended or, in the event of a conviction,
could be debarred for up to three years from receiving new
government contracts or government-approved subcontracts. In
addition, we could expend substantial amounts in defending
against such charges and in damages, fines and penalties if such
charges are proven or result in negotiated settlements. In
October 2002, the Company was informed that the
U.S. Government had declined to intervene in a lawsuit
filed under seal pursuant to the False Claims Act more than four
years before. Our Electronic Safety Products unit’s
involvement in this civil action is over as a result of
favorable court decisions.

A declining stock market and lower interests rates negatively
affect the value of our pension assets and could have a material
adverse financial effect on us.

We have a defined benefit pension plan covering most of our
employees. At year-end 2005, notwithstanding improved market
conditions, the value of the pension assets was less than our
accumulated pension benefit obligation. The accounting rules
applicable to our pension plan require that amounts recognized
in financial statements be determined on an actuarial basis,
rather than as contributions are made to the plan. Two
significant elements in determining our pension income or
pension expense are the expected return on plan assets and the
discount rate used in projecting pension benefit obligations. We
have assumed, based on the type of securities in which the plan
assets are invested and the long-term historical returns of
these investments, that the long-term expected return on pension
assets will continue to be 8.5% in 2006, as it was in both 2005
and 2004, and the assumed discount rate will be 6.00% in 2006,
compared to 6.25% in 2005 and 6.50% in 2004. The actual rate of
return on pension assets was 5.1% in 2005 and 9.8% in 2004.

Since the spin-off through 2002, as a result of favorable market
conditions, we recorded pension income. In 2003, we began to
incur pension expense and we expect to continue to incur pension
expense. The decline in pension income and the start of pension
expense in 2003 is due to the completion, in 2001, of income
amortization associated with the transition assets recorded
pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 87 — “Employee’s Accounting for
Pensions”, as well as the decline in the value of our
pension assets, coupled with reductions in our expected rate of
return and discount rate assumptions used for pension plan
calculations as described above. Projected earnings for 2006 are
expected to include approximately $16.4 million in pension
expense under SFAS No. 87, or $6.6 million in net
pension expense after recovery of allowable pension costs from
our CAS covered government contracts. Earnings



for 2005 included $12.7 million in pension expense under
SFAS No. 87, or $3.4 million in net pension
expense after recovery of allowable pension costs from our
CAS-covered government contracts. The projected increase in 2006
pension expense reflects, in part, the reduction of the discount
rate assumption for our defined benefit Pension Plan from 6.25%
in 2005 to 6.00% in 2006. Since November 29, 2004, under
one of our spin-off agreements, we are able to charge pension
costs to the U.S. Government under certain government
contracts. Pension expense determined under CAS can generally be
recovered through the pricing of products and services sold to
the U.S. Government. Effective January 1, 2004, in an
effort to reduce pension expense in future years, new non-union
employee hires do not participate in the defined benefit pension
plan, but participate in an enhanced Teledyne Technologies
Incorporated 401(k) Plan.

Given our pension plan’s underfunded status, in 2004, we
began making required cash contributions to our pension plan.
For 2005 and 2004, cash contributions for this defined benefit
plan totaled $14.8 million and $3.1 million,
respectively, and we currently expect such contributions to be
approximately $18.8 million for 2006. Declines in the stock
market and lower rates of return could further increase future
years required contributions to our pension plan.

United States’ and global responses to terrorism, the
Middle East situation and nuclear proliferation concerns
increase uncertainties with respect to many of our businesses
and may adversely affect the Company’s business and results
of operations.

United States’ and global responses to terrorism, the
Middle East situation and nuclear proliferation concerns
increase uncertainties with respect to U.S. and other business
and financial markets. Several factors associated directly or
indirectly with terrorism, the Iraq situation and perceived
nuclear threats and responses may adversely affect the Company.
The reaction to Iran’s stated desire to explore nuclear
capabilities could adversely affect oil prices and some of the
Company’s businesses.

While some of our businesses that provide products or services
to the U.S. Government experienced greater demand as a
result of increased U.S. Government defense spending,
various responses could realign government programs and affect
the composition, funding or timing of our government programs.
Government spending could shift to the Department of Defense or
Homeland Security programs in which we may not participate or
may not have current capabilities, and this shift could curtail
less pressing non-defense programs in which we do participate,
including Department of Energy or NASA programs.

The effect of the decline in air travel on the financial
condition of many of our commercial airline and aircraft
manufacturer customers, resulting from terrorism, a SARS or bird
flu scare and other factors, could adversely affect our
Electronics and Communications segment.

Continued deterioration of financial performance of airlines
could result in reduction of discretionary spending for upgrades
of avionics and in-flight communications equipment, which would
adversely affect our Electronics and Communications segment.

The government continues to evaluate potential security issues
associated with general aviation. Increased government
regulations, including but not limited to increased airspace
regulations, could lead to an overall decline in air travel and
have an adverse affect on our Aerospace Engines and Components
segment. As happened after the
September 11th terrorist attacks, reinstatement of
flight restrictions would negatively impact the market for
general aviation aircraft piston engines and components and our
Aerospace Engines and Components segment. Potential reductions
in the need for general aviation aircraft maintenance due to
declines in air travel could also adversely affect our Aerospace
Engines and Components segment.

Higher oil prices could reduce general aviation air travel,
negatively affecting our Aerospace Engines and Components
segment. Higher oil prices could also adversely affect
commercial airline-related customers of our Electronics and
Communications segment. Conversely, higher oil prices could
increase oil exploration activities and bolster the businesses
of Teledyne Geophysical Instruments and Teledyne Benthos, Inc.



Acquisitions involve inherent risks that may adversely affect
our operating results and financial condition.

Our growth strategy includes acquisitions. Acquisitions involve
various inherent risks, such as:

While the Company conducts financial and other due diligence in
connection with its acquisitions and generally seeks some form
of protection, including indemnification from a seller and
sometimes an escrow of a portion of the purchase price to cover
potential issues, such acquired companies may have weaknesses or
liabilities that are not accurately assessed or brought to our
attention at the time of the acquisition. Further, indemnities
or escrows may not fully cover such matters, particularly
matters identified after a closing.

We also have acquired several private companies, such as
Reynolds Industries, Incorporated, Cougar Components Corporation
and RD Instruments, Inc. Private companies generally may not
have internal controls and compliance systems in place that are
as formal or comprehensive as those of public companies. While
the Company has required various sellers to take certain
compliance actions prior to the closing of an acquisition,
including actions relating export controls, and has sought
protections in the purchase agreement for such matters, there is
no assurance that we have identified all issues or will be fully
protected from historic liabilities.

With regard to our 2005 acquisitions and our most recent
acquisition of Benthos, Inc., while these companies’
products and customer base are complementary to some of
Teledyne’s existing businesses, there is no assurance that
we will achieve all identified financial, operating and
marketing synergies.

In connection with acquisitions, we may consolidate one or more
acquired facilities with other Teledyne facilities to obtain
synergies and cost-savings. For example, we recently relocated
the operations of the microwave technical solutions assets
acquired from Avnet Inc. to a Teledyne Cougar facility in
Sunnyvale, California. Despite planning, relocation of
manufacturing operations has inherent risks, as it tends to
involve, among other things, change of personnel, application of
a new business system software and learning or adaptation of
manufacturing processes and techniques. Production delays at the
new operating location could result.

As permitted by SEC rules, our current management’s report
as to our assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls
over financial reporting excludes our 2005 acquisitions from its
scope and coverage. We plan to evaluate more fully the internal
controls of these acquired companies in 2006, and implement a
formal and rigorous system of internal controls at these
acquired companies. The Company can provide no assurance that we
will be able to provide a report that contains no material
weaknesses with respect to these acquired companies or other
acquisitions.

We may not have sufficient resources to fund all future
research and development and capital expenditures or possible
acquisitions.

In order to remain competitive, we must make substantial
investments in research and development of new or enhanced
products and continuously upgrade our process technology and
manufacturing capabilities.



Although we believe that anticipated cash flows from operations
and available borrowings under our $280.0 million credit
facility will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated working
capital, research and development and capital investment needs,
we may be unable to fund all of these needs or possible
acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional capital will
depend on a variety of factors, some of which will not be within
our control, including the existence of a public offering
market, investor perceptions of our businesses and the
industries in which we operate, and general economic conditions.
We may be unable to successfully raise additional capital, if
needed. Failure to successfully raise needed capital on a timely
or cost-effective basis could have a material adverse effect on
our business, results of operations and financial condition.

We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to increase our
participation in certain new markets.

We intend to both adapt our existing technology and develop new
products to expand into new market segments. For example, we
have been developing new fuel cell related technologies. The
market for fuel cell technologies is not well established and
there are a number of companies that have announced intentions
to develop and market fuel cell products. Some of these
companies have greater financial and/or technological resources
than we do.

We have also been developing new electronic products, including
electronic flight bags, high-power millimeter traveling wave
tubes and imaging sonar systems, which are intended to access
markets in which Teledyne does not currently participate or has
limited participation. We may be unsuccessful in accessing these
markets if our products do not meet our customers’
requirements, due to either changes in technology and industry
standards or because of actions taken by our competitors.

We may be unable to successfully introduce new and enhanced
products in a timely and cost-effective manner.

Our operating results depend in part on our ability to introduce
new and enhanced products on a timely basis. Successful product
development and introduction depend on numerous factors,
including our ability to anticipate customer and market
requirements, changes in technology and industry standards, our
ability to differentiate our offerings from offerings of our
competitors, and market acceptance.

We may not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced
products in a timely and cost-effective manner or to develop and
introduce products that satisfy customer requirements. Our new
products also may not achieve market acceptance or correctly
anticipate new industry standards and technological changes.

Additionally, new products may trigger increased warranty costs
as such products are tested further by actual usage. Accelerated
entry of new products to meet heightened market demand and
competitive pressures may cause additional warranty costs as
development and testing time periods might be condensed.

Technological change and evolving industry standards could
cause certain of our products or services to become obsolete or
non-competitive.

The markets for a number of our products and services are
generally characterized by rapid technological development,
evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements
and new product introductions and enhancements. A faster than
anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to
our products or services, or in market demand for products or
services based on a particular technology, could result in
faster than anticipated obsolescence of certain of our products
or services and could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operation and financial condition. For
example, Teledyne Reynolds, Inc.’s high voltage connector
business could be negatively impacted by marketplace shifts to
lower voltage requirements where the number of competitors is
larger. Also, most lighting displays in legacy aircraft use
tubes that require high voltage connectors. LED backlights,
which are increasingly being used for aircraft lighting
displays, have substantially lower voltage requirements.



Currently accepted industry standards are also subject to
change, which may contribute to the obsolescence of our products
or services. In this respect, the Company has been working to
make sure that certain of its electronic products sold into
European member states comply with a directive not to contain
impermissible levels of lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent
chromium, polybrominated biphenyls or polybrominated diphenyl
ethers on or after July 1, 2006. Although many of our
products are exempt from the European directive, we expect that
over time component manufacturers may discontinue selling
components that have the restricted substances. This will, in
turn, require Teledyne to accommodate changes in parameters,
such as the way parts are soldered, and may in some cases
require redesign of certain products.

Product liability claims or recalls could have a material
adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of
operations and financial condition.

As a manufacturer and distributor of a wide variety of products,
our results of operations are susceptible to adverse publicity
regarding the quality or safety of our products. In part,
product liability claims challenging the safety of our products
may result in a decline in sales for a particular product, which
could adversely affect our results of operations. This could be
the case even if the claims themselves are proven untrue or
settled for immaterial amounts.

While we have general liability and other insurance policies
concerning product liabilities, we have self-insured retentions
or deductibles under such policies with respect to a portion of
these liabilities. For example, our current annual self-insured
retention for general aviation aircraft liabilities incurred in
connection with products manufactured by Teledyne Continental
Motors, Inc., is $25.0 million. Additionally, based on
facts and circumstances of claims, we have not always accrued
amounts up to the applicable annual self-insured retentions.

Product recalls and field service actions could also have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
and financial condition. For example, Teledyne Continental
Motors had been engaged in a product recall of piston engine
crankshafts whereby the Company recorded a $12.0 million
pretax charge in the second quarter of 2000. Product recalls
have the potential for tarnishing a company’s reputation
and could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our
products. In 2002, we reached a monetary settlement related to
the 2000 recall with two of three companies that manufactured
and processed allegedly defective steel subsequently made into
aircraft engine crankshafts. We failed to win a jury verdict
against a third company involved in making the steel. The
Company continues to pursue cost recovery through litigation
against one other materials supplier as a result of the 2000
product recall program. There is no assurance that the Company
will recover any additional costs.

The Company has been joined, among a number of defendants (often
over 100), in lawsuits alleging injury or death as a result of
exposure to asbestos. We have not incurred material liabilities
in connection with these lawsuits. The filings typically do not
identify any of the Company’s products as a source of
asbestos exposure, and the Company has been dismissed from cases
for lack of product identification, but only after some defense
costs have been incurred. Also, because of the prominent
“Teledyne” name, we may be mistakenly joined in
lawsuits involving a company or business that was not assumed by
us as part of our 1999 spin-off. The Company’s historic
insurance coverage, including that of its predecessors, may not
fully cover such matters, as coverage depends on the year of
purported exposure and other factors. Nonetheless, the Company
intends to defend these claims vigorously. Congress continues to
consider legislative reform to deal with asbestos-related claims.

Certain gas generators manufactured by Teledyne Energy Systems,
Inc. contain a sealed, wetted asbestos component. While the
company has been transitioning to a replacement material, has
placed warning labels on its products and takes care in handling
of this material by employees, there is no assurance that the
Company will not face product liability claims involving this
component.

Our Teledyne Brown Engineering’s laboratory in Knoxville,
Tennessee performs radiological analyses. While the laboratory
is certified by the Department of Energy and has other
nuclear-related certifications and internal quality controls in
place, errors and omissions in analyses may occur. We currently
have errors



and omissions insurance coverage and nuclear liability insurance
coverage that might apply depending on the circumstances. We
also have sought indemnities from some of our customers. Our
insurance coverage or indemnities, however, may not be adequate
to cover potential problems associated with faulty radiological
analyses.

We cannot assure that we will not have additional product
liability claims or that we will not recall any additional
products.

We may have difficulty obtaining product liability and other
insurance coverages, or be subject to increased costs for such
coverage.

As a manufacturer of a variety of products including aircraft
engines used in general aviation aircraft, we have general
liability and other insurance policies that provide coverage
beyond self-insured retentions or deductibles. We cannot assure
that, for 2006 and in future years, insurance carriers will be
willing to renew coverage or provide new coverage for product
liability, especially as it relates to general aviation. If such
insurance is available, we may be required to pay substantially
higher prices for coverage and/or increase our levels of
self-insured retentions or reserves. The Company’s current
aircraft product liability insurance policy expires in May 2006
and has an annual self-insured retention of $25.0 million.

To offset aircraft product liability insurance costs, the
Company continues to try to reduce manufacturing and other costs
and also to pass on such insurance costs through price increases
on its aircraft engines and spare parts. The Company cannot
provide assurances that further cost reduction efforts will
prove successful or that customers will accept additional price
increases.

For certain electronic components for medical applications that
we manufacture, such as those that go into cochlear implants, we
have asked for indemnities from our customers and/or to be
included under their insurance policies. We cannot, however,
provide assurance that such indemnities or insurance will offset
potential liabilities that we may incur as a result of our
manufacture of such components.

Aside from the uncertainties created by external events that can
affect insurance coverages, such as the 2005 devastating
hurricane season, our ability to obtain product liability
insurance and the cost for such insurance are affected by our
historical claims experience. While the Company has taken steps
to improve its claims management process over the last few
years, we cannot assure that for 2006 and in future years, our
ability to obtain insurance, or the cost for such insurance, or
the amount of self-insured retentions or reserves will not be
negatively impacted by our experience in prior years.

Increasing competition could reduce the demand for our
products and services.

Although we believe that we have certain advantages that help us
compete in our markets, each of our markets is highly
competitive. Many of our competitors have, and potential
competitors could have, greater name recognition, a larger
installed base of products, more extensive engineering,
manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and
greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we
do. New or existing competitors may also develop new
technologies that could adversely affect the demand for our
products and services. Industry consolidation trends,
particularly among aerospace and defense contractors, could
adversely affect demand for our products and services if prime
contractors seek to control more aspects of vertically
integrated projects.

We sell products and services to customers in industries that
are cyclical and sensitive to changes in general economic
activity.

We derive significant revenues from the commercial aerospace
industry. Domestic and international commercial aerospace
markets are cyclical in nature. Historic demand for new
commercial aircraft has been related to the stability and health
of domestic and international economies. Delays or changes in
aircraft and component orders could impact the future demand for
our products and have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition. While the market
for



commercial aircraft has improved since the downturn triggered by
the events of September 11th and the war in Iraq,
another such event could increase the level of uncertainty
regarding future orders for aircraft.

In addition, we sell products and services to customers in
industries that are sensitive to the level of general economic
activity and in mature industries that are sensitive to
capacity. Adverse economic conditions affecting these industries
may reduce demand for our products and services, which may
reduce our profits, or our production levels, or both.

We develop and manufacture products for customers in the energy
exploration market, which has been cyclical and suffered from
over capacity in prior years. Strong demand and increased prices
for oil and natural gas contributed to substantial revenue
growth at Teledyne Geophysical Instruments since 2003. A
cyclical downturn in these prices may affect future operating
results.

We sell products to customers in industries that may undergo
rapid and unpredictable changes.

We develop and manufacture products for customers in industries
that have undergone rapid changes in the past. For example, we
manufacture products and provide manufacturing services to
companies that serve telecommunications markets. During 2001,
many segments of the telecommunications market experienced a
dramatic and rapid downturn that resulted in cancellations or
deferrals of orders for our products and services. This market
segment, or others that we serve, may exhibit rapid changes in
the future and may adversely affect our operating results, or
our production levels, or both.

We are subject to the risks associated with international
sales.

During 2005, international sales accounted for approximately 18%
of our total revenues, compared with 19% in 2004 and 16% in
2003. We anticipate that future international sales will
continue to account for a large portion of our revenues. Risks
associated with these sales include:

Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.
Exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect the cost of our
products to international customers and therefore reduce our
competitive position. That is, if the U.S. Dollar
strengthens against the British Pound Sterling or Euro, our
European customers may no longer find our product prices more
attractive than European competitors.

The September 11th terrorist attacks, nuclear
proliferation concerns and other factors have resulted in
increased export scrutiny of sales of some of our products to
international customers. Travel restrictions to Middle Eastern
and other countries may negatively affect continuing
international sales or service revenues from such regions.

Compliance with increasing environmental regulations and
potential environmental liabilities could have a material
adverse financial effect on us.

We, like other industry participants, are subject to various
federal, state, local and international environmental laws and
regulations. We may be subject to increasingly stringent
environmental standards in the future. Future developments,
administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental
matters could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations or financial condition.



While the Company, as part of its overall risk management
program, has an environmental management and compliance program
applicable to its operating facilities, including a “review
and audit” program to monitor compliance where each
facility is reviewed and audited by an internal environmental
team every three years, such program does not eliminate
potential environmental liabilities. In addition, as the Company
continues to pursue acquisitions, while it conducts
environmental-related due diligence and generally seeks some
form of protection, including indemnification from a seller,
such acquired companies may have environmental liabilities that
are not accurately assessed or brought to our attention at the
time of the acquisition.

Some of our businesses work with highly dangerous substances
that require heightened standards of care. For example, as a
systems contractor for the U.S. Army’s Program Manager
for Non-Stockpile Chemical Materiel, we conduct research,
development, manufacturing, test and evaluation and site
operations related to the safe and environmentally protective
disposal of small caches of chemical munitions and materiel
located in over 30 states and territories and binary
chemical agents located at Pine Bluff Arsenal, Arkansas. The
destruction of chemical weapons is an inherently dangerous
activity. Except for a contained fire during a demonstration
testing in an historic program of a process designed to access
rockets, we have not experienced any accidents or other adverse
consequences as a result of our participation in weapon
destruction programs. We cannot, however, assure that we will
not experience any problems in the future. Although the federal
government provides certain indemnities to contractors in these
programs, these indemnities may be insufficient to offset
liabilities that we may incur in connection with our
participation in these programs.

For additional discussion of environmental matters, see the
discussion under the caption “Other Matters —
Environmental” of “Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operation and Financial
Condition” and Notes 2 and 15 to Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Our inability to attract and retain key personnel could have
a material adverse effect on our future success.

Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the
continued service of our executive officers and other key
management and technical personnel and on our ability to
continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.
Recruiting and retaining skilled technical personnel has become
even more competitive as the domestic economy has improved in
recent years. While we have engaged in succession planning, the
loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our
failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.

We may not be able to sell, or exit on acceptable terms,
product lines that we determine no longer meet with our growth
strategy.

Consistent with our growth strategy to focus on markets to
expand our profitable niche businesses, we continually evaluate
our product lines to ensure that they are aligned with our
strategy. For example, we determined that the on-line process
control instruments business of the German subsidiary of Isco,
Inc. was not aligned with our strategy, and in March 2005, we
sold this non-strategic business.

Our ability to dispose of product lines that may no longer be
aligned with our strategy will depend on many factors, including
the terms and conditions of any asset purchase and sale
agreement, as well as industry, business and economic
conditions. We cannot provide any assurance as to when, if or on
what terms any non-strategic product lines will be sold. Also,
we cannot provide any assurance as to the availability, timing,
terms or conditions of alternative courses of action, including
closure, if the sale of any non-strategic product line cannot be
consummated.



Provisions of our governing documents, applicable law, and
our Change in Control Severance Agreements could make an
acquisition of Teledyne Technologies more difficult.

Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and Restated
Bylaws and Rights Agreement and the General Corporation Law of
the State of Delaware contain several provisions that could make
the acquisition of control of Teledyne Technologies in a
transaction not approved by our board of directors more
difficult. We have also entered into Change in Control Severance
Agreements with 15 members of our management, which could have
an anti-takeover effect.

The market price of our Common Stock has fluctuated
significantly since our spin-off from ATI, and could continue to
do so.

Since the spin-off on November 29, 1999, the market price
of our Common Stock has ranged from a low of $7.6875 to a high
of $39.54 per share. At February 28, 2006, our closing
stock price was $33.13. Fluctuations in our stock price could
continue. Among the factors that could affect our stock price
are:

The stock markets in general, and the markets for high
technology companies in particular, have experienced a high
degree of volatility not necessarily related to the operating
performance of these companies. We cannot provide assurances as
to our stock price.

The Company’s financial statements are based in part on
estimates required by GAAP, and actual results may differ
materially from those estimated under different assumptions or
conditions.

The Company’s financial statements are prepared in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States. These principles require our management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements
and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the
reporting period. For example, estimates are used when
accounting for such items as asset valuations, allowances for
doubtful accounts, depreciation and amortization, impairment
assessments, employee benefits, taxes, aircraft product and
general liability and contingencies. While the Company bases its
estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions
that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances at the
time made, actual results may differ materially from those
estimated.

While the Company believes its control systems are effective,
there are inherent limitations in all control systems, and
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be
detected.

The Company continues to take action to assure compliance with
the internal controls, disclosure controls and other
requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management,
including our Chief



Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot guarantee
that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent
all possible errors or all fraud. A control system, no matter
how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable,
not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control
system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must
reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the
benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of
the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of
controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues
and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been
detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that
judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns
can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls
can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by
collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of
the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based
in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future
events, and there can be no assurance that any design will
succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future
conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because
of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with
policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent
limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements
due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected.

Natural disasters, such as a serious earthquake in California
or a major hurricane in Alabama, could adversely affect our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

Several of our facilities, due to their locations, could be
subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquake or a
hurricane. Many of our production facilities and our
headquarters are located in California and thus are in areas
with above average seismic activity. In addition, we have
manufacturing facilities in Southeastern United States and Texas
that have been threatened and struck by major hurricanes. While
Teledyne Continental Motors’ piston-engines manufacturing
facility, located in Mobile, Alabama, and Teledyne Geophysical
Instruments’ facility in Houston, Texas, were relatively
fortunate with respect to the building damage and business
interruption they suffered during the severe 2005 hurricane
season, there can be no assurance that either will be as
fortunate in the future. If any of our California facilities,
including our California headquarters, were to experience a
catastrophic earthquake loss or if any of our Alabama, Tennessee
or Texas facilities were to experience a catastrophic hurricane,
storm or tornado, such event could disrupt our operations, delay
production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses
to repair or replace the facility or facilities. While Teledyne
has property insurance to partially reimburse it for losses
caused by windstorm and earth movement, such insurance would not
cover all possible losses. Also, our existing disaster recovery
plans (including those relating to our information technology
systems) may not be fully responsive to, or minimize losses
associated with, catastrophic events.

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments.

None.



Item 2. Properties.

Our principal facilities as of February 28, 2006 are listed
below. Although the facilities vary in terms of age and
condition, our management believes that these facilities have
generally been well maintained and are adequate for current
operations.



We also own or lease facilities and offices elsewhere in the
United States and outside the United States, including
facilities in: Tijuana, Mexico; Gloucester, Newbury and West
Drayton, England; Cumbernauld, Scotland; Cwmbran, Wales;
Kreuztal, Germany; La Gaude, France; Shanghai, China; and
Ottawa, Canada. Our corporate executive offices are located at
12333 West Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California
90064-1021.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

From time to time, we become involved in various lawsuits,
claims and proceedings related to the conduct of our business,
including those pertaining to product liability, patent
infringement, commercial, employment and employee benefits.
While we cannot predict the outcome of any lawsuit, claim or
proceeding, our management does not believe that the disposition
of any pending matters is likely to have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition or liquidity. The resolution
in any reporting period of one or more of these matters,
however, could have a material adverse effect on the results of
operations for that period.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
Holders.

No matters were submitted to a vote of Teledyne’s
stockholders during the fourth quarter of 2005.



PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity,
Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities.

Price Range of Common Stock and Dividend Policy

Our Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and
traded under the symbol “TDY.” The following table
sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sale
prices for the Common Stock as reported by the New York Stock
Exchange.

On February 28, 2006, the closing sale price of our Common
Stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange was $33.13 per
share. As of February 28, 2006, there were
6,634 holders of record of the Common Stock.

We currently intend to retain any future earnings to fund the
development and growth of our business. Therefore, we do not
anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.



Item 6.

Selected Financial Data.

The following table presents our summary consolidated financial
data. We derived the following historical selected financial
data from our audited consolidated financial statements. We have
reclassified some amounts reported in previous years to conform
to our 2005 presentation. Theses reclassifications did not
affect our reported results of operations or stockholders’
equity. Our fiscal year is determined based on a 52- or

53-week

convention
ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. The five-year
summary of selected financial data should be read in conjunction
with the discussion under “Item 7 —
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operation.”

Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operation.

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is a leading provider of
sophisticated electronic components, instruments and
communications products, including defense electronics, data
acquisition and communications equipment for airlines and
business aircraft, monitoring and control instruments for
industrial and environmental applications and components, and
subsystems for wireless and satellite communications. We also
provide systems engineering solutions and information technology
services for space, defense and environmental applications, and
manufacture general aviation and missile engines and components,
as well as

on-site

gas
and power generation systems.

We serve niche market segments where performance, precision and
reliability are critical. Our customers include major industrial
and communications companies, government agencies, aerospace
prime contractors and general aviation companies.

Strategy

Our strategy emphasizes growth in our core markets of defense
electronics, environmental instruments and government systems
engineering. We intend to strengthen and expand our core
businesses with targeted acquisitions. We intend to aggressively
pursue operational excellence to continually improve our margins
and earnings. Operational excellence to Teledyne includes the
rapid integration of the businesses we acquire. Over time, our
goal is to create a set of businesses that are truly superior in
their niches. We intend to continue to evaluate our product
lines to ensure that they are aligned with our strategy.

Recent Acquisitions

During 2005 and subsequently, Teledyne engaged in a number of
acquisitions intended to add to its product and service offering
in the electronic instrumentation market.

•

In August 2005, we acquired RD Instruments, Inc., a designer and
    manufacturer of acoustic Doppler instrumentation principally
    located in San Diego, California. In October 2005, our new
    subsidiary Teledyne RD Instruments, Inc., purchased assets of
    software developer GeoPerception, Inc., and in November 2005, we
    purchased the remaining stock of MGD Technologies, Inc., a
    provider of acoustic Doppler flow meter products, that had been
    majority owned by RD Instruments, Inc. at the time of that
    acquisition.

•

In January 2006, we completed the acquisition of Benthos, Inc.,
    a manufacturer of oceanographic products and package inspection
    systems located in North Falmouth, Massachusetts.

In addition to complementing each other, the above-listed
acquisitions expand the existing underwater acoustic instruments
of Teledyne Geophysical Instruments and the existing water flow
measurement instruments of Teledyne Isco, Inc., the latter
itself being a June 2004 acquisition.

Other acquisitions have also continued to focus on broadening
our line of microwave products for defense and other commercial
customers:

•

In June 2005, we completed the acquisition of Cougar Components
    Corporation, a designer and manufacturer of RF and microwave
    cascadable amplifiers and subsystems for signal processing
    equipment located in Sunnyvale, California.

•

In October 2005, our subsidiary Teledyne Cougar, Inc. acquired
    assets of the microwave technical solutions business of Avnet,
    Inc., relating to its standard RF and microwave components and
    high reliability screening and value-added testing services.
    Such assets have been primarily consolidated with Teledyne
    Cougar’s operations.

These businesses serve the same markets and customers as our
other defense electronics businesses and also complement our
2004 acquisitions of the defense electronics assets of Filtronic
Solid State and Celeritek, Inc.



Teledyne spent $58.4 million, net of cash acquired, on
acquisitions in 2005. Teledyne spent $32.2 million, net of
cash acquired, in 2006 for the Benthos acquisition.

Each of the acquired businesses is part of our Electronics and
Communications segment. Their results are included in our
consolidated financial statements since their respective dates
of acquisition. The Benthos acquisition was completed in fiscal
year 2006.

Financial Highlights

Our fiscal year is determined based on a 52- or

53-week

convention
ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. The following
is our financial information for 2005, 2004 and 2003 (in
millions, except per-share amounts):

We operate in four business segments: Electronics and
Communications; Systems Engineering Solutions; Aerospace Engines
and Components; and Energy Systems. The segments’
respective contributions as a percentage of total sales for
2005, 2004 and 2003 are summarized in the following table:

Percentage of Sales

Segment




Electronics and Communications


%


%


%

Systems Engineering Solutions


%


%


%

Aerospace Engines and Components


%


%


%

Energy Systems


%


%


%


%


%


%



Results of Operations

2005 Compared with 2004

%

Sales



Change

Electronics and Communications

$

717.8

$

567.9

26.4

%

Systems Engineering Solutions

263.7

242.2

8.9

%

Aerospace Engines and Components

196.6

181.8

8.1

%

Energy Systems

28.4

24.7

15.0

%

Total sales

$

1,206.5

$

1,016.6

18.7

%

(a)

Total year 2005 and 2004 includes the receipt of
    $5.0 million and 2.5 million, respectively, pursuant
    to an agreement with Honda Motor Co., Ltd. related to the piston
    engine business.

We reported 2005 sales of $1,206.5 million, compared with
sales of $1,016.6 million for 2004. Net income was
$64.2 million ($1.85 per diluted share) for 2005,
compared with $41.7 million ($1.24 per diluted share)
for 2004.

The increase in sales in 2005, compared with 2004, reflected
improvement in all four reporting segments. The largest increase
in sales was in the Electronic and Communications segment which
grew, both organically and through strategic acquisitions made
in 2005 and in 2004 including: Cougar Components Corporation
(“Cougar”) acquired in June 2005; RD Instruments, Inc.
(“RDI”) acquired in August 2005; Leeman Labs’
(“Leeman”) assets acquired in February 2004; Isco Inc.
(“Isco”), acquired in June 2004; Reynolds Industries,
Inc. (“Reynolds”) acquired in July 2004; and
Celeritek’s defense assets, acquired in October 2004. The
incremental increase in revenue from acquisitions in 2005,
compared with 2004, was $100.8 million.

The increase in segment operating profit and other segment
income for 2005, compared with 2004, reflected the impact of
higher sales and continued cost reduction initiatives. The
increase also reflected lower net pension expense of
$4.8 million in 2005, compared with 2004, and the receipt
in 2005 of $5.0 million pursuant to an agreement with Honda
Motor Co., Ltd. compared with the receipt of $2.5 million
in 2004. Operating profit and other segment income was higher in
the Electronics and Communications, System Engineering Solutions
and the Aerospace Engines and Components segments. The largest
increase was in the Electronics and Communications segment,
which included incremental operating profit from acquisitions
and related synergies of $15.1 million.

Cost of sales in total dollars was higher in 2005, compared with
2004. The increase was primarily due to higher sales which
resulted from organic growth and acquisitions. Fiscal year 2005
included $2.1 million



in LIFO expense, compared with $0.5 million in LIFO expense
in 2004. Cost of sales as a percentage of sales for 2005 was
lower compared with 2004. The lower cost of sales percentage in
2005, reflected a lower cost of sales percentage for recent
acquisitions which due to the nature of their business, carry a
lower cost of sales percentage than most of Teledyne’s
other businesses. The cost of sales percentage for 2005, for
Teledyne’s existing businesses, was slightly lower compared
with 2004.

Selling, general and administrative expenses, including research
and development and bid and proposal expense, in total dollars
were higher in 2005, compared with 2004. This increase was
primarily due to higher sales, which resulted from organic
growth and acquisitions. Selling, general and administrative
expenses for 2005, as a percentage of sales, were slightly lower
compared with 2004, and reflected a lower general and
administrative expense percentage, partially offset by a higher
selling expense percentage, and a higher research and
development and bid and proposal expense percentage. The higher
research and development percentage reflected increased spending
in the Electronics and Communications segment in the avionics
area. The higher selling expense percentage was due to recent
acquisitions which due to the nature of their business, carry a
higher selling expense percentage than most of Teledyne’s
existing businesses.

Included in operating profit in 2005 was pension expense of
$12.7 million, of which $9.3 million was recoverable
in accordance with U.S. Government Cost Accounting
Standards (“CAS”) from certain government contracts.
Included in operating profit in 2004 was pension expense of
$8.7 million, of which $0.5 million was recoverable in
accordance with U.S. Government CAS. The increase in
pension expense in 2005 compared with 2004, reflects, in part, a
reduction in the discount rate assumption for the Company’s
defined benefit plan to 6.25% in 2005 from 6.50% in 2004, as
well as the decline in the market value of the Company’s
pension assets during 2002, 2001 and 2000. Under one of its
spin-off agreements, after November 29, 2004, the Company
is able to charge pension costs to the U.S. Government
under certain government contracts. Pension expense determined
under CAS can generally be recovered through the pricing of
products and services sold to the U.S. Government.

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2005 was 37.6%,
compared with 38.7% for 2004. The lower effective tax rate for
2005, compared with 2004, primarily reflected the revaluation of
deferred tax assets in 2004 due to the impact of state income
tax rates.

Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government were
approximately 42% of sales in 2005 and 43% of sales in 2004.
International sales represented approximately 18% of sales in
2005 and 19% of sales in 2004.

Total interest expense including credit facility fees and other
bank charges was $3.8 million in 2005 and $2.2 million
in 2004. Interest income was $0.3 million in both 2005 and
2004. The higher interest expense in 2005 reflected interest on
debt incurred for acquisitions.

Other income for 2005 and 2004 included the receipt of
$5.0 million and $2.5 million, respectively, pursuant
to an agreement with Honda Motor Co., Ltd. which is included as
part of the Aerospace Engines and Components segment operating
profit and other segment income for segment reporting purposes.
We received a final payment of $2.5 million in January 2006
pursuant to the agreement. Fiscal years 2005 and 2004, also
include sublease rental income and royalty income in other
income.



2004 Compared with 2003

%

Sales



Change

Electronics and Communications

$

567.9

$

446.9

27.1

%

Systems Engineering Solutions

242.2

212.5

14.0

%

Aerospace Engines and Components

181.8

165.5

9.8

%

Energy Systems

24.7

15.8

56.3

%

Total sales

$

1,016.6

$

840.7

20.9

%

*

Not meaningful

We reported 2004 sales of $1,016.6 million, compared with
sales of $840.7 million for 2003. Net income was
$41.7 million ($1.24 per diluted share) for 2004,
compared with $29.7 million ($0.91 per diluted share)
for 2003.

The increase in sales in 2004, compared with 2003, reflected
improvement in all four reporting segments. The largest increase
in sales was in the Electronic and Communications segment which
grew, both organically and through strategic acquisitions,
including: Tekmar Company, acquired in May 2003; Spirent’s
Aviation Information Solutions businesses, acquired in June
2003; Filtronic Solid States’ defense assets, acquired in
December 2003; Leeman assets acquired in February 2004; Isco
Inc., acquired in June 2004; Reynolds acquired in July 2004; and
Celeritek’s defense assets, acquired in October 2004. The
incremental increase in revenue from acquisitions in 2004,
compared with 2003, was $98.6 million.

The increase in segment operating profit and other segment
income for 2004, compared with 2003, reflected improved results
in the Electronics and Communications, System Engineering
Solutions and Energy Systems segments, partially offset by lower
operating profit in the Aerospace Engines and Components
segment. The largest increase was in the Electronic and
Communications segment and included incremental operating profit
from acquisitions and related synergies of $11.8 million.

Cost of sales in total dollars was higher in 2004, compared with
2003. The increase was primarily due to higher sales which
resulted from organic growth and acquisitions. Fiscal year 2004
included $0.5 million in LIFO expense compared with a
$5.1 million in LIFO income in 2003. Cost of sales as a
percentage of



sales for 2004 was lower compared with 2003. The lower cost of
sales percentage in 2004, reflected a lower cost of sales
percentage for recent acquisitions which due to the nature of
their business, carry a lower cost of sales percentage than most
of Teledyne’s other businesses. The cost of sales
percentage for 2004 for Teledyne’s existing businesses was
relatively flat compared with 2003.

Selling, general and administrative expenses, including research
and development and bid and proposal expense, in total dollars
were higher in 2004, compared with 2003. This increase was
primarily due to higher sales, which resulted from organic
growth and acquisitions as well as higher corporate general and
administrative expenses, offset in part by $1.7 million in
lower bid and proposal expense in the Systems Engineering
Solutions segment. The higher corporate expense reflected higher
compensation expense of $3.9 million and was also impacted
by internal and external costs related to Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Section 404 compliance and auditing efforts. Selling,
general and administrative expenses for 2004, as a percentage of
sales, were higher compared with 2003, and reflected higher
corporate expenses and also reflected a higher selling expense
percentage for recent acquisitions, partially offset by lower
bid and proposal spending. Due to the nature of their business,
our recent acquisitions carry a higher selling expense
percentage than most of Teledyne’s existing businesses.

Included in operating profit in 2004 was pension expense of
$8.7 million, of which $0.5 million was recoverable in
accordance with U.S. Government CAS from certain government
contracts. Included in 2003 operating profit was
$6.9 million of pension expense of which none was
recoverable in accordance with CAS. The increase in pension
expense in 2004 compared with 2003, reflects, in part, a
reduction in the discount rate assumption to 6.5% from 7.0% for
the Company’s defined benefit plan as well as the decline
in the market value of the Company’s pension assets during
2002, 2001 and 2000.

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2004 was 38.7%,
compared with 33.3% for 2003. Total year 2003 reflected an
income tax benefit of $2.4 million due to the reversal of
an income tax contingency reserve which was determined to be no
longer needed during the third quarter of 2003. Excluding this
benefit, the Company’s effective tax rate for 2003 would
have been 38.7%.

Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government were
approximately 43% of sales in 2004 and 46% of sales in 2003.
International sales represented approximately 19% of sales in
2004 and 16% of sales in 2003.

Total interest expense including credit facility fees and other
bank charges was $2.2 million in 2004 and $1.0 million
in 2003. Interest income was $0.3 million in 2004 and
$0.2 million in 2003. The higher interest expense in 2004
reflected interest on debt incurred for acquisitions.

Other income for 2004 included the receipt of $2.5 million
pursuant to an agreement with Honda Motor Co., Ltd. which
is included as part of the Aerospace Engines and Components
segment operating profit and other segment income for segment
reporting purposes. In 2003, we recorded a $2.3 million
charge, in other expense, for the write-off of the
Company’s remaining cost-based investment in a private
company engaged in manufacturing and development of micro optics
and microelectromechanical devices. Fiscal years 2004 and 2003
also include sublease rental income and royalty income in other
income.



Segments

The following discussion of our four segments should be read in
conjunction with Note 13 to the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Electronics and Communications




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

717.8

$

567.9

$

446.9

Operating profit

$

84.0

$

54.4

$

33.0

Operating profit % of sales

11.7

%

9.6

%

7.4

%

International sales % of sales

24.8

%

27.6

%

21.4

%

Governmental sales % of sales

27.7

%

25.9

%

31.8

%

Capital expenditures

$

12.5

$

12.8

$

14.9

Our Electronics and Communications segment provides a wide range
of specialized electronic systems, instruments, components and
services that address niche market applications in commercial
aerospace, communications, defense, industrial, scientific and
medical markets.

2005 compared with 2004

Our Electronics and Communications segment sales were
$717.8 million in 2005, compared with sales of
$567.9 million in 2004. Operating profit was
$84.0 million in 2005, compared with $54.4 million in
2004.

Sales in 2005, compared with 2004, reflected revenue growth in
defense electronic products, electronic instruments and avionics
and other commercial electronics. The revenue growth of
$79.6 million in defense electronic products was driven by
sales of traveling wave tubes, printed circuit card assemblies,
the acquisition of Reynolds in July 2004, the acquisition of the
defense electronics business of Celeritek, Inc. in October 2004
and the acquisition of Cougar in June 2005. The increase in
revenue from acquisitions in defense electronic products for
2005, compared with 2004, was $52.6 million. The revenue
growth of $53.0 million in electronic instruments reflected
the impact of the acquisition of Isco, Inc. in June 2004, the
acquisition of RDI in August 2005, the acquisition of
Leeman’s assets in February 2004 and increased sales of
geophysical sensors for the energy exploration market. The
increase in revenue from acquisitions in electronic instruments
for 2005, compared with 2004, was $48.2 million. The
revenue growth of $17.3 million in avionics and other
commercial electronics reflected revenue growth in relay
products which was driven by sales to the aviation and test and
measurement equipment markets and from commercial electronic
manufacturing services which had increases in medical sales. The
increase in revenue from all acquisitions for 2005, compared
with 2004, was $100.8 million. Incremental operating profit
from all acquisitions including synergies for 2005, compared
with 2004, was $15.1 million. Segment operating profit was
favorably impacted by acquisitions and organic sales growth and
lower pension expense. Pension expense, in accordance with the
pension accounting requirements of SFAS No. 87 was
$4.3 million for 2005, compared with $6.0 million for
2004. Pension expense allocated to contracts pursuant to CAS was
$1.6 million for 2005, compared with no allocations for
2004. Operating profit in 2005 was negatively impacted by a
$1.0 million increase in LIFO reserve compared with a $46
thousand increase in 2004.

2004 compared with 2003

Our Electronics and Communications segment sales were
$567.9 million in 2004, compared with sales of
$446.9 million in 2003. Operating profit was
$54.4 million in 2004, compared with $33.0 million in
2003.



Sales in 2004, compared with 2003, reflected revenue growth in
defense electronic products, electronic instruments, and
avionics and other commercial electronics. The revenue growth of
$20.1 million in defense electronic products was driven by
sales of traveling wave tubes and ejection seat sequencers, the
acquisition of Reynolds Industries, Incorporated in July 2004,
and the acquisition of assets of Filtronic Solid State in
December 2003, the acquisition of the defense electronics
business of Celeritek, Inc in October 2004, partially offset by
lower sales from electronic manufacturing services. The increase
in revenue from acquisitions in defense electronic products for
2004, compared with 2003, was $35.0 million. The revenue
growth of $76.9 million in electronic instruments was
favorably impacted by the acquisition of Isco in June 2004, the
acquisition of Leeman’s assets in February 2004, the
acquisition of Tekmar Company in May 2003, increased shipments
of geophysical sensors for the petroleum exploration market and
increased sales of other instrument products. The increase in
revenue from acquisitions in electronic instruments for 2004,
compared with 2003, was $58.3 million. The revenue growth
of $24.0 million in avionics and other commercial
electronics was favorably impacted by revenue growth in relay
products which was driven by sales to the aviation and test and
measurement equipment markets and from commercial electronic
manufacturing services which had increases in medical sales and
the acquisition of the Aviation Information Solutions
(“AIS”) businesses from Spirent plc in June 2003. The
increase in revenue from the AIS acquisition for 2004, compared
with 2003, was $5.3 million. The increase in revenue from
all acquisitions for 2004, compared with 2003, was
$98.6 million. Incremental operating profit from all
acquisitions including synergies for 2004, compared with 2003,
was $11.8 million. Segment operating profit was favorably
impacted by acquisitions and organic sales growth partially
offset by an increase in pension expense. Pension expense was
$6.0 million for 2004 compared with pension expense of
$5.1 million in 2003. Operating profit in 2003 was
favorably impacted by a $1.8 million reduction in LIFO
reserve, which resulted from a reduced inventory level, mostly
offset by a $0.9 million fourth quarter write-down on slow
moving test equipment inventory and contract settlements
totaling $0.8 million. Operating profit in 2004 was
negatively impacted by a $46 thousand increase in LIFO reserve.

Systems Engineering Solutions




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

263.7

$

242.2

$

212.5

Operating profit

$

27.5

$

27.1

$

23.2

Operating profit % of sales

10.4

%

11.2

%

10.9

%

International sales % of sales

0.7

%

0.1

%

0.1

%

Governmental sales % of sales

98.6

%

99.3

%

99.0

%

Capital expenditures

$

1.3

$

1.7

$

1.5

Our Systems Engineering Solutions segment, principally through
Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc., applies the skills of its
extensive staff of engineers and scientists to provide
innovative systems engineering, advanced technology, and
manufacturing solutions to defense, space, environmental, and
homeland security requirements.

2005 compared with 2004

Our Systems Engineering Solutions segment sales were
$263.7 million in 2005, compared with sales of
$242.2 million in 2004. Operating profit was
$27.5 million in 2005, compared with $27.1 million in
2004.

Sales for 2005, compared with 2004, reflected revenue growth in
core defense, environmental and aerospace programs. Core defense
revenue grew by $18.8 million, primarily due to increased
Systems Engineering and Technical Assistance (“SETA”)
work. The higher operating profit in the 2005, compared with
2004, was primarily the result of higher sales, partially offset
by sales mix and rate differences and increased lower profit
margin subcontract work in our SETA contracts. Segment operating
profit in 2005



included $6.7 million of pension expense, of which
$7.4 million was recoverable in accordance with CAS from
certain government contracts, compared with $0.8 million of
pension expense in 2004, of which $0.5 million was
recoverable in accordance with CAS.

2004 compared with 2003

Our Systems Engineering Solutions segment sales were
$242.2 million in 2004, compared with sales of
$212.5 million in 2003. Operating profit was
$27.1 million in 2004, compared with $23.2 million in
2003.

Sales for 2004, compared with 2003, reflected revenue growth of
$14.8 million in core defense programs and
$12.2 million in environmental programs. Core defense
revenue grew primarily due to increased SETA and Ground-based
Midcourse Defense work. The higher revenue in environmental
programs reflected increased chemical weapons demilitarization
work. The higher operating profit in 2004, compared with 2003,
was primarily due to higher sales and improved margins on
various time and material contracts. Operating profit in 2003
was negatively impacted by the recognition of a
$1.0 million loss on an office sublease agreement. Segment
operating profit in 2004 included $0.8 million of pension
expense, of which $0.5 million was recoverable in
accordance with CAS from certain government contracts, compared
with $0.3 million of pension expense in 2003 of which none
was recoverable in accordance with CAS.

Aerospace Engines and Components




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

196.6

$

181.8

$

165.5

Operating profit

$

13.5

$

6.1

$

6.4

Operating profit % of sales

6.9

%

3.4

%

3.9

%

International sales % of sales

18.5

%

20.2

%

23.5

%

Governmental sales % of sales

16.4

%

14.3

%

14.9

%

Capital expenditures

$

5.5

$

3.2

$

3.2

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment, principally
through Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc., focuses on the
design, development and manufacture of piston engines, turbine
engines, electronic engine controls and aviation batteries.

2005 compared with 2004

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment sales were
$196.6 million in 2005, compared with sales of
$181.8 million in 2004. Operating profit was
$13.5 million in 2005, compared with $6.1 million in
2004.

Sales for 2005, compared with 2004, reflected revenue growth in
OEM piston engine and turbine engine sales of $11.0 million
and $4.8 million respectively. The higher turbine engine
sales for 2005, compared with 2004, reflected higher Harpoon and
JASSM engine sales partially offset by lower spare parts sales.
Segment operating profit for 2005 included receipt of
$5.0 million pursuant to the agreement with Honda Motor
Co., Ltd., compared with receipt of $2.5 million for 2004.
We received a final payment of $2.5 million in January 2006
pursuant to the agreement. Segment operating profit for 2005,
compared with 2004, was favorably impacted by higher sales,
partially offset by higher warranty expense of $2.6 million
and higher LIFO reserve. Operating profit in 2005 was negatively
impacted by a $1.0 million increase in LIFO reserve in
2005, compared with a $0.5 increase in LIFO reserve in 2004.
Segment operating profit in 2005 included $0.9 million of
pension expense, compared with $1.5 million of pension
expense in 2004.



2004 compared with 2003

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment sales were
$181.8 million in 2004, compared with sales of
$165.5 million in 2003. Operating profit was
$6.1 million in 2004, compared with $6.4 million in
2003.

Sales in 2004, compared with 2003, reflected revenue growth in
$8.8 million in OEM piston engines, $5.4 million in
aftermarket piston engines and parts sales, and slightly higher
turbine engine sales. Turbine engine sales for 2004, compared
with 2003, were $1.7 million higher primarily due to
increased spare parts sale and favorable JASSM engine sales,
partially offset by reduced ITALD and Harpoon cruise missile
engines. Operating profit in 2004 included the receipt of
$2.5 million pursuant to an agreement with Honda Motor Co.,
Ltd. related to the piston engine business. Segment operating
profit for 2004 also reflected a $4.8 million increase in
aircraft product liability insurance costs and self insurance
reserve expense, a $1.7 million charge for environmental
matters and LIFO expense of $0.5 million. Operating profit
in the piston engine business in 2003 was positively impacted by
a $3.3 million reduction in LIFO reserve, which resulted
from a reduced inventory level. Segment operating profit in 2004
included $1.5 million of pension expense, compared with
$1.3 million of pension expense in 2003.

Energy Systems




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

28.4

$

24.7

$

15.8

Operating profit/(loss)

$

1.6

$

1.6

$

(0.7

)

Operating profit/(loss) % of sales

5.6

%

6.5

%

(4.4

)%

International sales % of sales

20.8

%

17.0

%

22.8

%

Governmental sales % of sales

69.7

%

78.5

%

67.7

%

Capital expenditures

$

0.3

$

1.1

$

0.6

Our Energy Systems segment, through Teledyne Energy Systems,
Inc., provides hydrogen gas generators and thermoelectric and
fuel cell-based power sources.

2005 compared with 2004

Our Energy Systems segment sales were $28.4 million in
2005, compared with sales of $24.7 million in 2004.
Operating income was $1.6 million in both 2005 and 2004.

The increase in sales for 2005, compared with 2004, resulted
from the timing of multi-year government contracts, which were
awarded in 2003 for fuel cell and thermoelectric power generator
work and an increase in commercial hydrogen generator sales.
Operating profit for 2005, compared with 2004, was favorably
impacted by higher sales, offset by differences in contract
fees, employee termination costs and pension expense. Pension
expense under SFAS No. 87, was $0.4 million for
2005, compared with $0.1 million for 2004. Pension expense
allocated to contracts pursuant to CAS was $0.3 million for
2005, compared with no allocation in 2004.

2004 compared with 2003

Our Energy Systems segment sales were $24.7 million in
2004, compared with sales of $15.8 million in 2003. The
2004 operating income was $1.6 million, compared with an
operating loss of $0.7 million in 2003.

The increase in sales for 2004, compared with 2003, resulted
from multi-year government contracts, which were awarded, in
2003, for fuel cell and thermoelectric power generator work.
Operating profit for 2004, compared with the operating loss in
2003, was favorably impacted by the growth in sales and by a
reduction of $0.4 million in research and development
costs. The operating loss in 2003 included



$0.4 million in charges for contract claims and the
recognition of a $0.5 million loss on a facility sublease
agreement. Segment operating profit included pension expense of
$0.1 million in 2004, compared with no pension expense in
2003.

Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources

Principal Capital Requirements

Our principal capital requirements are to fund working capital
needs, capital expenditures and debt service requirements, as
well as to fund acquisitions. It is anticipated that operating
cash flow, together with available borrowings under the credit
facility described below, will be sufficient to meet these
requirements and could be used to fund some acquisitions in the
year 2006. To support acquisitions, we may need to raise
additional capital. Our liquidity is not dependent upon the use
of off-balance sheet financial arrangements. We have no
off-balance sheet financing arrangements that incorporate the
use of special purpose entities or unconsolidated entities.

Revolving Credit Agreement

The Company has a $280.0 million credit facility that
expires in June 2009. Excluding interest and fees, no payments
are due under the credit facility until the credit facility
terminates. Available borrowing capacity under the
$280.0 million credit facility, which is reduced by
borrowings and other financial obligations including outstanding
letters of credit, was $220.2 million at year-end 2005. For
a description of some terms of our credit facility, see
“Financing Activities” on page 42.

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our expected cash outflows
resulting from financial contracts and commitments at
January 1, 2006. We have not included information on our
normal recurring purchases of materials for use in our
operations. These amounts are generally consistent from year to
year, closely reflect our levels of production, and are not
long-term in nature (in millions):

2011 and






beyond

Total

Operating lease obligations

$

10.9

$

11.3

$

10.4

$

9.0

$

6.9

$

33.8

$

82.3

Long-term debt obligations

0.1

0.1

—

43.5

—

—

43.7

Capital lease obligations(a)

0.3

0.3

0.3

0.3

0.4

4.7

6.3

Purchase obligations(b)

23.2

8.4

1.4

0.8

0.8

—

34.6

Total

$

34.5

$

20.1

$

12.1

$

53.6

$

8.1

$

38.5

$

166.9

The amounts above exclude our minimum pension plan funding
requirements as set forth by ERISA, which are $18.8 million
in 2006 and $20.3 million in 2007. Our minimum funding
requirements after 2005 are dependent on several factors.
Estimates beyond 2007 have not been provided due to the
significant uncertainty of these amounts, which are subject to
change until the Company’s SFAS No. 87
assumptions can be updated at the appropriate times. In
addition, certain pension contributions are eligible for future
recovery through the pricing of products and services to the
U.S. government under certain government contracts,
therefore, the amounts noted are not necessarily indicative of
the impact these contributions may have on the Company’s
liquidity. We also have payments due under our other
postretirement benefits plans. These plans are not required to
be funded in advance, but are pay as you go. See further
discussion in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.



Operating Activities

In 2005, net cash provided from continuing operations was
$92.3 million, compared with $84.9 million in 2004 and
$56.8 million in 2003.

The higher net cash provided from continuing operations for
2005, compared with 2004, reflected higher net income as well as
operating cash flow from acquisitions, partially offset by
increased working capital requirements, $11.8 million in
higher pension contributions and higher compensation payments
made in the first quarter of 2005.

The higher net cash provided from continuing operations for
2004, compared with 2003, reflected improved net income and
lower aircraft product liability settlement payments, as well as
operating cash flow from acquisitions, partially offset by
defined benefit pension contributions of $3.1 million. The
deferred income tax component of the cash flow statement
reflected a $6.8 million increase in 2004 and a
$7.6 million decrease in 2003 related to the minimum
pension liability adjustment recorded in each year. This
adjustment had no impact on cash flows from operations in 2004
or 2003.

Working Capital

Working capital was $154.0 million at year-end 2005,
compared with $124.4 million at year-end 2004. The increase
in working capital was primarily due to working capital from
recent acquisitions as well as the impact of organic growth. We
continue to emphasize improvements in working capital management.

Balance Sheet Changes

The changes in the following selected components of Teledyne
balance sheet are discussed below (in millions):

The higher balance in accounts receivables, inventory, property,
plant and equipment and accounts payable reflected the impact of
businesses acquired in 2005, as well as organic sales growth.
Long-term deferred income taxes reflected a $10.4 million
increase related to the minimum pension liability adjustment in
2005. Goodwill and acquired intangible assets reflect the impact
of acquisitions. The decrease in long-term debt and capital
lease obligations resulted from debt payments made from
available cash flow, offset, in part, by cash used to acquire
businesses in 2005. The accrued pension obligation increased
primarily as a result of the increase in the unfunded pension
liability in 2005, partially offset by pension contributions.
The increase in other long-term liabilities reflected an
increase in the aircraft product liability reserve, an increase
in customer deposits and the impact of businesses acquired in
2005. The change in the accumulated other comprehensive loss
reflected the $16.2 million non-cash adjustment related to
the increase in the unfunded pension liability in 2005. The
adjustment to the accumulated other comprehensive loss component
of equity was required since the difference between the value of
the Company’s pension assets and the accumulated pension
benefit obligation was larger as of year-end 2005,



compared with year-end 2004. The current year reduction to
equity did not affect net income and was recorded net of
$10.4 million in deferred taxes.

Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities included capital
expenditures as presented below:

Capital Expenditures




(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

12.5

$

12.8

$

14.9

Systems Engineering Solutions

1.3

1.7

1.5

Aerospace Engines and Components

5.5

3.2

3.2

Energy Systems

0.3

1.1

0.6

Corporate

0.2

—

—

$

19.8

$

18.8

$

20.2

During 2006, we plan to invest approximately $28.0 million
in capital principally to reduce manufacturing costs, to
introduce new products and to upgrade capital equipment.
Commitments at January 1, 2006 for capital expenditures
were approximately $4.4 million.

Investing activities in 2005 included acquisitions. In August
2005, we completed the acquisition of RDI for
$36.0 million. Total cash paid, net of $0.4 million of
cash acquired, was $32.0 million. In connection with the
acquisition, we assumed debt obligations of $2.0 million.
In addition, we recorded a $3.9 million liability to be
paid in August 2007. RDI had sales of approximately
$29.0 million for its fiscal year ended December 31,
2004. In the fourth quarter of 2005, we purchased the minority
interest of a subsidiary owned by RDI for a cash payment of
$1.7 million.

In June 2005, we completed the acquisition of the stock of
Cougar for a purchase price of $26.5 million. In the third
quarter we made a $0.6 million purchase price adjustment
payment in connection with the acquisition. Total cash paid,
including other fees and the purchase price adjustment, net of
cash acquired was $22.5 million. In connection with the
acquisition, we assumed debt obligations of $3.8 million
and acquired cash and cash equivalents of $3.3 million. In
addition, we recorded contingent payments of $1.6 million
to be paid in specified increments as certain conditions are
satisfied through June 2007. Cougar had sales of approximately
$18.1 million for its fiscal year ended August 31,
2004. We also purchased certain assets of the microwave
technical solutions business of Avnet, Inc. for
$2.2 million in cash and consolidated these assets with the
operations of Cougar.

Net cash used by investing activities in 2005 included the
receipt of $5.6 million from the sale of the assets of

STIP-Isco,

a German
subsidiary and $2.9 million from the sale of
SWIFT

tm

assets. An additional $0.4 million is held in escrow in
connection with the

STIP-Isco

asset sale
which should be released to Teledyne Technologies in specified
increments as certain conditions are satisfied through February
2007. The assets of

STIP-Isco

and
SWIFT

tm

were acquired as part of the Isco acquisition made in June 2004.
No gain was recorded on the sales and goodwill was reduced by
$5.1 million. Investing activities in 2005 reflected
$1.1 million from the sale of fixed assets.

Investing activities in 2004 included five acquisitions. On
December 31, 2003, we acquired the electronic warfare
business of Filtronic Solid State for $12.0 million in
cash. Solid State’s electronic warfare business had sales
of approximately $12.5 million for the fiscal year ended
May 2003. In February 2004, we acquired Leeman Labs’ assets
for $8.1 million in cash which includes a purchase price
adjustment. Leeman Labs had sales of approximately
$8.6 million for the fiscal year ended September 30,
2003. In June 2004, we completed the acquisition of the stock of
Isco for $16.00 per share in cash or $93.8 million net
of cash acquired. We sold $17.3 million of marketable
securities acquired as part of the Isco acquisition and applied
the proceeds against debt. We assumed $2.9 million in
long-term debt as part



of the Isco acquisition. Isco had sales of approximately
$60.8 million for the fiscal year ended July 25 2003. On
July 2, 2004, we acquired Reynolds for $41.2 million
in cash which includes a purchase price adjustment and is net of
cash acquired. We assumed a $3.9 million capital lease as
part of the Reynolds acquisition. Reynolds had sales of
approximately $35.0 million for the fiscal year ended
April 30, 2004. On October 22, 2004, we acquired the
defense electronics business of Celeritek, Inc. for
$32.7 million in cash, which includes the receipt of a
purchase price adjustment. The defense electronics business of
Celeritek, Inc. had sales of approximately $19.7 million
for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2004.

Investing activities in 2003 included the acquisitions of AIS
and Tekmar Company. In June 2003, we acquired AIS for
$6.4 million in cash, which is net of a $0.4 million
purchase price adjustment. AIS had sales of approximately
$16.8 million for the fiscal year ended December 2002. In
May 2003, we acquired Tekmar Company for $13.5 million in
cash. Tekmar Company had sales of $22.5 million for the
fiscal year ended in September 2002.

In all acquisitions, the results are included in the
Company’s consolidated financial statements from the date
of each respective acquisition. The allocation of the purchase
price for the acquisition of Cougar was completed as of year-end
2005. The amount of goodwill and intangible assets recorded for
the Cougar acquisition, was $14.2 million and
$2.7 million, respectively. The allocation of the purchase
price for the acquisition of RDI is preliminary as of year-end
2005 due to the timing of the acquisition. Each of the above
acquisitions is part of the Electronics and Communications
segment. Approximately $19.9 million of goodwill recorded
in 2005 is deductible for tax purposes. The preliminary amount
of goodwill recorded as of January 1, 2006 for the RDI
acquisition, was $19.9 million. The preliminary amount of
intangible assets recorded as of January 1, 2006 for the
RDI acquisition, was $9.6 million. These amounts were based
on estimates that are subject to change pending the completion
of our internal review and the finalization of a third party
appraisal.

The following is a summary at the acquisition date of the
estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities
assumed for the acquisitions made in 2005 (in millions):

Financing Activities

Cash used in financing activities for 2005 reflected the payment
of long-term debt. Cash provided by financing activities for
2004 reflected net borrowings under the revolving credit
agreement. Cash provided by financing activities for fiscal
years 2005, 2004 and 2003 reflect proceeds from the exercise of
stock options.

The Company has a $280.0 million credit facility that
expires in June 2009. At year-end 2005, we had
$220.2 million of available committed credit under the
credit facility, which can be utilized, as needed, for daily
operating and periodic cash needs, including acquisitions.
Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest, at our
option, at a rate based on either a defined base rate or the
London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), plus
applicable margins. The credit agreement also provides for
facility fees that vary



between 0.15% and 0.30% of the credit line, depending on our
capitalization ratio as calculated from time to time. The credit
agreement requires the Company to comply with various financial
and operating covenants, including maintaining certain
consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios, as well as
minimum net worth levels and limits on acquired debt. We also
have two $5.0 million uncommitted credit lines available.
These credit lines are utilized, as needed, for periodic cash
needs. Total debt at year-end 2005 includes $39.0 million
outstanding under the $280.0 million credit facility,
$4.5 million outstanding under one of its $5.0 million
uncommitted bank facilities and $0.2 million in other debt.
The Company also has a $3.5 million capital lease, of which
$0.1 million is current. At year-end 2005, Teledyne had
$9.4 million in outstanding letters of credit.

On January 27, 2006, Teledyne Technologies acquired
Benthos, Inc. for $17.50 per share in cash. The aggregate
consideration for the outstanding Benthos shares was
approximately $40.6 million (including payments for the
settlement of outstanding stock options), or $32.2 million
taking into consideration $8.4 million in cash acquired.
Teledyne funded the acquisition primarily from borrowings under
its $280.0 million credit facility.

Pension Plans

In connection with our November 29, 1999 spin-off from
Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated, now known as Allegheny
Technologies Incorporated, a defined benefit pension plan was
established and Teledyne assumed the existing pension
obligations for all of the employees, both active and inactive,
at the operations which perform government contract work and for
active employees at operations which do not perform government
contract work. ATI transferred pension assets to fund the new
defined benefit pension plan. As of January 1, 2004,
non-union new hires participate in an enhanced defined
contribution plan as opposed to the company’s existing
defined benefit plan. Currently, Teledyne anticipates making an
after-tax cash contribution of approximately $11.7 million
to its defined benefit pension plan in 2006 before recovery from
the U.S. Government. Under one of its spin-off agreements,
after November 29, 2004, the Company is able to charge
pension costs to the U.S. Government under certain
government contracts in accordance with CAS. Net after tax
pension cash requirements after taking into consideration
recovery from the U.S. Government is expected to be
approximately $6.1 million in 2006.

Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”)
No. 87, “Employers’ Accounting for
Pensions,” requires that a minimum pension liability be
recorded if the value of pension assets is less than the
accumulated pension benefit obligation. This condition existed
since year-end 2002. In accordance with the requirements of
SFAS No. 87, the Company has a $38.9 million
non-cash reduction to stockholders’ equity, a long-term
intangible asset of $5.3 million and a long-term additional
pension liability of $69.0 million at year-end 2005. As of
year-end 2004, the Company had a $22.7 million non-cash
reduction to stockholders’ equity, a long-term intangible
asset of $7.2 million and a long-term additional pension
liability of $44.3 million. The adjustments to equity did
not affect net income and are recorded net of deferred taxes.
The reduction will be reversed should the value of the pension
assets exceed the accumulated pension benefit obligation as of a
future measurement date. See Note 12 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional pension
disclosures.

Other Matters

Income Taxes

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2005 was 37.6%,
compared with 38.7% for 2004 and 33.3% for 2003. The lower
effective tax rate for 2005, compared with 2004, primarily
reflected the revaluation of deferred tax assets in 2004 due to
the impact of state income tax rates. Total year 2003 reflected
an income tax benefit of $2.4 million due to the reversal
of an income tax contingency reserve which was determined to be
no longer needed during the third quarter of 2003. Excluding
this benefit, the Company’s effective tax rate for 2003
would have been 38.7%. Based on the Company’s history of
operating earnings, expectations of future operating earnings
and potential tax planning strategies, it is more likely than
not that the deferred income tax assets at January 1, 2006
will be realized.



Costs and Pricing

Inflationary trends in recent years have been moderate. We
primarily use the

last-in,

first-out
method of inventory accounting that reflects current costs in
the costs of goods sold. These costs, the increasing costs of
equipment and other costs are considered in establishing sales
pricing polices. The Company emphasizes cost containment in all
aspects of its business.

Hedging Activities; Market Risk Disclosures

We have not utilized derivative financial instruments such as
futures contracts, options and swaps, forward foreign exchange
contracts or interest rate swaps and futures during 2005 or
2004. We believe that adequate controls are in place to monitor
any hedging activities. Our primary exposure to market risk
relates to changes in interest rates and foreign currency
exchange rates. We periodically evaluate these risks and have
taken measures to mitigate these risks. We own assets and
operate facilities in countries that have been politically
stable. Also, our foreign risk management objectives are geared
towards stabilizing cash flow from the effects of foreign
currency fluctuations. Most of the Company’s sales are
denominated in U.S. dollars which mitigates the effect of
exchange rate changes. Any borrowings under the Company’s
revolving credit line are based on a fluctuating market interest
rate and, consequently, the fair value of any outstanding debt
should not be affected materially by changes in market interest
rates. Overall, we believe that our exposure to interest rate
risk and foreign currency exchange rate changes is not material
to our financial condition or results of operations.

Related Party Transactions

In connection with the spin-off, Teledyne and ATI entered into
several agreements governing the separation of our businesses
and various employee benefits, compensation, tax,
indemnification and transition arrangements. The Company’s
principal spin-off requirements, including the requirement to
ensure a favorable tax treatment, have been satisfied. One of
our directors continues to serve on ATI’s board. In
addition, under one of our spin-off agreements, the Company is
able to charge pension costs to the U.S. Government under
certain government contracts after November 29, 2004. In
2004, we purchased the “Teledyne” name and related
logos, symbols and marks from an affiliate of ATI for $412,000.

Our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer is a
director of Mellon Financial Corporation. Another of our
directors is a former chief executive officer and director of
Mellon Financial Corporation. All transactions with Mellon Bank,
N.A. and its affiliates are effected under normal commercial
terms, and we believe that our relationships with Mellon Bank,
N.A. and its affiliates are arms-length. Mellon Bank, N.A. is
one of ten lenders under our $280.0 million credit
facility, having committed up to $25.0 million under the
facility. It also provides cash management services and an
uncommitted $5.0 million line of credit. Mellon Bank, N.A.
serves as trustee under our pension plan and provides asset
management services for the plan. Mellon Investor Services LLC
serves as our transfer agent and registrar, as well as agent
under our stockholders rights plan.

Environmental

We are subject to various federal, state, local and
international environmental laws and regulations which require
that we investigate and remediate the effects of the release or
disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present
operations. These include sites at which Teledyne has been
identified as a potentially responsible party under the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
Act, commonly known as Superfund, and comparable state laws. We
are currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a
number of sites. Reserves for environmental investigation and
remediation totaled approximately $3.5 million at
January 1, 2006. As investigation and remediation of these
sites proceed and new information is received, the Company
expects that accruals will be adjusted to reflect new
information. Based on current information, we do not believe
that future environmental costs, in excess of those already
accrued, will materially and adversely affect our financial
condition or liquidity.



However, resolution of one or more of these environmental
matters or future accrual adjustments in any one reporting
period could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations for that period.

For additional discussion of environmental matters, see
Notes 2 and 15 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Government Contracts

We perform work on a number of contracts with the Department of
Defense and other agencies and departments of the
U.S. Government including sub-contracts with government
prime contractors. Sales under these contracts with the
U.S. Government, which included contracts with the
Department of Defense, were approximately 42% of total sales in
2005, 43% of total sales in 2004 and 46% of total sales in 2003.
For a summary of sales to the U.S. Government by segment,
see Note 13 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. Sales to the Department of Defense represented
approximately 32%, 33% and 31% of total sales for 2005, 2004 and
2003, respectively.

Performance under government contracts has certain inherent
risks that could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s business, results of operations and financial
condition. Government contracts are conditioned upon the
continuing availability of Congressional appropriations, which
usually occurs on a fiscal year basis even though contract
performance may take more than one year. While U.S. defense
spending increased as a result of the
September 11th terrorist attacks and the war in Iraq,
it is currently expected to moderate over the next few years.
Notwithstanding the recent increase in U S. defense spending,
delays or declines in U.S. military expenditures in the
programs in which we participate could adversely affect our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

For information on accounts receivable from the
U.S. Government, see Note 5 to the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Estimates and Reserves

Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results
of operations are based upon our consolidated financial
statements, which have been prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
The preparation of these financial statements requires us to
make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we
evaluate our estimates, including those related to product
returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories,
intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, pension
and other postretirement benefits, long-term contracts,
environmental, workers’ compensation and general liability,
aircraft product liability, employee dental and medical benefits
and other contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on
historical experience and on various other assumptions that are
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances at the time,
the results of which form the basis for making our judgments.
Actual results may differ materially from these estimates under
different assumptions or conditions. In some cases, such
differences may be material. See “Other Matters —
Critical Accounting Policies”.



The following table reflects significant reserves and valuation
accounts, which are estimates and based on judgments as
described above, at January 1, 2006 and January 2,
2005:

Reserves and Valuation Accounts(a)

Some of the Company’s products are subject to specified
warranties and the Company provides for the estimated cost of
product warranties. We regularly assess the adequacy of our
preexisting warranty liabilities and adjust amounts as necessary
based on a review of historic warranty experience with respect
to the applicable business or products, as well as the length
and actual terms of the warranties, which are typically one
year. The product warranty reserve is included in current
accrued liabilities on the balance sheet. Changes in the
Company’s product warranty reserve are as follows (in
millions):




Balance at beginning of year

$

6.9

$

6.0

$

5.2

Accruals for product warranties charged to expense

9.6

3.5

3.5

Cost of product warranty claims

(6.8

)

(3.4

)

(3.9

)

Acquisitions

0.6

0.8

1.2

Balance at year-end

$

10.3

$

6.9

$

6.0

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in
conformity with United States generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
the notes to the financial statements. Some of those judgments
can be subjective and complex, and therefore, actual results
could differ materially from those estimates under different
assumptions or conditions. Our critical accounting policies are
those that are reflective of significant judgment, complexity
and uncertainty, and may potentially result in materially
different results under different assumptions and conditions. We
have identified the following as critical accounting policies:
contract revenue recognition and contract estimates; aircraft
product liability reserve; accounting for pension plans; and
accounting for business combinations, goodwill and long-lived
assets. For additional discussion of the application of these
and other accounting policies, see Note 2 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Contract Revenue Recognition and Contract Estimates

Commercial sales and sales from U.S. Government
fixed-price-type contracts are generally recorded as shipments
are made or as services are rendered. Occasionally, for certain
U.S. Government fixed-price type contracts that require
substantial performance over a long time period (one or more
years) before shipments begin, in accordance with the
requirements of American Institute of Certified Public



Accountants Statement of Position 81-1 “Accounting for
Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type
Contracts,” revenues may be recorded based upon attainment
of scheduled performance milestones which could be time, event
or expense driven. In these few instances, invoices are
submitted to the customer under a contractual agreement and
payments are made by the customer. Sales under
cost-reimbursement contracts, usually from the
U.S. Government, are recorded as allowable costs are
incurred and fees are earned.

The development of cost of sales percentages used to record
costs under certain fixed-price type contracts and fees under
certain cost-reimbursement type contracts requires that the
Company make reasonably dependable cost estimates for the
design, manufacture and delivery of products and services,
sometimes over a long time period. Since certain fixed-price and
cost-reimbursement type contracts extend over a long period of
time, the impact of revisions in cost and funding estimates
during the progress of work may adjust the current period
earnings on a cumulative

catch-up

basis. If the
current contract estimate indicates a loss, a provision is made
for the total anticipated loss in the period that it becomes
evident. These types of contracts and estimates are most
frequently related to our sales to the U.S. Government. For
our sales to the U.S. Government in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
operating income as a percent of sales did not vary by more than
1.3%. If operating income as a percent of sales to the
U.S. Government had been higher or lower by 1.3% in 2005,
the Company’s operating income would have changed by
approximately $8.0 million.

Aircraft Product Liability Reserve

We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings related
to aircraft product liability claims. We have accrued an
estimate for the probable costs for the resolution of these
claims. This estimate has been developed in consultation with
our insurers, outside counsel handling our defense in these
matters, and historical experience, and is based upon an
analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of
litigation and settlement strategies. We do not believe these
proceedings will have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated financial position. It is possible, however, that
future results of operations for any particular quarterly or
annual period could be materially affected by specific events
occurring in the period, changes in our assumptions, or the
effectiveness of our strategies, related to these proceedings.
The Company has aircraft and product liability insurance.
However, based on a review of claims experience, changes to the
claims management process and an analysis of available options,
the Company, in 2004, increased its annual self-insurance
retention for general aviation aircraft liabilities incurred in
connection with products manufactured by Teledyne Continental
Motors to $25.0 million from $15.0 million, and as a
result lowered its annual insurance premium. If a significant
liability claim or combination of claims were identified, even
taking into account insurance coverage, operating profit in a
given period could be reduced significantly. Accruals could be
made in a given period for amounts up to our annual
self-insurance retention. Based on the facts and circumstances
of the claims we have not always accrued amounts up to our
annual self-insurance retention. Also, we cannot assure that,
for 2006 and in future years, our ability to obtain insurance,
or the premiums for such insurance, or the amount of our
self-insured retention or reserves will not be negatively
impacted by our experience in prior years or other factors. Our
current aircraft product liability insurance policy expires in
May 2006.

Accounting for Pension Plans

Teledyne has a defined benefit pension plan covering most of its
employees. The Company accounts for its defined benefit pension
plan in accordance with SFAS No. 87,
“Employers’ Accounting for Pensions,” which
requires that amounts recognized in financial statements be
determined on an actuarial basis, rather than as contributions
are made to the plan. A significant element in determining the
Company’s pension income or expense in accordance with
SFAS No. 87 is the expected return on plan assets. The
Company has assumed, based upon the types of securities the plan
assets are invested in and the long-term historical returns of
these investments, that the long-term expected return on pension
assets will be 8.5% in 2006, compared with 8.5% in 2005, and its
assumed discount rate will be 6.00% in 2006, compared with 6.25%
in 2005. The actual rate of return on pension assets was 5.1% in
2005 and 9.8% in



2004. If the actual rate of return on pension assets is above
the projection, the Company may be able to reduce its
contributions to the pension trust. If the actual rate of return
on pension assets is below the projection, the Company may be
required to make additional contributions to the pension trust.
The Company made an after-tax contribution of $9.2 million
to its pension plan in 2005, and currently anticipates making an
after-tax cash contribution of approximately $11.7 million
to its defined benefit pension plan in 2006 before recovery from
the U.S. Government. The assumed long-term rate of return
on assets is applied to the market-related value of plan assets
at the end of the previous year. This produces the expected
return on plan assets that is included in annual pension income
or expense for the current year. The cumulative difference
between this expected return and the actual return on plan
assets is deferred and amortized into pension income or expense
over future periods. Since the value of the Company’s
pension assets were less than the accumulated pension benefit
obligation, in accordance with the requirements of
SFAS No. 87, the Company has a $38.9 million
non-cash reduction to stockholders’ equity, a long-term
intangible asset of $5.3 million and a long-term additional
pension liability of $69.0 million at year-end 2005. The
adjustment to equity did not affect net income and is net of
deferred taxes of $24.8 million. The charge will be
reversed should the value of the pension assets exceed the
accumulated pension benefit obligation as of a future
measurement date.

Differences in the discount rate and expected long-term rate of
return on assets within the indicated range would have had the
following impact on 2005 results:

0.25 Percentage

0.25 Percentage

Point Increase

Point Decrease

($ in millions)

Increase (decrease) to pension expense resulting from:

Change in discount rate

$

(1.4

)

$

1.8

Change in long-term rate of return on plan assets

$

(1.0

)

$

1.0

See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional pension disclosures.

Accounting for Business Combinations, Goodwill and Other
    Long-Lived Assets

The Company accounts for goodwill and purchased intangible
assets under SFAS No. 141 “Business
Combinations” and SFAS No. 142 “Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets”. In all acquisitions, the results
are included in the Company’s consolidated financial
statements from the date of each respective acquisition.
Business acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase
method by assigning the purchase price to tangible and
intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Assets
acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their fair
values and the excess of the purchase price over the amounts
assigned is recorded as goodwill. Purchased intangible assets
with finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful
lives.

Goodwill and acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives
are not amortized. We review goodwill and acquired
indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount of these assets may not be recoverable. The Company also
performs an annual impairment test in the fourth quarter of each
year. Based on the annual impairment test completed in the
fourth quarter of 2005, no impairment of goodwill or intangible
assets with indefinite lives was indicated. The Company
estimates the fair value of the reporting units, which are our
four business segments, using a discounted cash flow model based
on our best estimate of amounts and timing of future revenues
and cash flows and our most recent business and strategic plans,
and compares the estimated fair value to the net book value of
the reporting unit, including goodwill. The development of
future revenues and cash flows projections for our business and
strategic plan, and the annual impairment test involve
significant judgments. Changes in these projections could affect
the estimated fair value of certain of the Company’s
reporting units and could result in a goodwill impairment charge
in a future period. However, a 10 percent decrease in the
current fair value estimate of each of the Company’s
reporting units would not result in a goodwill impairment charge.



We monitor the recoverability of the carrying value of our
long-lived assets. An impairment charge is recognized when
events and circumstances indicate that the undiscounted cash
flows expected to be generated by an asset (including any
proceeds from dispositions) are less than the carrying value of
the asset and the asset’s carrying value is less than its
fair value. Our cash flow estimates are based on historical
results adjusted to reflect our best estimate of future market
and operating conditions. The net carrying value of assets not
recoverable is reduced to fair value. Our estimates of fair
value represent our best estimate based on industry trends and
reference to market rates and transactions. Our determination of
what constitutes an indication of possible impairment, the
estimation of future cash flows and the determination of
estimated fair value are all significant judgments.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

SFAS No. 123R

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 123R, “Share
Based Payment” (“SFAS No. 123R”) that
will require compensation costs related to share-based payment
transactions to be recognized in the financial statements. With
limited exceptions, the amount of compensation costs will be
measured based on the grant date-fair value of the equity or
liability instrument issued. Compensation cost will be
recognized over the period that an employee provides service in
exchange for the award. SFAS No. 123R replaces
SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation” and supersedes APB opinion No. 25,
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.” The
Company adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of
2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 123R is expected to
reduce pretax earnings by approximately $5.4 million in
2006 based on current assumptions.

SFAS No. 151

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,
“Inventory Costs-an amendment of ARB No. 43
Chapter 4” (“SFAS No. 151”).
SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in ARB No. 43,
Chapter 4, “Inventory Pricing,” to clarify the
accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense,
freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage).
SFAS No. 151 requires that those items be recognized
as current-period charges. SFAS No. 151 is effective
for first fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The
adoption of SFAS No. 151 is not expected to have any
impact on the Company.

Outlook

Based on its current outlook, the Company’s management
believes that first quarter 2006 earnings per share will be in
the range of approximately $0.43 to $0.46. The full year 2006
earnings per share outlook is expected to be in the range of
approximately $1.85 to $1.90. Our estimated effective income tax
rate for 2006 is 37.6%.

Our 2006 outlook reflects anticipated sales growth in its
defense electronics and instrumentation businesses, due
primarily to the contribution of our acquisitions completed in
2005 and the Benthos acquisition completed in January 2006.
We have not included future acquisitions, if any, in the 2006
outlook.

The full year 2006 earnings outlook includes approximately
$16.4 million ($0.28 per share) in pension expense
under SFAS No. 87, or $6.6 million
($0.11 per share) in net pension expense after recovery of
allowable pension costs from our CAS covered government
contracts. Full year 2005 earnings included $12.7 million
($0.23 per share) in pension expense under
SFAS No. 87, or $3.4 million ($0.06 per
share) in net pension expense after recovery of allowable
pension costs from our CAS covered government contracts. The
increase in full year 2006 pension expense reflects, in part,
the reduction of the discount rate assumption for the
Company’s defined benefit plan from 6.25% in 2005 to 6.00%
in 2006. Our 2006 earnings outlook also reflects
$5.4 million ($0.10 per share) in stock option
compensation expense based on current assumptions regarding
stock option issuances during the year and estimated fair value
of the stock option grants. In December 2004, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”)
No. 123R, “Share Based Payment”



(“SFAS No. 123R”) that requires compensation
costs related to share-based payment transactions to be
recognized in the financial statements. We adopted
SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006.

EARNINGS PER SHARE SUMMARY(a)

(Diluted earnings per common share)

2006 Full Year

Outlook



Low

High

Actual

Actual

Earnings per share (excluding net pension expense and stock
    option expense)

$

2.06

$

2.11

$

1.91

$

1.39

Pension expense — SFAS No. 87

(0.28

)

(0.28

)

(0.23

)

(0.16

)

Pension expense — CAS(b)

0.17

0.17

0.17

0.01

Earnings per share (excluding stock option expense)

1.95

2.00

1.85

1.24

Stock option expense

(0.10

)

(0.10

)

—

—

Earnings per share — GAAP

$

1.85

$

1.90

$

1.85

$

1.24

Safe Harbor Cautionary Statement Regarding Outlook and Other
Forward Looking Data

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operation contains forward-looking
statements, as defined in the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995, relating to earnings, growth opportunities,
pension matters and strategic plans. All statements made in this
press release that are not historical in nature should be
considered forward-looking. Actual results could differ
materially from these forward-looking statements. Many factors,
including changes in demand for products sold to the
semiconductor, communications, commercial aviation and energy
exploration markets, funding, continuation and award of
government programs, changes in insurance expense, continued
liquidity of our customers (including commercial airline
customers) and economic and political conditions, could change
the anticipated results. In addition, financial market
fluctuations affect the value of the our pension assets.

Global responses to terrorism and other perceived threats
increase uncertainties associated with forward-looking
statements about our businesses. Various responses to terrorism
and perceived threats could realign government programs, and
affect the composition, funding or timing of our programs.
Flight restrictions would negatively impact the market for
general aviation aircraft piston engines and components.

The Company continues to take action to assure compliance with
the internal controls, disclosure controls and other
requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we believe
our control systems are effective, there are inherent
limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to
error or fraud may occur and may not be detected.

While Teledyne Technologies’ growth strategy includes
possible acquisitions, we cannot provide any assurance as to
when, if or on what terms any acquisitions will be made.
Acquisitions involve various inherent risks, such as, among
others, our ability to integrate acquired businesses and to
achieve identified financial and operating synergies.



Additional information concerning factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those projected in the
forward-looking statements is contained beginning on
page 13 of this
Form

10-K

under
the caption “Risk Factors; Cautionary Statements as to
Forward-Looking Statements.” Forward-looking statements are
generally accompanied by words such as “estimate”,
“project”, “predict”, “believes”
or “expect”, that convey the uncertainty of future
events or outcomes. We assume no obligation to publicly update
or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of
new information or otherwise.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk.

The information required by this item is included in this Report
at page 43 under the caption “Other
Matters — Hedging Activities; Market Risk
Disclosures” of “Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operation.”

Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

The information required by this item is included in this Report
at pages 56 through 93. See the “Index to Financial
Statements and Related Information” at page 55.

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
    and Financial Disclosure.

None.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures.

Disclosure Controls

Teledyne’s disclosure controls and procedures are designed
to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports
that it files or submits, under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, was recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the
Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company’s
management, with the participation of its Chairman, President
and Chief Executive Officer and Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness, as of
January 1, 2006, of the Company’s “disclosure
controls and procedures,” as that term is defined in
Rule

13a-15(e)

under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(“the Exchange Act”). Based upon that evaluation, our
Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer
concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures as of
January 1, 2006, were effective to provide a reasonable
assurance that information required to be disclosed by the
Company in the reports filed or submitted by it under the
Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported
within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and
forms, and to provide reasonable assurance that information
required to be disclosed by us in such reports is accumulated
and communicated to the Company’s management, including its
principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as
appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure.

Internal Controls

See Management Statement on page 56 for management’s
annual report on internal control over financial reporting. See
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
page 57 for Ernst & Young LLP’s attestation
report on management’s assessment of internal control over
financial reporting.

There was no change in the Company’s “internal control
over financial reporting” (as such term is defined in
Rule

13a-15(f)

under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the quarter ended
January 1, 2006, that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially effect, the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting.



Sarbanes-Oxley Disclosure Committee

In September 2002, the Company formally constituted the
Sarbanes-Oxley Disclosure Committee. Current members include:

Ivars R. Blukis, Chief Business Risk Assurance Officer (Internal
    Audit)

Melanie S. Cibik, Vice President, Associate General Counsel and
    Assistant Secretary

Shelley D. Green, Treasurer

John T. Kuelbs, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
    Secretary

Brian A. Levan, Director of External Financial Reporting and
    Assistant Controller

Susan L. Main, Vice President and Controller

Robyn E. McGowan, Vice President, Administration and Human
    Resources and Assistant Secretary

Dale A. Schnittjer, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
    Officer

Jason VanWees, Vice President, Corporate Development and
    Investor Relations

Among its tasks, the Sarbanes-Oxley Disclosure Committee
discusses and reviews disclosure issues to help us fulfill our
disclosure obligations on a timely basis in accordance with SEC
rules and regulations and is intended to be used as an
additional resource for employees to raise questions regarding
accounting, auditing, internal controls and disclosure matters.
Our toll-free Corporate Ethics Help Line

(1-877

-666-6968)
continues to be an alternative means to communicate concerns to
the Company’s management.

Item 9B.     Other
Information.

None.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

In addition to the information set forth under the caption
“Executive Management” beginning at page 11 in
Part I of this Report, the information concerning the
directors of Teledyne required by this item is set forth in the
2006 Proxy Statement under the caption “Item 1 on
Proxy Card — Election of Directors” and is
incorporated herein by reference. The information set forth in
the Proxy Statement under the captions “Board Composition
and Practices,” “Corporate Governance,”
“Committees of Our Board of Directors — Audit
Committee” and “Stock Ownership —
Sections 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance” is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2006
Proxy Statement under the captions “Directors
Compensation”, “Executive Compensation” and
“Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation” and is incorporated herein by reference.
Teledyne does not incorporate by reference in this
Form

10-K

either
the “2005 Report on Executive Compensation” or the
“Cumulative Total Stockholder Return” section of the
2006 Proxy Statement.

Item 12.     Security Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2006
Proxy Statement under the caption “Stock
Ownership Information” and is incorporated herein by
reference.



Equity Compensation Plans Information

The following table summarizes information with respect to
equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2005:

Number of Securities

Remaining Available

for Future Issuance

Number of Securities

under Equity

to be Issued upon

Compensation Plans

Exercise of

Weighted-Average

[excluding securities

Outstanding Options,

Exercise Price of Options,

reflected in

Warrants and Rights

Warrants or Rights

column (a)]

Plan Category

(a)

(b)

(c)

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders:

1999 Incentive Plan(1)

1,775,593

$

14.40

840,257

(1)

2002 Stock Incentive Plan

1,263,718

(2)

$

20.21

888,748

Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan

246,412

$

14.92

60,983

Employee Stock Purchase Plan(3)

—

—

1,000,000

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders

—

—

—

Total

3,285,723

$

16.78

2,789,988

(1)

The 1999 Incentive Plan, as amended, contains a
    “capped” evergreen provision. It provides that if the
    number of issued and outstanding shares of our Common Stock is
    increased after January 26, 2000, the total number of
    shares available for issuance under this plan will be increased
    by 10% of such increase, up to an additional
    2,500,000 shares. An additional 662,100 shares have
    been registered for issuance under this evergreen provision for
    a total of 4,662,100 shares.

(2)

The amount does not include up to 260,328 shares of our
    Common Stock potentially issuable under our Performance Share
    Plan for the 2003-2005 performance cycle.

(3)

Teledyne maintains an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (commonly
    known as The Stock Advantage Plan) for eligible employees. It
    enables employees to invest in our Common Stock through
    automatic, after-tax payroll deductions, within specified
    limits. Teledyne adds a 25% matching company contribution up to
    $1,200 annually. The Company’s contribution is currently
    paid in cash and the Plan Administrator purchases shares in the
    open market.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2006
Proxy Statement under the caption “Certain
Transactions” and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2006
Proxy Statement under the captions “Fees Billed by
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” and
“Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policies” under
“Item 2 on the Proxy Card — Ratification of
Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm” and is incorporated herein by reference.



PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.

(a) Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules:

(b) Exhibits:

See Item 15(a)(3) above.

(c) Financial Schedules:

See Item 15(a)(2) above.



INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RELATED INFORMATION



MANAGEMENT STATEMENT

RESPONSIBILITY FOR PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
ESTABLISHING AND MAINTAINING ADEQUATE INTERNAL CONTROL OVER
FINANCIAL REPORTING

We are responsible for the preparation of the financial
statements included in this Annual Report. The financial
statements were prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America
and include amounts that are based on the best estimates and
judgments of management. The other financial information
contained in this Annual Report is consistent with the financial
statements.

Our internal control system is designed to provide reasonable
assurance concerning the reliability of the financial data used
in the preparation of Teledyne’s financial statements, as
well as to safeguard the Company’s assets from unauthorized
use or disposition.

All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have
inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined
to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with
respect to financial statement presentation.

REPORT OF MANAGEMENT ON TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES
INCORPORATED’S INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

We are also responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting. We conducted
an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting as of January 1,
2006. In making this evaluation, we used the criteria set forth
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (“COSO”) in Internal Control —
Integrated Framework. Our evaluation included reviewing the
documentation of our controls, evaluating the design
effectiveness of our controls and testing their operating
effectiveness. Our evaluation did not include assessing the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting at
the recent acquisitions of Cougar Components Corporation
(including certain assets of Avnet, Inc.) and RD Instruments,
Inc. (including MGD Technologies Inc. and certain assets of
GeoPerception, Inc.) which are included in the 2005 consolidated
financial statements of the Company and constituted:
$75.0 million and $60.3 million of total and net
assets, respectively, as of January 1, 2006 and:
$25.0 million and $1.8 million of total revenues and
net income, respectively, for the year then ended. We did not
assess the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting at these newly acquired entities due to the
insufficient time between the dates acquired and year-end and
the complexity associated with assessing internal controls
during integration efforts making the process impractical. Based
on this evaluation we believe that, as of January 1, 2006,
the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting
were effective.

Ernst and Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting
firm, has issued their report on our evaluation of
Teledyne’s internal control over financial reporting. Their
report appears on page 57 of this Annual Report.

Date: February 21, 2006

/s/

Robert Mehrabian

Robert Mehrabian

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Date: February 21, 2006

/s/

Dale A. Schnittjer

Dale A. Schnittjer

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

We have audited management’s assessment, included in the
accompanying Report of Management on Teledyne Technologies
Incorporated’s Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,
that Teledyne Technologies Incorporated maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of January 1,
2006, based on criteria established in Internal
Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the
“COSO criteria”). Teledyne Technologies
Incorporated’s management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on management’s assessment and an opinion on the
effectiveness of the company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design
and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

As indicated in the accompanying Report of Management on
Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting, management’s assessment of and
conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting did not include the internal controls of the
recent acquisitions of Cougar Components Corporation
(“Cougar”) (including certain assets of Avnet, Inc.)
and RD Instruments, Inc. (“RDI”) (including MGD
Technologies Inc. and certain assets of GeoPerception, Inc.)
which are included in the 2005 consolidated financial statements
of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated and constituted:
$75.0 million and $60.3 million of total and net
assets, respectively, as of January 1, 2006 and:
$25.0 million and $1.8 million of revenues and net
income, respectively, for the year then ended. Management did
not assess the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting at these entities due to insufficient time between the
dates acquired and year-end and the determination that it was
impractical to sufficiently address the complexities associated
with post-integration merger efforts to assess those controls.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of
Teledyne Technologies Incorporated also did not include an
evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of
Cougar and RDI.



In our opinion, management’s assessment that Teledyne
Technologies Incorporated maintained effective internal control
over financial reporting as of January 1, 2006, is fairly
stated, in all material respects, based on the COSO criteria.
Also, in our opinion, Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of January 1, 2006, based on
the COSO criteria.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
consolidated balance sheets of Teledyne Technologies
Incorporated as of January 1, 2006 and January 2,
2005, and the related consolidated statements of income,
stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended January 1, 2006 of Teledyne
Technologies Incorporated and our report dated February 21,
2006 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. Our audits also
included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at
Item 15(a) and our report dated February 21, 2006
expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Los Angeles, California

February 21, 2006



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Teledyne Technologies Incorporated as of January 1, 2006
and January 2, 2005, and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended January 1,
2006. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule
listed in the index at Item 15(a). These financial
statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
financial position of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated at
January 1, 2006 and January 2, 2005, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended January 1,
2006, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
effectiveness of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s
internal control over financial reporting as of January 1,
2006, based on criteria established in Internal
Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our
report dated February 21, 2006 expressed an unqualified
opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Los Angeles, California

February 21, 2006



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(In millions, except per-share amounts)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
statements.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In millions, except share amounts)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
statements.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(In millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
statements.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
statements.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1. Description of Business

Effective November 29, 1999 (the “Distribution
Date”), Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
(“Teledyne” or the “Company”), became an
independent, public company as a result of the distribution by
Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated, now known as Allegheny
Technologies Incorporated (“ATI”), of the
Company’s Common Stock, $.01 par value per share, to
holders of ATI Common Stock at a distribution ratio of one for
seven (the “spin-off”). The spin-off has been treated
as a tax-free distribution for federal income tax purposes. The
spin-off included the transfer of certain of the businesses of
ATI’s Aerospace and Electronics segment to the new
corporation, immediately prior to the Distribution Date. ATI no
longer has a financial investment in Teledyne.

Teledyne is a leading provider of sophisticated electronic
components, instruments and communications products, including
defense electronics, data acquisition and communications
equipment for airlines and business aircraft, monitoring and
control instruments for industrial and environmental
applications and components, and subsystems for wireless and
satellite communications. Teledyne also provides systems
engineering solutions and information technology services for
defense, space and environmental applications, and manufactures
general aviation and missile engines and components, as well as

on-site

gas and power
generation systems.

Teledyne serves niche market segments where performance,
precision and reliability are critical. Teledyne’s
customers include major industrial and communications companies,
government agencies, aerospace prime contractors and general
aviation companies.

Teledyne consists of the operations of the Electronics and
Communications segment with operations in the United States,
United Kingdom, Mexico, Canada, France and China; the Systems
Engineering Solutions segment with operations in the United
States; the Aerospace Engines and Components segment with
operations in the United States; and the Energy Systems segment
with operations in the United States.

Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
Teledyne and all wholly-owned and majority-owned domestic and
foreign subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts and transactions
have been eliminated. Certain financial statements, notes and
supplementary data for prior years have been revised to conform
to the 2005 presentation. Theses changes did not affect our
reported results of operations or stockholders’ equity.

Fiscal Year

The Company operates on a 52- or

53-week

fiscal year
convention ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31.
Fiscal year 2005 was a

52-week

fiscal year and
ended on January 1, 2006. Fiscal year 2004 was a

53-week

fiscal year and
ended on January 2, 2005. Fiscal year 2003 was a

52-week

year and ended
on December 28, 2003. References to the years 2005, 2004
and 2003 are intended to refer to the respective fiscal year
unless otherwise noted.

Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, the
Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to
product returns, allowance for doubtful accounts,



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty
obligations, pension and other postretirement benefits,
long-term contracts, environmental, workers’ compensation
and general liability, aircraft product liability, employee
dental and medical benefits and other contingencies, and
litigation. The Company bases its estimates on historical
experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to
be reasonable under the circumstances at the time, the results
of which form the basis for making its judgments. Actual results
may differ materially from these estimates under different
assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the
estimates are reasonable.

Revenue Recognition

Commercial sales and revenue from U.S. Government
fixed-price-type contracts generally are recorded as shipments
are made or as services are rendered. Occasionally, for certain
fixed-price-type contracts that require substantial performance
over a long time period (one or more years) before shipments
begin, in accordance with the requirements of Statement of
Position 81-1 “Accounting for Performance of
Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts,”
revenues may be recorded based upon attainment of scheduled
performance milestones which could be time, event or expense
driven. In these few instances, invoices are submitted to the
customer under a contractual agreement and payments are made by
the customer. Since certain contracts extend over a long period
of time, all revisions in cost and funding estimates during the
progress of work have the effect of adjusting the current period
earnings on a cumulative

catch-up

basis. Sales
under cost-reimbursement contracts are recorded as costs are
incurred and fees are earned. If the current contract estimate
indicates a loss, provision is made for the total anticipated
loss.

The Company follows the requirements of Securities and Exchange
Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104 on
revenue recognition.

Shipping and Handling

Shipping and handling fees charged to customers are classified
as revenue while shipping and handling costs retained by
Teledyne are classified as cost of sales in the accompanying
consolidated statements of income.

Warranty Costs

Some of the Company’s products are subject to specified
warranties and the Company provides for the estimated cost of
product warranties. The adequacy of the preexisting warranty
liabilities is assessed regularly and the reserve is adjusted as
necessary based on a review of historic warranty experience with
respect to the applicable business or products, as well as the
length and actual terms of the warranties, which are typically
one year. The product warranty reserve is included in current
accrued liabilities on the balance sheet. Changes in the
Company’s product warranty reserve are as follows (in
millions):




Balance at beginning of year

$

6.9

$

6.0

$

5.2

Accruals for product warranties charged to expense

9.6

3.5

3.5

Cost of product warranty claims

(6.8

)

(3.4

)

(3.9

)

Acquisitions

0.6

0.8

1.2

Balance at year-end

$

10.3

$

6.9

$

6.0



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Research and Development

Selling, general and administrative expenses include
company-funded research and development and bid and proposal
costs which are expensed as incurred and were $44.9 million
in 2005, $32.6 million in 2004, and $27.9 million in
2003. Costs related to customer-funded research and development
contracts were $246.6 million in 2005, $230.7 million
in 2004, and $190.1 million in 2003 and are charged to
costs and expenses as the related sales are recorded. A portion
of the costs incurred for company-funded research and
development is recoverable through overhead cost allocations on
government contracts.

Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”)
No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.” Under
this method, deferred income tax assets and liabilities are
determined on the estimated future tax effects of differences
between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and
liabilities given the application of enacted tax laws. Deferred
income tax provisions and benefits are based on changes to the
asset or liability from year to year.

Net Income Per Common Share

Basic and diluted earnings per share were computed based on net
earnings. The weighted average number of common shares
outstanding during the period was used in the calculation of
basic earnings per share. This number of shares was increased by
contingent shares that could be issued under various
compensation plans as well as by the dilutive effect of stock
options based on the treasury stock method in the calculation of
diluted earnings per share.

The following table sets forth the computations of basic and
diluted earnings per share (amounts in millions, except
per-share data):

For 2005, no stock options were excluded in the computation of
diluted EPS. Stock options to purchase 38,917 and
1.0 million shares of common stock at fiscal year end 2004,
and 2003, respectively, did not affect the computation of
diluted EPS since the exercise prices for these options were
greater than the average market price of the Company’s
common stock during the respective years.

Stock options to purchase 3.3 million,
3.4 million and 2.5 million shares of common stock at
fiscal year end 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively, had exercise
prices that were less than the average market



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

price of the Company’s common stock during the respective
periods and are included in the computation of diluted EPS.

In addition, 46,999 and 55,937 and 152,891 contingent shares of
the Company’s common stock under two compensation plans
were excluded from fully diluted shares outstanding for 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively, since performance and other
conditions for issuance have not yet been met.

Stock Incentive Plan

ATI sponsored an incentive plan that provided for ATI stock
option awards to officers and key employees. In connection with
the spin-off, outstanding stock options held by Teledyne’s
employees that participated in the plan prior to the spin-off
were converted into options to purchase Teledyne’s Common
Stock.

The following disclosures are based on stock options held by
Teledyne’s employees and include the stock options that
have been converted from ATI options to Teledyne’s options
as noted above. Teledyne accounts for its stock option plans in
accordance with APB Opinion No. 25 —
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” (“APB
Opinion No. 25”) and related Interpretations. Under
APB Opinion No. 25, no compensation expense is recognized
when the exercise price of the Company’s employee stock
options equals the market price of the underlying stock at the
date of the grant. In December 2002, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (“FASB”) issued
SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation-Transition and Disclosure.”
SFAS No. 148 amends SFAS No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock-based Compensation,”
(“SFAS No. 123”) and was effective
immediately upon issuance. SFAS No. 148 provides
alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the
fair value based method of accounting for stock-based employee
compensation as well as amending the disclosure requirements of
Statement No. 123 to require interim and annual disclosures
about the method of accounting for stock based compensation and
the effect of the method used on reported results. The Company
follows the requirements of APB Opinion No. 25 and the
disclosure only provision of SFAS No. 123, as amended
by SFAS No. 148.

As noted in the preceding paragraph, Teledyne Technologies
accounts for its stock options under APB Opinion No. 25. If
compensation cost for these options had been determined under
the SFAS No. 123 fair-value method using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model for stock options granted
prior to 2005 and the lattice based binomial model for stock
options granted in 2005, the impact on net income and earnings
per share is presented in the following table (amounts in
millions, except per share data):



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Prior to 2005, the Company used its entire stock trading history
since its November 29, 1999 spin-off to compute the
expected volatility assumption to value stock options. During
2000, Teledyne Technologies’ stock price was extremely
volatile while the subsequent years had only moderate
volatility. In accordance with SFAS No. 123, if an
entity’s stock was extraordinarily volatile for reasons
which expected future volatility may differ from the past, the
identifiable period may be disregarded in computing historical
average volatility. Beginning with stock options issued in 2005,
the Company excluded the year 2000 from the expected volatility
calculation resulting in a volatility that is more indicative of
expected future volatility. The following assumptions were used
in the valuation of stock options granted in 2005, 2004 and 2003:

For the Year




Expected dividend yield

—

—

—

Expected volatility

33.0

%

60.7

%

62.1

%

Risk-free interest rate

3.9

%

4.0

%

4.0

%

Expected lives

6.3

8.0

8.0

Weighted-average fair value of options granted during the year

$

10.24

$

12.89

$

9.12

Accounts Receivable

Receivables are presented net of a reserve for doubtful accounts
of $2.1 million at January 1, 2006 and
$2.6 million at January 2, 2005. Expense recorded for
the reserve for doubtful accounts was $0.4 million,
$0.6 million, and $0.2 million for 2005, 2004, and
2003, respectively. An allowance for doubtful accounts is
established for losses expected to be incurred on accounts
receivable balances. Judgment is required in the estimation of
the allowance and is based upon specific identification,
collection history and creditworthiness of the debtor. The
Company markets its products and services principally throughout
the United States, Europe, Japan and Canada to commercial
customers and agencies of, and prime contractors to, the
U.S. Government. Trade credit is extended based upon
evaluations of each customer’s ability to perform its
obligations, which are updated periodically.

Cash Equivalents

Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid money-market mutual
funds and bank deposits with initial maturities of three months
or less. There were no cash equivalents at January 1, 2006.
Cash equivalents totaled $3.9 million at January 2,
2005.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost

(last-in,

first-out and

first-in,

first-out
methods) or market, less progress payments. Costs include direct
material, direct labor, applicable manufacturing and engineering
overhead, and other direct costs.

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment is capitalized at cost. Property,
plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are
determined using a combination of accelerated and straight-line
methods over the estimated useful lives of the various asset
classes. Buildings are depreciated over periods not exceeding
45 years, equipment over 5 to 18 years, computer
hardware and software over 3 to 5 years and leasehold
improvements over the shorter of their estimated remaining lives
or lease terms. Significant improvements are capitalized while
maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred.
Depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment, including
assets under capital leases, was $22.1 million in 2005,
$23.4 million in 2004 and $22.9 million in 2003.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets

The Company accounts for goodwill and purchased intangible
assets under SFAS No. 141 “Business
Combinations” and SFAS No. 142 “Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets”. Using the two-step goodwill
impairment model approach outlined in SFAS No. 142,
the Company performs an annual impairment test in the fourth
quarter of each year, or more often as circumstances require.
The two-step impairment test is used to first identify potential
goodwill impairment and then measure the amount of goodwill
impairment loss, if any. When it is determined that an
impairment has occurred, an appropriate charge to operations is
recorded. Based on the annual impairment test completed in the
fourth quarter of 2005, no impairment of goodwill or intangible
assets was indicated.

Business acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase
method by assigning the purchase price to tangible and
intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Assets
acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their fair
values and the excess of the purchase price over the amounts
assigned is recorded as goodwill. Purchased intangible assets
with finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful
lives. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are
not amortized, but tested at least annually for impairment.

Teledyne’s goodwill was $197.0 million at
January 1, 2006 and $166.0 million at January 2,
2005. Teledyne’s acquired intangible assets were
$33.6 million at January 1, 2006 and
$24.8 million at January 2, 2005. The increase in both
goodwill and acquired intangibles in 2005 primarily resulted
from acquisitions. In all acquisitions, the results are included
in the Company’s consolidated financial statements from the
date of each respective acquisition. The allocation of the
purchase price for the acquisition of Cougar Components
(“Cougar”) was completed as of year-end 2005. The
amount of goodwill and intangible assets recorded for the Cougar
acquisition, was $14.2 million and $2.7 million,
respectively. The allocation of the purchase price for the
acquisition of RD Instruments, Inc. (“RDI”) is
preliminary as of year-end 2005 due to the timing of the
acquisition. Each of the above acquisitions is part of the
Electronics and Communications segment. Approximately
$19.9 million of goodwill recorded in 2005 is deductible
for tax purposes. The preliminary amount of goodwill recorded as
of January 1, 2006 for the RDI acquisition, was
$19.9 million. The preliminary amount of intangible assets
recorded as of January 1, 2006 for the RDI acquisition, was
$9.6 million. These amounts were based on estimates that
are subject to change pending the completion of the
Company’s internal review and the finalization of a third
party appraisal. The Company also recorded $1.7 million of
goodwill related to the purchase of the minority interest of a
subsidiary owned by RDI.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following table summarized the changes in the carrying value
of goodwill (in millions):

The following table summarizes the carrying value of other
acquired intangible assets (in millions):



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Amortizable other intangible assets are amortized on a straight
line basis over their estimated useful lives ranging from one to
15 years. The Company recorded $3.5 million and
$1.4 million in amortization expense in 2005 and 2004,
respectively, for other acquired intangible assets. The expected
future amortization expense for the next five years is as
follows (in millions): 2006-$4.2; 2007-$2.7; 2008-$2.6;
2009-$2.6; 2010-$2.3. The estimated remaining useful lives by
asset category are as follows:

Weighted

average

remaining

useful

life in

years

Intangibles subject to amortization:

Proprietary technology

8.1

Customer list/relationships

6.6

Patents

12.3

Non-compete agreements

2.9

Backlog

1.0

Total intangibles subject to amortization

5.3

The following is a summary at the acquisition date of the
estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities
assumed for the acquisitions made in 2005 (in millions):



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following table summarizes the intangible assets acquired as
part of the acquisitions made in 2005 (dollars in millions):

Other Long-Lived Assets

The carrying value of long-lived assets is periodically
evaluated in relation to the operating performance and sum of
undiscounted future cash flows of the underlying businesses. An
impairment loss is recognized when the sum of expected
undiscounted future net cash flows is less than book value. In
2003, Teledyne recorded a $2.3 million charge for the
write-down of the Company’s remaining cost-based investment
in a private company engaged in manufacturing and development of
micro optics and microelectromechanical devices.

Environmental

Costs that mitigate or prevent future environmental
contamination or extend the life, increase the capacity or
improve the safety or efficiency of property utilized in current
operations are capitalized. Other costs that relate to current
operations or an existing condition caused by past operations
are expensed. Environmental liabilities are recorded when the
Company’s liability is probable and the costs are
reasonably estimable, but generally not later than the
completion of the feasibility study or the Company’s
recommendation of a remedy or commitment to an appropriate plan
of action. The accruals are reviewed periodically and, as
investigations and remediations proceed, adjustments are made as
necessary. Accruals for losses from environmental remediation
obligations do not consider the effects of inflation, and
anticipated expenditures are not discounted to their present
value. The accruals are not reduced by possible recoveries from
insurance carriers or other third parties, but do reflect
anticipated allocations among potentially responsible parties at
federal Superfund sites or similar state-managed sites and an
assessment of the likelihood that such parties will fulfill
their obligations at such sites. The measurement of
environmental liabilities by the Company is based on currently
available facts, present laws and regulations, and current
technology. Such estimates take into consideration the
Company’s prior experience in site investigation and
remediation, the data concerning cleanup costs available from
other companies and regulatory authorities, and the professional
judgment of the Company’s environmental experts in
consultation with outside environmental specialists, when
necessary.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Foreign Currency Translation

The Company’s foreign entities’ accounts are measured
using local currency as the functional currency. Assets and
liabilities of these entities are translated at the exchange
rate in effect at year-end. Revenues and expenses are translated
at average month end rates of exchange prevailing during the
year. Unrealized translation gains and losses arising from
differences in exchange rates from period to period are included
as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in
stockholders’ equity. Most of the Company’s sales are
denominated in U.S. dollars which mitigates the effect of
exchange rate changes.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

SFAS No. 123R

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R,
“Share Based Payment”
(“SFAS No. 123R”) that will require
compensation costs related to share-based payment transactions
to be recognized in the financial statements. With limited
exceptions, the amount of compensation costs will be measured
based on the grant date-fair value of the equity or liability
instrument issued. Compensation cost will be recognized over the
period that an employee provides service in exchange for the
award. SFAS No. 123R replaces SFAS No. 123,
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation and supersedes
APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees. The Company adopted SFAS No. 123R in the
first quarter of 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 123R
is expected to reduce pretax earnings by approximately
$5.4 million in 2006 based on current assumptions.

SFAS No. 151

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No 151,
“Inventory Costs-an amendment of ARB No. 43
Chapter 4” (“SFAS No. 151”).
SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in ARB No. 43,
Chapter 4, “Inventory Pricing,” to clarify the
accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense,
freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage).
SFAS No. 151 requires that those items be recognized
as current-period charges. SFAS No. 151 is effective
for first fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The
adoption of SFAS No. 151 is not expected to have any
impact on the Company.

Hedging Activities

Teledyne has not utilized derivative financial instruments such
as futures contracts, options and swaps, forward exchange
contracts or interest rate swaps and futures during 2005 or 2004.

Supplemental Cash Flow
Information

Teledyne’s cash payments for federal, foreign and state
income taxes were $34.9 million for 2005 which is net of
refunds of $0.1 million. Teledyne’s cash payments for
federal, foreign and state income taxes were $30.2 million
for 2004 which is net of refunds of $40 thousand.
Teledyne’s cash payments for federal, foreign and state
income taxes were $15.1 million for 2003 which is net of
refunds of $2.2 million. Cash payments for interest and
credit facility fees by Teledyne totaled approximately
$2.9 million, $1.2 million and $0.4 million for
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Comprehensive Income

Teledyne’s comprehensive income consists of net income, the
minimum pension liability adjustment, changes in the value of
marketable equity securities and foreign currency translation
adjustments. The minimum pension liability adjustment was
recorded net of deferred taxes of $24.8 million,
$14.4 million and $7.6 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. See Note 12 for a further discussion of the
pension



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

adjustment. Teledyne’s comprehensive income was
$47.3 million, $30.7 million, and $41.6 million
for the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

The year-end components of accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) are shown in the following table (in millions):

Balance at year-end




Foreign currency translation gains (losses)

$

(0.3

)

$

0.4

$

0.4

Gain on marketable equity security

—

—

0.1

Minimum pension liability adjustment(a)

(38.9

)

(22.7

)

(11.8

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

$

(39.2

)

$

(22.3

)

$

(11.3

)

(a)

Net of deferred taxes of $24.8 million in 2005,
    $14.3 million in 2004 and $7.6 million in 2003.

Note 3. Business Combinations and Discontinued
Operation

In October 2005, Teledyne Technologies purchased certain assets
of the microwave technical solutions business of Avnet, Inc. for
$2.2 million in cash and consolidated these assets with
Teledyne Cougar Inc.

In August 2005, Teledyne Technologies through its wholly owned
subsidiary, Teledyne Investment, Inc., completed the acquisition
of all of the stock of RD Instruments, Inc. (RDI). The total
purchase price was $36.0 million. Total cash paid, net of
$0.4 million of cash acquired, was $32.0 million. In
connection with the acquisition Teledyne Technologies assumed
debt obligations of $2.0 million. In addition, Teledyne
Technologies recorded a $3.9 million liability to be paid
to the seller in August 2007. RDI designs and manufactures
acoustic Doppler instrumentation. The business will operate as
Teledyne RD Instruments, Inc. and is based in San Diego,
California. Teledyne Technologies funded the acquisition with
cash on hand and borrowings under its credit facilities. In the
fourth quarter of 2005, Teledyne Technologies purchased the
minority interest of a subsidiary owned by RDI for a cash
payment of $1.7 million.

In August 2005, Teledyne Technologies completed the sale of its
SWIFT

tm

assets for net proceeds of $2.9 million. These assets were
acquired as part of the Isco acquisition made in June 2004. No
gain was recorded on the sale and goodwill was reduced by
$2.7 million.

In June 2005, Teledyne Technologies through its wholly owned
subsidiary, Teledyne Investment, Inc., completed the acquisition
of all of the stock of Cougar Components Corporation (Cougar)
for a purchase price of $26.5 million. In the third quarter
Teledyne Technologies also paid a $0.6 million purchase
price adjustment. In connection with the acquisition, Teledyne
Technologies assumed debt obligations of $3.8 million and
acquired cash and cash equivalents of $3.3 million. In
addition, Teledyne Technologies recorded contingent payments
totaling $1.6 million to be paid to the seller by Teledyne
Technologies in specified increments as certain conditions are
satisfied through June 2007. Total cash paid, net of
$3.3 million of cash acquired, was $22.5 million.
Cougar designs and manufactures RF and microwave cascadable
amplifiers and subsystems for signal processing equipment.
Principally located in Sunnyvale, California, the business
operates as Teledyne Cougar, Inc., a business unit of Teledyne
Microelectronic Technologies. Teledyne Technologies funded the
acquisition primarily from borrowings under its
$280.0 million credit facility.

In March 2005, Teledyne Technologies sold the assets of

STIP-Isco,

a German
subsidiary. Teledyne Technologies received $5.6 million in
connection with the sale. An additional $0.4 million is
held in escrow which should be released to Teledyne Technologies
in specified increments as certain conditions are



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

satisfied through February 2007. This business was acquired as
part of the Isco acquisition made in June 2004. No gain was
recorded on the sale and goodwill was reduced by
$2.4 million accordingly.

In October 2004, Teledyne, through its wholly owned subsidiary
Teledyne Wireless, Inc., acquired the defense electronics
business of Celeritek, Inc. (Celeritek) for $32.7 million
in cash, which includes the receipt of a $0.3 million
purchase price adjustment. Celeritek’s defense electronics
business designs and manufactures gallium arsenide-based radio
frequency and microwave components and subassemblies for
electronic warfare, radar and other military applications.
Teledyne relocated the business from Santa Clara,
California and consolidated it with Teledyne’s operations
in Mountain View, California.

In July 2004, Teledyne Investment, Inc., completed the
acquisition of Reynolds Industries, Incorporated (Reynolds),
headquartered in Los Angeles, California, for total
consideration of $41.2 million which includes the payment
of a purchase price adjustment and is net of cash acquired.
Reynolds is a supplier of specialized high voltage connectors
and subassemblies for defense, aerospace and industrial
applications, as well as unique pilot helmet mounted display
components and subsystems.

In June 2004, Teledyne completed the acquisition of the stock of
Isco, Inc. (Isco) for $16.00 per share in cash or
$93.8 million net of cash acquired. Teledyne sold
$17.3 million of marketable securities acquired as part of
the Isco acquisition and applied the proceeds against debt.
Isco, located in Lincoln, Nebraska, is a producer of water
quality monitoring products such as wastewater samplers and open
channel flow meters. Isco’s liquid chromatography customers
include pharmaceutical laboratories involved in drug discovery
and development. Isco also manufactures chemical separation
instruments for industrial and research use.

Isco’s results have been included since the date of the
acquisition. The unaudited pro forma information below assumes
that Isco had been acquired at the beginning of each fiscal year
and includes the effect of amortization of acquired identifiable
intangible assets as well as increased interest expense on
acquisition debt. Isco’s historical fiscal quarter end had
been approximately three weeks after Teledyne’s fiscal
quarter end. Isco’s historical results were pro-rated to
reflect the same number of days per period as reported by
Teledyne for the periods presented below. This pro forma
financial information is presented for informational purposes
only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of
operations that actually would have resulted had the acquisition
been in effect at the beginning of the respective periods. In
addition, the pro forma results are not intended to be a
projection of future results and do not reflect any operating
efficiencies or cost savings that might be achievable. The
following table contains the pro forma results for the 2004 and
2003 fiscal year.



(Unaudited — in

millions, except per

share amounts)

Sales

$

1,050.6

$

905.5

Net income

$

43.8

$

30.9

Basic earnings per common share

$

1.35

$

0.96

Diluted earnings per common share

$

1.30

$

0.95

In February 2004, Teledyne Tekmar Company acquired assets of
Leeman Labs, Inc. (Leeman Labs), located in Hudson, New
Hampshire, for $8.1 million in cash, which includes a
payment of a $0.1 million purchase price adjustment. Leeman
Labs’ product lines augment Teledyne’s existing
laboratory and continuous monitoring instruments used in
environmental applications.

On December 31, 2003, which is part of Teledyne’s 2004
fiscal year, Teledyne, through its wholly owned subsidiary
Teledyne Wireless, Inc. acquired certain assets of the Filtronic
Solid State (Solid State)



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

business from Filtronic plc for $12.0 million in cash.
Solid State designs and manufactures customized microwave
subassemblies for electronic warfare, radar and other military
applications. The business, which operates as Teledyne
Microwave, was relocated from Santa Clara, California to
Teledyne’s operations in Mountain View, California.

In June 2003, Teledyne acquired from Spirent plc its Aviation
Information Solutions businesses (collectively “AIS”),
which include Spirent Systems Wichita, Inc., Spirent
Systems — Aerospace Solutions (Ottawa) Limited and
assets of United Kingdom-based The Flight Data Company Limited,
for $6.4 million in cash, which is net of a purchase price
adjustment. AIS designs and manufactures aerospace data
acquisition devices, networking products and flight deck and
cabin displays. The acquisition of AIS provides Teledyne with
advanced airborne file servers, data analysis software and
information displays that are highly synergistic with Teledyne
Controls’ data acquisition and communication systems that
enhance flight reliability and maintenance efficiency for
airline and airfreight customers.

In May 2003, Teledyne acquired Tekmar Company, a wholly owned
subsidiary of Emerson Electric Co., for $13.5 million in
cash. Tekmar Company, also known as Tekmar-Dohrmann, is a
manufacturer of gas chromatography introduction systems and
automated total organic carbon analyzers. Tekmar Company,
located in Mason, Ohio, became a business unit of Teledyne
Instruments, a group of electronic instrumentation businesses
within Teledyne’s Electronics and Communications business
segment. Tekmar Company manufactures instruments that automate
the preparation and concentration of drinking water and
wastewater samples for the analysis of volatile organic
compounds in gas chromatographs. It also provides laboratory
analytical systems for the detection of total organic carbon.

In September 2002, Teledyne acquired Monitor Labs, Incorporated
from Spirent plc for $24.0 million in cash. Monitor Labs is
a supplier of environmental monitoring instrumentation for the
detection, measurement and reporting of air pollutants with
locations in Englewood, Colorado and Gibsonia, Pennsylvania.

In November 2001, Teledyne acquired Advanced Pollution
Instrumentation, Inc. for $25.0 million in cash. API is a
designer and manufacturer of advanced air quality monitoring
instruments, based in San Diego, California.

Each of the above acquisitions are part of the Electronics and
Communications segment and are included in the consolidated
financial statements since the date of each respective
acquisition

In July 2001, Teledyne combined its Energy Systems business unit
with assets of Florida based Energy Partners, Inc., to create
majority-owned (86%) Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc. This
transaction was recorded as a transfer of net assets between
entities under common control in accordance with
SFAS No. 141. The company focuses on supplying
thermoelectric and fuel cell power systems to government
customers and hydrogen/oxygen gas generators and test stands to
commercial customers.

In 2000, Teledyne sold the assets of Teledyne Cast Parts, a
provider of sand and investment castings to the aerospace and
defense industries which was previously reported as part of the
Aerospace Engines and Components segment. In 2003, Teledyne made
$0.1 million in payments for workers’ compensation
claims related to Teledyne Cast Parts. The consolidated
statements of cash flows reflect those payments under
discontinued operations.

Note 4. Financial Instruments

Teledyne values financial instruments as required by
SFAS No. 107 — “Disclosures about Fair
Value of Financial Instruments,” as amended. The carrying
amounts of cash and cash equivalents approximate fair value
because of the short maturity of those instruments. Teledyne
estimates the fair value of its long-term debt based on the
quoted market prices for debt of similar rating and similar
maturity and at



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

comparable interest rates. The estimated fair value of
Teledyne’s long-term debt at January 1, 2006
approximated the carrying value of $43.6 million. The
estimated fair value of Teledyne’s long-term debt at
January 2, 2005 approximated the carrying value of
$70.6 million. There was no long-term debt outstanding at
December 28, 2003.

The carrying value of other on-balance-sheet financial
instruments approximates fair value, and the cost, if any, to
terminate off-balance sheet financial instruments (primarily
letters of credit) is not significant.

Note 5. Accounts Receivable

Accounts receivable are summarized as follows (in millions):

Balance at year-end



U.S. Government and prime contractors contract receivables:

Billed receivables

$

30.5

$

30.1

Unbilled receivables

21.8

18.9

Commercial and other receivables

117.4

95.3

169.7

144.3

Reserve for doubtful accounts

(2.1

)

(2.6

)

Total accounts receivable, net

$

167.6

$

141.7

The billed contract receivables from the U.S. Government
and prime contractors contain $17.3 million and
$10.0 million at January 1, 2006 and January 2,
2005, respectively, due to long-term contracts. The unbilled
contract receivables from the U.S. Government and prime
contractors contain $20.4 million and $17.2 million at
January 1, 2006 and January 2, 2005, respectively, due
to long-term contracts.

Unbilled contract receivables represent accumulated costs and
profits earned but not yet billed to customers. The Company
believes that substantially all such amounts will be billed and
collected within one year.

Note 6. Inventories

Inventories consisted of the following (in millions):

Balance at year-end



Raw materials and supplies

$

44.7

$

35.8

Work in process

92.1

80.2

Finished goods

12.2

8.9

Total inventories at current cost

149.0

124.9

LIFO reserve

(23.7

)

(21.6

)

Progress payments

(8.0

)

(5.6

)

Total inventories, net

$

117.3

$

97.7

Inventories at current cost, determined on the

last-in,

first-out
method were $97.7 million at January 1, 2006 and
$82.7 million at January 2, 2005. The remainder of the
inventories valued at current



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

cost, using the

first-in,

first-out
method, were $51.3 million at January 1, 2006 and
$42.2 million at January 2, 2005.

In 2005, the Company recorded LIFO expense of $2.1 million
which resulted from higher inventory levels and the effect of
the current year LIFO index. In 2004, the Company recorded LIFO
expense of $0.5 million which resulted from higher
inventory levels. During 2003 inventory usage resulted in
liquidations of

last-in,

first-out
inventory quantities. These inventories were carried at the
lower costs prevailing in prior years as compared with the cost
of current purchases. The effect of these

last-in,

first-out
liquidations was to increase income by $5.1 million in 2003.

Total inventories at current cost were net of reserves for
excess, slow moving and obsolete inventory of $18.7 million
and $21.2 million at January 1, 2006 and
January 2, 2005, respectively. The reserve for excess, slow
moving and obsolete inventory at January 1, 2006 reflected
reserves of $0.8 million acquired as part of acquisitions
made in 2005.

Inventories, before progress payments, related to long-term
contracts were $11.7 million and $15.2 million at
January 1, 2006 and January 2, 2005, respectively.
Progress payments related to long-term contracts were
$7.6 million and $4.9 million at January 1, 2006
and January 2, 2005, respectively.

Under the contractual arrangements by which progress payments
are received, the customer has an ownership right in the
inventories associated with specific contracts.

Note 7. Supplemental Balance Sheet Information

Property, plant and equipment were as follows (in millions):

Balance at year-end



Land

$

9.3

$

8.1

Buildings

58.7

55.0

Equipment and software

210.1

194.5

278.1

257.6

Accumulated depreciation and amortization

(181.4

)

(164.3

)

Total property, plant and equipment, net

$

96.7

$

93.3

Other long-term assets included amounts related to deferred
compensation of $15.4 million and $12.4 million at
January 1, 2006 and January 2, 2005, respectively.
Accrued liabilities included salaries and wages and other
related compensation reserves of $48.1 million and
$40.8 million at January 1, 2006 and January 2,
2005, respectively. Accrued liabilities also included customer
related deposits and credits of $14.4 million and
$15.4 million at January 1, 2006 and January 2,
2005, respectively. Other long-term liabilities included
aircraft product liability reserves of $33.9 million and
$21.3 million at January 1, 2006 and January 2,
2005, respectively and deferred compensation liabilities of
$15.3 million and $12.6 million at January 1,
2006 and January 2, 2005, respectively. Other long-term
liabilities also included reserves for self-insurance,
environmental liabilities and the long-term portion of
compensation reserves.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 8. Stockholders’ Equity

The following is an analysis of Teledyne’s common stock
share activity:

Balance, December 30, 2002

32,048,827

Stock options exercised and other

217,751

Balance, December 29, 2003

32,266,578

Stock options exercised and other

645,784

Balance, January 2, 2005

32,912,362

Stock options exercised and other

771,309

Balance, January 1, 2006

33,683,671

Shares issued in all three fiscal years include stock options
exercised as well as shares issued under certain compensation
plans.

Preferred Stock

Authorized preferred stock may be issued with designations,
powers and preferences designated by the Board of Directors.
There were no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding in
2005, 2004 or 2003.

Stockholder Rights
Plan

On November 12, 1999, the Company’s Board of Directors
unanimously adopted a stockholder rights plan under which
preferred share purchase rights were distributed as a dividend
on each share of Teledyne’s Common Stock distributed to
ATI’s stockholders in connection with the spin-off and each
share to become outstanding between the effective date of the
spin-off and the earliest of the distribution date, redemption
date and final expiration date. The rights will be exercisable
only if a person or group acquires 15 percent or more of
the Company’s Common Stock or announces a tender offer, the
consummation of which would result in ownership by a person or
group of 15 percent or more of the Common Stock. Each right
will entitle stockholders to then buy one-hundredth of a share
of a new series of junior participating preferred stock at an
exercise price of $60 per share. There are
1,250,000 shares of Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock authorized for issuance under the plan. The
record date for the distribution was the close of business of
November 22, 1999. The rights will expire on
November 12, 2009, subject to earlier redemption or
exchange by Teledyne as described in the plan. The rights
distribution is not taxable to stockholders.

Stock Incentive Plan

ATI sponsored an incentive plan that provided for ATI stock
option awards to officers and key employees. Teledyne had
officers and key employees that participated in this plan prior
to the spin-off. In connection with the spin-off, outstanding
stock options held by Teledyne’s employees were converted
into options to purchase Teledyne’s Common Stock. The
number of shares and the exercise price of each ATI option that
was converted to a Teledyne’s option was converted based
upon a formula designed to preserve the inherent economic value,
vesting and term provisions of such ATI options as of the
Distribution Date. The exchange ratio and fair market value of
the Teledyne’s Common Stock, upon active trading, also
impacted the number of options issued to Teledyne’s
employees.

Teledyne has established its own long-term incentive plans which
provide its Board of Directors the flexibility to grant
restricted stock, performance shares, non-qualified stock
options, incentive stock options and stock appreciation rights
to officers and employees of Teledyne. Stock options become
exercisable in one-third increments on the first, second and
third anniversary of the grant and have a maximum 10 year
life.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Stock option transactions for Teledyne’s employee stock
option plan are summarized as follows:




Weighted

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Average

Exercise

Exercise

Exercise

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Beginning balance

3,254,454

$

14.92

3,364,237

$

14.12

3,256,563

$

14.28

Granted

451,313

$

26.99

462,859

$

19.28

525,625

$

13.45

Exercised

(659,906

)

$

14.46

(538,552

)

$

13.35

(112,038

)

$

10.25

Canceled or expired

(6,550

)

$

20.73

(34,090

)

$

18.76

(305,913

)

$

15.63

Ending balance

3,039,311

$

16.82

3,254,454

$

14.92

3,364,237

$

14.12

Options exercisable at year-end

2,048,864

$

14.61

2,331,729

$

14.28

2,240,672

$

13.78

The following table provides certain information with respect to
stock options outstanding and stock options exercisable at
January 1, 2006 under the employee stock option plan:

Stock Options Outstanding

Stock Options Exercisable

Weighted

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Average

Exercise

Remaining

Exercise

Range of Exercise Prices

Shares

Price

Life

Shares

Price

$ 8.42 - $10.00

547,071

$

9.24

3.7

547,071

$

9.24

$10.00 - $14.99

974,432

$

13.85

6.0

714,276

$

13.80

$15.00 - $19.99

1,036,668

$

18.92

5.9

758,267

$

18.80

$20.00 - $24.99

9,000

$

22.26

6.3

6,333

$

23.11

$25.00 - $28.69

472,140

$

27.00

9.0

22,917

$

27.11

3,039,311

$

16.82

6.0

2,048,864

$

14.61

Non-Employee Director
Stock Compensation Plan

Teledyne also sponsors a stock plan for non-employee directors
pursuant to which non-employee directors receive annual stock
options and may receive stock or stock options in lieu of their
respective retainer and meeting fees. The options become
exercisable one year after issuance and have a maximum ten year
life.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Stock option transactions for Teledyne’s non-employee
director stock option plan are summarized as follows:




Weighted

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Average

Exercise

Exercise

Exercise

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Beginning balance

228,012

$

14.01

189,348

$

13.11

135,924

$

13.23

Granted

48,400

$

26.48

47,503

$

17.42

55,424

$

12.68

Exercised

(30,000

)

$

15.07

(8,839

)

$

12.96

(2,000

)

$

9.94

Ending balance

246,412

$

16.33

228,012

$

14.01

189,348

$

13.11

Options exercisable at year-end

198,012

$

13.85

180,509

$

13.11

133,924

$

13.28

The following table provides certain information with respect to
stock options outstanding and stock options exercisable at
January 1, 2006 under the non-employee director stock
option plan:

Stock Options

Stock Options Outstanding

Exercisable

Weighted

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Average

Exercise

Remaining

Exercise

Range of Exercise Prices

Shares

Price

Life

Shares

Price

$ 6.31 - $10.00

32,776

$

8.90

5.6

32,776

$

8.90

$10.00 - $14.99

108,395

$

12.98

6.5

108,395

$

12.98

$15.00 - $19.99

61,419

$

18.30

7.6

54,841

$

18.21

$20.00 - $24.99

11,588

$

22.31

8.7

2,000

$

22.47

$25.00 - $29.27

32,234

$

29.24

9.3

—

$

—

246,412

$

16.33

7.1

198,012

$

13.85

Performance Share
Plan

Teledyne’s Performance Share Plan (“PSP”)
provides grants of performance share units, which key officers
and executives may earn if Teledyne meets specified performance
objectives over a three-year period. Awards are generally paid
to the participants in three annual installments after the end
of the performance cycle so long as they remain employed by
Teledyne (with exceptions for retirement, disability and death).

In December 2002, the performance cycle for the three-year
period ending January 1, 2006 was set. Based on actual
performance over the three-year period, an aggregate of
260,328 shares are expected to be issued in three equal
installments during 2006, 2007 and 2008.

Restricted Stock Award
Program

Under Teledyne’s restricted stock award program
(RSAP) selected officers and key executives receive a grant
of stock equal to 30% of the participant’s annual base
salary at the date of grant. The Restricted Stock is subject to
transfer and forfeiture restrictions during an applicable
“restricted period”. The restrictions have both
time-based and performance-based components. The restricted
period expires (and the restrictions lapse) on the third
anniversary of the date of grant, subject to the achievement of
stated performance objectives over a specified three-year
performance period. If employment is terminated (other than via
death, retirement or disability) during the restricted period,
stock is forfeited. Under the 2003 to



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

2005, 2004 to 2006 and 2005 to 2007 performance periods an
aggregate of 157,164 shares of restricted stock were issued
and outstanding at year end 2005.

Note 9. Related Party Transactions

Prior to and in connection with the spin-off, Teledyne and ATI
entered into agreements providing for the separation of the
companies and governing various relationships for separating
employee benefits and tax obligations, indemnification and
transition services. The Company’s principal spin-off
requirements, including the requirement to ensure a favorable
tax treatment, have been satisfied. One of Teledyne’s
directors continues to serve on ATI’s board. In addition,
under one of our spin-off agreements, the Company is able to
charge pension costs to the U.S. Government under certain
government contracts after November 29, 2004. In 2004,
Teledyne purchased the “Teledyne” name and related
logos, symbols and marks from an affiliate of ATI for $412,000.

The Company’s Chairman, President and Chief Executive
Officer is a director of Mellon Financial Corporation. Another
of its directors is a former chief executive officer and
director of Mellon Financial Corporation. All transactions with
Mellon Bank, N.A. and its affiliates are effected under normal
commercial terms, and the Company believes that its
relationships with Mellon Bank, N.A. and its affiliates are at
arms-length. Mellon Bank, N.A. is one of ten lenders under the
Company’s $280.0 million credit facility, having
committed up to $25.0 million under the facility. Mellon
Bank, N.A. provides cash management services and an uncommitted
$5.0 million line of credit. Mellon Bank, N.A. serves as
trustee under the Company’s pension plan and provides asset
management services for the plan. Mellon Investor Services LLC
serves as our transfer agent and registrar, as well as agent
under the Company’s stockholders’ rights plan.

Note 10. Long-Term Debt

At January 1, 2006, Teledyne had $43.6 million in
long-term debt outstanding. At January 2, 2005, Teledyne
had $70.6 million in long-term debt outstanding.

In June 2004, the Company terminated its then existing
$200.0 million five-year revolving credit agreement and
replaced it with a new $280.0 million credit facility that
expires in June 2009. At January 1, 2006, the Company had
$220.2 million of available committed credit under the
credit facility, which can be utilized, as needed, for daily
operating and periodic cash needs, including acquisitions.
Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest, at
Teledyne’s option, at a rate based on either a defined base
rate or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), plus
applicable margins. The credit agreement also provides for
facility fees that vary between 0.15% and 0.30% of the credit
line, depending on the Company’s capitalization ratio as
calculated from time to time. The credit agreement requires the
Company to comply with various financial and operating
covenants, including maintaining certain consolidated leverage
and interest coverage ratios, as well as minimum net worth
levels and limits on acquired debt. The Company also has two
$5.0 million uncommitted credit lines available. These
credit lines are utilized, as needed, for periodic cash needs.
Total debt at January 1, 2006 includes $39.0 million
outstanding under the $280.0 million credit facility,
$4.5 million outstanding under one of its $5.0 million
uncommitted bank facilities and $0.2 million in other debt,
of which $0.1 million is current. The Company also has a
$3.5 million capital lease, of which $0.1 million is
current. At January 1, 2006, Teledyne had $9.4 million
in outstanding letters of credit.

Total interest expense including credit facility fees and other
bank charges was $3.8 million in 2005, $2.2 million in
2004 and $1.0 million in 2003.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

At January 1, 2006 and January 2, 2005, long-term debt
consisted of the following (in millions):



Revolving credit and bank facilities, weighted
    average 4.86% at January 1, 2006

$

43.5

$

70.5

Other unsecured debt due through February 2009 at varying rates

0.2

3.2

Total

43.7

73.7

Less:

Current portion

(0.1

)

(3.1

)

Total long-term debt

$

43.6

$

70.6

At January 1, 2006, future minimum principal payments on
long-term debt subsequent to January 1, 2006 were as
follows: $0.1 million in 2006, $0.1 million in 2007
and $43.5 million in 2009.

Note 11. Income Taxes

Provision for income taxes from continuing operations was as
follows (in millions):

Income before income taxes included income from domestic
operations of $99.5 million for 2005, $66.5 million
for 2004 and $43.8 million for 2003. In 2003, Teledyne
recorded an income tax benefit of $2.4 million due to the
reversal of an income tax contingency reserve which was
determined to be no longer needed during the third quarter of
2003. The following is a reconciliation of the statutory federal
income tax rate to the actual effective income tax rate:




U.S. federal statutory tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

State and local taxes, net of federal benefit

3.7

3.8

4.7

Reserve reversal

—

(0.3

)

(5.4

)

Other

(1.1

)

0.2

(1.0

)

Effective income tax rate

37.6

%

38.7

%

33.3

%

Deferred income taxes result from temporary differences in the
recognition of income and expense for financial and income tax
reporting purposes, and differences between the fair value of
assets acquired in business combinations accounted for as
purchases for financial reporting purposes and their
corresponding tax bases. Deferred income taxes represent future
tax benefits or costs to be recognized when those



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

temporary differences reverse. A valuation allowance of
$1.4 million exists against deferred tax assets for 2005.
Of this amount, $0.6 million relates to recent acquisitions
and if not used would result in an adjustment of goodwill. The
reduction in the valuation allowance from 2004 was due to the
utilization of net operating loss carryforward amounts. A
valuation allowance of $3.3 million exists against deferred
tax assets for 2004. Of this amount, $2.1 million relates
to recent acquisitions and if not used would result in an
adjustment of goodwill. A valuation allowance of
$0.6 million was recorded against deferred tax assets for
2003. The categories of assets and liabilities that have
resulted in differences in the timing of the recognition of
income and expense were as follows (in millions):

Additional paid in capital was credited $5.2 million in
2005, $2.4 million in 2004 and $0.2 million in 2003
for a tax benefit resulting from the exercise of stock options.

Note 12. Pension Plans and Postretirement Benefits

Prior to the spin-off, certain Teledyne’s employees
participated in the defined benefit plan sponsored by ATI.
Benefits under the defined benefit plan are generally based on
years of service and/or final average pay. ATI funded the
pension plan in accordance with the requirements of the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the
Internal Revenue Code.

As of the spin-off date, Teledyne assumed the existing defined
benefit plan obligations for all of Teledyne’s employees,
both active and inactive, at its companies that perform
government contract work and for Teledyne’s active
employees at its companies that do not perform government
contract work. ATI transferred pension assets to fund the new
Teledyne’s defined benefit pension plan.

Teledyne’s FAS 87 pension expense was
$12.7 million in 2005 of which $9.3 million was
recoverable in accordance with U.S. Government Cost
Accounting Standards (CAS) from certain government
contracts compared with FAS 87 pension expense of
$8.7 million in 2004 of which $0.5 million was
recoverable in accordance with CAS. FAS 87 pension expense
in 2003 was $6.9 million, of which none



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

was recoverable in accordance with CAS. Teledyne made pretax
contributions to the defined benefit pension plan of
$14.8 million in 2005 and $3.1 million in 2004 prior
to any recovery from the U.S. Government. Teledyne made no
contributions to the plan in 2003. The Company anticipates
making total contributions, before any recovery from the
U.S. Government, of approximately $18.8 million to its
defined benefit pension plan in 2006.

As of the spin-off date, Teledyne also participated in a 401(k)
plan that was open to all full time U.S. employees and was
sponsored by ATI. Teledyne established its own 401(k) plan
effective April 1, 2000. As of January 1, 2004,
non-union new hires participate in an enhanced defined
contribution plan as opposed to the Company’s existing
defined benefit plan. The costs associated with these 401(k)
plans were $4.2 million, $3.2 million, and
$2.9 million, for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

The Company sponsors several postretirement defined benefit
plans covering certain salaried and hourly employees. The plans
provide health care and life insurance benefits for certain
eligible retirees.

The following table sets forth the components of net period
pension benefit (income) expense for Teledyne’s defined
benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for 2005,
2004, and 2003 (in millions):

Pension Benefits

Postretirement Benefits







Service cost — benefits earned during the period

$

13.9

$

12.8

$

12.2

$

—

$

0.1

$

0.1

Interest cost on benefit obligation

29.7

28.7

28.7

1.1

1.1

1.1

Expected return on plan assets

(34.6

)

(35.0

)

(36.4

)

—

—

—

Amortization of prior service cost

2.0

2.1

2.3

—

—

—

Recognized actuarial (gain) loss

1.7

0.1

0.1

(0.8

)

(1.1

)

(1.3

)

Net periodic benefit (income) expense

$

12.7

$

8.7

$

6.9

$

0.3

$

0.1

$

(0.1

)

The following table sets forth the reconciliation of the
beginning and ending balances of the benefit obligation of the
defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans (in
millions):

The measurement date for the Company’s pension and
postretirement plans is December 31.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following table presents the estimated future benefit
payments for the Company’s pension and postretirement plans
(in millions):

Pension

Postretirement

Plan

Benefit Plan


$

25.5

$

1.7


27.1

1.7


28.8

1.8


30.5

1.8


32.3

1.7

2011 — 2015

187.7

8.2

Total

$

331.9

$

16.9

The following tables set forth the reconciliation of the
beginning and ending balances of the fair value of plan assets
for Teledyne’s defined benefit pension plans and the
percentage of year-end market value by asset class (in millions):

Pension Benefits



Changes in plan assets:

Fair value of plan assets — beginning of year

$

398.4

$

381.9

Actual return on plan assets

18.2

34.3

Employer contribution — defined benefit plan

14.8

3.1

Employer contribution — other benefit plans

0.7

0.8

Benefits paid

(22.8

)

(21.7

)

Fair value of plan assets — end of year

$

409.3

$

398.4

Plan Assets %

to Total



Equity instruments

$

67.5

%

$

67.6

%

Domestic fixed income instruments

31.5

%

31.7

%

Cash

1.0

%

0.7

%

Total

$

100.0

%

$

100.0

%

In 2003, the Company commenced an active management policy for a
portion of its pension assets. The investment policy includes a
target allocation percentage of 70% in equity instruments and
30% in domestic fixed income instruments. The balance in equity
instruments can range from 65% to 75% before rebalancing is
required under the Company’s policy. The expected long-term
rate of return on plan assets is reviewed annually, taking into
consideration the Company’s asset allocation, historical
returns on the types of assets held, and the current economic
environment.

The following assumptions were used to determine the benefit
obligation and the net benefit cost:

For the Year




Weighted average discount rate

6.25

%

6.5

%

7.0

%

Weighted average increase in future compensation levels

3.25

%

3.5

%

4.0

%

Expected weighted-average long-term rate of return

8.5

%

8.5

%

8.5

%



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The Company is projecting a long-term rate of return on plan
assets of 8.5% in 2006. The discount rate used in determining
the benefit obligations is expected to be 6.00% in 2006 and the
expected weighted average increase in future compensation levels
is 3.25%.

The following table sets forth the funded status and amounts
recognized in Teledyne’s consolidated balance sheets for
the pension and postretirement plans at year-end 2005 and 2004
(in millions):

SFAS No. 87, “Employers’ Accounting for
Pensions,” requires that a minimum pension liability be
recorded if the value of pension assets is less than the
accumulated pension benefit obligation. This condition existed
since year-end 2002. In accordance with the requirements of
SFAS No. 87, the Company has a $38.9 million
non-cash reduction to stockholders’ equity, a long-term
intangible asset of $5.3 million and an additional
long-term pension liability of $69.0 million at year-end
2005. As of year-end 2004, the Company has a $22.7 million
non-cash reduction to stockholders’ equity, a long-term
intangible asset of $7.2 million and an additional
long-term pension liability of $44.3 million. The
adjustments to equity did not affect net income and are recorded
net of deferred taxes of $24.8 million in 2005 and
$14.4 million in 2004. The reduction will be reversed
should the value of the pension assets exceed the accumulated
pension benefit obligation as of a future measurement date.

The annual assumed rate of increase in the per capita cost of
covered benefits (the health care cost trend rate) for health
care plans was 10% in 2005 and was assumed to decrease to 5% by
the year 2012 and remain at that level thereafter. Assumed
health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the
amounts reported for the health care plans. A one percentage
point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would
result in an increase in the annual service and interest costs
by $67 thousand for 2005 and would result in an increase in the
postretirement benefit obligation by $1.2 million at
January 1, 2006. A one percentage point decrease in the
assumed health care cost trend rates would result in a decrease
in the annual service and interest costs by $60 thousand for
2005 and would result in a decrease in the postretirement
benefit obligation by $1.1 million at January 1, 2006.

The Company sponsors retiree medical programs for certain of its
locations In May 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position
No. 106-2, “Accounting and Disclosure Requirements
Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003” (“FSP 106-2”).
FSP No. 106-2 provides guidance on the accounting for
the effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003” (“The Act”). The Act
provides several options for Medicare eligible participants and
employers, including a federal subsidy payable to companies that
elect to provide a retiree prescription drug benefit which is at
least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Based on FSP 106-2, the Company’s benefit obligation at
January 1, 2006 was reduced by $2.0 million and
interest cost was reduced by $0.1 million and the
recognized actuarial net gain was increased by $0.2 million
for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2006 due to The Act.

Note 13. Business Segments

Teledyne is a leading provider of sophisticated electronic
components, instruments and communications products, systems
engineering solutions and information technology services, and
aerospace engines and components as well as

on-site

gas and power
generation systems. Its customers include aerospace prime
contractors, general aviation companies, government agencies and
major communications and other commercial companies.

Teledyne operates in four business segments: Electronics and
Communications, Systems Engineering Solutions, Aerospace Engines
and Components and Energy Systems. The factors for determining
the reportable segments were based on the distinct nature of
their operations. They are managed as separate business units
because each requires and is responsible for executing a unique
business strategy. The Electronics and Communications segment,
sometimes referred to as Teledyne Electronic Technologies,
provides a wide range of specialized electronic systems,
instruments, components and services that address niche market
applications in commercial aerospace, communications,
industrial, scientific and medical markets. The Systems
Engineering Solutions segment, principally through Teledyne
Brown Engineering, Inc., applies the skills of its extensive
staff of engineers and scientists to provide innovative systems
engineering, advanced technology, and manufacturing solutions to
defense, space, environmental, and homeland security
requirements. The Aerospace Engines and Components segment,
principally through Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc., focuses
on the design, development and manufacture of piston engines,
turbine engines, electronic engine controls and aviation
batteries. The Energy Systems segment, through Teledyne Energy
Systems, Inc., provides hydrogen gas generators and
thermoelectric and fuel cell-based power sources. It currently
includes the majority-owned entity that was formed in the third
quarter of 2001.

Segment operating profit includes other income and expense
directly related to the segment, but excludes minority interest,
interest income and expense, gains and losses on the disposition
of assets, sublease rental income and non revenue licensing and
royalty income, domestic and foreign income taxes and corporate
office expenses.

Identifiable assets are those assets used in the operations of
the segments. Corporate assets primarily consist of cash and
cash equivalents, deferred tax assets, net pension
assets/liabilities and other assets.

Information on the Company’s business segments was as
follows (in millions):




Sales

Electronics and Communications

$

717.8

$

567.9

$

446.9

Systems Engineering Solutions

263.7

242.2

212.5

Aerospace Engines and Components

196.6

181.8

165.5

Energy Systems

28.4

24.7

15.8

Total sales

$

1,206.5

$

1,016.6

$

840.7



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

a)

Total year 2005 and 2004 segment operating profit includes
    receipts of $5.0 and $2.5 million, respectively, pursuant
    to an agreement with Honda Motor Co., Ltd., related to the
    piston engine business. This amount is included as part of other
    income on the income statement table.




Depreciation and amortization

Electronics and Communications

$

19.3

$

17.5

$

15.4

Systems Engineering Solutions

1.5

1.7

1.9

Aerospace Engines and Components

4.2

5.1

5.3

Energy Systems

0.6

0.5

0.5

Total depreciation and amortization

$

25.6

$

24.8

$

23.1




Capital expenditures

Electronics and Communications

$

12.5

$

12.8

$

14.9

Systems Engineering Solutions

1.3

1.7

1.5

Aerospace Engines and Components

5.5

3.2

3.2

Energy Systems

0.3

1.1

0.6

Corporate

0.2

—

—

Total capital expenditures

$

19.8

$

18.8

$

20.2




Identifiable assets

Electronics and Communications

$

522.5

$

439.2

$

228.4

Systems Engineering Solutions

50.1

37.1

35.5

Aerospace Engines and Components

56.9

49.8

52.0

Energy Systems

11.4

9.5

8.5

Corporate

87.3

89.2

109.2

Total identifiable assets

$

728.2

$

624.8

$

433.6



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Information on the Company’s sales to the
U.S. Government, including direct sales as a prime
contractor and indirect sales as a subcontractor, were as
follows (in millions):




Electronics and Communications

$

198.5

$

147.3

$

142.0

Systems Engineering Solutions

260.0

240.4

210.3

Aerospace Engines and Components

32.3

26.0

24.7

Energy Systems

19.8

19.4

10.7

Total U.S. Government sales

$

510.6

$

433.1

$

387.7

Sales to the U.S. Government included sales to the
Department of Defense of $391.7 million in 2005,
$335.4 million in 2004, and $257.9 million in 2003.

Total international sales were $222.3 million in 2005,
$198.0 million in 2004, and $138.3 million in 2003. Of
these amounts, sales by operations in the United States to
customers in other countries were $196.9 million in 2005,
$190.3 million in 2004, and $133.3 million in 2003.
There were no sales to individual countries outside of the
United States in excess of 10 percent of the Company’s
sales. Sales between business segments, which were not material,
generally were priced at prevailing market prices.

Note 14. Lease Commitments

The Company leases buildings and equipment under capital and
operating leases. The present value of the minimum capital lease
payments, net of the current portion, totaled $3.4 million
at January 1, 2006. Operating lease agreements, which
include leases for manufacturing facilities and office space
frequently include renewal options and require the Company to
pay for utilities, taxes, insurance and maintenance expense.

At January 1, 2006, future minimum lease payments for
capital leases and for operating leases with non-cancelable
terms of more than one year were as follows (in millions):

The 2005 property, plant and equipment accounts included
$3.2 million of property leased under a capital lease and
$0.2 million of related accumulated depreciation. The 2004
property, plant and equipment accounts included
$3.4 million of property leased under a capital lease and
$80 thousand related accumulated depreciation. Rental expense
under operating leases, net of sublease income, was
$11.6 million in 2005, $12.2 million in 2004, and
$11.9 million in 2003.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies

The Company is subject to federal, state and local environmental
laws and regulations which require that it investigate and
remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at
sites associated with past and present operations, including
sites at which the Company has been identified as a potentially
responsible party under the federal Superfund laws and
comparable state laws.

In accordance with the Company’s accounting policy
disclosed in Note 2, environmental liabilities are recorded
when the Company’s liability is probable and the costs are
reasonably estimable. In many cases, however, investigations are
not yet at a stage where the Company has been able to determine
whether it is liable or, if liability is probable, to reasonably
estimate the loss or range of loss, or certain components
thereof. Estimates of the Company’s liability are further
subject to uncertainties regarding the nature and extent of site
contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available,
evolving remediation standards, imprecise engineering
evaluations and estimates of appropriate cleanup technology,
methodology and cost, the extent of corrective actions that may
be required, and the number and financial condition of other
potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their
responsibility for the remediation. Accordingly, as
investigation and remediation of these sites proceeds, it is
likely that adjustments in the Company’s accruals will be
necessary to reflect new information. The amounts of any such
adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s results of operations in a given period, but the
amounts, and the possible range of loss in excess of the amounts
accrued, are not reasonably estimable. Based on currently
available information, however, management does not believe that
future environmental costs in excess of those accrued with
respect to sites with which the Company has been identified are
likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
financial condition or liquidity. However, there can be no
assurance that additional future developments, administrative
actions or liabilities relating to environmental matters will
not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
financial condition or results of operations.

At January 1, 2006, the Company’s reserves for
environmental remediation obligations totaled approximately
$3.5 million, of which approximately $0.1 million was
included in other current liabilities. The Company is evaluating
whether it may be able to recover a portion of future costs for
environmental liabilities from its insurance carriers and from
third parties.

The timing of expenditures depends on a number of factors that
vary by site, including the nature and extent of contamination,
the number of potentially responsible parties, the timing of
regulatory approvals, the complexity of the investigation and
remediation, and the standards for remediation. The Company
expects that it will expend present accruals over many years,
and will complete remediation of all sites with which it has
been identified in up to thirty years.

Various claims (whether based on U.S. Government or Company
audits and investigations or otherwise) may be asserted against
the Company related to its U.S. Government contract work,
including claims based on business practices and cost
classifications and actions under the False Claims Act. Although
such claims are generally resolved by detailed fact-finding and
negotiation, on those occasions when they are not so resolved,
civil or criminal legal or administrative proceedings may ensue.
Depending on the circumstances and the outcome, such proceedings
could result in fines, penalties, compensatory and treble
damages or the cancellation or suspension of payments under one
or more U.S. Government contracts. Under government
regulations, a company, or one or more of its operating
divisions or units, can also be suspended or debarred from
government contracts based on the results of investigations.
However, although the outcome of these matters cannot be
predicted with certainty, management does not believe there is
any audit, review or investigation currently pending against the
Company of which management is aware that is likely to result in
suspension or debarment of the Company, or that is otherwise
likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
financial condition or liquidity, although the resolution in any
reporting period of one or more of these matters could have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
operations for that period.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

A number of other lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or
may be asserted against the Company relating to the conduct of
its business, including those pertaining to product liability,
patent infringement, commercial, employment and employee
benefits. While the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted
with certainty, and some of these lawsuits, claims or
proceedings may be determined adversely to the Company,
management does not believe that the disposition of any such
pending matters is likely to have a material adverse effect on
the Company’s financial condition or liquidity, although
the resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these
matters could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s results of operations for that period. Teledyne
has aircraft and product liability insurance with an annual
self-insured retention for general aviation aircraft liabilities
incurred in connection with products manufactured by Teledyne
Continental Motors of $25.0 million. The Company’s
current aircraft product liability insurance policy expires in
May 2006.

Note 16. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

The following is Teledyne’s quarterly information (in
millions, except per-share amounts):

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

4th Quarter

Fiscal year 2005(a)

Sales

$

297.5

$

303.3

$

295.3

$

310.4

Gross profit

$

83.0

$

83.3

$

82.8

$

87.8

Net income

$

15.8

$

16.1

$

15.7

$

16.6

Basic earnings per share

$

0.48

$

0.49

$

0.47

$

0.50

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.46

$

0.47

$

0.45

$

0.48

(a)

Fiscal year 2005 was a

52-week

year, each
    quarter contained 13 weeks.

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

4th Quarter

Fiscal year 2004(a)

Sales

$

219.6

$

238.9

$

270.0

$

288.1

Gross profit

$

51.3

$

60.6

$

75.4

$

83.0

Net income

$

5.9

$

9.9

$

12.5

$

13.4

Basic earnings per share

$

0.18

$

0.31

$

0.38

$

0.41

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.18

$

0.30

$

0.37

$

0.39

(a)

Fiscal year 2004 was a

53-week

year, each
    quarter contained 13 weeks except for the fourth quarter
    which was a 14 week quarter.

Note 17. Subsequent Events (Unaudited)

On January 27, 2006, Teledyne Technologies acquired all of
the outstanding shares of Benthos, Inc. (“Benthos”)
for $17.50 per share in cash. The aggregate consideration
for the outstanding Benthos shares was approximately
$40.6 million (including payments for the settlement of
outstanding stock options) or $32.2 million taking into
consideration $8.4 million in cash acquired. Teledyne
funded the acquisition primarily from borrowings under its
$280.0 million credit facility. Benthos, located in
North Falmouth, Mass., provides oceanographic products
designed for port and harbor security services, the
U.S. Navy, energy exploration and oceanographic research
and also manufactures package inspection systems. Benthos
reported revenue of approximately $24.0 million for its
fiscal year ended September 30, 2005.



Schedule II

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

For the Fiscal Years Ended January 1, 2006,
January 2, 2005, and December 28, 2003

(In millions)

(a)

Represents payments except the amounts for allowance for
    doubtful accounts primarily represents uncollectible accounts
    written off, net of recoveries.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized as of March 2, 2006.

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated (Registrant)

By:

/s/

Robert Mehrabian

Robert Mehrabian

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.



EXHIBIT INDEX



*

Submitted electronically herewith.

†

Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
    required to be filed as an Exhibit to this
    Form

10-K.

96