10-K


v05843e10vk.htm

TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED - DATED 1/2/2005

e10vk


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR SECTION 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended January 2, 2005

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission file number:  1-15295

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

25-1843385

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification Number)

12333 West Olympic Boulevard

Los Angeles, California 90064-1021

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:
(310) 893-1600

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

New York Stock Exchange

Preferred Share Purchase Rights

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past
90 days.   Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated
filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).  Yes

þ

No

o

The aggregate market value of the registrant’s Common Stock
held by non-affiliates was $618.7 million, based on the
closing price of a share of Common Stock on June 25, 2004
($20.09), which is the last business day of the
registrant’s most recently completed fiscal second quarter.
Shares of Common Stock known by the registrant to be
beneficially owned by the registrant’s directors and the
registrant’s executive officers subject to Section 16
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are not included in the
computation. The registrant, however, has made no determination
that such persons are “affiliates” within the meaning
of Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

At February 28, 2005, there were 33,175,623 shares of
the registrant’s Common Stock issued and outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Selected portions of the registrant’s proxy statement for
its 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the “2005 Proxy
Statement”) are incorporated by reference in Part III
of this Report. Information required by paragraphs (a) and
(b) of Item 306 of Regulations S-K and by paragraphs
(k) and (l) of Item 402 of Regulation S-K is
not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K or in any
other filing of the registrant. Such information shall not be
deemed “soliciting material” or to be filed with the
Commission as permitted by paragraph (c) of Item 306
and paragraph (a)(9) to Item 402 of
Regulation S-K.



INDEX

Defined Terms

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Teledyne Technologies
Incorporated is sometimes referred to as the “Company”
or “Teledyne”. References to “ATI” mean
Allegheny Technologies Incorporated, formerly known as Allegheny
Teledyne Incorporated, the company from which we were spun-off
on November 29, 1999.

i


PART I

Item 1. Business.

Who We Are

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is a leading provider of
sophisticated electronic components, instruments and
communications products, including defense electronics, data
acquisition and communications equipment for airlines and
business aircraft, monitoring and control instruments for
industrial and environmental applications and components, and
subsystems for wireless and satellite communications. We also
provide systems engineering solutions and information technology
services for defense, space and environmental applications, and
manufacture general aviation and missile engines and components,
as well as on-site gas and power generation systems.

We serve niche market segments where performance, precision and
reliability are critical. Our customers include major industrial
and communications companies, government agencies, aerospace
prime contractors and general aviation companies.

Total sales in 2004 were $1,016.6 million, compared with
$840.7 million and $772.7 million in 2003 and 2002,
respectively. Our aggregate segment operating profits were
$89.2 million, $61.9 million and $57.3 million in
2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Approximately 57% of our
total sales in 2004 were to commercial customers and the balance
was to the U.S. Government, as a prime contractor or
subcontractor. Approximately 43% of these U.S. Government sales
were attributable to fixed price-type contracts and the balance
to cost plus fee-type contracts. International sales accounted
for approximately 19% of total sales in 2004.

Our four business segments and their respective contributions to
our total sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002 are summarized in the
following table:

Percentage of Sales

Segment




Electronics and Communications


%


%


%

Systems Engineering Solutions


%


%


%

Aerospace Engines and Components


%


%


%

Energy Systems


%


%


%


%


%


%

Our principal executive offices are located at 12333 West
Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90064-1021. Our
telephone number is (310) 893-1600.

Strategy

As we grow both organically and through acquisitions, we are
working to become a simpler and more integrated operating
company. Over time, our goal is to continue on our path of high
quality revenue and earnings growth and create a more focused
set of businesses that are truly superior in their niches. We do
this by executing on two focused fronts: first, by strengthening
and expanding specific platforms in our core electronics,
instruments and systems engineering businesses through organic
growth and targeted acquisitions; and second, by pursuing
operational excellence and margin expansion initiatives to
continuously improve earnings. In addition, operational
excellence to Teledyne means the rapid integration of the
businesses we acquire. We continually evaluate our product lines
to ensure that they are aligned with our strategy.

Our Recent Acquisitions

After completing one acquisition in each of 2001 and 2002, and
two acquisitions in 2003, we completed five acquisitions during
our fiscal year ended 2004.



We furthered our strategy to expand our presence in the
environmental instrumentation market. On February 27, 2004,
we acquired assets of Hudson, New Hampshire-based Leeman Labs,
Inc., a manufacturer of spectrometers used by environmental and
quality control laboratories to detect low levels of inorganic
contaminants in water and other environmental samples, which
products complement the organic analysis instruments of Teledyne
Tekmar Company, a Mason, Ohio-based company acquired in 2003. On
June 18, 2004, we acquired Isco, Inc., located in Lincoln,
Nebraska and a leading producer of water quality monitoring
instruments, including samplers, flow meters and on-line process
analyzers, which are complementary to our existing environmental
instrumentation product lines.

Our acquisitions have also focused on enhancing our defense
electronics businesses. On July 2, 2004, we completed the
acquisition of Reynolds Industries, Incorporated, a supplier of
specialized high voltage connectors and subassemblies for
defense, aerospace and industrial applications, with operations
in California and the United Kingdom. Reynolds Industries had
historically supplied its high voltage connectors and cables to
our traveling wave tubes.

Two of our 2004 acquisitions furthered our strategy to develop a
broader line of microwave products for our defense customers. On
December 31, 2003, we acquired assets of the Filtronic
Solid State business located in Santa Clara, California. This
business, which was subsequently moved over a short time period
to our facility in Mountain View, California, designs and
manufactures customized microwave subassemblies for electronic
warfare, radar and other military applications. Its precision
YIG-based oscillators, filters and amplifiers serve some of the
same customers of, and are used on some of the same military
programs, as those of our longer-standing Teledyne Wireless and
Teledyne Microwave Electronic Components (MEC) business
units.

On October 22, 2004, we acquired the assets of the defense
electronics business of Celeritek, Inc., based in Santa Clara,
California. The solid state amplifiers and microwave
subassemblies of this defense electronics business utilize
design and manufacturing technology similar to Teledyne
Microwave and are complementary with Teledyne MEC’s line of
high power helix traveling wave tubes used on military,
electronic warfare, radar and communications applications. Like
the Filtronic Solid State acquisition, to obtain various
synergies, the operations of this business have been moved to
and consolidated with our facility in Mountain View, California.

On January 3, 2005, in an effort to streamline operations
and reduce costs, the businesses principally operating as
Teledyne Microwave, located in Mountain View, California, and
Teledyne MEC, located in Rancho Cordova, California, were
consolidated into one legal entity, Teledyne Wireless, Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. Teledyne Wireless, Inc.
had been the subsidiary that bought the defense electronics
assets of each of Filtronic Solid State and Celeritek, Inc.

Each of the acquired businesses is part of our Electronics and
Communications segment. Their results are included in our
consolidated financial statements since their respective dates
of acquisition.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q, any Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any
amendments to these reports, are available on our Internet
website as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the
SEC. In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our
Corporate Objectives and Guidelines for Employee Conduct and the
charters of the standing committees of our Board of Directors
are available on our website. Our website address is

www.teledyne.com.

You will be responsible for any costs normally associated with
electronic access, such as usage and telephone charges.
Alternatively, if you would like a paper copy of any such SEC
report (without exhibits) or document, please write to John T.
Kuelbs, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary,
Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, 12333 West Olympic Blvd.,
Los Angeles, California 90064-1021, and a copy of such requested
document will be provided to you, free of charge.



Our Business Segments

Electronics and Communications

Our Electronics and Communications segment, sometimes referred
to as Teledyne Electronic Technologies, provides a wide range of
specialized electronic systems, instruments, components and
services that address niche market applications in defense,
commercial aerospace, communications, industrial and medical
markets.

Defense Electronics

Traveling Wave Tubes.

Our helix traveling wave tubes are
used to provide broadband power amplification of microwave
signals. Military applications include radar, electronic warfare
and satellite communication. We were the first company to offer
multi-band tubes that permit a satellite communication earth
station to quickly switch from one satellite system to another
without the need for transmitter replacement. Sales of triband
traveling wave tubes have increased as the U.S. military adds
additional capacity for various satellite communication systems.
Commercial applications for traveling wave tubes include
electromagnetic compatibility test equipment and satellite
communication terminals for mobile newsgathering.

Microwave Components and Subsystems.

We design, develop,
and manufacture microwave components used in aerospace and
defense applications. With the acquisition of the assets of
Filtronic Solid State on December 31, 2003, we expanded our
microwave products to include customized microwave subassemblies
for electronic warfare, radar and other military applications.
With the acquisition of the defense electronics business of
Celeritek, Inc. on October 22, 2004, we design and
manufacture gallium arsenide-based RF and microwave components
and subassemblies for electronic warfare, radar and other
military applications.

High Voltage Connectors and Subassemblies.

On
July 2, 2004, through the acquisition of Reynolds
Industries, Incorporated, we became a supplier of specialized
high voltage connectors and subassemblies for defense, aerospace
and industrial applications. We also now produce pilot helmet
mounted display components and subsystems for the Joint Helmet
Cueing System, which is designed to give military pilots the
ability to designate a target just by looking at it.

Microelectronic Modules.

We develop and manufacture
custom microelectronic modules that provide both high
reliability and extremely dense packaging for military
applications. Our microelectronic modules are used for optical
communications on the F-22 Raptor and the F-35 Joint Strike
Fighter. We also develop custom tamper-resistant microcircuits
designed to provide enhanced security in military communication.

Rigid-Flex Printed Circuit Boards.

Our patented
rigid-flex printed circuit boards permit our customers to
assemble reliable high-density electronic modules that are used
in a variety of military and commercial aerospace applications.
Our
VME-Flex

TM

products have been designed into two major defense programs.

Sequencers.

Teledyne Electronic Safety Products continues
to provide microprocessor-controlled aircraft ejection seat
sequencers and related support elements to military aircraft
programs, including the F/A-18E/F and F/A-22. We are currently
developing a new sequencer in support of the F-35 Joint Strike
Fighter program.

Relays and Switches.

Teledyne Relays supplies
electromechanical relays, solid-state power relays and coaxial
switching devices to military and aerospace markets.

Electronics Manufacturing Services.

We serve the market
for high-mix, low-volume manufacturing of sophisticated military
electronics equipment principally from our facility in Tennessee.



Electronic Instruments

During 2001, we formed Teledyne Instruments, a group of business
units drawn from our Electronics and Communications segment and
our Systems Engineering Solutions segment, to focus on
monitoring and process control instrumentation. Since then,
through acquisitions, we have greatly expanded our presence in
the environmental instrumentation markets. In addition to
environmental monitoring instruments, we also serve a range of
other market applications including industrial process control,
petrochemical manufacturing, semiconductor manufacturing, drug
discovery and energy exploration and production.

Environmental Instruments.

As a result of our
acquisitions, we offer a wide range of products for
environmental monitoring. Teledyne Advanced Pollution
Instrumentation, Inc. manufactures a broad line of instruments
for monitoring low levels of gases such as sulfur dioxide,
carbon monoxide and ozone. Teledyne Monitor Labs, Inc. supplies
environmental monitoring systems for the detection, measurement
and reporting of air pollutants. Teledyne Tekmar Company
manufactures instruments that automate the preparation and
concentration of drinking water and wastewater samples for the
analysis of volatile organic compounds in gas chromatographs. It
also provides laboratory analytical systems for the detection of
total organic carbon.

On February 27, 2004, we added inorganic analysis to our
environmental capabilities by acquiring the assets of Leeman
Labs, Inc. Leeman Lab’s inductively coupled plasma
laboratory spectrometers are used by environmental and quality
control laboratories to detect low levels of inorganic
contaminants in water and other environmental samples, and
complement Teledyne Tekmar Company’s organic analysis
instrumentation.

Since our acquisition of Isco, Inc. on June 18, 2004, we
produce water quality monitoring products such as wastewater
samplers and open channel flow meters. Flow meters detect leaks
in sewer systems and monitor run off in storm drains. Teledyne
Isco, Inc. also manufactures chromatography instruments and
accessory for purification of organic compounds. Its liquid
chromatography customers include pharmaceutical laboratories
involved in drug discovery and development. Additionally,
Teledyne Isco manufactures chemical separation instruments for
industrial and research use.

Gas Analysis.

Teledyne Analytical Instruments was a
pioneer in the development of precision oxygen analyzers and now
offers a broad range of products with various sensitivities for
petrochemical, semiconductor manufacturing and other industrial
applications. We also manufacture analyzers for a variety of
other gases for such market applications. In 2003, we began
selling gas analyzers to a leading supplier of carbon dioxide to
the food and beverage market.

Vacuum and Flow Measurement.

Teledyne Hastings
Instruments manufactures a broad line of instruments for precise
measurement and control of vacuum and gas flows. Our instruments
are used in such varied applications as semiconductor
manufacturing, refrigeration, metallurgy and food processing.

Geophysical Instruments.

We manufacture geophysical
streamer cables, hydrophones and specialty products used in
offshore hydrocarbon exploration (to locate oil and gas reserves
beneath the ocean floor). We have been adapting this technology
for the military market, where these products can be used to
detect submarines, surface ships and torpedoes.

Test Services.

We manufacture torque sensors and provide
technical services for such critical applications as monitoring
valves in nuclear power plants.

Other Commercial Electronics

Aircraft Information Management.

Our aircraft information
management solutions are designed to increase the safety and
efficiency of airline transportation. Through Teledyne Controls,
we are a leading supplier of digital flight data acquisition and
flight safety systems to civil aviation customers. These systems
acquire data for use by the aircraft’s flight data
recorder, and record additional data for the airline’s
operation, such as performance and engine condition monitoring.
We have provided these systems to our airline customers for over
one-half of Boeing aircraft models in existing airline fleets.
We have been



increasingly providing our systems to the Airbus A320 and
A330/340 family aircraft, and we estimate that our forward fit
market share was approximately 60% at the end of 2004. In
addition, our Aviation Information Solutions (AIS) business
designs and manufactures aerospace data acquisition devices,
networking products, and flight deck and cabin displays.

Although our data acquisition, recording and communications
products are primarily used on commercial aircraft, we have been
pursuing military applications. Teledyne Controls’ Optical
Quick Access Recorder is used on the U.S. Air Force’s
C-17 Globemaster III military transport aircraft. Teledyne
Controls’ communications software has been embedded in
aircraft flight management systems for the C-130 Transport and
B-767 Tanker aircraft of the U.S. Air Force.

Microelectronic Modules.

In addition to military
microelectronic modules, we develop and manufacture custom
microelectronic modules that provide both high reliability and
extremely dense packaging for implantable medical devices, such
as pacemakers and defibrillators, and commercial communication
products.

Relays and Switches.

In addition to military and
aerospace markets, Teledyne Relays supplies electromechanical
relays, solid-state power relays and coaxial switching devices
to industrial and commercial markets. Applications include
microwave and wireless communication infrastructure, RF and
general broadband test equipment, test equipment used in
semiconductor manufacturing, and industrial and commercial
machinery and control equipment.

Wireless Transceivers and Amplifiers.

Our line of
integrated transceiver modules provides high data rate
point-to-point connectivity in cellular telephone
infrastructure. We also supply solid-state microwave power
amplifiers used in satellite uplink terminals for corporate
networking and to provide two-way internet access via satellite
for both consumer and commercial customers.

Connectors.

We manufacture custom surface mount
connectors for applications in computer disk drives and consumer
medical electronic devices. Teledyne Interconnect Devices also
manufactures high-density land grid array connectors for
high-end microprocessors and Digital Micromirror Device sockets.

Electronics Equipment and Printed Circuit Card Assembly.

We serve the market for high-mix, low-volume manufacturing of
electronic products principally through facilities in Tennessee
and Mexico. We manufacture, principally for one customer, key
subsystems in medical equipment such as magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI) and x-ray systems.

Systems Engineering Solutions

Our Systems Engineering Solutions segment, principally through
Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc., applies the skills of its
extensive staff of engineers and scientists to provide
innovative systems engineering, advanced technology, and
manufacturing solutions to defense, space, environmental, and
homeland security requirements.

Defense

Teledyne Brown Engineering is a well-recognized full-service
missile defense contractor with over 50 years of experience
in missile defense and related systems integration. Our diverse
customer base in this field includes the U.S. Army Aviation
and Missile Command (“AMCOM”), the
U.S. Army’s Space and Missile Defense Command
(“SMDC”), the Missile Defense Agency (“MDA”)
and Defense Department major prime contractors.

Our Technologies Group plays significant roles in diverse
missile defense areas, which range from targets and
countermeasures, systems engineering, modeling and simulation,
to test and evaluation, as well as other related areas. Our
engineering and technological services include systems design,
development, integration and testing, with specialization in
real-time distributed systems.

During 2004, we continued our long-standing support of several
missile defense programs, including the Ground-based Midcourse
Defense (“GMD”) Program, Missile Defense Systems
Exerciser and, as part



of the Lockheed Martin team, the Targets and Countermeasures
program. This program involves the test and verification of
ballistic missile defense system performance on a large number
of major programs, including the Airborne Laser, the Kinetic
Energy Interceptor, the Ground-based Midcourse Defense, the
Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense, the Patriot Advanced Capability
3, and the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense
(“THAAD”).

Aerospace

We have been active in U.S. space programs for almost
50 years and continue to be a significant contributor to
NASA programs. Our Systems Group plays a key role in the
International Space Station (“ISS”), one of the most
complex scientific endeavors ever undertaken, and has had roles
in the Space Shuttle program. We have provided 24-hour-per-day
service for the payload operation cadre for the ISS Payload
Operations and Integration Center, located at NASA’s
Marshall Space Flight Center. We have also manufactured more
than 50 flight-qualified hardware items for use on cargo
integration on the ISS. As a subcontractor to Lockheed Martin,
we also continued our work on the International Space Station
Cargo Mission Contract at the Johnson Space Center in 2004. This
six-year contract, which began in 2003, involves providing
services related to planning, preparation and execution of cargo
missions to the ISS.

We have been the prime contractor for the Propellants,
Pressurants and Calibration Services Contract at Marshall Space
Flight Center since 1971. We furnish management, personnel,
equipment and materials to operate and maintain the propellant
and pressurant generating systems, storage and distribution
systems, including work on the Space Shuttle and ISS, as well as
management and operation of the calibration facilities at the
Marshall Space Flight Center.

Environmental Systems

We support the U.S. Government’s efforts to clean up
dangerous materials and waste. Since 1996, we have supported the
U.S. Army’s Non-Stockpile Chemical Materiel Program and we
continue to operate the Rapid Response System, a mobile chemical
waste treatment system used to process chemical agents for
disposal. These chemical agents had been used in the past to
train military personnel in the detection, measurement and
decontamination of dangerous chemicals. During 2004, we
continued our work on the U.S. Army’s Non-Stockpile
Chemical Material Program in support of the destruction of
binary chemical warfare materiel stored at the Pine Bluff
Arsenal in Arkansas. We also produce canisters for the
processing, stabilization and storage of nuclear-waste products.
In addition, we use detonation chambers in the disposal of both
chemical weapons and conventional munitions.

We operate a Department of Energy-certified radiological
analysis services laboratory in Knoxville, Tennessee. This
laboratory has received certification from the National
Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program in 13 states,
including Utah where the Department of Energy maintains its
primary waste depository. With its Nuclear Utilities Procurement
Issues Committee certification, the laboratory can serve
commercial utilities.

Homeland Security

Since the 1950s, we have worked to defend the nation from
ballistic missiles, and we are now working to leverage our
environmental capabilities into the Homeland Defense market,
where expertise in the destruction of small lots of hazardous
material may be required.

As part of homeland security initiatives, we are supporting the
Federal Aviation Administration in the development of an
Automated Airborne Flight Alert System. This system, developed
in conjunction with Teledyne Controls, is designed to detect
flight irregularities by providing selected aircraft flight data
and situational awareness data to ground agencies over existing
communications links.



Teledyne Solutions, Inc.

Through Teledyne Solutions, Inc., we are a primary Ballistic
Missile Defense (“BMD”) systems engineering and
technical assistance contractor for the U.S. Army. Teledyne
Solutions has responsibility for the Systems Engineering and
Technical Assistance Contract (“SETAC”) in support of
the U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command. We also provide
engineering and services support to other major Department of
Defense customers including the Missile Defense Agency, the
Program Executive Office for Missiles and Space, the Defense
Threat Reduction Agency, the Mobile Corps of Engineers and the
Army Environmental Center.

Aerospace Engines and Components

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment focuses on the
design, development and manufacture of piston engines, turbine
engines, electronic engine controls and aviation batteries.

Piston Engines

Principally through Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc., we
design, develop and manufacture piston engines and ignition
systems for major general aviation airframe manufacturers and
provide spare parts and engine rebuilding services. We are one
of two primary worldwide original equipment producers of piston
engines for the general aviation marketplace.

Our product lines include engines powering the Raytheon Beech
Bonanza and Baron aircraft, the Mooney Aircraft line of advanced
single engine aircraft, and the popular New Piper Seneca V
twin-engine aircraft. In addition to these long-standing
products, our engines power new high-speed composite aircraft,
including the Cirrus SR-20 and SR-22, the Diamond C1, and the
Lancair Columbia 300, 350 and 400 series. We are also continuing
to work with Honda Motor Company to explore the development of a
new aircraft piston engine primarily targeted at lower power
markets not currently served by our existing business.

In addition to the sales of new aircraft engines to aircraft
producers, we actively support the aircraft engine aftermarket.
Piston aircraft engines are produced with a finite utilization
life generally expressed as time between overhauls. Our
aftermarket support includes building and rebuilding of complete
engines, as well as providing a full complement of spare parts
such as cylinders, crankcases, fuel systems, crankshafts,
camshafts and ignition products. In addition, through Teledyne
Mattituck Services, Inc., located in Long Island, New York, and
our Fairhope, Alabama service center, we serve as an aftermarket
supplier and piston engine overhauler to the general aviation
marketplace.

Through Aerosance, Inc., we developed the first production full
authority digital electronic controls for piston aircraft
engines. These controls, known as
PowerLink

TM

FADEC (Full Authority Digital Electronic Control), are designed
to automate many functions that currently require manual
control, such as fuel flow and power management. This system
also saves fuel as a result of improved engine management. We
continue the development of FADEC-equipped engines targeted at
the most popular models of four and six cylinder piston aircraft
engines in use throughout the world. We continue to believe that
these control systems will become standard equipment on selected
new aircraft and will be retrofitted on higher-end, piston
engine general aviation aircraft.

In addition, our
Gill

TM

line of lead acid batteries is widely recognized as the premier
power source for general aviation. We are also continuing to
develop sealed recombinant batteries for business jet and
helicopter applications. Teledyne Battery Products, in
conjunction with Teledyne Controls, jointly developed an onboard
charging and cockpit display kit that permits existing NiCad
battery systems to be replaced with
Gill

TM

sealed lead acid batteries.

Turbine Engines

We design, develop and manufacture small turbine engines
primarily used in tactical missiles for military markets.



Our J402 engine powers the Harpoon missile system. Derivatives
of this engine power the Standoff Land Attack Missile and the
Standoff Land Attack Missile-Expanded Response. Lockheed Martin
Corporation selected a derivative of the J402 engine to power
the Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile (“JASSM”).
We are the sole source provider of engines for the baseline
JASSM system. In 2004, we shipped 167 JASSM missile engines, and
during 2005, we expect to ship approximately 280 engines as full
rate production of the missile begins.

Our J700 engine provides the turbine power for the Improved
Tactical Air Launched Decoy (“ITALD”) built for the
U.S. Navy. The ITALD system enhances combat aircraft
survivability by both serving as a decoy and identifying enemy
radar sources.

In 2004, we entered into a contract related to the U.S.
Army’s Future Combat System for the development of new and
derivative turbine engines for unmanned air vehicles, commonly
called UAVs, and other future aircraft.

Energy Systems

Our Energy Systems segment, through Teledyne Energy Systems,
Inc., provides hydrogen gas generators and thermoelectric and
fuel cell-based power sources. Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc., a
majority owned subsidiary of Teledyne, was formed in 2001 by
combining Teledyne Brown Engineering’s Energy Systems
business unit with assets and intellectual properties of
Florida-based Energy Partners, Inc.

Our energy systems activities include a 50-year history of
supplying high reliability energy conversion devices and gas
generation products based on thermoelectric and electrochemical
processes. We provided the thermoelectric power systems for
several successful deep-space missions such as the Viking 1 and
Viking 2 Mars Landers and the Pioneer 10 and 11 missions to
Jupiter and Saturn. In 2004, in partnership with Boeing and
under a ten-year $57 million contract signed in 2003 with
the U.S. Department of Energy we completed the initial design
and began construction of an operational prototype of the new
Multi-Mission Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator
(“MMRTG”) capable of supporting planetary landing and
deep space probe missions. If selected for flight, the first of
two production units could be used to power the Mars Science
Lander scheduled to launch in 2009.

We also manufacture hydrogen/oxygen gas generators that utilize
the principle of electrolysis to convert water into high purity
hydrogen gas at useable pressures. Our Teledyne
Titan

TM

gas generators are used worldwide in electrical power generation
plants, semiconductor manufacture, optical fiber production,
chemical processing and other industrial processes.

We have a line of fuel cell test stations designed to provide a
completely integrated system for fuel cell testing for the PEM
fuel cell development market. Our Medusa line of fuel cell test
systems provides high quality, simple to use automated test
stations for fuel cell and fuel cell stack testing up to 10
kilowatts.

We continue to focus our PEM fuel cell development efforts on
high reliability, long endurance power systems for the immediate
needs of military and aerospace customers. For example, in 2004
we started fabrication of an operation prototype of a PEM fuel
cell power system for use in the Second Generation Reusable
Launch Vehicle, a concept vehicle designed as a replacement for
the Space Shuttle.

Customers

We have hundreds of customers in the electronics,
communications, aerospace and defense industries. No commercial
customer accounted for more than 10% of our total sales during
2004, 2003 or 2002.

Approximately 43%, 46%, and 46% of our total sales for 2004,
2003 and 2002, respectively, were derived from contracts with
agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government. Our
principal U.S. Government customer is the U.S. Department of
Defense. In 2004, 2003 and 2002, our largest program with the
U.S. Government, The Boeing Company — Ground-based
Midcourse Defense contract,



represented 5.4%, 5.8%, and 7.5% of total sales, respectively.
Set forth below are sales by our segments to agencies and prime
contractors to the U.S. Government for the periods presented:

U.S. Government Sales




(in millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

147.3

$

142.0

$

115.2

Systems Engineering Solutions

240.4

210.3

202.4

Aerospace Engines and Components

26.0

24.7

25.5

Energy Systems

19.4

10.7

9.3

Total U.S. Government sales

$

433.1

$

387.7

$

352.4

Our total backlog of confirmed orders was approximately
$471.3 million at January 2, 2005, $369.7 million
at December 28, 2003, and $324.1 million at
December 29, 2002. We expect to fulfill 96% of such backlog
of confirmed orders during 2005.

Sales and Marketing

Our sales and marketing approach varies by segment and by
products within our segments. A shared fundamental tenet is the
commitment to work closely with our customers to understand
their needs, with an aim to secure preferred supplier and
longer-term relationships.

Our business segments use a combination of internal sales
forces, distributors and commissioned sales representatives to
market and sell our products and services. During 2004, as part
of on-going acquisition integration efforts, some of our
Teledyne Instruments companies began reviewing and joining
internal sales and servicing efforts.

Products are also advertised in appropriate trade journals and
by means of various websites. To promote our products and other
capabilities, our personnel regularly participate in relevant
trade shows and professional associations.

Many of our government contracts are awarded after a competitive
bidding process in which we seek to emphasize our ability to
provide superior products and technical solutions in addition to
competitive pricing.

Principally through Teledyne Technologies International Corp.,
the Company has established branch offices in foreign countries
to facilitate international sales for various businesses.

Competition

We believe that technological capabilities and innovation and
the ability to invest in the development of new and enhanced
products are critical to obtaining and maintaining leadership in
our markets and the industries in which we compete generally.
Although we have certain advantages that we believe help us
compete in our markets effectively, each of our markets is
highly competitive. Our businesses vigorously compete on the
basis of quality, product performance and reliability, technical
expertise, price and service. Many of our competitors have, and
potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a
larger installed base of products, more extensive engineering,
manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and
greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we
do.

Research and Development

Our research and development efforts primarily involve
engineering and design related to improving product lines and
developing new products and technologies in the same or similar
fields. We spent a total of $263.3 million,
$218.1 million, and $196.8 million on research and
development and bid and proposal costs for 2004, 2003, and 2002,
respectively. Customer-funded research and development, most of
which



was attributable to work under contracts with the U.S.
Government, represented approximately 88%, 87%, and 87% of total
research and development costs for 2004, 2003, and 2002,
respectively.

In 2004, approximately 71% of the $32.6 million in
Company-funded research and development and bid and proposal
costs were incurred in our electronics and communications
businesses. We expect the level of Company-funded research and
development and bid and proposal costs to be approximately
$33.0 million in 2005.

Intellectual Property

While we own and control various intellectual property rights,
including patents, trade secrets, confidential information,
trademarks, trade names, and copyrights, which, in the
aggregate, are of material importance to our business, our
management believes that our business as a whole is not
materially dependent upon any one intellectual property or
related group of such properties. We own several hundred active
patents and are licensed to use certain patents, technology and
other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by
others. Similarly, other companies are licensed to use certain
patents, technology and other intellectual property rights owned
and controlled by us.

Patents, patent applications and license agreements will expire
or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with
their terms or otherwise. We do not expect the expiration or
termination of these patents, patent applications and license
agreements to have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations or financial condition.

In connection with our spin-off in 1999, an affiliate of ATI
granted us an exclusive license to use the “Teledyne”
name and related logos, symbols and marks in connection with our
operations, at an annual fee of $100,000. In November 2004,
we exercised our option to purchase all rights and interests in
the Teledyne marks for $412,000.

Employees

Our total current workforce consists of approximately
6,600 employees. The International Union of United
Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of
America represents approximately 300 employees in Mobile,
Alabama under a collective bargaining agreement that expires by
its terms on February 20, 2007. This union also represents
approximately 29 of our employees in Toledo, Ohio under a
collective bargaining agreement that expires by its terms on
November 8, 2006. In addition, this union represents
approximately 35 employees in Abbeville, Alabama under a
collective bargaining agreement that has been extended and
expires on April 16, 2005. We consider our relations with
our employees to be good.



Executive Management

Teledyne’s executive management includes:





*

Such officers are subject to the reporting and other
    requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act
    of 1934, as amended.



Dr. Mehrabian has an Amended and Restated Employment
Agreement with Teledyne, which provides that we will employ him
as the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. The
agreement terminates on December 31 of each year, but will
be extended annually unless either party gives the other written
notice prior to October 31 of the year of such term that it
will not be extended. Starting September 1, 2004,
Dr. Mehrabian’s annual base salary was $631,350. The
agreement provides that Dr. Mehrabian is entitled to
participate in Teledyne’s annual incentive bonus plan and
other executive compensation and benefit programs. The agreement
provides Dr. Mehrabian with a non-qualified pension
arrangement, under which Teledyne will pay him following his
retirement, as payments supplemental to any accrued pension
under our qualified pension plan, an amount equal to 50% of his
base compensation as in effect at retirement. The number of
years for which such annual amount shall be paid will be equal
to the number of years of his service to Teledyne (including
service to ATI), but not more than 10 years.

Fifteen current members of management have entered into Change
in Control Severance Agreements with Teledyne. The agreements
have a three-year, automatically renewing term. Under the
agreements, the executive is entitled to severance benefits if
(1) there is a change in control of Teledyne and
(2) within three months before or 24 months after the
change in control, either we terminate the executive’s
employment for reasons other than for cause or the executive
terminates employment for good reason. “Severance
benefits” consist of:



Risk Factors; Cautionary Statement as to Forward-Looking
Statements

The following text highlights various risks and uncertainties
associated with Teledyne. These factors could materially affect
“forward-looking statements” (within the meaning of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that we
may from time to time make, including forward-looking statements
contained in “Item 1. Business” and
“Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this
Form  10-K and in Teledyne’s 2004 Annual Report
to Stockholders.

Our dependence on revenue from government contracts subjects
us to many risks, including the risk that we may not be
successful in bidding for future contracts and the risk that
U.S. Government funding for our existing contracts may be
diverted to other uses or delayed.

We perform work on a number of contracts with the Department of
Defense and other agencies and departments of the
U.S. Government including sub-contracts with government
prime contractors. Sales under contracts with the
U.S. Government as a whole, including sales under contracts
with the Department of Defense, as prime contractor or
subcontractor, represented approximately 43% of our total
revenue for 2004. Performance under government contracts has
certain inherent risks that could have a material effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

Government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing
availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress typically
appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis
even though contract performance may take more than one year. As
a result, at the beginning of a major program, a contract is
typically only partially funded, and additional monies are
normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only
as Congress makes appropriations available for future fiscal
years.

While U.S. defense spending has increased as a result of
the September 11th terrorist attacks and the war in Iraq,
it is currently expected to moderate over the next few years.
Continued defense spending does not necessarily correlate to
continued business for the Company, because not all the programs
in which Teledyne participates or has current capabilities may
be provided with continued funding. Each of the Middle East and
the North Korean situations could result in a diversion of funds
from programs in which Teledyne participates and redirection of
those funds to pay for costs associated with either situation or
programs more closely related to it.

Our Electronics and Communications segment provides a variety of
products for newer military platforms such as the F/A-22 and
F-35 aircraft. Development and production of these aircrafts are
very expensive, and there is no guarantee that the Department of
Defense, as it balances priorities, will continue to provide
funding to manufacture and support these platforms.

Also, over time, programs can evolve and affect the extent of
our participation. For example, one of Teledyne Brown
Engineering’s programs was restructured in 2003 to change
the emphasis from a focus on test and evaluation to a focus on
deployment and sustainment, which resulted in a nearly 16%
decline in revenues from this contract compared to 2002 (from
$58 million to $49 million). Then, in 2004, revenues
related to this program totaled approximately $54 million
with the increase over 2003 resulting from unanticipated ground
tests. The Company expects revenues from this program to decline
in 2005.

The Company, principally and traditionally through its Systems
Engineering Solutions segment, has been a significant
contributor to NASA programs. The centerpiece of our current
NASA activities is the International Space Station. While the
Company anticipates contributing to President Bush’s
announced vision for NASA that includes lunar and interplanetary
exploration, funding for this vision may be reduced in the near
term due to additional funding needs to return the Space Shuttle
to flight.

Furthermore, we obtain many U.S. Government prime contracts
and subcontracts through the process of competitive bidding. We
may not be successful in having our bids accepted.

Until November 29, 2004, under one of our spin-off
agreements, we were not able to charge pension costs to the
U.S. Government under our various government contracts.
Since such date, we are able to so



charge pension costs. While this might help reduce our pension
expense, the addition of such costs in a bid for
U.S. Government contracts, which is in essence an increase
to the contract price to be paid, may itself negatively affect
an award decision being made in favor of the Company.

Most of our U.S. Government contracts are subject to
termination by the U.S. Government either at its
convenience or upon the default of the contractor.
Termination-for-convenience provisions provide only for the
recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses,
and profit on work completed prior to termination.
Termination-for-default clauses impose liability on the
contractor for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government
in reprocuring undelivered items from another source.

There is no guarantee that U.S. Government contracts will
be profitable. A number of our U.S. Government prime
contracts and subcontracts are fixed price-type contracts (43%
in 2004 as compared to 44% in 2003 and 41% in 2002). Under these
types of contracts, we bear the inherent risk that actual
performance cost may exceed the fixed contract price. This is
particularly true where the contract was awarded and the price
finalized in advance of final completion of design. We continue
to believe that the U.S. Government is increasingly
requesting proposals for fixed price-type contracts.

Certain fees under some of our U.S. Government contracts
are linked to meeting development or testing deadlines. Fees may
also be influenced or dependent on the collective efforts and
success of other defense contractors over which we had no or
limited control.

We, like other government contractors, are subject to various
audits, reviews and investigations (including private party
“whistleblower” lawsuits) relating to our compliance
with federal and state laws. In addition, we have a compliance
program designed to surface issues that may lead to voluntary
disclosures to the U.S. Government. Generally, claims
arising out of these U.S. Government inquiries and
voluntary disclosures can be resolved without resorting to
litigation. However, should the business unit or division
involved be charged with wrongdoing, or should the
U.S. Government determine that the unit or division is not
a “presently responsible contractor,” that unit or
division, and conceivably our Company as a whole, could be
temporarily suspended or, in the event of a conviction, could be
debarred for up to three years from receiving new government
contracts or government-approved subcontracts. In addition, we
could expend substantial amounts in defending against such
charges and in damages, fines and penalties if such charges are
proven or result in negotiated settlements. In October 2002, the
Company was informed that the U.S. Government had declined
to intervene in a lawsuit filed under seal pursuant to the False
Claims Act more than four years before. The Company believes
that its Electronic Safety Products unit’s involvement in
the civil action is over, as the plaintiff’s appeal of
Company’s motion to dismiss this action has been denied and
the plaintiff’s petition for a rehearing

en banc

by
the Court of Appeals of the DC Circuit has also been denied.
Should the plaintiff file a petition for certiorari with the
United States Supreme Court by March 21, 2005, the Company
intends to continue its vigorous defense.

A declining stock market and lower interests rates negatively
affect the value of our pension assets and could have a material
adverse financial effect on us.

We have a defined benefit pension plan covering most of our
employees. At year-end 2004, notwithstanding improved market
conditions, because of significant declines in the stock market
over the last few years and low interest rates, the value of the
pension assets was less than our accumulated pension benefit
obligation. The accounting rules applicable to our pension plan
require that amounts recognized in financial statements to be
determined on an actuarial basis, rather than as contributions
are made to the plan. Two significant elements in determining
our pension income or pension expense are the expected return on
plan assets and the discount rate used in projecting pension
benefit obligations. We have assumed, based on the type of
securities in which the plan assets are invested and the
long-term historical returns of these investments, that the
long-term expected return on pension assets will continue to be
8.5% in 2005, as it was in 2004 and 2003, and the assumed
discount rate will be 6.25% in 2005, compared to 6.5% in 2004
and 7.0% in 2003.

Since the spin-off through 2002, we recorded pension income. In
2003, we began to incur pension expense and we expect to
continue to incur pension expense. The decline in pension income
and the start



of pension expense in 2003 is due to the completion, in 2001, of
income amortization associated with the transition assets
recorded pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No.  87 —  “Employee’s
Accounting for Pensions”, as well as the decline in the
value of our pension assets, coupled with reductions in our
expected rate of return and discount rate assumptions used for
pension plan calculations as described above. We currently
expect net pension expense of approximately $6.0 million in
2005, compared to net pension expense of $8.2 million in
2004 and $6.9 million for 2003. The expected reduced
pension expense in 2005 relates to the termination on
November 29, 2004, of one of our spin-off requirements that
prohibited us from charging pension costs to the
U.S. Government under various government contracts until
such date. Given our pension plan’s current underfunded
status, in 2004, we began making required cash contributions to
our pension plan. Declines in the stock market and lower rates
of return could increase future years required contributions to
our pension plan.

Effective January 1, 2004, in an effort to help alleviate
additional pension expense in future years, new non-union
employee hires do not participate in the defined benefit Pension
Plan, but participate in an enhanced Teledyne Technologies
Incorporated 401(k) Plan.

United States’ and global responses to terrorism, the
Middle East situation and perceived nuclear threats increase
uncertainties with respect to many of our businesses and may
adversely affect the Company’s business and results of
operations.

United States’ and global responses to terrorism, the
Middle East situation and perceived nuclear threats from North
Korea and others increase uncertainties with respect to U.S. and
other business and financial markets. Several factors
associated, directly or indirectly, with terrorism, the Iraq
situation and perceived nuclear threats and responses may
adversely affect the Company.

While some of our businesses that provide products or services
to the U.S. Government experienced greater demand for their
products and services as a result of increased
U.S. Government defense spending, various responses could
realign government programs and affect the composition, funding
or timing of our government programs. Government spending could
shift to defense or Homeland Security programs in which we may
not participate or may not have current capabilities and curtail
less pressing non-defense programs in which we do participate,
including Department of Energy or NASA programs.

The effect of the decline in air travel on the financial
condition of many of our commercial airline and aircraft
manufacturer customers, resulting from terrorism, another SARS
scare and other factors, could adversely affect our Electronics
and Communications segment.

Deterioration of financial performance of airlines could result
in a further reduction of discretionary spending for upgrades of
avionics and in-flight communications equipment, which would
adversely affect our Electronics and Communications segment.

The government continues to evaluate potential security issues
associated with general aviation. Increased government
regulations, including but not limited to increased airspace
regulations, could lead to an overall decline in air travel and
have an adverse affect on our Aerospace Engines and Components
segment. As happened after the September 11th terrorist
attacks, reinstatement of flight restrictions would negatively
impact the market for general aviation aircraft piston engines
and components and would also adversely affect our Aerospace
Engines and Components segment. Potential reductions in the need
for general aviation aircraft maintenance due to declines in air
travel could also adversely affect our Aerospace Engines and
Components segment.

Acquisitions involve inherent risks that may adversely affect
our operating results and financial condition.

Our growth strategy includes acquisitions. Acquisitions involve
various inherent risks, such as:

•

our ability to assess accurately the value, strengths,
    weaknesses, internal controls, contingent and other liabilities
    and potential profitability of acquisition candidates;

•

the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business;



•

our ability to integrate acquired businesses and to achieve
    identified financial, operating and other synergies anticipated
    to result from an acquisition;

•

our ability to assess, integrate and implement internal controls
    of acquired businesses in accordance with Section 404 of
    the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and

•

unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions
    affecting an acquired business.

While the Company conducts financial and other due diligence in
connection with its acquisitions and generally seeks some form
of protection, including indemnification from a seller and
sometimes an escrow of a portion of the purchase price to cover
potential issues, such acquired companies may have weaknesses or
liabilities that are not accurately assessed or brought to our
attention at the time of the acquisition. Further, such
indemnities or escrows may not fully cover such matters. In July
2004, we acquired Reynolds Industries, Incorporated, a private
company that did not have formal internal controls and
compliance systems in place. While the Company required the
sellers to take certain compliance actions prior to the closing
of the acquisition, including with respect to export controls,
there is no assurance that we identified all issues.

In June 2004, we acquired Isco, Inc. While this company’s
products and customer base are complementary to Teledyne’s
existing instrumentation businesses, there is no assurance that
we will achieve all identified financial, operating and
distribution synergies.

In connection with acquisitions, we may consolidate one or more
acquired facilities with other Teledyne facilities to obtain
synergies and cost-savings. For example, we have recently
relocated the manufacturing operations of the acquired defense
electronics assets of Celeritek, Inc. to our Mountain View,
California facility. Despite planning, relocation of
manufacturing operations has inherent risks, as it tends to
involve, among other things, change of personnel and learning or
adaptation of manufacturing processes and techniques. Production
delays at the new operating location could result.

Except for the Filtronic Solid State assets acquisition, as
permitted by SEC rules, our management’s report as to our
assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over
financial reporting excludes our 2004 acquisitions from its
scope and coverage. We plan to evaluate the internal controls of
these acquired companies in 2005, and implement a formal and
rigorous system of internal controls. The Company can provide no
assurance that we will be able to provide a report that contains
no significant deficiencies or material weaknesses with respect
to these acquired companies or other acquisitions.

We may not have sufficient resources to fund all future
research and development and capital expenditures or possible
acquisitions.

In order to remain competitive, we must make substantial
investments in research and development to develop new and
enhanced products and continuously upgrade our process
technology and manufacturing capabilities.

Although we believe that anticipated cash flows from operations
and available borrowings under our $280.0 million credit
facility will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated working
capital, research and development and capital investment needs,
we may be unable to fund all of these needs or possible
acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional capital will
depend on a variety of factors, some of which will not be within
our control, including resurgence of the public offering market,
investor perceptions of us, our businesses and the industries in
which we operate, and general economic conditions. We may be
unable to successfully raise additional capital, if needed.
Failure to successfully raise needed capital on a timely or
cost-effective basis could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to increase our
participation in certain new markets.

We intend to both adapt our existing technology and develop new
products to expand into new market segments. For example, we are
developing new fuel cell related technologies. The market for
fuel cell



technologies is not well established and there are a number of
companies that have announced intentions to develop and market
fuel cell products. Some of these companies have greater
financial and/or technological resources than we do.

We are also developing new electronic products, including
electronic flight bags and high-density microprocessor
connectors, which are intended to access markets in which
Teledyne does not currently participate or has limited
participation. We may be unsuccessful in accessing these markets
if our products do not meet our customers’ requirements,
due to either changes in technology and industry standards or
because of actions taken by our competitors.

We may be unable to successfully introduce new and enhanced
products in a timely and cost-effective manner.

Our operating results depend in part on our ability to introduce
new and enhanced products on a timely basis. Successful product
development and introduction depend on numerous factors,
including our ability to anticipate customer and market
requirements, changes in technology and industry standards, our
ability to differentiate our offerings from offerings of our
competitors, and market acceptance.

We may not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced
products in a timely and cost-effective manner or to develop and
introduce products that satisfy customer requirements. Our new
products also may not achieve market acceptance or correctly
anticipate new industry standards and technological changes.

Technological change and evolving industry standards could
cause certain of our products or services to become obsolete or
non-competitive.

The markets for a number of our products and services are
generally characterized by rapid technological development,
evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements
and new product introductions and enhancements. A faster than
anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to
our products or services or in market demand for products or
services based on a particular technology could result in faster
than anticipated obsolescence of certain of our products or
services and could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operation and financial condition.
Currently accepted industry standards are also subject to
change, which may contribute to the obsolescence of our products
or services.

The Company is currently working to make sure that certain of
its electronic products sold in European member states comply
with a directive not to contain impermissible levels of lead,
mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls
or polybrominated diphenyl ethers on or after July 1, 2006.
Although many of our products are exempt from the European
directive, we expect that over time component manufacturers may
discontinue selling components that have the restricted
substances. This will, in turn, require Teledyne to accommodate
changes in parameters, such as the way parts are soldered, and
may in some cases require redesign of certain products.

Product liability claims or recalls could have a material
adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of
operations and financial condition.

As a manufacturer and distributor of various products, our
results of operations are susceptible to adverse publicity
regarding the quality or safety of our products. In part,
product liability claims challenging the safety of our products
may result in a decline in sales for a particular product, which
could adversely affect our results of operations. This could be
the case even if the claims themselves are proven untrue or
settled for immaterial amounts.

While we have general liability and other insurance policies
concerning product liabilities, we have self-insured retentions
or deductibles under such policies with respect to a portion of
these liabilities. For example, our current annual self-insured
retention for general aviation aircraft liabilities incurred in



connection with products manufactured by Teledyne Continental
Motors, Inc., is $25.0 million. Our existing aircraft
product liability insurance policy expires in May 2005.

Product recalls and field service actions could also have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
and financial condition. For example, Teledyne Continental
Motors had been engaged in a product recall of piston engine
crankshafts whereby the Company recorded a $12.0 million
pretax charge in the second quarter of 2000. Product recalls
have the potential for tarnishing a company’s reputation
and could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our
products. In 2002, we reached a monetary settlement related to
the 2000 recall with two of three companies that manufactured
and processed allegedly defective steel subsequently made into
aircraft engine crankshafts. We failed to win a jury verdict
against a third company involved in making the steel. The
Company continues to pursue cost recovery through litigation
against one other materials supplier as a result of the 2000
product recall program. There is no assurance that the Company
will recover any costs or the negative impact on its reputation.

The Company has been joined, among a number of defendants (often
over 100), in lawsuits alleging injury or death as a result of
exposure to asbestos. We have not incurred material liabilities
in connection with these lawsuits. The filings typically do not
identify any of the Company’s products as a source of
asbestos exposure, and the Company has been dismissed from cases
for lack of product identification, but only after some defense
costs have been incurred. Also, because of the prominent
“Teledyne” name, we may be mistakenly joined in
lawsuits involving a company or business that was not spun off
or otherwise assumed by us as part of our 1999 spin-off. The
Company’s historic insurance coverage, including that of
its predecessors, may not fully cover such claims and defense of
such matters, as coverage depends on the year of purported
exposure and other factors. Nonetheless, the Company intends to
defend these claims vigorously. Congress has been considering
tort reform to deal with asbestos-related claims and has
recently passed legislation addressing class action lawsuits.

The gas generators manufactured by Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc.
currently contain a sealed, wetted asbestos component. While the
company has begun transitioning to a replacement material, has
placed warning labels on its products and takes care in handling
of this material by employees, there is no assurance that the
Company will not face product liability claims involving this
component.

Our Teledyne Brown Engineering’s laboratory in Knoxville,
Tennessee performs radiological analyses. While the laboratory
is certified by the Department of Energy, has other
nuclear-related certifications, and has internal quality
controls in place, errors and omissions in analyses may occur.
We currently have errors and omissions insurance coverage and
nuclear liability insurance coverage that might apply depending
on the circumstances. We also have sought indemnities from some
of our customers. Our insurance coverage or indemnities,
however, may not be adequate to cover potential problems
associated with faulty radiological analyses.

We cannot assure that we will not have additional product
liability claims or that we will not recall any additional
products.

We may have difficulty obtaining product liability and other
insurance coverages, or be subject to increased costs for such
coverage.

Insurance costs have increased greatly over the last few years.
As a manufacturer of a variety of products including aircraft
engines used in general aviation aircraft, we have general
liability and other insurance policies that provide coverage
beyond self-insured retentions or deductibles. We cannot assure
that, for 2005 and in future years, insurance carriers will be
willing to renew coverage or provide new coverage for product
liability, especially as it relates to general aviation. If such
insurance is available, we may be required to pay substantially
higher prices for coverage and/or increase our levels of
self-insured retentions or reserves. The Company’s current
aircraft product liability insurance policy expires in May 2005.
In connection with the last renewal, based on more recent
favorable claims experience and changes to the claims management
process, the Company lowered its insurance premium costs and
increased its annual self-insured retention to
$25.0 million from $15.0 million. To alleviate
aircraft product liability



insurance costs, the Company continues to try to reduce
manufacturing and other costs and also to pass on such insurance
costs through price increases on its aircraft engines and spare
parts. The Company cannot provide assurances that further cost
reduction efforts will prove successful or that customers will
accept additional price increases.

For certain electronic components for medical applications that
we manufacture, such as those that go into cochlear implants, we
have asked for indemnities from our customers and/or to be
included under their insurance policies. We cannot, however,
provide any assurance that such indemnities or insurance will
offset potential liabilities that we may incur as a result of
our manufacture of such components.

Aside from the uncertainties created by external events, such as
September 11th and subsequent activities, our ability to
obtain product liability insurance and the cost for such
insurance are affected by our historical claims experience. We
cannot assure that, for 2005 and in future years, our ability to
obtain insurance, or the cost for such insurance, or the amount
of self-insured retentions or reserves will not be negatively
impacted by our experience in prior years.

Increasing competition could reduce the demand for our
products and services.

Although we believe that we have certain advantages that help us
compete in our markets, each of our markets is highly
competitive. Many of our competitors have, and potential
competitors could have, greater name recognition, a larger
installed base of products, more extensive engineering,
manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and
greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we
do. New or existing competitors may also develop new
technologies that could adversely affect the demand for our
products and services. Industry consolidation trends,
particularly among aerospace and defense contractors, could
adversely affect demand for our products and services if prime
contractors seek to control more aspects of vertically
integrated projects.

We sell products and services to customers in industries that
are cyclical and sensitive to changes in general economic
activity.

We derive significant revenues from the commercial aerospace
industry. Domestic and international commercial aerospace
markets are cyclical in nature. Historic demand for new
commercial aircraft has been related to the stability and health
of domestic and international economies. Delays or changes in
aircraft and component orders could impact the future demand for
our products and have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition. While the market
for commercial aircraft has improved since the downturn
triggered by the events of September 11th and the Iraqi
war, another such event would increase the level of uncertainty
regarding future orders for aircraft.

In addition, we sell products and services to customers in
industries that are sensitive to the level of general economic
activity and in mature industries that are sensitive to
capacity. Adverse economic conditions affecting these industries
may reduce demand for our products and services, which may
reduce our profits, or our production levels, or both.

We develop and manufacture products for customers in the energy
exploration market, which has been cyclical and suffered from
over capacity in prior years. Strong demand and increased prices
for oil and natural gas contributed to substantial revenue
growth during 2004 at Teledyne Geophysical Instruments, which is
not expected to be sustained.

We sell products to customers in industries that may undergo
rapid and unpredictable changes.

We develop and manufacture products for customers in industries
that have undergone rapid changes in the past. For example, we
manufacture products and provide manufacturing services to
companies that serve telecommunications markets. During 2001,
many segments of the telecommunications market experienced a
dramatic and rapid downturn that resulted in cancellations or
deferrals of orders for our products and services. This market
segment, or others that we serve, may exhibit rapid changes in
the future and may adversely affect our operating results, or
our production levels, or both.



We are subject to the risks associated with international
sales.

During 2004, international sales accounted for approximately 19%
of our total revenues. We anticipate that future international
sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of
our revenues. Risks associated with these sales include:

Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.
Exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect the cost of our
products to international customers and therefore reduce our
competitive position. Given the current exchange rate between
the U.S. Dollar and the British Pound Sterling, European
contracts for which we are paid in U.S. Dollars could be
negatively affected to the extent the underlying costs to the
Company to fulfill the contract are paid in Pounds Sterling. In
prior years, weak conditions in Asian economies have affected
our results of operations adversely. The September 11th
terrorist attacks, as well as fears of an international arms
race, have resulted in increased export scrutiny of sales of
some of our products to international customers. Travel
restrictions to Middle Eastern and other countries may
negatively affect continuing international sales or service
revenues from such regions.

Compliance with increasing environmental regulations and the
effects of potential environmental liabilities could have a
material adverse financial effect on us.

We, like other industry participants, are subject to various
federal, state, local and international environmental laws and
regulations. We may be subject to increasingly stringent
environmental standards in the future. Future developments,
administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental
matters could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations or financial condition.

While the Company has an environmental management system and
compliance program applicable to its operating facilities,
including a “review and audit” program to monitor
compliance where each facility is reviewed and audited by an
internal environmental team every three years, such internal
control is designed to reduce environment risk, it does not
eliminate potential environmental liabilities. In addition, as
the Company continues to pursue acquisitions, while it conducts
environmental-related due diligence and generally seeks some
form of protection, including indemnification from a seller,
such acquired companies may have environmental liabilities that
are not accurately assessed or brought to our attention at the
time of the acquisition.

Some of our businesses work with highly dangerous substances
that require heightened standards of care. For example, as a
systems contractor for the U.S. Army’s Program Manager
for Non-Stockpile Chemical Materiel, we conduct research,
development, manufacturing, test and evaluation and site
operations related to the safe and environmentally protective
disposal of small caches of chemical munitions and materiel
located in over 30 states and territories. The destruction
of chemical weapons is an inherently dangerous activity. Except
for a contained fire during a demonstration testing of a process
designed to access rockets in a former program, we have not
experienced any accidents or other adverse consequences as a
result of our participation in weapon destruction programs. We
cannot, however, assure that we will not experience any problems
in the future. Although the federal government provides certain



indemnities to contractors in these programs, these indemnities
may be insufficient to offset liabilities that we may incur in
connection with our participation in these programs.

For additional discussion of environmental matters, see the
discussion under the caption “Other Matters —
Environmental” of “Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition” and Notes 2 and 16 to Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Our inability to attract and retain key personnel could have
a material adverse effect on our future success.

Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the
continued service of our executive officers and other key
management and technical personnel and on our ability to
continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.
Recruiting and retaining skilled technical personnel is highly
competitive. The loss of the services of one or more of our key
employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate
qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

We may not be able to sell, or exit on acceptable terms,
product lines that we determine no longer meet with our growth
strategy.

Consistent with our growth strategy to focus on markets to
expand our profitable niche businesses, we continually evaluate
our product lines to ensure that they are aligned with our
strategy. For example, we determined that the on-line process
control instruments business of the German subsidiary of Isco,
Inc. was not aligned with our strategy, and in February 2005, we
entered into an agreement to sell this non-strategic business.

Our ability to dispose of product lines that may no longer be
aligned with our strategy will depend on many factors, including
the terms and conditions of any asset purchase and sale
agreement, as well as industry, business and economic
conditions. We cannot provide any assurance as to when, if or on
what terms any non-strategic product lines will be sold. Also,
we cannot provide any assurance as to the availability, timing,
terms or conditions of alternative courses of action, including
closure, or the sale of any non-strategic product line cannot be
consummated.

Provisions of our governing documents, applicable law, and
our Change in Control Severance Agreements could make an
acquisition of Teledyne more difficult.

Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and Restated
Bylaws and Rights Agreement and the General Corporation Law of
the State of Delaware contain several provisions that could make
the acquisition of control of Teledyne in a transaction not
approved by our board of directors more difficult. We have also
entered into Change in Control Severance Agreements with 15
members of our management, which could have an anti-takeover
effect.

The market price of our Common Stock has fluctuated
significantly since our spin-off from ATI, and could continue to
do so.

Since the spin-off on November 29, 1999, the market price
of our Common Stock has ranged from a low of $7.6875 to a high
of $31.97 per share. At February 28, 2005, our closing
stock price was $30.58. Fluctuations in our stock price could
continue. Among the factors that could affect our stock price
are:



The stock markets in general, and the markets for high
technology companies in particular, have experienced a high
degree of volatility not necessarily related to the operating
performance of particular companies. We cannot provide
assurances as to our stock price.

While the Company believes its control systems are effective,
there are inherent limitations in all control systems, and
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be
detected.

The Company continues to take action to assure compliance with
the internal controls, disclosure controls and other
requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management,
including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, cannot guarantee that our internal controls and
disclosure controls will prevent all possible errors or all
fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and
operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance
that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition,
the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there
are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be
relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in
all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute
assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if
any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent
limitations include the realities that judgments in
decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur
because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be
circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of
two or more persons, or by management override of the controls.
The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon
certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and
there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in
achieving its stated goals under all potential future
conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of
changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent
limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements
due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.

A serious earthquake in California could adversely affect our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

Several of our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic
loss caused by earthquake due to their locations. Many of our
production facilities and our headquarters are located in
California and thus are in areas with above average seismic
activity. If any of these facilities or our California
headquarters were to experience a catastrophic earthquake loss
and notwithstanding our disaster recovery plans (including
relating to information technology systems), it could disrupt
our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and
result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility or
facilities.



Item 2. Properties.

Our principal facilities as of January 2, 2005 are listed
below. Although the facilities vary in terms of age and
condition, our management believes that these facilities have
generally been well maintained and are adequate for current
operations.



We also own or lease facilities elsewhere in the United States
and outside the United States, including facilities in: Tijuana,
Mexico; Gloucester, Newbury and West Drayton, England;
Cumbernauld, Scotland; Cwmbran, Wales; and Ottawa, Canada. Our
corporate executive offices are located at 12333 West
Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90064-1021.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

From time to time, we become involved in various lawsuits,
claims and proceedings related to the conduct of our business,
including those pertaining to product liability, patent
infringement, commercial, employment and employee benefits.
While we cannot predict the outcome of any lawsuit, claim or
proceeding, our management does not believe that the disposition
of any pending matters is likely to have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition or liquidity. The resolution
in any reporting period of one or more of these matters,
however, could have a material adverse effect on the results of
operations for that period.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
Holders.

No matters were submitted to a vote of Teledyne’s
stockholders during the fourth quarter of 2004.



PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity,
Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities.

Price Range of Common Stock and Dividend Policy

Our Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
and traded under the symbol “TDY.” The following
table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low
sale prices for the Common Stock as reported by the
New York Stock Exchange.

On February 28, 2005, the closing sale price of our Common
Stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange was
$30.58 per share. As of February 28, 2005, there were
approximately 7,069 holders of record of the Common Stock.

We currently intend to retain any future earnings to fund the
development and growth of our business. Therefore, we do not
anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.

The Company did not repurchase any of its Common Stock in the
fourth quarter of 2004.



Item 6. Selected Financial Data.

The following table presents our summary consolidated financial
data. We derived the following historical selected financial
data from our audited consolidated financial statements. We have
reclassified some amounts reported in previous years to conform
to our 2004 presentation. Theses reclassifications did not
effect our reported results of operations or stockholders’
equity. Our fiscal year is determined based on a 52- or 53-week
convention ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. The
five-year summary of selected financial data should be read in
conjunction with the discussion under
“Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated (“Teledyne”) is a
leading provider of sophisticated electronic components,
instruments and communications products, including defense
electronics, data acquisition and communications equipment for
airlines and business aircraft, monitoring and control
instruments for industrial and environmental applications and
components, and subsystems for wireless and satellite
communications. We also provide systems engineering solutions
and information technology services for space, defense and
industrial applications, and manufacture general aviation and
missile engines and components, as well as on-site gas and power
generation systems.

We serve niche market segments where performance, precision and
reliability are critical. Our customers include major industrial
and communications companies, government agencies, aerospace
prime contractors and general aviation companies.

Strategy

As we grow both organically and through acquisitions, we are
working to become a simpler and more integrated operating
company. Over time, our goal is to continue on our path of high
quality revenue and earnings growth and create a more focused
set of businesses that are truly superior in their niches. We do
this by executing on two focused fronts: first, by strengthening
and expanding specific platforms in our core electronics,
instruments and systems engineering businesses through organic
growth and targeted acquisitions; and second, by pursuing
operational excellence and margin expansion initiatives to
continuously improve earnings. In addition, operational
excellence to Teledyne means the rapid integration of the
businesses we acquire. We continually evaluate our product lines
to ensure that they are aligned with our strategy.

Recent Acquisitions

After completing one acquisition in each of 2001 and 2002, and
two acquisitions in 2003, we completed five acquisitions during
our fiscal year ended 2004.

We furthered our strategy to expand our presence in the
environmental instrumentation market. On February 27, 2004,
we acquired assets of Hudson, New Hampshire-based Leeman
Labs, Inc., (“Leeman”) a manufacturer of spectrometers
used by environmental and quality control laboratories to detect
low levels of inorganic contaminants in water and other
environmental samples, which products complement the organic
analysis instruments of Teledyne Tekmar Company, a Mason,
Ohio-based company acquired in 2003. On June 18, 2004, we
acquired Isco, Inc., (“Isco”) located in Lincoln,
Nebraska and a leading producer of water quality monitoring
instruments, including samplers, flow meters and on-line process
analyzers, which are complementary to Teledyne’s existing
environmental instrumentation product lines.

Our acquisitions have also focused on enhancing our aerospace
and defense electronics businesses. On July 2, 2004, we
completed the acquisition of Reynolds Industries, Incorporated,
(“Reynolds”) a supplier of specialized high voltage
connectors and subassemblies for defense, aerospace and
industrial applications, with operations in California and the
United Kingdom. Reynolds Industries had historically
supplied its high voltage connectors and cables to our traveling
wave tubes.

Two of our 2004 acquisitions furthered our strategy to develop a
broader line of microwave products for our defense customers. On
December 31, 2003, we acquired assets of the Filtronic
Solid State (“Solid State”) business located in
Santa Clara, California. This business, which was
subsequently moved over a short time period to our facility in
Mountain View, California, designs and manufactures customized
microwave subassemblies for electronic warfare, radar and other
military applications. Its precision YIG-based oscillators,
filters and amplifiers serve some of the same customers of, and
are used on some of the same military programs, as those of our
longer-standing Teledyne Wireless and Teledyne Microwave
Electronic Components (“MEC”) business units.

On October 22, 2004, we acquired the assets of the defense
electronics business of Celeritek, Inc., (“Celeritek”)
based in Santa Clara, California. The solid state
amplifiers and microwave subassemblies of



this defense electronics business utilize design and
manufacturing technology similar to Teledyne Microwave and are
complementary with Teledyne MEC’s line of high power helix
traveling wave tubes used on military, electronic warfare, radar
and communications applications. Like the Solid State
acquisition, to obtain various synergies, the operations of this
business have been moved to and consolidated with our facility
in Mountain View, California.

On January 3, 2005, in an effort to streamline operations
and reduce costs, the businesses principally operating as
Teledyne Microwave, located in Mountain View, California,
and Teledyne MEC, located in Rancho Cordova, California, were
consolidated into one legal entity, Teledyne Wireless, Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. Teledyne Wireless, Inc.
had been the subsidiary that bought the defense electronics
assets of each of Solid State and Celeritek.

All of the acquisitions are part of our Electronics and
Communications segment. Their results are included in our
consolidated financial statements since their respective dates
of acquisition. Since the acquisition of certain assets of the
Filtronic Solid State business occurred after Teledyne’s
2003 fiscal year, this acquisition is not reflected in the
balance sheet or income statement at year-end 2003.

Our fiscal year is determined based on a 52- or 53-week
convention ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. The
following is our financial information for 2004, 2003 and 2002
(in millions, except per-share amounts):

We operate in four business segments: Electronics and
Communications; Systems Engineering Solutions; Aerospace Engines
and Components; and Energy Systems. The segments’
respective contributions as a percentage of total sales for
2004, 2003 and 2002 are summarized in the following table:

Percentage of Sales

Segment




Electronics and Communications


%


%


%

Systems Engineering Solutions


%


%


%

Aerospace Engines and Components


%


%


%

Energy Systems


%


%


%


%


%


%



Results of Operations

2004 Compared with 2003

Sales



Electronics and Communications

$

567.9

$

446.9

Systems Engineering Solutions

242.2

212.5

Aerospace Engines and Components

181.8

165.5

Energy Systems

24.7

15.8

Total sales

$

1,016.6

$

840.7

We reported 2004 net sales of $1,016.6 million,
compared with net sales of $840.7 million for 2003. Net
income was $41.7 million ($1.24 per diluted share) for
2004, compared with $29.7 million ($0.91 per diluted
share) for 2003.

The increase in sales in 2004, compared with 2003, reflected
improvement in all four reporting segments. The largest increase
in sales was in the Electronic and Communications segment which
grew, both organically and through strategic acquisitions,
including: Tekmar Company, acquired in May 2003; Spirent’s
Aviation Information Solutions businesses, acquired in June
2003; Filtronic Solid States’ defense assets, acquired in
December 2003; Leeman Labs’ assets acquired in February
2004; Isco Inc., acquired in June 2004; Reynolds Industries,
Inc. acquired in July 2004; and Celeritek’s defense assets,
acquired in October 2004. The incremental increase in revenue
from acquisitions in 2004, compared with 2003, was
$98.6 million.

The increase in segment operating profit and other segment
income for 2004, compared with 2003, reflected improved results
in the Electronics and Communications, System Engineering
Solutions and Energy Systems segments, partially offset by lower
operating profit in the Aerospace Engines and Components
segment. The largest increase was in the Electronic and
Communications segment and included incremental operating profit
from acquisitions and related synergies of $11.8 million.

Cost of sales in total dollars was higher in 2004, compared with
2003. The increase was primarily due to higher sales which
resulted from organic growth and acquisitions. Fiscal year 2004
included $0.5 million in LIFO expense compared with a
$5.1 million in LIFO income in 2003. Cost of sales as a
percentage of net sales for 2004 was lower compared with 2003.
The lower cost of sales percentage in 2004, reflected a lower
cost of sales percentage for recent acquisitions which due to
the nature of their business, carry a



lower cost of sales percentage than most of Teledyne’s
other businesses. The cost of sales percentage for 2004 for
Teledyne’s existing businesses was relatively flat compared
with 2003.

Selling, general and administrative expenses, including research
and development and bid and proposal expense, in total dollars
were higher in 2004, compared with 2003. This increase was
primarily due to higher sales, which resulted from organic
growth and acquisitions as well as higher corporate general and
administrative expenses, offset in part by lower bid and
proposal expense in the Systems Engineering Solutions segment.
The higher corporate expense was impacted by internal and
external costs related to Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404
compliance and auditing efforts and higher compensation expense.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2004, as a
percentage of sales, were higher compared with 2003, and
reflected higher corporate expenses and also reflected a higher
selling expense percentage for recent acquisitions which due to
the nature of their business, carry a higher selling expense
percentage than most of Teledyne’s existing businesses,
partially offset by lower bid and proposal spending.

Included in operating profit in 2004 was pension expense of
$8.7 million, of which $0.5 million was recoverable in
accordance with U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards
(CAS) from certain government contracts. Included in 2003
operating profit was $6.9 million of pension expense of
which none was recoverable in accordance with CAS. The increase
in pension expense in 2004 compared with 2003, reflects, in
part, a reduction in the discount rate assumption for the
Company’s defined benefit plan as well as the decline in
the market value of the Company’s pension assets during
2002, 2001 and 2000.

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2004 was 38.7%,
compared with 33.3% for 2003. Total year 2003 reflected an
income tax benefit of $2.4 million due to the reversal of
an income tax contingency reserve which was determined to be no
longer needed during the third quarter of 2003. Excluding this
benefit, the Company’s effective tax rate for 2003 would
have been 38.7%.

Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government were
approximately 43% of net sales in 2004 and 46% in 2003.
International sales represented approximately 19% in 2004 and
16% of net sales in 2003.

Total interest expense including facility fees and other bank
charges was $2.2 million in 2004 and $1.0 million in
2003. Interest income was $0.3 million in 2004 and
$0.2 million in 2003. The higher interest expense in 2004
reflected interest on debt incurred for acquisitions.

Other income for 2004 included the receipt of $2.5 million
pursuant to an agreement with Honda Motor Co., Ltd. which is
included as part of the Aerospace Engines and Components segment
operating profit and other segment income for segment reporting
purposes. In 2003, we recorded a $2.3 million charge, in
other expense, for the write-off of the Company’s remaining
cost-based investment in a private company engaged in
manufacturing and development of micro optics and
microelectromechanical devices. Fiscal years 2004 and 2003 also
include sublease rental income and royalty income in other
income.



2003 Compared with 2002

Sales



Electronics and Communications

$

446.9

$

388.0

Systems Engineering Solutions

212.5

206.7

Aerospace Engines and Components

165.5

162.9

Energy Systems

15.8

15.1

Total sales

$

840.7

$

772.7

(a)

Total year 2003 provision for taxes includes a $2.4 million
    income tax benefit from the reversal of an income tax
    contingency reserve which was determined to be no longer needed
    during 2003.

We reported 2003 net sales of $840.7 million, compared
with net sales of $772.7 million for 2002. Net income was
$29.7 million ($0.91 per diluted share) for 2003,
compared with $25.4 million ($0.77 per diluted share)
for 2002.

The increase in sales in 2003, compared with 2002, reflected
improvement in all four reporting segments. The largest sales
growth was in the Electronic and Communications segment
notwithstanding a difficult environment in some of the companies
commercial markets. The higher sales in Electronics and
Communications segment resulted from both organic growth and
strategic acquisitions, including Monitor Labs, acquired in
September 2002, Tekmar Company, acquired in May 2003, and
Spirent’s Aviation Information Solutions businesses,
acquired in June 2003. The incremental increase in revenue from
acquisitions in 2003, compared with 2002, was $39.9 million.

The increase in segment operating profit for 2003, compared with
2002, reflected improved results in the System Engineering
Solutions, Aerospace Engines and Components and Energy Systems
segments, partially offset by lower operating profit in the
Electronics and Communications segment. The Electronic and
Communications segment included incremental operating profit
from acquisitions and related synergies of $1.9 million.

Cost of sales in total dollars was higher in 2003, compared with
2002. The increase was in line with higher sales and also
reflected higher pension expense, partially offset by product
mix differences. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales for
2003 was relatively flat compared with 2002. While the
percentages were comparable, the 2003 percentage reflected
the impact of pension expense compared with pension income in
2002. The impact was offset, in part, by product mix differences
and $5.1 million in LIFO income in 2003 compared with
$0.8 million in LIFO income in 2002. Total year 2003 also
reflected an improvement in cost of sales as a percentage of
sales due to finalization of award and incentive fee
negotiations for work performed on certain contracts in prior
years in the Systems Engineering Solutions



segment. At December 29, 2002, Teledyne recorded income of
$0.1 million following the final resolution of the 2001
restructuring, asset impairment and other charge.

Selling, general and administrative expenses, including research
and development and bid and proposal expense, in total dollars
were higher in 2003, compared with 2002. This increase was in
line with higher sales which resulted from organic growth and
acquisitions. The increased bid and proposal expense was
primarily driven by bidding opportunities in the Systems
Engineering Solutions segment. Selling, general and
administrative expenses for 2003, as a percentage of sales, were
relatively flat compared with 2002, reflecting the benefit of
higher sales and continued cost control.

Included in operating profit in 2003 was pension expense of
$6.9 million compared with pension income of
$2.3 million in 2002. The increase in pension expense in
2003 compared with 2002, reflects, in part, a reduction in the
discount rate assumption for the Company’s defined benefit
plan as well as the decline in the market value of the
Company’s pension assets during 2002, 2001 and 2000.

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2003 was 33.3%,
compared with 39.7% for 2002. Total year 2003 reflected an
income tax benefit of $2.4 million due to the reversal of
an income tax contingency reserve which was determined to be no
longer needed during the third quarter of 2003. Excluding this
benefit, the Company’s effective tax rate for 2003 would
have been 38.7%.

Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government were
approximately 46% of net sales in 2003 and 2002. International
sales represented approximately 16% of net sales in 2003 and
2002.

Total interest expense including facility fees and other bank
charges was $1.0 million in 2003 and $0.9 million in
2002. Interest income was $0.2 million in 2003 and
$0.3 million in 2002.

In 2003, we recorded a $2.3 million charge, in other
expense, for the write-off of the Company’s remaining
cost-based investment in a private company engaged in
manufacturing and development of micro optics and
microelectromechanical devices. In 2002, we recorded a
$0.5 million charge, in other expense, related to the
partial write-down of this investment. Fiscal years 2003 and
2002 also include sublease rental income and royalty income in
other income.

2001 Restructuring, Asset Impairment and Other Charge
Information

In 2001, the Company recorded a $26.4 million pretax charge
of which $7.5 million was for asset impairments,
$8.8 million was for restructuring and other charges,
$9.8 million was for inventory write-downs and a
$0.3 million pretax charge for discontinued operations.

During 2002, the Company completed the efforts related to the
2001 charge, recording actual expenses of $26.3 million. At
year-end 2002, the cumulative restructuring charges were
$8.1 million, $0.7 million lower than the
2001 year-end estimate, the cumulative charges to cost of
sales related to excess and obsolete inventory were
$10.4 million, $0.6 million higher than the
2001 year-end-estimate, with no change to either the asset
impairment charge or the charge for discontinued operations.
This resulted in $0.2 million of income in the Electronics
and Communications segment in 2002 and an additional cost impact
of $0.1 million in the Systems Engineering segment during
2002. No amounts remain on the balance sheet related to the
charge.



Segments

The following discussion of our four segments should be read in
conjunction with Note 14 to the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Electronics and Communications




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

567.9

$

446.9

$

388.0

Operating profit

$

54.4

$

33.0

$

35.9

Operating profit % of sales

9.6

%

7.4

%

9.3

%

International sales % of sales

27.6

%

21.4

%

21.7

%

Governmental sales % of sales

25.9

%

31.8

%

29.7

%

Capital expenditures

$

12.8

$

14.9

$

8.3

Our Electronics and Communications segment provides a wide range
of specialized electronic systems, instruments, components and
services that address niche market applications in commercial
aerospace, communications, defense, industrial and medical
markets.

2004 compared with 2003

Our Electronics and Communications segment sales were
$567.9 million in 2004, compared with sales of
$446.9 million in 2003. Operating profit was
$54.4 million in 2004, compared with $33.0 million in
2003.

Sales in 2004, compared with 2003, reflected revenue growth in
defense electronic products, electronic instruments,
telecommunication subsystems, avionics products and relay
products. This growth was partially offset by lower sales from
electronic manufacturing services, primarily driven by lower
government sales. The revenue growth in defense electronic
products was driven by sales of traveling wave tubes and
ejection seat sequencers, the acquisition of Reynolds
Industries, Incorporated on July 2, 2004, and the
acquisition of assets of Filtronic Solid State on
December 31, 2003. Electronic instruments revenue for 2004,
compared 2003, was favorably impacted by the acquisition of Isco
on June 18, 2004, the acquisition of Leeman Labs’
assets on February 27, 2004, increased shipments of
geophysical sensors for the petroleum exploration market and
increased sales of other instrument products. Electronic
instruments revenue for 2004, compared with 2003, was also
favorably impacted by the acquisition of Tekmar Company on
May 16, 2003. The revenue growth in avionics products was
favorably impacted by the acquisition of the Aviation
Information Solutions (“AIS”) businesses from Spirent
plc on June 27, 2003. The increase in revenue from
acquisitions for 2004, compared with 2003, was
$98.6 million. Incremental operating profit from
acquisitions including synergies for 2004, compared with 2003,
was $11.8 million. Segment operating profit was favorably
impacted by acquisitions and organic sales growth partially
offset by an increase in pension expense. Pension expense was
$6.0 million for 2004 compared with pension expense of
$5.1 million in 2003. Operating profit in 2003 was
favorably impacted by a $1.8 million reduction in LIFO
reserve, which resulted from a reduced inventory level, mostly
offset by a $0.9 million fourth quarter write-down on slow
moving test equipment inventory and contract settlements
totaling $0.8 million. No LIFO adjustment was made in 2004.

2003 compared with

Our Electronics and Communications segment sales were
$446.9 million in 2003, compared with sales of
$388.0 million in 2002. Operating profit was
$33.0 million in 2003, compared with $35.9 million in
2002.

Sales in 2003, compared with 2002, reflected revenue growth in
defense electronic products, electronic manufacturing services,
avionics products, electronic instruments, medical products and
commercial



lighting products. The revenue growth in defense electronic
products was driven by traveling wave tubes and military
microelectronics. The revenue growth in electronic manufacturing
services was driven by increased sales to military customers.
Revenue growth in avionics products was driven by the
acquisition of the Aviation Information Solutions businesses in
June 2003, partially offset by continued weakness in the
commercial aviation market. Electronic instruments revenue was
favorably impacted by the acquisition of Monitor Labs
Incorporated at the end of the third quarter of 2002 and the
acquisition of Tekmar-Dohrmann in May 2003. This revenue growth
in electronic instruments was partially offset by reduced sales
of geophysical sensors for the petroleum exploration market. The
increase in revenue from acquisitions for 2003, compared with
2002, was $39.9 million. Incremental operating profit from
acquisitions including synergies for 2003, compared with 2002,
was $1.9 million. Operating profit in 2003 was favorably
impacted by increased sales and a $1.8 million reduction in
LIFO reserve, which resulted from a reduced inventory level,
compared with LIFO income of $0.6 million in 2002. These
operating profit improvements were more than offset by a
$0.9 million fourth quarter write-down on slow moving test
equipment inventory, contract settlements totaling
$0.8 million and higher pension expense. In 2002, the
Company recorded a $0.8 million write-down of certain
optoelectronics equipment due to lower than expected
utilization. Segment operating profit in 2003 included
$5.1 million of pension expense, compared with
$2.0 million of pension income in 2002.

Systems Engineering Solutions




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

242.2

$

212.5

$

206.7

Operating profit

$

27.1

$

23.2

$

20.6

Operating profit % of sales

11.2

%

10.9

%

10.0

%

International sales % of sales

0.1

%

0.1

%

1.3

%

Governmental sales % of sales

99.3

%

99.0

%

98.0

%

Capital expenditures

$

1.7

$

1.5

$

3.1

Our Systems Engineering Solutions segment, principally through
Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc., applies the skills of its
extensive staff of engineers and scientists to provide
innovative systems engineering, advanced technology, and
manufacturing solutions to defense, space, environmental, and
homeland security requirements.

2004 compared with 2003

Our Systems Engineering Solutions segment sales were
$242.2 million in 2004, compared with sales of
$212.5 million in 2003. Operating profit was
$27.1 million in 2004, compared with $23.2 million in
2003.

Sales for 2004, compared with 2003, reflected revenue growth in
core defense and environmental and aerospace programs. The
higher operating profit in 2004, compared with 2003, was
primarily due to higher sales and improved margins on various
time and material contracts. Operating profit in 2003 was
negatively impacted by the recognition of a $1.0 million
loss on an office sublease agreement. Segment operating profit
in 2004 included $0.8 million of pension expense, of which
$0.5 million was recoverable in accordance with CAS from
certain government contracts, compared with $0.3 million of
pension expense in 2003 of which none was recoverable in
accordance with CAS.

2003 compared with 2002

Our Systems Engineering Solutions segment sales were
$212.5 million in 2003, compared with sales of
$206.7 million in 2002. Operating profit was
$23.2 million in 2003, compared with $20.6 million in
2002.



Sales in 2003, compared with 2002, reflected increased work in
environmental and core defense programs, partially offset by
lower sales in aerospace programs. Operating profit in 2003,
compared with 2002, was favorably impacted by increased sales
and $4.1 million related to both the finalization of
negotiation of prior year award and incentive fees for work
performed on certain contracts, primarily the Ground-based
Midcourse Defense and Pressurents, Propellants, and Calibration
contracts. Operating profit in 2003 also reflected improved
margins for environmental programs. Operating profit in 2003 was
negatively impacted by the recognition of a $1.0 million
loss on an office sublease agreement. Segment operating profit
in 2003 included $0.3 million of pension expense, compared
with $0.2 million of pension income in 2002.

Aerospace Engines and Components




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

181.8

$

165.5

$

162.9

Operating profit

$

6.1

$

6.4

$

2.7

Operating profit % of sales

3.4

%

3.9

%

1.7

%

International sales % of sales

20.2

%

23.5

%

21.7

%

Governmental sales % of sales

14.3

%

14.9

%

15.6

%

Capital expenditures

$

3.2

$

3.2

$

3.6

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment, principally
through Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc., focuses on the
design, development and manufacture of piston engines, turbine
engines, electronic engine controls and aviation batteries.

2004 compared with 2003

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment sales were
$181.8 million in 2004, compared with sales of
$165.5 million in 2003. Operating profit was
$6.1 million in 2004, compared with $6.4 million in
2003.

Sales in 2004, compared with 2003, reflected revenue growth in
OEM piston engines, aftermarket piston engines and parts sales,
and slightly higher turbine engine sales. Turbine engine sales
for 2004, compared with 2003, were higher primarily due to
increased spare parts sale and favorable Joint Air-to-Surface
Standoff Missile (“JASSM”) engine sales, partially
offset by reduced Improved Tactical Air-Launched Decoy
(“ITALD”) and Harpoon cruise missile engines.
Operating profit in 2004 included the receipt of
$2.5 million pursuant to an agreement with Honda Motor Co.,
Ltd. related to the piston engine business. While the terms of
the piston engine agreement are confidential, the Company
anticipates receiving $5.0 million in 2005 and $2.5 million
in 2006 under the agreement. Segment operating profit for 2004
also reflected a $4.8 million increase in aircraft product
liability insurance costs and self insurance reserve expense, a
$1.7 million charge for environmental matters and LIFO
expense of $0.5 million. Operating profit in the piston
engine business in 2003 was positively impacted by a
$3.3 million reduction in LIFO reserve, which resulted from
a reduced inventory level. Segment operating profit in 2004
included $1.5 million of pension expense, compared with
$1.3 million of pension expense in 2003.

2003 compared with 2002

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment sales were
$165.5 million in 2003, compared with sales of
$162.9 million in 2002. Operating profit was
$6.4 million in 2003, compared with $2.7 million in
2002.

Sales in 2003, compared with 2002, reflected revenue growth in
OEM piston engines, partially offset by reduced sales of
aftermarket products and services. Operating profit in the
piston engine business was positively impacted by an improved
cost structure, productivity improvements and a
$3.3 million reduction in LIFO reserve, which resulted from
a reduced inventory level, partially offset by an increase of



$4.1 million for aircraft product liability insurance costs
and self insurance reserve expense. Operating profit in 2002
included $0.2 million from a reduction in LIFO reserve.
Sales from turbine engines were unfavorably impacted by lower
revenue from spare parts for Air Force training aircraft and
lower Harpoon cruise missile engine sales, partially offset by
higher revenue from ITALD engines and favorable Joint
Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile (“JASSM”) engine
sales. Operating profit for turbine engines was lower in 2003,
compared with 2002, and resulted from lower sales and a less
favorable product mix. Segment operating profit in 2003 included
$1.3 million of pension expense, compared with
$0.5 million of pension income in 2002.

Energy Systems




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

24.7

$

15.8

$

15.1

Operating profit/(loss)

$

1.6

$

(0.7

)

$

(1.9

)

Operating profit/(loss) % of sales

6.5

%

(4.4

)%

(12.6

)%

International sales % of sales

17.0

%

22.8

%

28.3

%

Governmental sales % of sales

78.5

%

67.7

%

61.2

%

Capital expenditures

$

1.1

$

0.6

$

0.4

Our Energy Systems segment, through Teledyne Energy Systems,
Inc., provides on-site gas and power generation systems based on
proprietary electrolysis, thermoelectric and fuel cell
technologies.

2004 compared with 2003

Our Energy Systems segment sales were $24.7 million in
2004, compared with sales of $15.8 million in 2003. The
2004 operating income was $1.6 million, compared with a
2003 operating loss of $0.7 million.

The increase in sales for 2004, compared with 2003, resulted
from multi-year government contracts, which were awarded, in
2003, for fuel cell and thermoelectric power generator work.
Operating profit for 2004, compared with the operating loss in
2003, was favorably impacted by the growth in sales and by a
reduction in research and development costs. The operating loss
in 2003 included $0.4 million in charges for contract
claims and the recognition of a $0.5 million loss on a
facility sublease agreement. Segment operating profit included
pension expense of $0.1 million in 2004, compared with no
pension expense in 2003.

2003 compared with 2002

Our Energy Systems segment sales were $15.8 million in
2003, compared with sales of $15.1 million in 2002. The
2003 operating loss was $0.7 million, compared with an
operating loss of $1.9 million in 2002.

Sales in 2003 reflected revenue growth in government programs
related to multi-year contracts which were won, in 2003,
primarily for thermoelectric generator development, partially
offset by reduction in commercial revenue, primarily hydrogen
generator sales. The reduction in operating loss for 2003,
compared with 2002, resulted from increased sales, an improved
overhead cost structure, reduced general and administrative and
research and development expenses and the absence of
$0.3 million in program cost adjustments that impacted
2002, partially offset by $0.4 million in charges for
contract claims and the recognition of a $0.5 million loss
on a facility sublease agreement.



Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources

Principal Capital Requirements

Our principal capital requirements are to fund working capital
needs, capital expenditures and debt service requirements, as
well as to fund acquisitions. It is anticipated that operating
cash flow, together with available borrowings under the credit
facility described below, will be sufficient to meet these
requirements and could be used to fund some acquisitions in the
year 2005. To support acquisitions, we may need to raise
additional capital. Our liquidity is not dependent upon the use
of off-balance sheet financial arrangements. We have no
off-balance sheet financing arrangements that incorporate the
use of special purpose entities or unconsolidated entities.

Revolving Credit Agreement

In June 2004, the Company terminated its then existing
$200.0 million five-year revolving credit agreement and
replaced it with a new $280.0 million credit facility that
expires in June 2009. Excluding interest and fees, no payments
are due under the credit facility until the credit facility
terminates. Available borrowing capacity under the
$280.0 million credit facility, which is reduced by
borrowings and outstanding letters of credit, was
$203.0 million at year-end 2004. For a description of some
terms of our credit facility, see “Financing
Activities” on page 43.

Contractual
Obligations

The following table summarizes our expected cash outflows
resulting from financial contracts and commitments at
January 2, 2005. We have not included information on our
normal recurring purchases of materials for use in our
operations. These amounts are generally consistent from year to
year, closely reflect our levels of production, and are not
long-term in nature (in millions):

2010 and






beyond

Total

Operating lease obligations

$

10.2

$

7.5

$

4.7

$

4.1

$

3.2

$

10.6

$

40.3

Long-term debt obligations

3.1

0.1

—

—

70.5

—

73.7

Capital lease obligations(a)

0.3

0.3

0.3

0.4

0.4

5.4

7.1

Purchase obligations(b)

26.8

2.7

0.1

—

—

—

29.6

Total

$

40.4

$

10.6

$

5.1

$

4.5

$

74.1

$

16.0

$

150.7

The amounts above exclude our minimum funding requirements as
set forth by ERISA, which are $24.6 million over the next
two years. Our minimum funding requirements after 2004 are
dependent on several factors. We also have payments due under
our other postretirement benefits plans. These plans are not
required to be funded in advance, but are pay as you go. See
further discussion in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements

Operating
Activities

In 2004, net cash provided from continuing operations was
$84.9 million, compared with $56.8 million in 2003 and
$74.2 million in 2002. The higher net cash provided from
continuing operations for 2004, compared with 2003, reflected
improved net income and lower aircraft product liability
settlement payments, as well as operating cash flow from
acquisitions, partially offset by defined benefit pension
contributions of $3.1 million. The deferred income tax
component of the cash flow statement reflected a
$6.8 million increase in 2004, a $7.6 million decrease
in 2003 and a $15.2 million increase in 2002 related



to the minimum pension liability adjustment recorded in each
year. This adjustment had no impact on cash flows from
operations in 2004.

The decrease in net cash provided from continuing operations in
2003, compared with 2002, reflected timing differences related
to accounts payable, differences in the cash impact of income
taxes, higher payments in 2003 for aircraft product liability
settlements and higher accounts receivables balances. The higher
accounts receivables balances reflected the impact of higher
sales in December 2003 compared to December 2002. In 2003, cash
was used to pay down accounts payable, compared to an increase
in accounts payable for 2002 resulting primarily from timing of
inventory and capital purchases. The deferred income tax and the
accrued pension obligation components of the cash flow statement
in 2003 were both affected by the deferred tax amount of
$7.6 million related to the minimum pension liability
adjustment recorded in 2003. This adjustment had no impact on
cash flows from continuing operations in 2003.

Fiscal years 2003 and 2002 reflected payments for workers
compensation claims. The 2002 cash used by discontinued
operations also reflected the payment of a purchase price
adjustment.

Working Capital

Working capital was $124.4 million at year-end 2004,
compared with $129.5 million at year-end 2003. The decrease
in working capital was due to lower cash balances, offset in
part, by working capital from recent acquisitions. The lower
cash balances reflects cash used to pay down debt incurred for
recent acquisitions. We continue to emphasize improvements in
working capital management.

Balance
Sheet Changes

The changes in the following selected components of Teledyne
balance sheet are discussed below (in millions):

The lower balance in cash and cash equivalents at
January 2, 2005, compared with December 28, 2003
reflected cash used to acquire businesses and capital spending,
partially offset by positive cash flow from operations. The
higher balance in accounts receivables, inventory, property,
plant and equipment and accounts payable reflected the impact of
businesses acquired in 2004. The increase in long-term deferred
income taxes reflected the $6.8 million increase related to
the minimum pension liability adjustment. Goodwill and acquired
intangible assets reflect the impact of acquisitions. The
increase in short-term accrued liabilities reflected liabilities
for businesses acquired in 2004 and higher compensation
accruals. The increase in other long-term liabilities reflected
an increase in the aircraft product liability reserve. The
accrued pension obligation increased primarily as a result of
the increase in the unfunded pension liability in 2004,
partially offset by pension contributions. The change in the
accumulated other comprehensive loss



reflected the $10.9 million non-cash adjustment related to
the increase in the unfunded pension liability in 2004. The
adjustment to the accumulated other comprehensive loss component
of equity was required since the difference between the value of
the Company’s pension assets and the accumulated pension
benefit obligation was larger as of year-end 2004, compared with
year-end 2003 (the “unfunded pension liability”). The
reduction to equity did not affect net income and was recorded
net of $6.8 million in deferred taxes. The increase in
long-term debt and capital lease obligations resulted from cash
used to acquire businesses in 2004 and a capital lease assumed
in the Reynolds acquisition.

Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities included capital
expenditures as presented below:

Capital Expenditures




(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

12.8

$

14.9

$

8.3

Systems Engineering Solutions

1.7

1.5

3.1

Aerospace Engines and Components

3.2

3.2

3.6

Energy Systems

1.1

0.6

0.4

$

18.8

$

20.2

$

15.4

During 2005, we plan to invest approximately $23.0 million
in capital principally to reduce manufacturing costs, to
introduce new products and to upgrade capital equipment.
Commitments at January 2, 2005 for capital expenditures
were approximately $2.6 million.

Investing activities in 2004 included the five acquisitions. On
December 31, 2003, Teledyne acquired the electronic warfare
business of Filtronic Solid State for $12.0 million in
cash. Solid State’s electronic warfare business had sales
of approximately $12.5 million for the fiscal year ended
May 2003. On February 27, 2004, Teledyne acquired Leeman
Labs’ assets for $8.1 million in cash which includes a
purchase price adjustment. Leeman Labs had sales of
approximately $8.6 million for the fiscal year ended
September 30, 2003. On June 18, 2004, Teledyne
completed the acquisition of the stock of Isco for
$16.00 per share in cash or $93.8 million net of cash
acquired. Teledyne sold $17.3 million of marketable
securities acquired as part of the Isco acquisition and applied
the proceeds against debt. Teledyne assumed $2.9 million in
long-term debt as part of the Isco acquisition. Isco had sales
of approximately $60.8 million for the fiscal year ended
July 25 2003. On July 2, 2004, Teledyne acquired Reynolds
for $41.2 million in cash which includes a purchase price
adjustment and is net of cash acquired. Teledyne assumed a
$3.9 million capital lease as part of the Reynolds
acquisition. Reynolds had sales of approximately
$35.0 million for the fiscal year ended April 30,
2004. On October 22, 2004, Teledyne acquired the defense
electronics business of Celeritek, Inc. for $32.7 million
in cash, which includes the receipt of a purchase price
adjustment. The defense electronics business of Celeritek, Inc.
had sales of approximately $19.7 million for the fiscal
year ended March 31, 2004.

Investing activities in 2003 included the acquisitions of AIS
and Tekmar Company. On June 27, 2003, Teledyne acquired AIS
for $6.4 million in cash, which is net of a
$0.4 million purchase price adjustment. AIS had sales of
approximately $16.8 million for the fiscal year ended
December 2002. On May  16, 2003, Teledyne acquired
Tekmar Company for $13.5 million in cash. Tekmar Company
had sales of $22.5 million for the fiscal year ended in
September 2002.

Investing activities in 2002 included the acquisition of Monitor
Labs from Spirent plc on September 27, 2002 for
$24.0 million in cash. Monitor Labs had sales of
approximately $25.6 million for the twelve months ended
September 29, 2002. Investing activities in 2002 also
included the receipt of a tax refund of $1.1 million
related to the API acquisition.



In all acquisitions, the results are included in the
Company’s consolidated financial statements from the date
of each respective acquisition. The allocation of the purchase
price for the acquisition of Tekmar Company was completed as of
year-end 2003 and the allocation of the purchase price for the
acquisition of AIS was completed in the first quarter of 2004.
The allocation of the purchase price for the Isco, Reynolds,
Solid State and Leeman Labs acquisitions are complete as of
year-end 2004. Each of the above acquisitions is part of the
Electronics and Communications segment. Approximately
$36.4 million of goodwill recorded in 2004 is deductible
for tax purposes. The Company is in the process of specifically
identifying the amount to be assigned to intangible assets for
the Celeritek acquisition and has made preliminary estimates as
of January 2, 2005, since there was insufficient time
between the acquisition date and the end of the quarter to
finalize the valuation. The preliminary amount of goodwill
recorded as of January 2, 2005 for the Celeritek
acquisition, was $25.0 million. The preliminary amount of
intangible assets recorded as of January 2, 2005 for the
Celeritek acquisition, was $3.9 million. These amounts were
based on estimates that are subject to change pending the
completion of the Company’s internal review and the receipt
of third party appraisals.

The following table summarizes the total intangible assets
acquired as part of the five acquisitions made in 2004 and the
two acquisitions made in 2003 (dollars in millions):

Amortizable intangible assets are amortized over their estimated
useful lives on a straight line basis. The Company recorded
$1.4 million and $0.2 million in amortization expense
in 2004 and 2003, respectively, for acquired intangible assets.
The expected future amortization expense for the next five years
is as follows (in millions): 2005-$2.4, 2006-$1.7, 2007-$1.6,
2008-$1.6, 2009-$1.5.



The following is a summary at the acquisition date of the
estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities
assumed for the five acquisitions made in 2004 (in millions):

Financing Activities

Cash provided by financing activities for 2004 also reflected
net borrowings under the revolving credit agreement. Cash used
in financing activities for 2002 reflected the payment of
long-term debt. Cash provided by financing activities for fiscal
years 2004, 2003 and 2002 reflect proceeds from the exercise of
stock options.

In June 2004, the Company terminated its then existing
$200.0 million five-year revolving credit agreement and
replaced it with a new $280.0 million credit facility that
expires in June 2009. At year-end 2004, we had
$203.0 million of available committed credit under the
credit facility, which can be utilized, as needed, for daily
operating and periodic cash needs, including acquisitions.
Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest, at our
option, at a rate based on either a defined base rate or the
London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), plus applicable margins.
The credit agreement also provides for facility fees that vary
between 0.15% and 0.30% of the credit line, depending on our
capitalization ratio as calculated from time to time. The credit
agreement requires the Company to comply with various financial
and operating covenants, including maintaining certain
consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios, as well as
minimum net worth levels and limits on acquired debt. Total debt
at year-end 2004 includes the $70.0 million outstanding
under the credit facility and $3.2 million assumed in the
Isco acquisition, of which $3.1 million is current. The
Company also assumed a $3.9 million capital lease in the
Reynolds acquisition, of which $0.1 million is current. We
also had $0.5 million in long-term debt outstanding at
year-end 2004 under a $5.0 million uncommitted bank
facility. This credit line is utilized, as needed, for periodic
cash needs. At January 2, 2005, the Company had
$10.0 million in outstanding letters of credit.

In March 2003, Teledyne announced that its Board of Directors
authorized the Company to purchase, from time to time, up to one
million shares of its Common Stock in open market or privately
negotiated transactions through March 31, 2004. No
repurchases were made under the program.

Pension Plans

In connection with the spin-off, a defined benefit pension plan
was established and Teledyne assumed the existing pension
obligations for all of the employees, both active and inactive,
at the operations which perform government contract work and for
active employees at operations which do not perform government
contract work. ATI transferred pension assets to fund the new
defined benefit pension plan. The Company has changed its
retirement benefits for non-union new hires. As of
January 1, 2004, non-union new hires participate in an
enhanced defined contribution plan as opposed to the
company’s existing defined benefit plan. Currently,
Teledyne anticipates making an after-tax cash contribution of
approximately $9.0 million to its defined benefit pension
plan in 2005. Also, under one of its spin-off



agreements, after November 29, 2004, the Company is able to
charge pension costs to the U.S. Government under certain
government contracts in accordance with CAS.

Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”)
No. 87, “Employers’ Accounting for
Pensions,” requires that a minimum pension liability be
recorded if the value of pension assets is less than the
accumulated pension benefit obligation. This condition existed
since year-end 2002. In accordance with the requirements of
SFAS No. 87, the Company has a $22.7 million
non-cash reduction to stockholders’ equity, a long-term
intangible asset of $7.2 million and a long-term additional
pension liability of $44.3 million at year-end 2004. As of
year-end 2003, the Company had a $11.8 million non-cash
reduction to stockholders’ equity, a long-term intangible
asset of $8.5 million and an additional long-term pension
liability of $27.9 million. The adjustments to equity did
not affect net income and are recorded net of deferred taxes.
The reduction will be reversed should the value of the pension
assets exceed the accumulated pension benefit obligation as of a
future measurement date. See Note 13 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional pension
disclosures.

Other Matters

Income Taxes

As noted earlier, the Company’s effective tax rate for 2004
was 38.7%, compared with 33.3% for 2003 and 39.7% for 2002.
Total year 2003 reflected an income tax benefit of
$2.4 million due to the reversal of an income tax
contingency reserve which was determined to be no longer needed
during the third quarter of 2003. Excluding this benefit, the
Company’s effective tax rate for 2003 would have been
38.7%. Based on the Company’s history of operating
earnings, expectations of future operating earnings and
potential tax planning strategies, it is more likely than not
that the deferred income tax assets at January 2, 2005 will
be realized.

Costs and Pricing

Inflationary trends in recent years have been moderate. We
primarily use the last-in, first-out method of inventory
accounting that reflects current costs in the costs of goods
sold. These costs, the increasing costs of equipment and other
costs are considered in establishing sales pricing polices. The
Company emphasizes cost containment in all aspects of its
business.

Hedging Activities; Market Risk Disclosures

We have not utilized derivative financial instruments such as
futures contracts, options and swaps, forward foreign exchange
contracts or interest rate swaps and futures during 2004 or
2003. We believe that adequate controls are in place to monitor
any hedging activities. Our primary exposure to market risk
relates to changes in interest rates and foreign currency
exchange rates. We periodically evaluate these risks and have
taken measures to mitigate these risks. We own assets and
operate facilities in countries that have been politically
stable. Also, our foreign risk management objectives are geared
towards stabilizing cash flow from the effects of foreign
currency fluctuations. Most of the Company’s sales are
denominated in U.S. dollars which mitigates the effect of
exchange rate changes. Any borrowings under the Company’s
revolving credit line are based on a fluctuating market interest
rate and, consequently, the fair value of any outstanding debt
should not be affected materially by changes in market interest
rates. Overall, we believe that our exposure to interest rate
risk and foreign currency exchange rate changes is not material
to our financial condition or results of operations.

Related Party Transactions

In connection with the spin-off, Teledyne and ATI entered into
several agreements governing the separation of our businesses
and various employee benefits, compensation, tax,
indemnification and transition arrangements. The Company’s
principal spin-off requirements, including the requirement to
ensure a favorable tax treatment, have been satisfied. Three of
our nine directors continue to serve on ATI’s board. In
addition, under one of our spin-off agreements, the Company is
able to charge pension



costs to the U.S. Government under certain government
contracts after November 29, 2004. In 2004, we purchased
the “Teledyne” name and related logos, symbols and
marks from an affiliate of ATI for $412,000.

Our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer is a
director of Mellon Financial Corporation. Another of our
directors is a former chief executive officer and director of
Mellon Financial Corporation. All transactions with Mellon Bank,
N.A. and its affiliates are effected under normal commercial
terms, and we believe that our relationships with Mellon Bank,
N.A. and its affiliates are arms-length. Mellon Bank, N.A. is
one of ten lenders under our $280.0 million credit
facility, having committed up to $25.0 million under the
facility. It also provides cash management services and an
uncommitted $5.0 million line of credit. Mellon Bank, N.A.
serves as trustee under our pension plan and provides asset
management services for the plan. Mellon Investor Services LLC
serves as our transfer agent and registrar, as well as agent
under our stockholders rights plan.

Environmental

We are subject to various federal, state, local and
international environmental laws and regulations which require
that we investigate and remediate the effects of the release or
disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present
operations. These include sites at which Teledyne has been
identified as a potentially responsible party under the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
Act, commonly known as Superfund, and comparable state laws. We
are currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a
number of sites. Reserves for environmental investigation and
remediation totaled approximately $3.5 million at
January 2, 2005. This amount includes $1.8 million for
an environmental matter related to the Aerospace Engines and
Component segment. As investigation and remediation of these
sites proceed and new information is received, the Company
expects that accruals will be adjusted to reflect new
information. Based on current information, we do not believe
that future environmental costs, in excess of those already
accrued, will materially and adversely affect our financial
condition or liquidity. However, resolution of one or more of
these environmental matters or future accrual adjustments in any
one reporting period could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations for that period.

For additional discussion of environmental matters, see
Notes 2 and 16 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Government Contracts

We perform work on a number of contracts with the Department of
Defense and other agencies and departments of the
U.S. Government including sub-contracts with government
prime contractors. Sales under these contracts with the
U.S. Government, which included contracts with the
Department of Defense, were approximately 43% in 2004 and 46% of
total sales in 2003 and in 2002. For a summary of sales to the
U.S. Government by segment, see Note 14 to the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements. Sales to the Department of
Defense represented approximately 33%, 31% and 30% of total
sales for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Performance under government contracts has certain inherent
risks that could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s business, results of operations and financial
condition. Government contracts are conditioned upon the
continuing availability of Congressional appropriations, which
usually occurs on a fiscal year basis even though contract
performance may take more than one year. While the overall
U.S. military budget declined in real dollars from the
mid-1980s through the early 1990s, U.S. defense spending
has increased and is expected to continue to increase over the
next few years as a result of global responses to terrorism and
perceived nuclear threats. Notwithstanding the potential for
increased defense spending, delays or declines in
U.S. military expenditures in the programs in which we
participate could adversely affect our business, results of
operations and financial condition.

For information on accounts receivable from the
U.S. Government, see Note 6 to the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.



Estimates and Reserves

Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results
of operations are based upon our consolidated financial
statements, which have been prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
The preparation of these financial statements requires us to
make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we
evaluate our estimates, including those related to product
returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories,
intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, pension
and other postretirement benefits, long-term contracts,
environmental, workers’ compensation and general liability,
aircraft product liability, employee dental and medical benefits
and other contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on
historical experience and on various other assumptions that are
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances at the time,
the results of which form the basis for making our judgments.
Actual results may differ materially from these estimates under
different assumptions or conditions. In some cases, such
differences may be material. See “Other Matters —
Critical Accounting Policies”.

The following table reflects significant reserves and valuation
accounts, which are estimates and based on judgments as
described above, at January 2, 2005 and December 28,
2003:

Reserves and Valuation Accounts(a)

(a)

This table should be read in conjunction with the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b)

Includes both long-term and short-term reserves.

Critical
Accounting Policies

Our critical accounting policies are those that are reflective
of significant judgments and uncertainties, and may potentially
result in materially different results under different
assumptions and conditions. We have identified the following as
critical accounting policies: revenue recognition; impairment of
long-lived assets; income taxes; inventories and related
allowance for obsolete and excess inventory; aircraft product
liability reserve, accounting for pension plans and accounting
for business combinations. For additional discussion of the
application of these and other accounting policies, see
Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Revenue Recognition

Commercial sales and revenue from U.S. Government
fixed-price-type contracts are generally recorded as shipments
are made or as services are rendered. Occasionally, for certain
fixed-price type contracts that require substantial performance
over a long time period (one or more years) before shipments
begin, in accordance with the requirements of Statement of
Position 81-1 “Accounting for Performance of
Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts”,
revenues may be recorded based upon attainment of scheduled
performance milestones which could be time, event or expense
driven. In these few instances, invoices are submitted to the
customer under a contractual agreement and payments are made by
the customer. Sales under cost-reimbursement contracts are
recorded as costs are



incurred and fees are earned. Since certain contracts extend
over a long period of time, all revisions in cost and funding
estimates during the progress of work have the effect of
adjusting the current period earnings on a cumulative catch-up
basis. If the current contract estimate indicates a loss, a
provision is made for the total anticipated loss.

The Company follows the requirements of Securities and Exchange
Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 and
No. 104 on revenue recognition.

Some of the Company’s products are subject to specified
warranties and the Company provides for the estimated cost of
product warranties. We regularly assess the adequacy of our
preexisting warranty liabilities and adjust amounts as necessary
based on a review of historic warranty experience with respect
to the applicable business or products, as well as the length
and actual terms of the warranties. The product warranty reserve
is included in current accrued liabilities on the balance sheet.
Changes in the Company’s product warranty reserve are as
follows (in millions):



Balance at beginning of year

$

6.0

$

5.2

Accruals for product warranties charged to expense

3.5

3.5

Cost of product warranty claims

(3.4

)

(3.9

)

Acquisitions

0.8

1.2

Balance at year-end

$

6.9

$

6.0

Impairments of Long-Lived Assets

We monitor the recoverability of the carrying value of our
long-lived assets. An impairment charge is recognized when
events and circumstances indicate that the undiscounted cash
flows expected to be generated by an asset (including any
proceeds from dispositions) are less than the carrying value of
the asset and the asset’s carrying value is less than its
fair value. Our cash flow estimates are based on historical
results adjusted to reflect our best estimate of future market
and operating conditions. The net carrying value of assets not
recoverable is reduced to fair value. Our estimates of fair
value represent our best estimate based on industry trends and
reference to market rates and transactions. In 2002, we
determined that the carrying amounts of certain of our
long-lived assets were no longer recoverable based on estimates
of future operating cash flows to be generated by these assets.
As a result, in 2002, we recorded a $0.8 million write-down
of certain optoelectronic equipment and a $0.5 million
charge related to the partial write-down of the Company’s
$2.8 million cost-based investment in a private company
engaged in manufacturing and development of micro optics and
microelectromechanical devices. In 2003, we wrote-off the
remaining $2.3 million of this investment.

Accounting for Income Taxes

As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial
statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each
of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves
estimating our actual current tax exposure together with
assessing temporary differences resulting from differing
treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These
differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which
are included within our consolidated balance sheet. We assess
the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered
from future taxable income, recognizing that future taxable
income may give rise to new deferred tax assets. To the extent
that we believe that future recovery is not likely, we must
establish a valuation allowance. To the extent we establish or
increase a valuation allowance, we must include an expense
within the tax provision in the income statement.

Significant management judgment is required in determining our
provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and
liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net
deferred tax assets. A valuation allowance of $3.3 million
exists as of January 2, 2005. In the event that actual
results differ



from these estimates, or we adjust these estimates in future
periods, we may need to adjust the valuation allowance, which
could impact our financial position and results of operations.

Provisions for income taxes for 2004, 2003 and 2002 are subject
to audit by the Internal Revenue Service and the tax authorities
in the various jurisdictions in which we do business.

Inventories and Related Allowance for Obsolete and Excess
    Inventory

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (last-in, first-out;
first-in, first-out; and average cost methods) or market, less
progress payments. We primarily use the last-in, first-out
method of inventory accounting that reflects current costs in
the costs of products sold. Costs include direct material,
direct labor, applicable manufacturing and engineering overhead,
and other direct costs. Inventories have been reduced by an
allowance for excess and obsolete inventories. The estimated
allowance is based on management’s review of inventories on
hand compared to assumptions about future demand and market
conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are
more or less favorable than those currently projected by
management, adjustments may be required. In 2003, we recorded a
$0.9 million fourth quarter write-down on slow moving test
equipment inventory in our Electronics and Communication
segment. Total inventories at cost were net of reserves for
excess, slow moving and obsolete inventory of $21.2 million
and $14.2 million at January 2, 2005 and
December 28, 2003, respectively. The increase from 2003 is
primarily attributable to reserve balances acquired as part of
acquisitions made in 2004.

Aircraft Product Liability Reserve

We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings related
to aircraft product liability claims. We have accrued an
estimate of the probable costs for the resolution of these
claims. This estimate has been developed in consultation with
our insurers, outside counsel handling our defense in these
matters and historical experience, and is based upon an analysis
of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and
settlement strategies. We do not believe these proceedings will
have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
position. It is possible, however, that future results of
operations for any particular quarterly or annual period could
be materially affected by specific events occurring in the
period, changes in our assumptions, or the effectiveness of our
strategies, related to these proceedings. The Company has
aircraft and product liability insurance. However, based on a
review of claims experience, changes to the claims management
process and an analysis of available options, the Company, in
2004, increased its annual self-insurance retention for general
aviation aircraft liabilities incurred in connection with
products manufactured by Teledyne Continental Motors to
$25.0 million from $15.0 million, and as a result
lowered its annual insurance premium. We cannot assure that, for
2005 and in future years, our ability to obtain insurance, or
the premiums for such insurance, or the amount of our
self-insured retention or reserves will not be negatively
impacted by our experience in prior years or other factors. Our
current aircraft product liability insurance policy expires May
2005.

Accounting for Pension Plans

Teledyne has a defined benefit pension plan covering most of its
employees. The Company accounts for its defined benefit pension
plan in accordance with SFAS No. 87 —
“Employers’ Accounting for Pensions,” which
requires that amounts recognized in financial statements be
determined on an actuarial basis, rather than as contributions
are made to the plan. A significant element in determining the
Company’s pension income or expense in accordance with
SFAS No. 87 is the expected return on plan assets. The
Company has assumed, based upon the types of securities the plan
assets are invested in and the long-term historical returns of
these investments, that the long-term expected return on pension
assets will be 8.5% in 2005, compared with 8.5% in 2004, and its
assumed discount rate will be 6.25% in 2005, compared with 6.5%
in 2004. The Company made an after-tax contribution of
$1.9 million to its pension plan in 2004, and anticipates
making an after-tax cash contribution of approximately
$9.0 million to its pension plan in 2005. The assumed
long-term rate of return on assets is applied to the
market-related value of plan assets at the end of the previous
year. This produces the expected return on plan assets that is
included in annual pension income or expense for the current
year. The cumulative difference between



this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is
deferred and amortized into pension income or expense over
future periods. As noted earlier, since the value of the
Company’s pension assets were less than the accumulated
pension benefit obligation, in accordance with the requirements
of SFAS No. 87, the Company has a $22.7 million
non-cash reduction to stockholders’ equity, a long-term
intangible asset of $7.2 million and an additional
long-term pension liability of $44.3 million at year-end
2004. The adjustment to equity did not affect net income and is
net of deferred taxes of $14.4 million. The charge will be
reversed should the value of the pension assets exceed the
accumulated pension benefit obligation as of a future
measurement date. See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional pension disclosures.

Accounting for Business Combinations

The Company accounts for goodwill and purchased intangible
assets under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 141 “Business
Combinations” and SFAS No. 142 “Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets”. Business acquisitions are
accounted for under the purchase method by assigning the
purchase price to tangible and intangible assets acquired and
liabilities assumed. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed are
recorded at their fair values and the excess of the purchase
price over the amounts assigned is recorded as goodwill.
Purchased intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over
their estimated useful lives. Goodwill and intangible assets
with indefinite lives are not amortized, but reviewed at least
annually for impairment. The Company performs an annual
impairment review in the fourth quarter by comparing the fair
value of the reporting units, which are our four business
segments, to their carrying values. Fair values are estimated
using discounted cash flow methodologies that are based on
projections of the amounts and timing of future revenues and
cash flows. Based on the annual impairment review completed in
the fourth quarter of 2004, no impairment of goodwill or
intangible assets with indefinite lives was indicated. In all
acquisitions, the results are included in the Company’s
consolidated financial statements from the date of each
respective acquisition.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

SFAS No. 123R

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 123R, “Share
Based Payment” (“SFAS No. 123R”) that
will require compensation costs related to share-based payment
transactions to be recognized in the financial statements. With
limited exceptions, the amount of compensation costs will be
measured based on the grant date — fair value of the
equity or liability instrument issued. Compensation cost will be
recognized over the period that an employee provides service in
exchange for the award. SFAS No. 123R replaces
SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation” and supersedes SFAS No. 25,
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.” Beginning
with the third quarter of 2005, Teledyne plans to recognize
compensation expense in accordance with FASB No. 123R. The
adoption of this standard for the expensing of stock options is
expected to reduce pretax earnings by $2.2 million in the
second half of 2005.

SFAS No. 151

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No 151,
“Inventory Costs — an amendment of ARB
No. 43 Chapter 4”
(“SFAS No. 151”). SFAS No. 151
amends the guidance in ARB No. 43, Chapter 4,
“Inventory Pricing,” to clarify the accounting for
abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling
costs, and wasted material (spoilage). SFAS No. 151
requires that those items be recognized as current-period
charges. SFAS No. 151 is effective for first fiscal
years beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of
SFAS No. 151 is not expected to have any impact on the
Company.

SFAS No. 132

In December 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No 132,
“Employers’ Disclosures about Pensions and Other
Postretirement Benefits”
(“SFAS No. 132”). SFAS No. 132
requires additional information



regarding the types of plan assets, investment strategy,
measurement date, plan obligations, cash flows and components of
net periodic benefit cost recognized during interim periods as
is effective immediately upon issuance. The Company has included
the required disclosures in Note 13 to the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

SFAS No. 150

In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150,
“Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with
Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity”
(“SFAS No. 150”). This Statement establishes
standards for classifying and measuring as liabilities certain
financial instruments that embody obligations of the issuer and
have characteristics of both liabilities and equity. It
represents a significant change in practice in the accounting
for a number of financial instruments, including mandatorily
redeemable equity instruments and certain equity derivatives
that frequently are used in connection with share repurchase
programs. SFAS No. 150 must be applied immediately to
instruments entered into or modified after May 31, 2003 and
to all other instruments that exist as of the beginning of the
first interim financial reporting period beginning after
June 15, 2003, except for noncontrolling interests of a
limited-life subsidiary which has been deferred indefinitely. As
Teledyne currently has no financial instruments that would be
subject to SFAS No. 150, the adoption had no impact on
the Company.

SFAS No. 149

In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 149,
“Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities”
(“SFAS No. 149”). SFAS No. 149
amends and clarifies accounting for derivative instruments,
including certain derivative instruments embedded in other
contracts, and for hedging activities under
SFAS No. 133. SFAS No. 149 clarifies under
what circumstances a contract with an initial net investment
meets the characteristics of a derivative and when a derivative
contains a financing component that warrants special reporting
in the statement of cash flows. SFAS No. 149 is
generally effective for contracts entered into or modified after
June 30, 2003, and had no impact on Teledyne’s
financial position or results of operations.

FIN 46

In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46,
“Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities”
(“FIN 46”). FIN 46 requires companies to
evaluate variable interest entities to determine whether to
apply the consolidation provisions of FIN 46 to those
entities. Companies must apply FIN 46 to entities created
after January 31, 2003, and to variable interest entities
in which a company obtains an interest after that date. In
October 2003, the FASB deferred the effective date to the first
fiscal year or interim period ending after December 15,
2003, to variable interest entities in which a company holds a
variable interest that is acquired before February 1, 2003.
Teledyne’s adoption of FIN 46 had no impact on the
Company’s consolidated results of operations or financial
position.

SFAS No. 143

In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143,
“Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,” which
addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations
associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and
the associated asset retirement costs
(“SFAS No. 143”). Teledyne’ initial
adoption of SFAS No. 143, effective January 1,
2003, did not have a material effect on its financial position
or results of operations.

Outlook

Based on its current outlook, the Company’s management
believes that first quarter 2005 earnings per share will be in
the range of approximately $0.37 to $0.40. The full-year 2005
earnings per share outlook is expected to be in the range of
approximately $1.35 to $1.43. The Company’s estimated
effective income tax rate for 2005 is 39.6%.



The Company’s 2005 outlook reflects anticipated sales
growth in defense electronics and instrumentation businesses,
primarily due to the full-year effect of the Company’s
acquisitions completed in 2004. Organic sales growth of
electronic instruments is expected to be offset by a substantial
reduction in sales of geophysical sensors for the energy
exploration market. The Company’s management expects
revenue in its Systems Engineering segment to peak in the first
quarter of 2005, due in part to favorable timing on certain
chemical weapons demilitarization programs and the
Company’s systems engineering and technical assistance
contract with the U.S. Army. In addition, revenues in the
Company’s Energy Systems segment and its military turbine
engine business are expected to be lower in the second half of
2005 compared with the second half of 2004.

The full year 2005 earnings outlook includes approximately
$6.0 million or $0.11 per share in pension expense
after recovery of allowable pension costs from our government
contracts. Full year 2004 earnings included $8.7 million or
$0.16 per share in gross pension expense, or
$8.2 million or $0.15 per share in net pension expense
after recovery of allowable pension costs from our government
contracts. The decrease in pension expense reflects, in part,
the ability to recover pension cost from the government in 2005,
partially offset by increased pension liability due to a
reduction in the discount rate assumption for the Company’s
defined benefit plan. The Company’s assumed discount rate
is 6.25% in 2005, compared with 6.5% in 2004.

Beginning with the third quarter of 2005, the Company plans to
recognize compensation expense in accordance with
SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004). The adoption of this
standard for the expensing of stock options is expected to
reduce earnings per share by approximately $0.05 in the second
half of 2005.

EARNINGS PER SHARE SUMMARY

(Diluted earnings per common share from continuing
operations)

2005 Full Year

Outlook

2004 Results

2003 Results

Low

High

Actual

Actual

Earnings per share (excluding net pension expense, income tax
    benefit and stock option expense)

$

1.51

$

1.59

$

1.39

$

0.97

Net pension expense after recovery from certain government
    contracts

(0.11

)

(0.11

)

(0.15

)

(0.13

)

Earnings per share (excluding income tax benefit and stock
    option expense)

1.40

1.48

1.24

0.84

Income tax benefit

—

—

—

0.07

Stock option expense

(0.05

)

(0.05

)

—

—

Earnings per share

$

1.35

$

1.43

$

1.24

$

0.91

Safe Harbor Cautionary Statement Regarding Outlook and Other
Forward Looking Data

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking
statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995, relating to earnings, growth opportunities,
capital expenditures, pension matters, stock option expense and
strategic plans. All statements made in this Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations that are not historical in nature should be
considered forward-looking. Actual results could differ
materially from these forward-looking statements. Many factors,
including funding, continuation, timing and award of government
programs, changes in demand for products sold to the
semiconductor, communications, commercial aviation and energy
exploration markets, changes in insurance expense,
customers’ acceptance of piston engine price increases,
continued liquidity of our customers (including commercial
airline customers) and economic and political conditions, could
change the anticipated results. In addition, stock market
fluctuations affect the value of the Company’s pension
assets.



Global responses to terrorism and other perceived threats
increase uncertainties associated with forward-looking
statements about our businesses. Various responses to terrorism
and perceived threats could realign government programs, and
affect the composition, funding or timing of our programs.
Flight restrictions would negatively impact the market for
general aviation aircraft piston engines and components.

The Company continues to take action to assure compliance with
the internal controls, disclosure controls and other
requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While the
Company believes its control systems are effective, there are
inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements
due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.

While Teledyne’s growth strategy includes possible
acquisitions, the Company cannot provide any assurance as to
when, if, or on what terms, any acquisitions will be made.
Acquisitions, including the recent acquisition of the defense
electronics business of Celeritek, Inc., Reynolds Industries,
Incorporated and Isco, Inc., involve various inherent risks,
such as, among others, our ability to integrate acquired
businesses and to achieve identified financial and operating
synergies.

Additional information concerning factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those projected in the
forward-looking statements is contained beginning on
page 15 of this Form 10-K under the caption “Risk
Factors; Cautionary Statements as to Forward-Looking
Statements.” Forward-looking statements are generally
accompanied by words such as “estimate”,
“project”, “predict”, “believes”
or “expect”, that convey the uncertainty of future
events or outcomes. We assume no obligation to publicly update
or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of
new information or otherwise.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk.

The information required by this item is included in this Report
at page 44 under the caption “Other
Matters — Hedging Activities; Market Risk
Disclosures” of “Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.”

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data.

The information required by this item is included in this Report
at pages 57 through 91. See the “Index to
Financial Statements and Related Information” at
page 56.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.

None.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.

Disclosure Controls

Teledyne’s disclosure controls and procedures are designed
to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports
that it files or submits, under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, was recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the
Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company’s
management, with the participation of its Chairman, President
and Chief Executive Officer and Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness, as of
January 2, 2005, of the Company’s “disclosure
controls and procedures,” as that term is defined in
Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities and Exchange Act of
1934, as amended (“the Exchange Act”). Based upon that
evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial
Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures as
of January 2, 2005, were effective to provide a reasonable
assurance that information required to be disclosed by the
Company in the reports filed or submitted by it under the
Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported
within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and
forms, and to provide reasonable assurance that information
required to be disclosed by the Company in such reports is
accumulated and communicated to



the Company’s management, including its principal executive
officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow
timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Internal Control

See Management Statement on page 57 for management’s
annual report on internal control over financial reporting. See
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
page 58 for Ernst & Young LLP’s attestation
report on management’s assessment of internal control over
financial reporting.

There was no change in the Company’s “internal control
over financial reporting” (as such term is defined in
Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that occurred during
the quarter ended January 2, 2005, that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially effect, the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

Sarbanes-Oxley Disclosure Committee

In September 2002, the Company formally constituted the
Sarbanes-Oxley Disclosure Committee. Current members include:

John T. Kuelbs, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary

Dale A. Schnittjer,
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Ivars R. Blukis, Chief
Business Risk Assurance Officer (Internal Audit)

Susan L. Main, Vice
President and Controller

Robyn E. McGowan, Vice
President, Administration and Human Resources and

Assistant Secretary

Melanie S. Cibik, Vice
President, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary

Shelley D. Green,
Treasurer

Brian A. Levan,
Director of External Financial Reporting and Assistant Controller

Jason VanWees,
Director of Corporate Development and Investor Relations

Among its tasks, the Sarbanes-Oxley Disclosure Committee
discusses and reviews disclosure issues to help the Company
fulfill its disclosure obligations on a timely basis in
accordance with SEC rules and regulations and is intended to be
used as an additional resource for employees to raise questions
regarding accounting, auditing, internal controls and disclosure
matters. Our toll-free Corporate Ethics Help Line
(1-877-666-6968) continues to be an alternative means to
communicate concerns to the Company’s management.

Item 9B. Other Information.

None.

PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant.

In addition to the information set forth under the caption
“Executive Management” beginning at page 11 in
Part I of this Report, the information concerning the
directors of Teledyne required by this item is set forth in the
2005 Proxy Statement under the caption “Item 1 on
Proxy Card — Election of Directors” and is
incorporated herein by reference. The information set forth in
the Proxy Statement under the captions “Board Composition
and Practices,” “Corporate Governance,”
“Committees of Our Board of Directors — Audit
Committee” and “Stock Ownership —
Sections 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance” is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11. Executive Compensation.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2005
Proxy Statement under the captions “Directors
Compensation”, “Executive Compensation” and
“Compensation Committee Interlocks and



Insider Participation” and is incorporated herein by
reference. Teledyne does not incorporate by reference in this
Form 10-K either the “2004 Report on Executive
Compensation” or the “Cumulative Total Stockholder
Return” section of the 2005 Proxy Statement.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2005
Proxy Statement under the caption “Stock
Ownership Information” and is incorporated herein by
reference.

Equity Compensation Plans Information

The following table summarizes information with respect to
equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2004:

Number of Securities

Remaining Available

for Future Issuance

Number of Securities

under Equity

to be Issued upon

Compensation Plans

Exercise of

Weighted-Average

[excluding securities

Outstanding Options,

Exercise Price of Options,

reflected in

Warrants and Rights

Warrants or Rights

column (a)]

Plan Category

(a)

(b)

(c)

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders:

1999 Incentive Plan

2,343,050

(1)

$

14.35

501,117

(2)

2002 Stock Incentive Plan

911,404

(3)

$

16.39

1,044,990

Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan

228,012

$

14.01

135,437

Employee Stock Purchase Plan(4)

—

—

1,000,000

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders

—

—

—

Total

3,482,466

$

14.86

2,681,544



Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2005
Proxy Statement under the caption “Certain
Transactions” and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2005
Proxy Statement under the captions “Fees Billed by
Independent Auditors” and “Audit Committee
Pre-Approval Policy” under “Item 2 on the Proxy
Card — Ratification of Appointment of Independent
Auditor” and is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement
Schedules.

(a) Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules:

(1) Financial Statements

See the “Index to Financial Statements and Related
    Information” at page 55 of this Report, which is
    incorporated herein by reference.

(2) Financial Statement Schedules

See Schedule II captioned “Valuation and Qualifying
    Accounts” at page 90 of this Report, which is
    incorporated herein by reference.

(3) Exhibits

A list of exhibits filed with this Form 10-K or
    incorporated by reference is found in the Exhibit Index
    immediately following the certifications of this Report and
    incorporated herein by reference.

(b) Exhibits:

See Item 15(a)(3) above.

(c) Financial Schedules:

See Item 15(a)(2) above.



INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RELATED INFORMATION



MANAGEMENT STATEMENT

RESPONSIBILITY FOR PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
ESTABLISHING AND MAINTAINING ADEQUATE INTERNAL CONTROL OVER
FINANCIAL REPORTING

We are responsible for the preparation of the financial
statements included in this Annual Report. The financial
statements were prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America
and include amounts that are based on the best estimates and
judgments of management. The other financial information
contained in this Annual Report is consistent with the financial
statements.

Our internal control system is designed to provide reasonable
assurance concerning the reliability of the financial data used
in the preparation of Teledyne’s financial statements, as
well as to safeguard the Company’s assets from unauthorized
use or disposition.

All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have
inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined
to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with
respect to financial statement presentation.

REPORT OF MANAGEMENT ON TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES
INCORPORATED’S INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

We are also responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting. We conducted
an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting as of January 2,
2005. In making this evaluation, we used the criteria set forth
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO) in Internal Control —
Integrated Framework. Our evaluation included reviewing the
documentation of our controls, evaluating the design
effectiveness of our controls and testing their operating
effectiveness. Our evaluation did not include assessing the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting at
the recent Leeman, Isco, Reynolds and Celeritek acquisitions,
which are included in the 2004 consolidated financial statements
of the Company and constituted: $195.0 million and
$172.6 million of total and net assets, respectively, as of
January 2, 2005 and: $70.2 million and
$4.9 million of total revenues and net income,
respectively, for the year then ended. We did not assess the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting at
these newly acquired entities due to the insufficient time
between the dates acquired and year-end and the complexity
associated with assessing internal controls during integration
efforts, thus making the process impractical. Based on this
evaluation we believe that, as of January 2, 2005, the
Company’s internal controls over financial reporting were
effective.

Ernst and Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting
firm, has issued their report on our evaluation of
Teledyne’s internal control over financial reporting. Their
report appears on page 58 of this Annual Report.

Date: February 18, 2005

/s/

Robert Mehrabian

Robert Mehrabian

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Date: February 18, 2005

/s/

Dale A. Schnittjer

Dale A. Schnittjer

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

We have audited management’s assessment, included in the
accompanying Report of Management on Teledyne Technologies
Incorporated’s Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,
that Teledyne Technologies Incorporated maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of January 2,
2005, based on criteria established in Internal
Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO
criteria). Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s management
is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on management’s assessment and an
opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design
and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

As indicated in the accompanying Report of Management on
Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting, management’s assessment of and
conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting did not include the internal controls of the
recent Leeman, Isco, Reynolds and Celeritek acquisitions which
are included in the 2004 consolidated financial statements of
Teledyne Technologies Incorporated and constituted:
$195.0 million and $172.6 million of total and net
assets, respectively, as of January 2, 2005 and:
$70.2 million and $4.9 million of revenues and net
income, respectively, for the year then ended. Management did
not assess the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting at these entities due to insufficient time between the
dates acquired and year-end and the determination that it was
impractical to sufficiently address the complexities associated
with post-integration merger efforts to assess those controls.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of
Teledyne Technologies Incorporated also did not include an
evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of
Leeman, Isco, Reynolds and Celeritek.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that Teledyne
Technologies Incorporated maintained effective internal control
over financial reporting as of January 2, 2005, is fairly
stated, in all material



respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion,
Teledyne Technologies, Incorporated maintained, in all material
respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
of January 2, 2005, based on the COSO criteria.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
consolidated balance sheets of Teledyne Technologies
Incorporated as of January 2, 2005 and December 28,
2003, and the related consolidated statements of income,
stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended January 2, 2005 of Teledyne
Technologies Incorporated and our report dated February 18,
2005 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. Our audits also
included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at
Item 15(a) and our report dated February 18, 2005
expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Los Angeles, California

February 18, 2005



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Teledyne Technologies Incorporated as of January 2, 2005
and December 28, 2003, and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended January 2,
2005. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule
listed in the index at Item 15(a). These financial
statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
financial position of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated at
January 2, 2005 and December 28, 2003, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended January 2,
2005, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
effectiveness of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s
internal control over financial reporting as of January 2,
2005, based on criteria established in Internal
Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our
report dated February 18, 2005 expressed an unqualified
opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Los Angeles, California

February 18, 2005



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(In millions, except per-share amounts)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
statements.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In millions, except share amounts)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
statements.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(In millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
statements.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
statements.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1. Description of Business

Effective November 29, 1999 (the “Distribution
Date”), Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
(“Teledyne” or the “Company”), became an
independent, public company as a result of the distribution by
Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated, now known as Allegheny
Technologies Incorporated (“ATI”), of the
Company’s Common Stock, $.01 par value per share, to
holders of ATI Common Stock at a distribution ratio of one for
seven (the “spin-off”). The spin-off has been treated
as a tax-free distribution for federal income tax purposes. The
spin-off included the transfer of certain of the businesses of
ATI’s Aerospace and Electronics segment to the new
corporation, immediately prior to the Distribution Date. ATI no
longer has a financial investment in Teledyne.

Teledyne is a leading provider of sophisticated electronic
components, instruments and communications products, including
defense electronics, data acquisition and communications
equipment for airlines and business aircraft, monitoring and
control instruments for industrial and environmental
applications and components, and subsystems for wireless and
satellite communications. We also provide systems engineering
solutions and information technology services for space, defense
and industrial applications, and manufacture general aviation
and missile engines and components, as well as on-site gas and
power generation systems.

We serve niche market segments where performance, precision and
reliability are critical. Our customers include major industrial
and communications companies, government agencies, aerospace
prime contractors and general aviation companies.

Teledyne consists of the operations of the Electronics and
Communications segment with operations in the United States,
United Kingdom, Germany, Mexico and Canada; the Systems
Engineering Solutions segment with operations in the United
States; the Aerospace Engines and Components segment with
operations in the United States; and the Energy Systems segment
with operations in the United States.

On January 3, 2005, in an effort to streamline operations
and reduce costs, the businesses principally operating as
Teledyne Microwave, located in Mountain View, California, and
Teledyne Microwave Electronic Components, located in Rancho
Cordova, California, were consolidated into one legal entity,
Teledyne Wireless, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company. Teledyne Wireless, Inc. had been the subsidiary that
bought the defense electronics assets of each of Filtronic Solid
State and Celeritek, Inc. Teledyne Wireless, Inc. is part of the
Electronics and Communications segment.

Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements of Teledyne include the
accounts of the businesses as described in Note 1.
Significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated. Certain financial statements, notes and
supplementary data for prior years have been changed to conform
to the 2004 presentation. Theses changes did not affect our
reported results of operations or stockholders’ equity.

Fiscal Year

The Company operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year convention
ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. Fiscal year
2004 was a 53-week fiscal year and ended on January 2,
2005. Fiscal years 2003, and 2002 were 52-week years and ended
on December 28, 2003 and December 29, 2002,
respectively. References to the years 2004, 2003 and 2002 are
intended to refer to the respective fiscal year unless otherwise
noted.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, the
Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to
product returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories,
intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, pension
and other postretirement benefits, long-term contracts,
environmental, workers’ compensation and general liability,
aircraft product liability, employee dental and medical benefits
and other contingencies, and litigation. The Company bases its
estimates on historical experience and on various other
assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the
circumstances at the time, the results of which form the basis
for making its judgments. Actual results may differ materially
from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
Management believes that the estimates are reasonable.

Revenue Recognition

Commercial sales and revenue from U.S. Government
fixed-price-type contracts generally are recorded as shipments
are made or as services are rendered. Occasionally, for certain
fixed-price-type contracts that require substantial performance
over a long time period (one or more years) before shipments
begin, in accordance with the requirements of Statement of
Position 81-1 “Accounting for Performance of
Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts,”
revenues may be recorded based upon attainment of scheduled
performance milestones which could be time, event or expense
driven. In these few instances, invoices are submitted to the
customer under a contractual agreement and payments are made by
the customer. Sales under cost-reimbursement contracts are
recorded as costs are incurred and fees are earned. Since
certain contracts extend over a long period of time, all
revisions in cost and funding estimates during the progress of
work have the effect of adjusting the current period earnings on
a cumulative catch-up basis. If the current contract estimate
indicates a loss, provision is made for the total anticipated
loss.

The Company follows the requirements of Securities and Exchange
Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 and
No. 104 on revenue recognition.

Some of the Company’s products are subject to specified
warranties and the Company provides for the estimated cost of
product warranties. The adequacy of the preexisting warranty
liabilities is assessed regularly and the reserve is adjusted as
necessary based on a review of historic warranty experience with
respect to the applicable business or products, as well as the
length and actual terms of the warranties. The product warranty
reserve is included in current accrued liabilities on the
balance sheet. Changes in the Company’s product warranty
reserve are as follows (in millions):



Balance at beginning of year

$

6.0

$

5.2

Accruals for product warranties charged to expense

3.5

3.5

Cost of product warranty claims

(3.4

)

(3.9

)

Acquisitions

0.8

1.2

Balance at year-end

$

6.9

$

6.0

Research and Development

Selling, general and administrative expenses include
company-funded research and development and bid and proposal
costs which are expensed as incurred and were $32.6 million
in 2004, $27.9 million in 2003, and $26.2 million in
2002. Costs related to customer-funded research and development
contracts



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

were $230.7 million in 2004, $190.1 million in 2003,
and $170.6 million in 2002 and are charged to costs and
expenses as the related sales are recorded. A portion of the
costs incurred for company-funded research and development is
recoverable through overhead cost allocations on government
contracts.

Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”)
No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.” Under
this method, deferred income tax assets and liabilities are
determined on the estimated future tax effects of differences
between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and
liabilities given the application of enacted tax laws. Deferred
income tax provisions and benefits are based on changes to the
asset or liability from year to year.

Net Income Per Common Share

Basic and diluted earnings per share were computed based on net
earnings. The weighted average number of common shares
outstanding during the period was used in the calculation of
basic earnings per share. This number of shares was increased by
contingent shares that could be issued under various
compensation plans as well as by the dilutive effect of stock
options based on the treasury stock method in the calculation of
diluted earnings per share.

The following table sets forth the computations of basic and
diluted earnings per share (amounts in millions, except
per-share data):

Stock Incentive Plan

ATI sponsored an incentive plan that provided for ATI stock
option awards to officers and key employees. In connection with
the spin-off, outstanding stock options held by Teledyne’s
employees that participated in the plan prior to the spin-off
were converted into options to purchase Teledyne’s Common
Stock.

The following disclosures are based on stock options held by
Teledyne’s employees and include the stock options that
have been converted from ATI options to Teledyne’s options
as noted above. Teledyne accounts for its stock option plans in
accordance with APB Opinion No. 25 —
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” (“APB
Opinion No. 25”) and related Interpretations. Under
APB Opinion No. 25, no compensation expense is recognized
because the exercise price of the Company’s employee stock
options equals the market price of the underlying stock at the
date of the grant. In December 2002, the



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued
SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation-Transition and Disclosure.”
SFAS No. 148 amends SFAS No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock-based Compensation,”
(“SFAS No. 123”) and is effective
immediately upon issuance. SFAS No. 148 provides
alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the
fair value based method of accounting for stock-based employee
compensation as well as amending the disclosure requirements of
Statement No. 123 to require interim and annual disclosures
about the method of accounting for stock based compensation and
the effect of the method used on reported results. The Company
follows the requirements of APB Opinion No. 25 and the
disclosure only provision of SFAS No. 123, as amended
by SFAS No. 148.

As noted in the preceding paragraph, Teledyne accounts for its
stock options under APB Opinion No. 25. If compensation
cost for these options had been determined under the
SFAS No. 123 fair-value method using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model, the impact on net income and earnings per
share is presented in the following table (amounts in millions,
except per-share data):

The following assumptions were used in this valuation:

For the year




Expected dividend yield

—

—

—

Expected volatility

60.7

%

62.1

%

69.4

%

Risk-free interest rate

4.0

%

4.0

%

5.0

%

Expected lives

8.0

8.0

8.0

Weighted-average fair value of options granted during the year

$

12.89

$

9.12

$

10.64

Accounts Receivable

Receivables are presented net of a reserve for doubtful accounts
of $2.6 million at January 2, 2005 and
$2.4 million at December 28, 2003. Expense recorded
for the reserve for doubtful accounts was $0.6 million,
$0.2 million, and $0.6 million for 2004, 2003, and
2002, respectively. An allowance for doubtful accounts is
established for losses expected to be incurred on accounts
receivable balances. Judgment is required in estimation of the
allowance and is based upon specific identification, collection
history and creditworthiness of the debtor. The Company markets
its products and services principally throughout the United
States, Europe, Japan and Canada to commercial customers and
agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government.
Trade credit is extended based upon evaluations of each
customer’s ability to perform its obligations, which are
updated periodically.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Cash Equivalents

Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid money-market mutual
funds and bank deposits with initial maturities of three months
or less. Cash equivalents totaled $3.9 million at
January 2, 2005 and $32.9 million at December 28,
2003.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (last-in, first-out;
first-in, first-out; and average cost methods) or market, less
progress payments. Costs include direct material, direct labor,
applicable manufacturing and engineering overhead, and other
direct costs.

Property, Plant and
Equipment

Property, plant and equipment is capitalized at cost. Property,
plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are
determined using a combination of accelerated and straight-line
methods over the estimated useful lives of the various asset
classes. Buildings are depreciated over periods not exceeding
45 years, equipment over 5 to 18 years, computer
hardware over 3 to 5 years and leasehold improvements over
the shorter of their estimated remaining lives or lease terms.
Significant improvements are capitalized while maintenance and
repairs are charged to operations as incurred. Depreciation
expense on plant and equipment was $23.4 million in 2004,
$22.9 million in 2003 and $21.8 million in 2002.

Goodwill and Acquired
Intangible Assets

Teledyne’s goodwill was $166.0 million at
January 2, 2005 and $56.2 million at December 28,
2003. Teledyne’s acquired intangible assets were
$26.0 million at January 2, 2005 and $5.4 million
at December 28, 2003. The increase in both goodwill and
acquired intangibles in 2004 resulted from acquisitions. In all
acquisitions, the results are included in the Company’s
consolidated financial statements from the date of each
respective acquisition. The Company accounts for goodwill and
purchased intangible assets under SFAS No. 141
“Business Combinations” and SFAS No. 142
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”. Business
acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase method by
assigning the purchase price to tangible and intangible assets
acquired and liabilities assumed. Assets acquired and
liabilities assumed are recorded at their fair values and the
excess of the purchase price over the amounts assigned is
recorded as goodwill. Purchased intangible assets with finite
lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Goodwill
and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized,
but reviewed at least annually for impairment. The Company
performs an annual impairment review in the fourth quarter by
comparing the fair value of the reporting units, which are our
four business segments, to their carrying values. Fair values
are estimated using discounted cash flow methodologies that are
based on projections of the amounts and timing of future
revenues and cash flows. Based on the annual impairment review
completed in the fourth quarter of 2004, no impairment of
goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives was
indicated. The allocation of the purchase price for the
acquisition of Tekmar Company was completed as of year-end 2003
and the allocation of the purchase price for the acquisition of
AIS was completed in the first quarter of 2004. The allocation
of the purchase price for the Isco, Inc., Reynolds Industries,
Incorporated and the Filtronic Solid State and Leeman Labs asset
acquisitions are complete as of year-end 2004. Each of the above
acquisitions is part of the Electronics and Communications
segment. Approximately $36.4 million of goodwill recorded
in 2004, is deductible for tax purposes. The Company is in the
process of specifically identifying the amount to be assigned to
intangible assets for the Celeritek acquisition and has made
preliminary estimates as of January 2, 2005, since there
was insufficient time between the acquisition date and the end
of the quarter to finalize the valuation. The preliminary amount
of goodwill recorded as of January 2, 2005 for the
Celeritek acquisition, was $25.0 million. The preliminary



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

amount of intangible assets recorded as of January 2, 2005
for the Celeritek acquisition was $3.9 million. These
amounts were based on estimates that are subject to change
pending the completion of the Company’s internal review and
the receipt of third party appraisals.

The following table summarizes the total intangible assets
acquired as part of the five acquisitions made in 2004 and the
two acquisitions made in 2003 (dollars in millions):

Amortizable intangible assets are amortized on a straight line
basis. The Company recorded $1.4 million and
$0.2 million in amortization expense in 2004 and 2003,
respectively for acquired intangible assets. The expected future
amortization expense for the next five years is as follows (in
millions): 2005-$2.4, 2006-$1.7, 2007-$1.6, 2008-$1.6, 2009-$1.5.

The following is a summary at the acquisition date of the
estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities
assumed for five acquisitions made in 2004 (in millions):

Other Long-Lived
Assets

The carrying value of long-lived assets is periodically
evaluated in relation to the operating performance and sum of
undiscounted future cash flows of the underlying businesses. An
impairment loss



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

is recognized when the sum of expected undiscounted future net
cash flows is less than book value. In 2003, Teledyne recorded a
$2.3 million charge for the write-down of the
Company’s remaining cost-based investment in a private
company engaged in manufacturing and development of micro optics
and microelectromechanical devices. In 2002, Teledyne recorded a
$0.5 million charge for the partial write-down of this
investment. In 2002, Teledyne also recorded a $0.8 million
write-down of certain optoelectronic equipment.

Environmental

Costs that mitigate or prevent future environmental
contamination or extend the life, increase the capacity or
improve the safety or efficiency of property utilized in current
operations are capitalized. Other costs that relate to current
operations or an existing condition caused by past operations
are expensed. Environmental liabilities are recorded when the
Company’s liability is probable and the costs are
reasonably estimable, but generally not later than the
completion of the feasibility study or the Company’s
recommendation of a remedy or commitment to an appropriate plan
of action. The accruals are reviewed periodically and, as
investigations and remediations proceed, adjustments are made as
necessary. Accruals for losses from environmental remediation
obligations do not consider the effects of inflation, and
anticipated expenditures are not discounted to their present
value. The accruals are not reduced by possible recoveries from
insurance carriers or other third parties, but do reflect
anticipated allocations among potentially responsible parties at
federal Superfund sites or similar state-managed sites and an
assessment of the likelihood that such parties will fulfill
their obligations at such sites. The measurement of
environmental liabilities by the Company is based on currently
available facts, present laws and regulations, and current
technology. Such estimates take into consideration the
Company’s prior experience in site investigation and
remediation, the data concerning cleanup costs available from
other companies and regulatory authorities, and the professional
judgment of the Company’s environmental experts in
consultation with outside environmental specialists, when
necessary.

Foreign Currency
Translation

The Company’s foreign entities’ accounts are measured
using local currency as the functional currency. Assets and
liabilities of these entities are translated at the exchange
rate in effect at year-end. Revenues and expenses are translated
at average month end rates of exchange prevailing during the
year. Unrealized translation gains and losses arising from
differences in exchange rates from period to period are included
as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in
stockholders’ equity. Most of the Company’s sales are
denominated in U.S. dollars which mitigates the effect of
exchange rate changes.

Recent Accounting
Pronouncements

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R,
“Share Based Payment”
(“SFAS No. 123R”) that will require
compensation costs related to share-based payment transactions
to be recognized in the financial statements. With limited
exceptions, the amount of compensation costs will be measured
based on the grant date-fair value of the equity or liability
instrument issued. Compensation cost will be recognized over the
period that an employee provides service in exchange for the
award. SFAS No. 123R replaces SFAS No. 123,
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation and supersedes
SFAS No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.
Beginning with the third quarter of 2005, Teledyne plans to
recognize compensation expense in accordance with FASB
No. 123R. The adoption of this standard for the expensing
of stock options is expected to reduce pretax earnings by
$2.2 million in the second half of 2005.

SFAS No. 151. In November 2004, the FASB issued
SFAS No 151, “Inventory Costs-an amendment of ARB
No. 43 Chapter 4”
(“SFAS No. 151”). SFAS No. 151
amends the guidance in ARB



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

No. 43, Chapter 4, “Inventory Pricing,” to
clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility
expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material
(spoilage). SFAS No. 151 requires that those items be
recognized as current-period charges. SFAS No. 151 is
effective for first fiscal years beginning after June 15,
2005. The adoption of SFAS No. 151 is not expected to
have any impact on the Company.

SFAS No. 132.

In December 2003, the FASB issued
SFAS No 132, “Employers’ Disclosures about
Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits” (“SFAS
No. 132”). SFAS No. 132 requires additional
information regarding the types of plan assets, investment
strategy, measurement date, plan obligations, cash flows and
components of net periodic benefit cost recognized during
interim periods as is effective immediately upon issuance. The
Company has included the required disclosures in Note 13 to
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

SFAS No. 150.

In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 150, “Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments
with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity”
(“SFAS No. 150”). This Statement establishes
standards for classifying and measuring as liabilities certain
financial instruments that embody obligations of the issuer and
have characteristics of both liabilities and equity. It
represents a significant change in practice in the accounting
for a number of financial instruments, including mandatorily
redeemable equity instruments and certain equity derivatives
that frequently are used in connection with share repurchase
programs. SFAS No. 150 must be applied immediately to
instruments entered into or modified after May 31, 2003 and
to all other instruments that exist as of the beginning of the
first interim financial reporting period beginning after
June 15, 2003, except for noncontrolling interests of a
limited-life subsidiary which has been deferred indefinitely. As
Teledyne currently has no financial instruments that would be
subject to SFAS No. 150, the adoption had no impact on the
Company.

SFAS No. 149.

In April 2003, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 149, “Amendment of Statement 133 on
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” (“SFAS
No. 149”). SFAS No. 149 amends and clarifies
accounting for derivative instruments, including certain
derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for
hedging activities under SFAS No. 133. SFAS No. 149
clarifies under what circumstances a contract with an initial
net investment meets the characteristics of a derivative and
when a derivative contains a financing component that warrants
special reporting in the statement of cash flows. SFAS
No. 149 is generally effective for contracts entered into
or modified after June 30, 2003 and had no impact on
Teledyne’s financial position or results of operations.

FIN 46.

In January 2003, the FASB issued
Interpretation No. 46, “Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities” (“FIN 46”). FIN 46
requires companies to evaluate variable interest entities to
determine whether to apply the consolidation provisions of
FIN 46 to those entities. Companies must apply FIN 46
to entities created after January 31, 2003, and to variable
interest entities in which a company obtains an interest after
that date. In October 2003, the FASB deferred the effective date
to the first fiscal year or interim period ending after
December 15, 2003, to variable interest entities in which a
company holds a variable interest that is acquired before
February 1, 2003. Teledyne’s adoption of FIN 46
had no impact on the Company’s consolidated results of
operations or financial position.

SFAS No. 143.

In June 2001, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 143 — “Accounting for Asset
Retirement Obligations,” which addresses financial
accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the
retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated
asset retirement costs. Teledyne’s initial adoption of SFAS
No. 143, effective January 1, 2003, did not have a
material effect on its financial position or results of
operations.

Hedging Activities

Teledyne has not utilized derivative financial instruments such
as futures contracts, options and swaps, forward exchange
contracts or interest rate swaps and futures during 2004 or 2003.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Supplemental Cash Flow
Information

Teledyne’s cash payments for federal, foreign and state
income taxes were $30.2 million for 2004 which is net of
refunds of $40 thousand. Teledyne’s cash payments for
federal, foreign and state income taxes were $15.1 million
for 2003 which is net of refunds of $2.2 million.
Teledyne’s cash payments for federal, foreign and state
income taxes were $13.5 million for 2002 which is net of
refunds of $7.4 million. Cash payments for interest and
facility fees by Teledyne totaled approximately
$1.2 million, $0.4 million and $0.7 million for
2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Comprehensive Income

Teledyne’s comprehensive income consists of net income, the
minimum pension liability adjustment, changes in the value of
marketable equity securities and foreign currency translation
adjustments. The minimum pension liability adjustment was
recorded net of deferred taxes of $14.4 million,
$7.6 million and $15.2 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively. See Note 13 for a further discussion of the
pension adjustment. Teledyne’s comprehensive income was
$30.7 million, $41.6 million, and $2.0 million
for the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

The year-end components of accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) are shown in the following table (in millions):

Balance at year-end




Foreign currency translation gains

$

0.4

$

0.4

$

0.2

Gain (loss) on marketable equity security

—

0.1

(0.2

)

Minimum pension liability adjustment

(22.7

)

(11.8

)

(23.2

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

$

(22.3

)

$

(11.3

)

$

(23.2

)

Note 3. 2001 Restructuring, Asset Impairment and Other
Charges

In 2001, the Company recorded a $26.4 million pretax charge
of which $7.5 million was for asset impairment,
$8.8 million was for restructuring and other charges,
$9.8 million was for inventory write-downs and a
$0.3 million pretax charge for discontinued operations.

During 2002, the Company completed the efforts related to the
2001 charge, recording actual expenses of $26.3 million. At
year-end 2002, the cumulative restructuring charges were
$8.1 million, $0.7 million lower than the
2001 year-end estimate, the cumulative charges to cost of
sales related to excess and obsolete inventory were
$10.4 million, $0.6 million higher than the
2001 year-end-estimate, with no change to either the asset
impairment charge or the charge for discontinued operations.
This resulted in $0.2 million of income in the Electronics
and Communications segment in 2002 and an additional cost impact
of $0.1 million in the Systems Engineering segment during
2002. No amounts remain on the balance sheet related to the
charge.

Note 4. Business Combinations and Discontinued
Operation

On October 22, 2004, Teledyne, through its wholly owned
subsidiary Teledyne Wireless, Inc., acquired the defense
electronics business of Celeritek, Inc. (Celeritek) for
$32.7 million in cash, which includes the receipt of a
$0.3 million purchase price adjustment. Celeritek’s
defense electronics business designs and manufactures gallium
arsenide-based radio frequency and microwave components and
subassemblies for electronic warfare, radar and other military
applications. Teledyne relocated the business from
Santa Clara, California and consolidated it with
Teledyne’s operations in Mountain View, California.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

On July 2, 2004 Teledyne Investment, Inc., completed the
acquisition of Reynolds Industries, Incorporated (Reynolds),
headquartered in Los Angeles, California, for total
consideration of $41.2 million which includes the payment
of a purchase price adjustment and is net of cash acquired.
Reynolds is a supplier of specialized high voltage connectors
and subassemblies for defense, aerospace and industrial
applications, as well as unique pilot helmet mounted display
components and subsystems.

On June 18, 2004, Teledyne completed the acquisition of the
stock of Isco, Inc. (Isco) for $16.00 per share in cash or
$93.8 million net of cash acquired. Teledyne sold
$17.3 million of marketable securities acquired as part of
the Isco acquisition and applied the proceeds against debt.
Isco, located in Lincoln, Nebraska, is a producer of water
quality monitoring products such as wastewater samplers and open
channel flow meters. Isco’s liquid chromatography customers
include pharmaceutical laboratories involved in drug discovery
and development. Isco also manufactures chemical separation
instruments for industrial and research use.

Isco’s results have been included since the date of the
acquisition. The unaudited pro forma information below assumes
that Isco had been acquired at the beginning of each fiscal year
and includes the effect of amortization of acquired identifiable
intangible assets as well as increased interest expense on
acquisition debt. Isco’s historical fiscal quarter end had
been approximately three weeks after Teledyne’s fiscal
quarter end. Isco’s historical results were pro-rated to
reflect the same number of days per period as reported by
Teledyne for the periods presented below. This pro forma
financial information is presented for informational purposes
only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of
operations that actually would have resulted had the acquisition
been in effect at the beginning of the respective periods. In
addition, the pro forma results are not intended to be a
projection of future results and do not reflect any operating
efficiencies or cost savings that might be achievable. The
following table contains the pro forma results for the 2004 and
2003 fiscal year.



(Unaudited — in

millions, except per

share amounts)

Net sales

$

1,050.6

$

905.5

Net income

$

43.8

$

30.9

Basic earnings per common share

$

1.35

$

0.96

Diluted earnings per common share

$

1.30

$

0.95

On February 27, 2004, Teledyne Tekmar Company acquired
assets of Leeman Labs, Inc. (Leeman Labs), located in Hudson,
New Hampshire, for $8.1 million in cash, which includes a
payment of a $0.1 million purchase price adjustment. Leeman
Labs’ product lines augment Teledyne’s existing
laboratory and continuous monitoring instruments used in
environmental applications.

On December 31, 2003, which is part of Teledyne’s 2004
fiscal year, Teledyne, through its wholly owned subsidiary
Teledyne Wireless, Inc. acquired certain assets of the Filtronic
Solid State (Solid State) business from Filtronic plc for
$12.0 million in cash. Solid State designs and manufactures
customized microwave subassemblies for electronic warfare, radar
and other military applications. The business, which operates as
Teledyne Microwave, was relocated from Santa Clara,
California to Teledyne’s operations in Mountain View,
California.

On June 27, 2003, Teledyne acquired from Spirent plc its
Aviation Information Solutions businesses (collectively
“AIS”), which include Spirent Systems Wichita, Inc.,
Spirent Systems — Aerospace Solutions (Ottawa) Limited
and assets of United Kingdom-based The Flight Data Company
Limited, for $6.4 million in cash, which is net of a
purchase price adjustment. AIS designs and manufactures
aerospace data acquisition devices, networking products and
flight deck and cabin displays. The acquisition of AIS



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

provides Teledyne with advanced airborne file servers, data
analysis software and information displays that are highly
synergistic with Teledyne Controls’ data acquisition and
communication systems that enhance flight safety and maintenance
efficiency for airline and airfreight customers.

On May 16, 2003, Teledyne acquired Tekmar Company, a wholly
owned subsidiary of Emerson Electric Co., for $13.5 million
in cash. Tekmar Company, also known as Tekmar-Dohrmann, is a
manufacturer of gas chromatography introduction systems and
automated total organic carbon analyzers. Tekmar Company,
located in Mason, Ohio, became a business unit of Teledyne
Instruments, a group of electronic instrumentation businesses
within Teledyne’s Electronics and Communications business
segment. Tekmar Company manufactures instruments that automate
the preparation and concentration of drinking water and
wastewater samples for the analysis of volatile organic
compounds in gas chromatographs. It also provides laboratory
analytical systems for the detection of total organic carbon.

On September 27, 2002, Teledyne acquired Monitor Labs from
Spirent plc for $24 million in cash. Monitor Labs is a
supplier of environmental monitoring instrumentation for the
detection, measurement and reporting of air pollutants with
locations in Englewood, Colorado and Gibsonia, Pennsylvania.

In November 2001, Teledyne acquired API for $25.0 million
in cash. API is a designer and manufacturer of advanced air
quality monitoring instruments, based in San Diego,
California.

Each of the above acquisitions are part of the Electronics and
Communications segment and are included in the consolidated
financial statements since the date of each respective
acquisition.

In July 2001, Teledyne combined its Energy Systems business unit
with assets of Florida based Energy Partners, Inc., to create
majority-owned (86%) Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc. This
transaction was recorded as a transfer of net assets between
entities under common control in accordance with SFAS
No. 141. The company focuses on supplying thermoelectric
and fuel cell power systems to government customers and
hydrogen/oxygen gas generators and test stands to commercial
customers.

In 2000, Teledyne sold the assets of Teledyne Cast Parts, a
provider of sand and investment castings to the aerospace and
defense industries which was previously reported as part of the
Aerospace Engines and Components segment In 2002, Teledyne made
payments for a purchase price adjustment. In 2003 and 2002,
Teledyne made payments for workers’ compensation claims.
The consolidated statements of cash flows reflect payments
related to Teledyne Cast Parts as a discontinued operation.

Note 5. Financial Instruments

Teledyne values financial instruments as required by SFAS
No. 107 — “Disclosures about Fair Value of
Financial Instruments,” as amended. The carrying amounts of
cash and cash equivalents approximate fair value because of the
short maturity of those instruments. Teledyne estimates the fair
value of its long-term debt based on the quoted market prices
for debt of similar rating and similar maturity and at
comparable interest rates. The estimated fair value of
Teledyne’s long-term debt at January 2, 2005
approximated the carrying value of $70.6 million. There was
no long-term debt outstanding at December 28, 2003.

The carrying value of other on-balance-sheet financial
instruments approximates fair value, and the cost, if any, to
terminate off-balance sheet financial instruments (primarily
letters of credit) is not significant.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 6. Accounts Receivable

Accounts receivable are summarized as follows (in millions):

Balance at year-end



U.S. Government and prime contractors contract receivables:

Billed receivables

$

30.1

$

39.7

Unbilled receivables

18.9

14.0

Commercial and other receivables

95.3

70.0

144.3

123.7

Reserve for doubtful accounts

(2.6

)

(2.4

)

Total accounts receivable, net

$

141.7

$

121.3

The billed contract receivables from the U.S. Government
and prime contractors contain $10.0 million and
$13.0 million at January 2, 2005 and December 28,
2003, respectively, due to long-term contracts. The unbilled
contract receivables from the U.S. Government and prime
contractors contain $17.2 million and $13.1 million at
January 2, 2005 and December 28, 2003, respectively,
due to long-term contracts.

Unbilled contract receivables represent accumulated costs and
profits earned but not yet billed to customers. The Company
believes that substantially all such amounts will be billed and
collected within one year.

Note 7. Inventories

Inventories consisted of the following (in millions):

Balance at year-end



Raw materials and supplies

$

35.8

$

22.4

Work in process

80.2

54.0

Finished goods

8.9

12.1

Total inventories at current cost

124.9

88.5

LIFO reserve

(21.6

)

(21.1

)

Progress payments

(5.6

)

(3.8

)

Total inventories, net

$

97.7

$

63.6

Inventories at current cost, determined on the last-in,
first-out method were $82.7 million at January 2, 2005
and $58.4 million at December 28, 2003. The remainder
of the inventory at current cost, $42.2 million at
January 2, 2005 and $30.1 million at December 28,
2003 was determined using the first-in, first-out and average
cost methods and does not differ materially from current cost.

In 2004, the Company recorded LIFO expense of $0.5 million
which resulted from higher inventory levels. During 2003 and
2002, inventory usage resulted in liquidations of last-in,
first-out inventory quantities. These inventories were carried
at the lower costs prevailing in prior years as compared with
the cost of current purchases. The effect of these last-in,
first-out liquidations was to increase income by
$5.1 million in 2003 and $0.8 million in 2002.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Total inventories at current cost were net of reserves for
excess, slow moving and obsolete inventory of $21.2 million
and $14.2 million at January 2, 2005 and
December 28, 2003, respectively. The reserve at
January 2, 2005 reflected reserves acquired as part of
acquisitions made in 2004.

Inventories, before progress payments, related to long-term
contracts were $15.2 million and $23.1 million at
January 2, 2005 and December 28, 2003, respectively.
Progress payments related to long-term contracts were
$4.9 million and $2.1 million at January 2, 2005
and December 28, 2003, respectively.

Under the contractual arrangements by which progress payments
are received, the customer has an ownership right in the
inventories associated with specific contracts.

Note 8. Supplemental Balance Sheet Information

Property, plant and equipment were as follows (in millions):

Balance at year-end



Land

$

8.1

$

4.9

Buildings

55.0

43.2

Equipment

183.3

169.7

246.4

217.8

Accumulated depreciation and amortization

(155.6

)

(141.8

)

Total property, plant and equipment, net

$

90.8

$

76.0

Other long-term assets included amounts related to deferred
compensation, software and other intangible assets. Accrued
liabilities included salaries and wages and other related
compensation reserves of $40.8 million and
$30.2 million at January 2, 2005 and December 28,
2003, respectively. Other long-term liabilities included
aircraft product liability reserves of $21.3 million and
$13.0 million at January 2, 2005 and December 28,
2003, respectively and deferred compensation liabilities of
$12.6 million and $10.5 million at January 2,
2005 and December 28, 2003, respectively. Other long-term
liabilities also included reserves for self-insurance,
environmental liabilities and the long-term portion of
compensation reserves.

Note 9.     Stockholders’
Equity

The following is an analysis of Teledyne’s common stock
activity:

Common

Stock

Balance, December 31, 2001

31,859,839

Stock options exercised and other

188,988

Balance, December 30, 2002

32,048,827

Stock options exercised and other

217,751

Balance, December 29, 2003

32,266,578

Stock options exercised and other

645,784

Balance, January 2, 2005

32,912,362

Shares issued in all three fiscal years include stock options
exercised as well as shares issued under certain compensation
plans.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Preferred Stock

Authorized preferred stock may be issued with designations,
powers and preferences designated by the Board of Directors.
There were no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding in
2004, 2003 or 2002.

Stockholder Rights Plan

On November 12, 1999, the Company’s Board of Directors
unanimously adopted a stockholder rights plan under which
preferred share purchase rights were distributed as a dividend
on each share of Teledyne’s Common Stock distributed to
ATI’s stockholders in connection with the spin-off and each
share to become outstanding between the effective date of the
spin-off and the earliest of the distribution date, redemption
date and final expiration date. The rights will be exercisable
only if a person or group acquires 15 percent or more of
the Company’s Common Stock or announces a tender offer, the
consummation of which would result in ownership by a person or
group of 15 percent or more of the Common Stock. Each right
will entitle stockholders to then buy one-hundredth of a share
of a new series of junior participating preferred stock at an
exercise price of $60 per share. There are
1,250,000 shares of Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock authorized for issuance under the plan. The
record date for the distribution was the close of business of
November 22, 1999. The rights will expire on
November 12, 2009, subject to earlier redemption or
exchange by Teledyne as described in the plan. The rights
distribution is not taxable to stockholders.

Stock Incentive Plan

ATI sponsored an incentive plan that provided for ATI stock
option awards to officers and key employees. Teledyne had
officers and key employees that participated in this plan prior
to the spin-off. In connection with the spin-off, outstanding
stock options held by Teledyne’s employees were converted
into options to purchase Teledyne’s Common Stock. The
number of shares and the exercise price of each ATI option that
was converted to a Teledyne’s option was converted based
upon a formula designed to preserve the inherent economic value,
vesting and term provisions of such ATI options as of the
Distribution Date. The exchange ratio and fair market value of
the Teledyne’s Common Stock, upon active trading, also
impacted the number of options issued to Teledyne’s
employees.

Teledyne has established its own long-term incentive plans which
provide its Board of Directors the flexibility to grant
restricted stock, performance shares, non-qualified stock
options, incentive stock options and stock appreciation rights
to officers and employees of Teledyne.

Stock option transactions for Teledyne’s employees are
summarized as follows:




Weighted

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Average

Exercise

Exercise

Exercise

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Beginning balance

3,364,237

$

14.12

3,256,563

$

14.28

2,757,451

$

14.12

Granted or issued

462,859

$

19.28

525,625

$

13.45

635,150

$

14.49

Exercised

(538,552

)

$

13.35

(112,038

)

$

10.25

(88,138

)

$

10.38

Canceled or expired

(34,090

)

$

18.76

(305,913

)

$

15.63

(47,900

)

$

15.35

Ending balance

3,254,454

$

14.92

3,364,237

$

14.12

3,256,563

$

14.28

Options exercisable at year-end

2,331,729

$

14.28

2,240,672

$

13.78

2,033,423

$

13.29



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following table provides certain information with respect to
stock options outstanding and stock options exercisable at
year-end 2004:

Stock Options

Stock Options Outstanding

Exercisable

Weighted

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Average

Exercise

Remaining

Exercise

Range of Exercise Prices

Shares

Price

Life

Shares

Price

Under $10.00

702,378

$

9.19

4.6

702,378

$

9.19

$10.00 – $14.99

1,233,629

$

13.83

6.8

771,678

$

13.84

$15.00 – $19.99

1,277,530

$

18.77

6.5

820,756

$

18.49

$20.00 – $24.99

9,000

$

22.26

7.3

5,000

$

23.87

$25.00 – $28.69

31,917

$

27.16

5.8

31,917

$

27.16

3,254,454

$

14.92

6.2

2,331,729

$

14.28

Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan

Teledyne also sponsors a stock plan for non-employee directors
pursuant to which non-employee directors receive annual stock
options and may receive stock or stock options in lieu of their
respective retainer and meeting fees. The options become
exercisable one year after issuance. The following table
provides certain information with respect to the non-employee
director stock options outstanding:

Note 10.     Related Party
Transactions

Prior to and in connection with the spin-off, Teledyne and ATI
entered into agreements providing for the separation of the
companies and governing various relationships for separating
employee benefits and tax obligations, indemnification and
transition services. The Company’s principal spin-off
requirements, including the requirement to ensure a favorable
tax treatment, have been satisfied. Three of Teledyne’s
nine directors continue to serve on ATI’s board. In
addition, under one of the spin-off agreements, the Company is
able to charge pension costs to the U.S. Government under
certain government contracts after November 29, 2004. In
2004, Teledyne purchased the “Teledyne” name and
related logos, symbols and marks from an affiliate of ATI for
$412,000.

The Company’s Chairman, President and Chief Executive
Officer is a director of Mellon Financial Corporation. Another
of its directors is a former chief executive officer and
director of Mellon Financial Corporation. All transactions with
Mellon Bank, N.A. and its affiliates are effected under normal



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

commercial terms, and the Company believes that its
relationships with Mellon Bank, N.A. and its affiliates are
arms-length. Mellon Bank, N.A. is one of ten lenders under the
Company’s $280.0 million credit facility, having
committed up to $25.0 million under the facility. Mellon
Bank, N.A. provides cash management services and an uncommitted
$5.0 million line of credit. Mellon Bank, N.A. serves as
trustee under the Company’s pension plan and provides asset
management services for the plan. Mellon Investor Services LLC
serves as our transfer agent and registrar, as well as agent
under the Company’s stockholders’ rights plan.

Note 11.     Long-Term Debt

At January 2, 2005, Teledyne had $70.6 million in
long-term debt outstanding. At December 28, 2003, Teledyne
had no long-term debt outstanding.

On June 15, 2004, the Company terminated its then existing
$200 million five-year revolving credit agreement and
replaced it with a new $280.0 million credit facility that
expires in June 2009. At year-end 2004, the Company had
$203.0 million of available committed credit under the
credit facility, which can be utilized, as needed, for daily
operating and periodic cash needs, including acquisitions.
Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest, at
Teledyne’s option, at a rate based on either a defined base
rate or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), plus
applicable margins. The credit agreement also provides for
facility fees that vary between 0.15% and 0.30% of the credit
line, depending on the Company’s capitalization ratio as
calculated from time to time. The credit agreement requires the
Company to comply with various financial and operating
covenants, including maintaining certain consolidated leverage
and interest coverage ratios, as well as minimum net worth
levels and limits on acquired debt. Total debt at year-end 2004
includes the $70.0 million outstanding under the credit
facility, and $3.2 million assumed in the Isco acquisition,
of which $3.1 million is current. The Company also assumed
a $3.9 million capital lease in the Reynolds acquisition,
of which $0.1 million is current. Teledyne also had
$0.5 million of long-term debt outstanding at year-end 2004
under a $5.0 million uncommitted bank facility. This credit
line is utilized, as needed, for periodic cash needs. At
January 2, 2005, Teledyne had $10.0 million in
outstanding letters of credit.

Total interest expense including facility fees and other bank
charges was $2.2 million in 2004, $1.0 million in 2003
and $0.9 million in 2002.

At January 2, 2005, long-term debt consisted of the
following (in millions):


Revolving credit and bank facility

$

70.5

Other unsecured debt due through March 2009 at varying rates

3.2

Total

73.7

Less:

Current portion

(3.1

)

Total long-term debt

$

70.6

At January 2, 2005, future minimum principal payments on
long-term debt subsequent to January 2, 2005 were as
follows: $3.1 million in 2005, $0.1 million in 2006
and $70.5 million in 2009.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 12.     Income Taxes

Provision for income taxes from continuing operations was as
follows (in millions):

Income before income taxes included income from domestic
operations of $66.5 million for 2004, $43.8 million
for 2003 and $40.1 million for 2002. In 2003, Teledyne
recorded an income tax benefit of $2.4 million due to the
reversal of an income tax contingency reserve which was
determined to be no longer needed during the third quarter of
2003. The following is a reconciliation of the statutory federal
income tax rate to the actual effective income tax rate:




U.S. federal statutory tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

State and local taxes, net of federal benefit

3.8

4.7

4.5

Reserve reversal

(0.3

)

(5.4

)

—

Other

0.2

(1.0

)

0.2

Effective income tax rate

38.7

%

33.3

%

39.7

%

Deferred income taxes result from temporary differences in the
recognition of income and expense for financial and income tax
reporting purposes, and differences between the fair value of
assets acquired in business combinations accounted for as
purchases for financial reporting purposes and their
corresponding tax bases. Deferred income taxes represent future
tax benefits or costs to be recognized when those temporary
differences reverse. A valuation allowance of $3.3 million
exists against deferred tax assets for 2004. Of this amount,
$2.1 million relates to recent acquisitions and if not used
would result in an adjustment of goodwill. A valuation allowance
of $0.6 million was recorded against deferred tax assets
for 2003. No valuation allowance was recorded for 2002. The
categories of assets and liabilities that have



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

resulted in differences in the timing of the recognition of
income and expense were as follows (in millions):

Note 13.     Pension Plans and
Postretirement Benefits

Prior to the spin-off, certain Teledyne’s employees
participated in the defined benefit plan sponsored by ATI.
Benefits under the defined benefit plan are generally based on
years of service and/or final average pay. ATI funded the
pension plan in accordance with the requirements of the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the
Internal Revenue Code.

As of the spin-off date, Teledyne assumed the existing defined
benefit plan obligations for all of Teledyne’s employees,
both active and inactive, at its companies that perform
government contract work and for Teledyne’s active
employees at its companies that do not perform government
contract work. ATI transferred pension assets to fund the new
Teledyne’s defined benefit pension plan.

Teledyne’s pension expense was $8.7 million in 2004 of
which $0.5 million was recoverable in accordance with
U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) from
certain government contracts compared with pension expense of
$6.9 million in 2003 and pension income of
$2.3 million in 2002. No pension expense was recoverable in
accordance with CAS in 2003 or 2002. Teledyne made
$3.1 million in contributions to the defined benefit
pension plan in 2004.

As of the spin-off date, Teledyne also participated in a 401(k)
plan that was open to all full time U.S. employees and was
sponsored by ATI. Teledyne established its own 401(k) plan
effective April 1, 2000. As of January 1, 2004,
non-union new hires participate in an enhanced defined
contribution plan as opposed to the Company’s existing
defined benefit plan. The costs associated with these 401(k)
plans were $3.2 million, $2.9 million, and
$2.8 million, for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

The Company sponsors several postretirement defined benefit
plans covering certain salaried and hourly employees. The plans
provide health care and life insurance benefits for certain
eligible retirees.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following table sets forth the components of net period
pension benefit (income) expense for Teledyne’s defined
benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for 2004,
2003, and 2002 (in millions):

Pension Benefits

Postretirement Benefits







Service cost — benefits earned during the period

$

12.8

$

12.2

$

11.6

$

0.1

$

0.1

$

0.1

Interest cost on benefit obligation

28.7

28.7

27.5

1.1

1.1

1.1

Expected return on plan assets

(35.0

)

(36.4

)

(40.1

)

—

—

—

Amortization of prior service cost

2.1

2.3

2.3

—

—

(0.4

)

Recognized actuarial (gain) loss

0.1

0.1

(3.6

)

(1.1

)

(1.3

)

(1.3

)

Net periodic benefit (income) expense

$

8.7

$

6.9

$

(2.3

)

$

0.1

$

(0.1

)

$

(0.5

)

The following table sets forth the reconciliation of the
beginning and ending balances of the benefit obligation of the
defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans (in
millions):

The measurement date for the Company’s pension and
postretirement plans is December 31.

The following table presents the estimated future benefit
payments for the Company’s pension and postretirement plans
(in millions):

Pension

Postretirement

Plan

Benefit Plan


$

22.0

$

1.6


23.6

1.6


25.6

1.6


27.5

1.6


29.4

1.6

2010–2014

178.6

7.6

Total

$

306.7

$

15.6



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following tables set forth the reconciliation of the
beginning and ending balances of the fair value of plan assets
for Teledyne’s defined benefit pension plans and the
percentage of year-end market value by asset class (in millions):

Pension Benefits



Changes in plan assets:

Fair value of plan assets — beginning of year

$

381.9

$

335.4

Actual return on plan assets

34.3

65.7

Employer contribution — defined benefit plan

3.0

—

Employer contribution — other benefit plans

0.9

0.7

Benefits paid

(21.7

)

(19.9

)

Fair value of plan assets — end of year

$

398.4

$

381.9

Plan Assets %

to Total



Equity Instruments

67.6

%

67.8

%

Domestic Fixed Income Instruments

31.7

%

31.5

%

Cash

0.7

%

0.7

%

Total

100.0

%

100.0

%

In 2003, the Company commenced an active management policy for a
portion of its pension assets. The investment policy includes a
target allocation percentage of 65% in equity instruments and
35% in domestic fixed income instruments. The balance in equity
instruments can range from 60% to 70% before rebalancing is
required under our policy. The expected long-term rate of return
on plan assets is reviewed annually, taking into consideration
our asset allocation, historical returns on the types of assets
held, and the current economic environment.

The following assumptions were used to determine the benefit
obligation and the net benefit cost:

For the year




Weighted average discount rate

6.5

%

7.0

%

7.5

%

Weighted average increase in future compensation levels

3.5

%

4.0

%

4.5

%

Expected weighted-average long-term rate of return

8.5

%

8.5

%

9.0

%

The Company is projecting a long-term rate of return on plan
assets of 8.5% in 2005. The discount rate used in determining
the benefit obligations is expected to be 6.25% in 2005 and the
expected weighted average increase in future compensation levels
is 3.25%.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following table sets forth the funded status and amounts
recognized in Teledyne’s consolidated balance sheets for
the pension and postretirement plans at year-end 2004 and 2003
(in millions):

SFAS No. 87, “Employers’ Accounting for
Pensions,” requires that a minimum pension liability be
recorded if the value of pension assets is less than the
accumulated pension benefit obligation. This condition existed
since year-end 2002. In accordance with the requirements of
SFAS No. 87, the Company has a $22.7 million
non-cash reduction to stockholders’ equity, a long-term
intangible asset of $7.2 million and an additional
long-term pension liability of $44.3 million at year-end
2004. As of year-end 2003, the Company had a $11.8 million
non-cash reduction to stockholders’ equity, a long-term
intangible asset of $8.5 million and an additional
long-term pension liability of $27.9 million. The
adjustments to equity did not affect net income and are recorded
net of deferred taxes. The reduction will be reversed should the
value of the pension assets exceed the accumulated pension
benefit obligation as of a future measurement date.

The annual assumed rate of increase in the per capita cost of
covered benefits (the health care cost trend rate) for health
care plans was 9% in 2004 and was assumed to decrease to 5% by
the year 2010 and remain at that level thereafter. Assumed
health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the
amounts reported for the health care plans. A one percentage
point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would
result in an increase in the annual service and interest costs
by $62 thousand for 2004 and would result in an increase in the
postretirement benefit obligation by $1.1 million at
January 2, 2005. A one percentage point decrease in the
assumed health care cost trend rates would result in a decrease
in the annual service and interest costs by $55 thousand for
2004 and would result in a decrease in the postretirement
benefit obligation by $960 thousand at January 2, 2005.

In May 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. 106-2,
“Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the
Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
2003” (“FSP 106-2”). FSP No. 106-2 provides
guidance on the accounting for the effects of the Medicare
Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
2003” (“The Act”). The Company sponsors retiree
medical programs for certain of its locations and based on
current guidance the Company expects that this legislation will
reduce the Company’s cost for some of these programs. The
Company has estimated the impact related to certain retirees who
retired on or after May 1, 1993 and is in the process of
determining the impact for certain retirees who retired prior to
May 1, 1993. The adoption of FSP No. 106-2 as it
related to retirees who retired on or after May 1, 1993 did
not have a material impact on our results of operations,
financial position or cash flows. The Company has recorded
$0.1 million for 2004 for the expected cost reduction under
the Act for those retirees. The estimated impact for certain
retirees



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

who retired prior to May 1, 1993 is not expected to have a
material impact on our results of operations, financial position
or cash flows.

Note 14.     Business
Segments

Teledyne is a leading provider of sophisticated electronic
components, instruments and communications products, systems
engineering solutions and information technology services, and
aerospace engines and components as well as on-site gas and
power generation systems. Its customers include aerospace prime
contractors, general aviation companies, government agencies and
major communications and other commercial companies.

Teledyne operates in four business segments: Electronics and
Communications, Systems Engineering Solutions, Aerospace Engines
and Components and Energy Systems. The factors for determining
the reportable segments were based on the distinct nature of
their operations. They are managed as separate business units
because each requires and is responsible for executing a unique
business strategy. The Electronics and Communications segment,
sometimes referred to as Teledyne Electronic Technologies,
provides a wide range of specialized electronic systems,
instruments components and services that address niche market
applications in commercial aerospace, communications, defense,
industrial and medical markets. The Systems Engineering
Solutions segment, principally through Teledyne Brown
Engineering, Inc., applies the skills of its extensive staff of
engineers and scientists to provide innovative systems
engineering, advanced technology, and manufacturing solutions to
defense, space, environmental, and homeland security
requirements. The Aerospace Engines and Components segment,
principally through Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc., focuses
on the design, development and manufacture of piston engines,
turbine engines, electronic engine controls and aviation
batteries. The Energy Systems segment, through Teledyne Energy
Systems, Inc., provides on-site gas and power generation systems
based on proprietary electrolysis, thermoelectric and fuel cell
technologies. It currently includes the majority-owned entity
that was formed in the third quarter of 2001.

Segment operating profit includes other income and expense
directly related to the segment, but excludes minority interest,
interest income and expense, gains and losses on the disposition
of assets, sublease rental income and non revenue licensing and
royalty income, domestic and foreign income taxes and corporate
office expenses.

Identifiable assets are those assets used in the operations of
the segments. Corporate assets primarily consist of cash and
cash equivalents, deferred tax assets, net pension
assets/liabilities and other assets.

Information on the Company’s business segments was as
follows (in millions):




Sales

Electronics and Communications

$

567.9

$

446.9

$

388.0

Systems Engineering Solutions

242.2

212.5

206.7

Aerospace Engines and Components

181.8

165.5

162.9

Energy Systems

24.7

15.8

15.1

Total sales

$

1,016.6

$

840.7

$

772.7



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

a)

Total year 2004 segment operating profit includes receipt of
    $2.5 million pursuant to an agreement with Honda Motor Co.,
    Ltd. related to the piston engine business. This amount is
    included as part of other income on the income statement table.




Depreciation and amortization

Electronics and Communications

$

17.5

$

15.4

$

14.8

Systems Engineering Solutions

1.7

1.9

2.1

Aerospace Engines and Components

5.1

5.3

4.4

Energy Systems

0.5

0.5

0.5

Total depreciation and amortization

$

24.8

$

23.1

$

21.8




Capital expenditures

Electronics and Communications

$

12.8

$

14.9

$

8.3

Systems Engineering Solutions

1.7

1.5

3.1

Aerospace Engines and Components

3.2

3.2

3.6

Energy Systems

1.1

0.6

0.4

Total capital expenditures

$

18.8

$

20.2

$

15.4




Identifiable assets

Electronics and Communications

$

439.2

$

228.4

$

197.2

Systems Engineering Solutions

37.1

35.5

37.8

Aerospace Engines and Components

49.8

52.0

53.4

Energy Systems

9.5

8.5

8.3

Corporate

89.2

109.2

102.2

Total identifiable assets

$

624.8

$

433.6

$

398.9



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Information on the Company’s sales to the
U.S. Government, including direct sales as a prime
contractor and indirect sales as a subcontractor, were as
follows (in millions):




Electronics and Communications

$

147.3

$

142.0

$

115.2

Systems Engineering Solutions

240.4

210.3

202.4

Aerospace Engines and Components

26.0

24.7

25.5

Energy Systems

19.4

10.7

9.3

Total U.S. Government sales

$

433.1

$

387.7

$

352.4

Sales to the U.S. Government included sales to the
Department of Defense of $335.4 million in 2004,
$257.9 million in 2003, and $233.5 million in 2002.

Total international sales were $198.0 million in 2004,
$138.3 million in 2003, and $126.6 million in 2002. Of
these amounts, sales by operations in the United States to
customers in other countries were $190.3 million in 2004,
$133.3 million in 2003, and $118.3 million in 2002.
There were no sales to individual countries outside of the
United States in excess of 10 percent of the Company’s
net sales. Sales between business segments, which were not
material, generally were priced at prevailing market prices.

Note 15.

Lease Commitments

The Company leases buildings and equipment under capital and
operating leases. The present value of the minimum capital lease
payments, net of the current portion, totaled $3.8 million
at January 2, 2005. Operating lease agreements, which
include leases for manufacturing facilities and office space
frequently include renewal options and require the Company to
pay for utilities, taxes, insurance and maintenance expense.

At January 2, 2005, future minimum lease payments for
capital leases and for operating leases with non-cancelable
terms of more than one year were as follows (in millions):

Included in the 2004 property, plant and equipment accounts were
$3.4 million of property leased under a capital lease and
$80 thousand related accumulated depreciation. Rental expense
under operating leases, net of sublease income, was
$12.2 million in 2004, $11.9 million in 2003, and
$10.4 million in 2002.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 16.

Commitments and Contingencies

The Company is subject to federal, state and local environmental
laws and regulations which require that it investigate and
remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at
sites associated with past and present operations, including
sites at which the Company has been identified as a potentially
responsible party under the federal Superfund laws and
comparable state laws.

In accordance with the Company’s accounting policy
disclosed in Note 2, environmental liabilities are recorded
when the Company’s liability is probable and the costs are
reasonably estimable. In many cases, however, investigations are
not yet at a stage where the Company has been able to determine
whether it is liable or, if liability is probable, to reasonably
estimate the loss or range of loss, or certain components
thereof. Estimates of the Company’s liability are further
subject to uncertainties regarding the nature and extent of site
contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available,
evolving remediation standards, imprecise engineering
evaluations and estimates of appropriate cleanup technology,
methodology and cost, the extent of corrective actions that may
be required, and the number and financial condition of other
potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their
responsibility for the remediation. Accordingly, as
investigation and remediation of these sites proceeds, it is
likely that adjustments in the Company’s accruals will be
necessary to reflect new information. The amounts of any such
adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s results of operations in a given period, but the
amounts, and the possible range of loss in excess of the amounts
accrued, are not reasonably estimable. Based on currently
available information, however, management does not believe that
future environmental costs in excess of those accrued with
respect to sites with which the Company has been identified are
likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
financial condition or liquidity. However, there can be no
assurance that additional future developments, administrative
actions or liabilities relating to environmental matters will
not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
financial condition or results of operations.

At January 2, 2005, the Company’s reserves for
environmental remediation obligations totaled approximately
$3.5 million, of which approximately $0.2 million were
included in other current liabilities. The Company is evaluating
whether it may be able to recover a portion of future costs for
environmental liabilities from its insurance carriers and from
third parties.

The timing of expenditures depends on a number of factors that
vary by site, including the nature and extent of contamination,
the number of potentially responsible parties, the timing of
regulatory approvals, the complexity of the investigation and
remediation, and the standards for remediation. The Company
expects that it will expend present accruals over many years,
and will complete remediation of all sites with which it has
been identified in up to thirty years.

Various claims (whether based on U.S. Government or Company
audits and investigations or otherwise) have been or may be
asserted against the Company related to its U.S. Government
contract work, including claims based on business practices and
cost classifications and actions under the False Claims Act.
Although such claims are generally resolved by detailed
fact-finding and negotiation, on those occasions when they are
not so resolved, civil or criminal legal or administrative
proceedings may ensue. Depending on the circumstances and the
outcome, such proceedings could result in fines, penalties,
compensatory and treble damages or the cancellation or
suspension of payments under one or more U.S. Government
contracts. Under government regulations, a company, or one or
more of its operating divisions or units, can also be suspended
or debarred from government contracts based on the results of
investigations. However, although the outcome of these matters
cannot be predicted with certainty, management does not believe
there is any audit, review or investigation currently pending
against the Company of which management is aware that is likely
to result in suspension or debarment of the Company, or that is
otherwise likely to have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial condition or liquidity, although the
resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these
matters could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s results of operations for that period.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The Company learns from time to time that it has been named as a
defendant in civil actions filed under seal pursuant to the
False Claims Act. Generally, since such cases are under seal,
the Company does not in all cases possess sufficient information
to determine whether the Company could sustain a material loss
in connection with such cases, or to reasonably estimate the
amount of any loss attributable to such cases. In October 2002,
the Company was informed that the U.S. Government had
declined to intervene in a lawsuit filed under seal, pursuant to
the False Claims Act, more than fours years before. The Company
believes that its Electronic Safety Products unit’s
involvement in this civil action is over, as the
plaintiff’s appeal of the Company’s motion to dismiss
this action has been denied and the plaintiff’s petition
for a rehearing

en banc

by the Court of Appeals for the
DC Circuit has also been denied. Should the plaintiff file a
petition for certiorari with the United States Supreme Court by
March 21, 2005 the Company intends to continue its vigorous
defense.

A number of other lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or
may be asserted against the Company relating to the conduct of
its business, including those pertaining to product liability,
patent infringement, commercial, employment and employee
benefits. While the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted
with certainty, and some of these lawsuits, claims or
proceedings may be determined adversely to the Company,
management does not believe that the disposition of any such
pending matters is likely to have a material adverse effect on
the Company’s financial condition or liquidity, although
the resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these
matters could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s results of operations for that period. Teledyne
has aircraft and product liability insurance with an annual
self-insured retention for general aviation aircraft liabilities
incurred in connection with products manufactured by Teledyne
Continental Motors of $25.0 million. The Company’s
current aircraft product liability insurance policy expires May
2005.

Note 17.     Quarterly
Financial Data (Unaudited)

The following is Teledyne’s quarterly information (in
millions, except per-share amounts):

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

4th Quarter

Fiscal year 2004(a)

Sales

$

219.6

$

238.9

$

270.0

$

288.1

Gross profit

$

51.3

$

60.6

$

75.4

$

83.0

Net income

$

5.9

$

9.9

$

12.5

$

13.4

Basic earnings per share

$

0.18

$

0.31

$

0.38

$

0.41

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.18

$

0.30

$

0.37

$

0.39

(a)

Fiscal year 2004 was a 53-week year, each quarter contained
    13 weeks except for the fourth quarter which was a
    14 week quarter

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

4th Quarter

Fiscal year 2003(a)

Sales

$

197.2

$

205.4

$

215.7

$

222.4

Gross profit

$

45.6

$

51.9

$

52.6

$

53.9

Net income

$

5.5

$

6.5

$

9.9

$

7.8

Basic earnings per share

$

0.17

$

0.20

$

0.31

$

0.24

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.17

$

0.20

$

0.30

$

0.24

(a)

Fiscal year 2003 was a 52-week year, each quarter contained
    13 weeks.



Schedule II

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

For the Fiscal Years Ended January 2, 2005,
December 28, 2003 and December 29, 2002

(In millions)

(a)

Represents payments except the amounts for allowance for
    doubtful accounts primarily represents uncollectible accounts
    written off, net of recoveries.

New York Stock Exchange Annual CEO Certification
(Section 303A.12(a))

As the Chief Executive Officer of Teledyne Technologies
Incorporated, and as required by Section 303A.12(a) of the
New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual, I hereby certify
that as of the date hereof I am not aware of any violation by
the Company of NYSE’s Corporate Governance listing
standards, other than has been notified to the Exchange pursuant
to Section 303A.12(b) and disclosed as an attachment
hereto. (no attachment)

/s/

Robert Mehrabian

Robert Mehrabian

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

April 28, 2004



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized as of March 2, 2005.

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated (Registrant)

By:

/s/

Robert Mehrabian

Robert Mehrabian

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.


EXHIBIT INDEX


*

Submitted electronically herewith.

†

Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
    required to be filed as an Exhibit to this Form 10-K.