10-K


v55323e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR SECTION 15(d)
    OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended
    January 3, 2010

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission file

number: 1-15295

Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)

Delaware

25-1843385

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification Number)

1049 Camino Dos Rios

Thousand Oaks, California

91360-2362

(Address of principal executive
    offices) (Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:

(805) 373-4545

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

New York Stock Exchange

Preferred Share Purchase Rights

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or such shorter period that the registrant was
    required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
    such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
    electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any,
    every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
    pursuant to Rule 405 of

Regulation S-T

during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
    that the registrant was required to submit and post such
    files).  Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of

Regulation S-K

is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this

Form 10-K

or any amendment to this

Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
    “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated
    filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule
    12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer

þ

Accelerated
    filer

o

Non-accelerated
    filer

o

Smaller
    reporting
    company

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes

o

No

þ

The aggregate market value of the registrant’s Common Stock
    held by non-affiliates was $1,203.9 million, based on the
    closing price of a share of Common Stock on June 26, 2009
    ($33.68), which is the last business day of the
    registrant’s most recently completed fiscal second quarter.
    Shares of Common Stock known by the registrant to be
    beneficially owned as of February 26, 2010 by the
    registrant’s directors and the registrant’s executive
    officers subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934 are not included in the computation. The registrant,
    however, has made no determination that such persons are
    “affiliates” within the meaning of

Rule 12b-2

under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

At February 26, 2010, there were 36,209,054 shares of the
    registrant’s Common Stock issued and outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Selected portions of the registrant’s proxy statement for
    its 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the “2010 Proxy
    Statement”) are incorporated by reference in Part III
    of this Report. Information required by paragraphs (d)(1)-(3)
    and (e)(5) of Item 407 of

Regulation S-K

shall not be deemed “soliciting material” or to be
    filed with the Commission as permitted by Item 407 of Regulation
    S-K.

INDEX

Explanatory
    Notes

In this Annual Report on

Form 10-K,

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is sometimes referred to as
    the “Company” or “Teledyne”.

For a discussion of risk factors and uncertainties associated
    with Teledyne and any forward looking statements made by us, see
    the discussion beginning at page 16 of this Annual Report
    on

Form 10-K.

i


PART I

Item 1.

Business.

Who We
    Are

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is a leading provider of
    sophisticated electronic components and subsystems,
    instrumentation and communications products, including defense
    electronics, monitoring and control instrumentation for marine,
    environmental and industrial applications, harsh environment
    interconnect products, data acquisition and communications
    equipment for air transport and business aircraft, and
    components and subsystems for wireless and satellite
    communications. We also provide engineered systems and
    information technology services for defense, space,
    environmental and nuclear applications, manufacture general
    aviation engines and components, and supply energy generation,
    energy storage and small propulsion products.

We serve niche market segments where performance, precision and
    reliability are critical. Our customers include government
    agencies, aerospace prime contractors, energy exploration and
    production companies, major industrial companies, and airlines
    and general aviation companies.

Total sales in 2009 were $1,765.2 million, compared with
    $1,893.0 million in 2008 and $1,622.3 million in 2007.
    Our aggregate segment operating profit and other segment income
    were $193.3 million in 2009, $218.5 million in 2008
    and $194.9 million in 2007. Approximately 56% of our total
    sales in 2009 were to commercial customers and the balance was
    to the U.S. Government, as a prime contractor or
    subcontractor. Approximately 50% of these U.S. Government
    sales were attributable to fixed-price type contracts and the
    balance to cost plus fee-type contracts. Sales to international
    customers accounted for approximately 26% of total sales in 2009.

Our businesses are divided into and managed as four business
    segments; namely, Electronics and Communications, Engineered
    Systems, Aerospace Engines and Components and Energy and Power
    Systems. Our four business segments and their respective
    contributions to our total sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007 are
    summarized in the following table:

Segment




Electronics and Communications


%


%


%

Engineered Systems


%


%


%

Aerospace Engines and Components


%


%


%

Energy and Power Systems


%


%


%


%


%


%

We are a Delaware corporation that was spun off as an
    independent company from Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated (now
    known as Allegheny Technologies Incorporated) (“ATI”)
    on November 29, 1999. Our principal executive offices are
    located at 1049 Camino Dos Rios, Thousand Oaks, California

91360-2362.

Our telephone number is

(805) 373-4545.

Strategy

Our strategy continues to emphasize growth in our core markets
    of instrumentation, defense electronics and government
    engineered systems. Our core markets are characterized by high
    barriers to entry and include specialized products and services
    not likely to be commoditized. We intend to strengthen and
    expand our core businesses with targeted acquisitions. We
    aggressively pursue operational excellence to continually
    improve our margins and earnings. At Teledyne, operational
    excellence includes the rapid integration of the businesses we
    acquire. Over time, our goal is to create a set of businesses
    that are truly superior in their niches. We continue to evaluate
    our product lines to ensure that they are aligned with our
    strategy.



Our
    Recent Acquisitions

During fiscal 2009, given the challenging economic environment,
    we focused more on integrating the nine acquisitions we
    completed during 2008 and cost reductions. The few acquisitions
    that we completed include the following:

•

In the second quarter of 2009, Teledyne RD Instruments, Inc.
    purchased the assets of a marine sensor product line. This
    acquisition adds to our product portfolio of conductivity,
    temperature and depth sensors that measure salinity and sound
    velocity.

•

In 2009, Teledyne Instruments, Inc. acquired the remaining
    14.1 percent of Ocean Design, Inc. that it did not already
    own. Ocean Design, Inc. was subsequently renamed Teledyne ODI,
    Inc.

Teledyne spent $32.5 million on all of its 2009
    acquisitions and investments.

Available
    Information

Our Annual Report on

Form 10-K,

our Quarterly Reports on

Form 10-Q,

any Current Reports on

Form 8-K,

and any amendments to these reports, are available on our
    website as soon as reasonably practicable after we
    electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The
    SEC also maintains a website that contains these reports at
    www.sec.gov. In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines,
    our Corporate Objectives and Guidelines for Employee Conduct,
    our codes of ethics for financial executives, directors and
    service providers and the charters of the standing committees of
    our Board of Directors are available on our website. Our website
    address is

www.teledyne.com.

You will be responsible for any costs normally associated with
    electronic access, such as usage and telephone charges.
    Alternatively, if you would like a paper copy of any such SEC
    report (without exhibits) or document, please write to John T.
    Kuelbs, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary,
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, 1049 Camino Dos Rios,
    Thousand Oaks, California

91360-2362,

and a copy of such requested document will be provided to you,

free-of-charge.

Our
    Business Segments

Our businesses are divided into and managed as four segments:
    Electronics and Communications; Engineered Systems; Aerospace
    Engines and Components; and Energy and Power Systems. Financial
    information about our business segments can be found in
    Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements appearing
    elsewhere in this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

Electronics
    and Communications

Our Electronics and Communications segment provides a wide range
    of specialized electronic systems, instrumentation, components
    and services that address niche market applications in defense,
    marine, environmental, industrial, commercial aerospace,
    communications and scientific markets.

Electronic
    Instruments

During 2001, we formed Teledyne Instruments, a group of business
    units drawn from our Electronics and Communications segment and
    our then designated Systems Engineering Solutions segment, to
    focus on industrial process monitoring applications. Since then
    and through acquisitions, we have grown this electronic
    instrumentation group into three focused platforms, Teledyne
    Marine, Teledyne Environmental and Teledyne Process. More
    recently, we have formed strategic cross-platform business teams
    to deliver more integrated and complete solutions to satisfy
    important customers’ needs under specific Teledyne business
    brands, which include Teledyne Oil & Gas, Teledyne
    Marine, Teledyne Nuclear and Teledyne Water Quality.

Marine Instrumentation.

Historically, through
    Teledyne Geophysical Instruments, we have manufactured
    geophysical streamer cables, hydrophones and specialty products
    used in offshore hydrocarbon exploration to



locate oil and gas reserves beneath the ocean floor. We continue
    to adapt this technology for the military market, where these
    products can be used to detect submarines, surface ships and
    torpedoes.

Through various acquisitions over the last several years, we
    have greatly expanded our underwater acoustic and marine
    instrumentation capabilities.

•

Teledyne RD Instruments, Inc.’s acoustic Doppler current
    profilers perform precise measurement of currents at varying
    depths in oceans and rivers, and its Doppler Velocity Logs are
    used for navigation by civilian and military surface ships and
    unmanned underwater vehicles and by U.S. Navy divers.

•

Teledyne Benthos, Inc. manufactures oceanographic products used
    by the U.S. Navy and in energy exploration, oceanographic
    research and port and harbor security services. Products include
    acoustic modems for networked underwater communication, sidescan
    and

sub-bottom

profiling sonar systems, underwater acoustic releases and
    remotely operated underwater vehicles.

•

Teledyne TSS Limited designs and manufactures inertial sensing,
    gyrocompass navigation and subsea pipe and cable detection
    systems for offshore energy, oceanographic and military marine
    markets. Teledyne TSS’ inertial sensing and navigation
    systems, which contain mechanical gyros and solid state sensors,
    provide detailed positioning parameters for marine applications.
    Teledyne TSS’ electromagnetic detection systems are fitted
    to remotely operated vehicles and used for detection and
    maintenance of subsea telecommunications cables, power cables
    and offshore pipelines.

•

Teledyne Webb Research manufactures autonomous underwater
    gliding vehicles and profiling floats. Our gliders use a silent
    buoyancy engine for propulsion that takes advantage of changes
    in buoyancy in conjunction with wings and tail steering to
    convert vertical motion to horizontal displacement, thereby
    propelling the system on a programmed route with very low power
    consumption. Glider applications range from oceanographic
    research to military persistent surveillance systems and mobile
    nodes for subsea communication networks. We manufactured the
    Slocum glider, dubbed Scarlet Knight, which completed the first
    transatlantic crossing of an autonomous underwater vehicle in
    December 2009.

•

Teledyne Odom Hydrographic, Inc. designs and manufactures
    hydrographic survey instrumentation used in port surveys,
    dredging, pre-installation of offshore energy infrastructure and
    other applications. Teledyne Odom’s single and multibeam
    echo sounders, coupled with Teledyne RD Instruments’
    Doppler Velocity Logs, Teledyne Benthos’ side scan sonar
    systems and Teledyne TSS’ inertial sensing systems, provide
    an extensive line of precision products for marine navigation,
    detection, sonar imaging and bathymetric survey.

•

Teledyne Cormon Limited manufactures subsea and surface pipeline
    corrosion and erosion monitoring, as well as flow integrity
    monitoring solutions for the oil and gas industry. These flow
    assurance sensors and equipment rely on wet-mateable
    interconnect systems from Teledyne ODI and feed-through systems
    from Teledyne D.G. O’Brien.

Marine Interconnects.

We also provide a
    broader range of

end-to-end

undersea interconnect solutions to the offshore oil and gas,
    defense, oceanographic and telecom markets.

•

Teledyne ODI, Inc. manufactures subsea, wet-mateable electrical
    and fiber-optic interconnect systems used in offshore oil and
    gas production, oceanographic research and military applications.

•

Teledyne D.G. O’Brien manufactures

glass-to-metal

sealed subsea cable, pressure vessel penetrator and connector
    systems, primarily for subsea military and subsea oil and gas
    production.

•

Teledyne Impulse manufactures water-proof and splash-proof
    neoprene and glass reinforced epoxy connectors and cable
    assemblies that complement Teledyne D.G. O’Brien’s and
    Teledyne ODI’s interconnect systems typically used in
    underwater equipment and submerged monitoring systems.

•

Through Teledyne Storm Products, Inc., we also provide custom,
    high-reliability bulk wire and cable assemblies to a number of
    marine, environmental and industrial markets.



Environmental Instrumentation.

We offer a wide
    range of products for environmental monitoring.

•

Teledyne Advanced Pollution Instrumentation, Inc. manufactures a
    broad line of instrumentation for monitoring trace levels of
    gases such as sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide,
    nitrogen oxide, methane and ozone in order to measure the
    quality of the air we breathe.

•

Teledyne Monitor Labs, Inc. supplies environmental monitoring
    systems for the detection, measurement and reporting of air
    pollutants from industrial stack emissions.

•

Teledyne Isco, Inc. produces water quality and quantity
    monitoring products such as wastewater samplers and open channel
    flow meters. A variety of measurement technologies is offered to
    address challenging flow measurement applications in pump
    stations, flumes, weirs, industrial and municipal sewer systems
    and storm drains.

Laboratory Instrumentation.

We provide
    laboratory instrumentation that complements our environmental
    monitoring business.

•

Teledyne Tekmar Company manufactures laboratory instrumentation
    that automates the preparation and concentration of organic
    samples for the analysis of trace levels of volatile organic
    compounds by a gas chromatograph and mass spectrometry. The
    company also provides laboratory instrumentation for the
    detection of total organic carbon and total nitrogen in water
    and wastewater samples.

•

Through Teledyne Leeman Labs, we provide inductively coupled
    plasma laboratory spectrometers, atomic absorption
    spectrometers, mercury analyzers and calibration standards. The
    advanced elemental analysis products are used by environmental
    and quality control laboratories to detect trace levels of
    inorganic contaminants in water, foods, soils and other
    environmental and geological samples.

•

Teledyne Isco, Inc. manufactures liquid chromatography
    instruments and accessories for purification of organic
    compounds. Its liquid chromatography customers include
    pharmaceutical laboratories involved in drug discovery and
    development. It also manufactures high precision, high pressure
    syringe pumps to measure process extraction rates of fluids
    ranging from liquefied gases to viscous tars with flow rates
    spanning

sub-micro

liter to 400 ml per minute with applied pressures up to 20,000
    psi.

Industrial Process Instrumentation.

A group of
    Teledyne businesses serve the process control and monitoring
    needs of industrial plants with instruments that include gas
    analyzers, vacuum and flow measurement devices, package
    integrity inspection systems and torque measurement sensors.

•

Teledyne Analytical Instruments was a pioneer in the development
    of precision oxygen analyzers. We now manufacture a wide range
    of process gas and liquid analysis products for measurement of
    oxygen, combustibles,

oil-in-water,

moisture, sulfides, pH and many other parameters. We also
    manufacture custom analyzers systems that provide turn-key
    solutions to complex process monitoring

and/or

control applications found in petrochemical and refinery
    facilities.

•

Teledyne Hastings Instruments manufactures a broad line of
    instruments for precise measurement and control of vacuum and
    gas flows. Our instruments are used in varied applications such
    as semiconductor manufacturing, refrigeration, metallurgy and
    food processing.

•

Under the
    Taptone

®

brand, Teledyne Benthos, Inc. provides quality control and
    package integrity systems to the food and beverage, personal
    care and pharmaceutical industries that inspect plastic, glass
    and metal containers, labeling and content for various types of
    defects and non-conformities.

•

Through Teledyne Test Services, we manufacture torque sensors
    and automatic data acquisition systems that are used to
    instrument critical control valves subject to regulatory
    oversight, such as the requirement to test periodically the
    torque, thrust and force of motor-operated valves used in
    nuclear power plants.



Defense
    Electronics, Products and Services

Microwave Components and
    Subsystems.

Historically, through Teledyne MEC,
    we have designed and manufactured helix traveling wave tubes
    that are used to provide broadband power amplification of
    microwave signals. Military applications include radar,
    electronic warfare and satellite communication. Through Teledyne
    Microwave, we design, develop and manufactures RF and microwave
    components and subassemblies used in aerospace and defense
    applications, including electronic warfare and radar and
    networked communications.

Over the last several years, we have expanded our microwave
    components and subsystems businesses with the goal of providing
    more highly integrated microwave subsystems to our defense
    customers.

•

Teledyne Cougar, Inc. produces cascadable amplifiers,
    voltage-controlled oscillators and microwave mixers, as well as
    performance Instantaneous Frequency Measurement (IFM)-based
    systems and subsystems, including integrated frequency locked
    sources and set-on receiver jammers used for the U.S. Navy
    and Air Force training.

•

Teledyne KW Microwave adds RF filters, multiplexers and
    diplexers to our product mix.

•

Teledyne Defence Limited provides customized microwave
    subassemblies and integrated subsystems, including complex
    microwave receiver front-end subsystems, to the global defense
    industry.

High Reliability Connectors and Cable
    Assemblies.

We have also expanded our connectors
    and cable assemblies businesses.

•

Through Teledyne Reynolds, Inc., we supply specialized high
    voltage connectors and subassemblies for defense, aerospace and
    industrial applications.

•

Through Teledyne Storm Microwave, we provide coax microwave
    cable and interconnects primarily to defense customers for
    radar, electronic warfare and communications applications.

•

We also produce pilot helmet mounted display components and
    subsystems for the Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing System
    (“JHMCS”) used in the F-15, F-16 and F-18 aircrafts.
    The JHMCS system is a multi-role system designed to enhance
    pilot situational awareness and provides visual control of
    aircraft targeting systems and sensors.

Imaging Sensors.

We design and produce
    advanced focal plane arrays, sensors, and subsystems covering a
    broad spectrum of light from below 0.3 micron ultra-violet to 18
    micron long-wave infrared.

•

Through Teledyne Imaging Sensors, we provide large format focal
    plane array sensors for both military and space science markets.
    We have been developing manufacturing processes to support
    production of third generation dual band infrared imagers
    designed to allow members of the armed forces to identify
    threats on the battlefield before the enemy can detect their
    presence. We have developed substrate-removed Mercury Cadmium
    Telluride focal plane arrays that can detect about 80% of the
    incident light in visible and infrared bands. These substrate
    removed sensors are being used on the Moon Mineralogy Mapper
    being developed for the James Webb Space Telescope and are
    expected to be used in future NASA missions.

•

Teledyne Imaging Sensors also designs and manufactures advanced
    military laser protection eyewear.

•

Through Teledyne Judson Technologies, we provide a wider range
    of visible and infrared detectors, focal plane arrays and
    cameras. We have developed low noise Indium Gallium Arsenide
    focal plane arrays for short wavelength infrared night vision
    applications and integrated detector dewar cooler assemblies for
    tactical and space applications.

Military Microelectronics and Electronics
    Manufacturing.

Through Teledyne Microelectronics
    Technologies, we develop and manufacture custom microelectronic
    modules that provide both high reliability and extremely dense
    packaging for military applications. We also develop custom
    tamper-resistant microcircuits designed to provide enhanced
    security in military communication. We also serve the market for
    high-mix, low-volume manufacturing of sophisticated military
    electronics equipment principally from our facility in Tennessee.



Sequencers.

Teledyne Electronic Safety
    Products continues to provide microprocessor-controlled aircraft
    ejection seat sequencers and related support elements to
    military aircraft programs, including the

F/A-18E/F

and

F/A-22.

Since 2006, under a five-year contract, we have produced the
    Digital Recovery Sequencer to support the F-15, F-16, F-22,
    F-117,

A-10,

B-1 and B-2 aircrafts. We also have developed and produce a new
    sequencer in support of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program.

Relays and Switches.

Teledyne Relays supplies
    electromechanical relays, solid-state power relays and coaxial
    switching devices to military and aerospace markets.

Research and Development Services.

Through
    Teledyne Scientific Company, we provide research and engineering
    services primarily in the areas of electronics, materials,
    optics, and information sciences. Our scientific team delivers
    research and development services and specialty products to
    military, aerospace and industrial customers. We also license
    various technologies to third parties. The electronics division
    has developed high speed electronics, Micro Electro Mechanical
    Systems (MEMS) sensors and actuators, as well as compound
    semiconductors. The materials, optics and information sciences
    division has been involved with ceramic composites for
    next-generation rocket nozzles, energy harvesting technologies,
    electronic device packaging, biomaterials and liquid
    crystal-based optical devices, as well as imaging and sensor
    processing. We strive to maintain close relationships and
    collaborations with the Defense Advanced Research Products
    Agency, commonly called DARPA, and researchers at universities
    and national laboratories to stay at the forefront of
    cutting-edge technologies. Teledyne Scientific Company strives
    to provide value to business units throughout Teledyne via niche
    product development, critical problem resolution and joint
    program capture. For example, Teledyne Reynolds is using an
    optical

angle-of-arrival

sensor invented at Teledyne Scientific Company in a
    “U-Track” pilot helmet tracker joint development
    effort. The Teledyne Oil & Gas group is working with
    Teledyne Scientific Company in an effort to improve the
    reliability of materials exposed to harsh deep sea conditions.

Other
    Commercial Electronics

Aircraft Information Management.

Our aircraft
    information management solutions are designed to increase the
    reliability and efficiency of airline transportation.

•

Through Teledyne Controls, we are a leading supplier of digital
    flight data acquisition and flight safety systems to the civil
    aviation market. These systems acquire data for use by the
    aircraft’s flight data recorder as well as record
    additional data for the airline’s operation, such as
    aircraft and engine condition monitoring. We also provide the
    means to transfer this data, using Teledyne’s patented
    wireless technology, from the aircraft to the airline operation
    center.

•

Our Aviation Information Solutions business designs and
    manufactures aerospace Electronic Flight Bag equipment,
    networking products, and flight deck and cabin displays.

•

Our Data Loading Solutions business designs and manufactures
    aircraft data loading equipment, flight line maintenance
    terminals and data distribution software used by commercial
    airlines, the U.S. military and aircraft manufacturers.

Microwave Components and Microelectronic
    Modules.

Through Teledyne MEC, we make traveling
    wave tubes, commonly called TWTs, for commercial applications
    such as electromagnetic compatibility test equipment and
    satellite communication terminals. More recently, we have
    designed and delivered high power solid state TWT replacement
    amplifiers and complete amplifiers that incorporate a TWT and a
    power supply.

In addition to military microelectronic modules, Teledyne
    Microelectronic Technologies develops and manufactures custom
    microelectronic modules that provide both high reliability and
    extremely dense packaging for implantable medical devices, such
    as pacemakers and defibrillators, and commercial communication
    products.

Relays, Switches and Connectors.

In addition
    to military and aerospace markets, Teledyne Relays supplies
    electromechanical relays, solid-state power relays and coaxial
    switching devices to industrial, medical and commercial aviation
    markets. Applications include microwave and wireless
    communication infrastructure,



RF and general broadband test equipment, test equipment used in
    semiconductor manufacturing, and industrial and commercial
    machinery and control equipment. On commercial aircraft, our
    electromechanical relays are used in a range of applications
    from jet engine fuel control to managing control surfaces to
    internal avionics. Our solid state relays are used in aircraft
    entertainment systems and on board communications systems.

Engineered
    Systems

Our Engineered Systems segment, principally through Teledyne
    Brown Engineering, Inc., applies the skills of its extensive
    staff of engineers and scientists to provide innovative systems
    engineering and integration, advanced technology application,
    software development, and manufacturing solutions to space,
    military, environmental, energy, air, chemical, biological and
    nuclear systems and missile defense requirements.

Defense
    Systems

Teledyne Brown Engineering is a well-recognized full-service
    missile defense contractor with more than 50 years of
    experience in air and missile defense and related systems
    integration. Our diverse customer base in this field includes
    the U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command
    (“AMCOM”), the U.S. Army’s Space and Missile
    Defense Command (“SMDC”), the Missile Defense Agency
    (“MDA”) and Defense Department major prime contractors.

We play significant roles in diverse missile defense areas,
    which include analyses of alternatives, site operations and
    deployment, systems engineering, modeling and simulation, test
    and evaluation, and complex real time

hardware-in-the-loop

integration with an evolution to Service Oriented Architecture
    (“SOA”) solutions. Our engineering and technological
    capabilities include requirements definition, systems design,
    development, integration and testing, with specialization in SOA
    and real-time distributed systems.

During 2009, we continued our long-standing support of several
    air and missile defense programs, including the Ground-based
    Midcourse Defense (“GMD”), Missile Defense Systems
    Exerciser, the Extended Air Defense Simulation
    (“EADSIM”) and, as part of the MDA, the Targets and
    Countermeasures and Single Stimulation Framework programs. The
    associated support tasks involve analyses and test and
    evaluation of ballistic missile defense system performance on a
    large number of major programs, including the Ground-based
    Midcourse Defense, Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense, the Patriot
    Advanced Capability 3, and the Terminal High Altitude Area
    Defense (“THAAD”) systems. GMD revenues are expected
    to decline in 2010 as U.S. Government priorities change.

In addition to our missile defense activities, we are supporting
    many other Defense Department programs. Supported programs
    include the Navy’s Tactical Medical Logistics
    (“TML”) program, the Mission Package Development Lab
    for the Littoral Combat Ship, deployment of Littoral Battlespace
    Sensing Gliders and Patriot Missile validation and verification
    for the Lower Tier Project Office. Tasking spans complex
    hardware integration and software development and testing, from
    design through systems fielding and operation.

Aerospace
    Systems

We are active in U.S. space programs and continue to be a
    significant contributor to NASA programs.

We have held various roles in the Space Shuttle program and
    continue to play a vital role in the science operations area of
    the International Space Station (“ISS”) program. Our
    cadre provides

24-hour-per-day

payload operations in the ISS Payload Operations and Integration
    Center located at NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center. TBE
    has supported well over 75,000 hours of science operations
    for NASA and its customers, and is skilled at fabricating
    space-qualified hardware and designing and integrating
    experiment payloads. We also work on the ISS Cargo Mission
    Contract at the Johnson Space Center as a subcontractor to
    Lockheed Martin. Since January 2004, we have provided services
    related to the planning, preparation and execution of cargo
    missions to the ISS.

We are the prime contractor on the Marshall Space Flight Center
    Systems Development and Operations Support Contract, which
    provides engineering services and hardware development support
    for a variety of



space activities. We also have a prime Blanket Purchase
    Agreement with the Marshall Space Flight Center for specialized
    engineering and program support. We perform engineering and
    software services under this contract for NASA’s new Ares
    launch vehicles.

Chemical,
    Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) Systems

We support the U.S. Government’s efforts to clean up
    dangerous materials and waste. Since 1996, we have supported the
    U.S. Army’s Non-Stockpile Chemical Materiel Program.
    We also have begun to apply sophisticated computer aided
    engineering, design, modeling and manufacturing skills to
    support the U.S. Army’s Edgewood Chemical and
    Biological Center.

In November 2007, we were awarded a contract from the Department
    of Defense to develop and test the Joint Material
    Decontamination System (JMDS) for U.S. military forces. The
    JMDS will be designed to remove toxic contamination as a result
    of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons from sensitive
    electronic equipment, command posts, aircraft and avionics, and
    other applications where water and harsh decontamination
    materials could damage or destroy items being decontaminated.

We operate a Department of Energy-certified radiological
    analysis services laboratory in Knoxville, Tennessee. This
    laboratory has received certification from the National
    Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program in three states,
    including Utah where the largest commercial radiological waste
    disposal site resides. With its Nuclear Utilities Procurement
    Issues Committee certification, the laboratory also serves
    one-third of the nuclear power plants in United States.

Manufactured
    Products

We manufacture products that are primarily highly engineered and
    high quality machined and metal fabricated components and
    assemblies for external customers across the spectrum of our
    core business base, including for NASA, Department of Defense
    branches and the Department of Energy programs, as well as
    commercial customers. Additionally, our Manufactured Products
    group provides manufacturing services for all products delivered
    by our Defense Systems, CBRN Systems and Aerospace Systems
    business units.

Expanding on our core nuclear quality-related manufacturing, in
    February 2008, Fluor Enterprises, Inc., acting as an agent for
    USEC, awarded us a contract to manufacture and deliver an
    initial complement of gas centrifuge service modules to support
    fuel production for commercial nuclear power plants. We
    currently anticipate reduced sales of gas centrifuge service
    modules in 2010 under this contract due to a suspension of work
    notice received on August 13, 2009, caused by the
    U.S. Department of Energy’s delayed decision regarding
    USEC’s application for a loan guarantee to complete
    construction of the American Centrifuge Project. Failure to
    secure such guarantees would seriously jeopardize USEC’s
    ability to finance, and therefore complete, the project.

Teledyne
    Solutions, Inc.

Through Teledyne Solutions, Inc., we are a primary missile
    defense systems engineering and technical assistance contractor.
    Teledyne Solutions is a principal prime contractor for the
    Systems Engineering and Technical Assistance Contract in support
    of the Missile Defense Agency. We also provide engineering and
    services support to other major Department of Defense customers
    including the U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command,
    the Program Executive Office for Missiles and Space, the Defense
    Threat Reduction Agency, and the U.S. Army Aviation and
    Missile Command.

Teledyne
    CollaborX, Inc.

Through Teledyne CollaborX, Inc., we provide full system
    acquisition lifecycle support from concept development to
    sustainment. Teledyne CollaborX provides engineering services to
    the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Army, Office of Secretary of
    Defense, Missile Defense Agency and select military combatant
    commands such as the U.S. Joint Forces Command,
    U.S. Strategic Command, and U.S. Northern Command.



Aerospace
    Engines and Components

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment focuses on the
    design, development and manufacture of piston engines,
    aftermarket support and electronic engine controls for the
    general aviation market.

Piston
    Engines

Principally through Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc., we
    design, develop and manufacture piston engines, ignition
    systems, and aftermarket engines and spare parts for general
    aviation airframe manufacturers and the aftermarket. We are one
    of two primary worldwide original equipment producers of piston
    aircraft engines for the general aviation marketplace. We are
    also beginning to be involved in the early work for high
    altitude, high endurance unmanned aerial vehicle power systems.

We offer a complete line of piston engines that power some of
    the most advanced and successful piston engine powered aircraft
    in the world. Our current certified OEM product lines include
    engines for the Cirrus SR-20 and SR-22, the Diamond DA20, Cessna
    350 Corvalis and 400 Corvalis series (formerly built by Columbia
    Aircraft Company), the Liberty XL2, the Beechcraft Bonanza and
    Baron aircraft, Mooney Ovation and Acclaim lines, and the Piper
    Seneca V twin-engine aircraft. Our O-200 Light Weight air-cooled
    engine powers Cessna Aircraft Company’s Light Sport
    Aircraft known as the SkyCatcher, which entered production and
    had its first customer delivery in 2009.

In late 2009, Teledyne Continental Motors took the first steps
    to continue its technological leadership with the introduction
    of its TD300 Turbo Diesel engine for piston powered aircraft.
    Although readily available in the United States, aviation
    gasoline is not easily obtainable in many parts of the world.
    The introduction of a line of heavy fuel based engines will
    potentially improve the international desire for and
    competitiveness of American produced aircraft. In addition, the
    use of heavy fuels improves the fuel economy and potentially the
    emission characteristics of piston engines when compared to
    current gasoline fueled engine technology.

Aftermarket
    Support/Factory Services

In addition to the sales of OEM engines, we actively support the
    maintenance and replacement aircraft engine market. Our
    aftermarket support includes building and rebuilding of complete
    engines, as well as providing a full complement of spare parts
    such as cylinders, crankcases, fuel systems, crankshafts,
    camshafts and ignition products. Through our dedicated Factory
    Services Group with locations in Mattituck, New York and
    Fairhope, Alabama, we provide repairs and overhauls of piston
    engines and engine installations to the general aviation
    marketplace for both Teledyne Continental Motors and Textron
    Lycoming aircraft engines.

Energy
    and Power Systems

Our Energy and Power Systems segment designs and manufactures
    hydrogen gas generators, thermoelectric, electrochemical and
    fuel cell-based power sources, batteries and small turbine
    engines.

Teledyne
    Energy Systems, Inc.

Through Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc., a majority owned
    subsidiary of Teledyne, we manufacture hydrogen/oxygen gas
    generators that utilize the principle of electrolysis to convert
    water into high purity hydrogen gas at useable pressures. This
    business unit also provides energy technology solutions for use
    in U.S. Government programs.

Our Teledyne
    Titan

tm

gas generators are used worldwide in electrical power generation
    plants, semiconductor manufacturing, optical fiber production,
    chemical processing, specialty metals, float glass and other
    industrial processes. Our sales of hydrogen generators have been
    primarily in developing countries and domestic applications
    where delivered merchant gas is not practical.

For over 50 years, we have supplied high reliability direct
    energy conversion devices based on thermoelectric technology. We
    provided the thermoelectric power systems for the Pioneer 10 and
    11 deep-space missions to Jupiter and Saturn and for the Viking
    1 and Viking 2 Mars Landers. In 2006, in partnership with
    Pratt Whitney/



Rocketdyne and under a ten-year $57 million contract signed
    in 2003 with the U.S. Department of Energy, we completed
    all of the testing of the Multi-Mission Radioisotope
    Thermoelectric Generator (MMRTG), which will provide long-term
    power for the outer planetary explorations of the future. The
    first mission to use this system will be the Mars Science
    Laboratory currently scheduled to launch in the fall of 2011.

Another important space power activity is work performed with
    NASA on PEM fuel cell stacks and systems being developed to
    support both manned and unmanned robotic missions in space.
    Compared to conventional space power technology, PEM fuel cells
    enable more efficient use of resources and can be integrated
    into regenerative aerospace energy platforms.

Aviation
    Batteries

Our
    Gill

®

line of lead acid batteries is widely recognized as the premier
    power source for general aviation. We have developed premium
    Valve Regulated Lead Tin (LT 7000 Series) aviation batteries for
    business and light jet applications. Our LT7000 Series battery
    is now certified as Original Equipment on the Embraer Phenom 100
    Jet, the Embraer Phenom 300 Jet, the Gulfstream G250 and the
    Bell 429 Helicopter. Teledyne Battery Products continues to
    explore military battery opportunities.

Turbine
    Engines

Teledyne Turbine Engines designs, develops and manufactures
    small turbine engines primarily used in tactical missiles for
    military markets.

Our J402 engine powers the Harpoon missile system. Derivatives
    of this engine power the Standoff Land Attack Missile and the
    Standoff Land Attack Missile-Expanded Response. Lockheed Martin
    Corporation selected a derivative of the J402 engine to power
    the Joint

Air-to-Surface

Standoff Missile (“JASSM”). We are the sole source
    provider of engines for the baseline JASSM system. Delays in
    production funding on the JASSM are expected to result in lower
    sales in 2010.

Our J700 engine provides the turbine power for the Improved
    Tactical Air Launched Decoy (“ITALD”) built for the
    U.S. Navy. The ITALD system enhances combat aircraft
    survivability by both serving as a decoy and identifying enemy
    radar sources. A variant of the ITALD is being considered for
    use as a low cost target by several potential international
    customers.

In 2009, we continued to work on advanced technology for small
    turbine engines and components under contract to the
    U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory sponsored Versatile
    Advanced Affordable Turbine Engine (VAATE) program. Advanced
    technology engine and component demonstrators continue to be
    developed for the next generation cruise missile and UAVs.

Customers

We have hundreds of customers in the electronics,
    communications, aerospace and defense industries. No commercial
    customer accounted for more than 10% of our total sales during
    2009, 2008 or 2007.

Approximately 44%, 40%, and 41% of our total sales for 2009,
    2008 and 2007, respectively, were derived from contracts with
    agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government.
    Our principal U.S. Government customer is the
    U.S. Department of Defense. These sales represented 34%,
    29% and 30% of our total sales for 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, our largest program with
    the U.S. Government was the Systems Engineering and
    Technical Assistance contract with the Space and Missile Defense
    Command, and



it represented 3.8%, 3.5% and 4.3% of total sales, respectively.
    Set forth below are sales by our segments to agencies and prime
    contractors to the U.S. Government for the periods
    presented:

U.S.
    Government Sales




(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

420.0

$

386.0

$

334.4

Engineered Systems

307.5

322.4

298.0

Energy and Power Systems

50.3

46.1

32.1

Total U.S. Government sales

$

777.8

$

754.5

$

664.5

As described on pages 18 through 21, there are risks
    associated with doing business with the U.S. Government. In
    2009, approximately 50% of our U.S. Government prime
    contracts and subcontracts were fixed-price type contracts,
    compared to 48% in 2008 and 42% in 2007. Under these types of
    contracts, we bear the inherent risk that actual performance
    cost may exceed the fixed contract price. Such contracts are
    typically not subject to renegotiation of profits if we fail to
    anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or
    control costs during performance. Additionally,
    U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the
    U.S. Government at its convenience, without identification
    of any default. When contracts are terminated for convenience,
    we typically recover costs incurred or committed, settlement
    expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination. We
    had seven U.S. Government contracts terminated for
    convenience in 2009, compared to five in 2008 and four in 2007.

Our total backlog of confirmed orders was approximately
    $831.0 million at January 3, 2010, $842.8 million
    at December 28, 2008 and $707.2 million at
    December 30, 2007. We expect to fulfill 98% of such backlog
    of confirmed orders during 2010.

Sales to international customers accounted for approximately 26%
    of total sales in 2009, compared with 24% in 2008 and 22% in
    2007. In 2009, we sold products to customers in over 100 foreign
    countries. Approximately 90 percent of our sales to foreign
    customers were made to customers in 28 foreign countries. The
    2009 top five countries for international sales, which included
    the United Kingdom, Norway, Germany, Japan and Canada,
    constituted approximately 12.9% of our total sales.

Sales and
    Marketing

Our sales and marketing approach varies by segment and by
    products within our segments. A shared fundamental tenet is the
    commitment to work closely with our customers to understand
    their needs, with an aim to secure preferred supplier and
    longer-term relationships.

Our business segments use a combination of internal sales
    forces, distributors and commissioned sales representatives to
    market and sell our products and services. As part of on-going
    acquisition integration efforts, some of our Teledyne
    Instruments companies and other business units have been working
    to consolidate or share internal sales and servicing efforts.
    Several Teledyne businesses have begun marketing and selling
    products collaboratively to similar customers to promote
    “one-stop” shopping under singular “brand”
    names, including Teledyne Oil & Gas, Teledyne Marine,
    Teledyne Nuclear and Teledyne Water Quality.

Products are also advertised in appropriate trade journals and
    by means of various websites. To promote our products and other
    capabilities, our personnel regularly participate in relevant
    trade shows and professional associations.

Many of our government contracts are awarded after a competitive
    bidding process in which we seek to emphasize our ability to
    provide superior products and technical solutions in addition to
    competitive pricing.

Through Teledyne Technologies International Corp. and other
    subsidiaries, the Company has established offices in foreign
    countries to facilitate international sales for various
    businesses.



Competition

We believe that technological capabilities and innovation and
    the ability to invest in the development of new and enhanced
    products are critical to obtaining and maintaining leadership in
    our markets and the industries in which we compete. Although we
    have certain advantages that we believe help us compete
    effectively in our markets, each of our markets is highly
    competitive. Our businesses vigorously compete on the basis of
    quality, product performance and reliability, technical
    expertise, price and service. Many of our competitors have, and
    potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a
    larger installed base of products, more extensive engineering,
    manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and
    greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we
    do.

Research
    and Development

Our research and development efforts primarily involve
    engineering and design related to improving product lines and
    developing new products and technologies in the same or similar
    fields. We spent a total of $376.9 million in 2009,
    $395.8 million in 2008 and $355.1 million in 2007 on
    research and development and bid and proposal costs.
    Customer-funded research and development, most of which was
    attributable to work under contracts with the
    U.S. Government, represented approximately 84% of total
    research and development costs for 2009, compared to 83% in each
    of 2008 and 2007.

In 2009, approximately 83% of the $60.8 million in
    Company-funded research and development and bid and proposal
    costs were incurred in our Electronics and Communications
    businesses. We expect the level of Company-funded research and
    development and bid and proposal costs to be approximately
    $65.5 million in 2010.

Intellectual
    Property

While we own and control various intellectual property rights,
    including patents, trade secrets, confidential information,
    trademarks, trade names, and copyrights, which, in the
    aggregate, are of material importance to our business, we
    believe that our business as a whole is not materially dependent
    upon any one intellectual property or related group of such
    properties. We own several hundred active patents and are
    licensed to use certain patents, technology and other
    intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others.
    Similarly, other companies are licensed to use certain patents,
    technology and other intellectual property rights owned and
    controlled by us.

Patents, patent applications and license agreements will expire
    or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with
    their terms or otherwise. We do not expect the expiration or
    termination of these patents, patent applications and license
    agreements to have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations or financial condition.

Employees

Our total current workforce consists of approximately
    8,100 employees. The International Union of United
    Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of
    America represents approximately 270 active employees at
    our Teledyne Continental Motors piston engine manufacturing
    facility in Mobile, Alabama under a collective bargaining
    agreement that expired by its terms on February 20, 2010,
    but continues under a temporary renewal as negotiations
    continue. This union also represents approximately 10 active
    employees at the Teledyne Turbine Engines facility in Toledo,
    Ohio under a collective bargaining agreement that expired on
    November 10, 2009. While employees continue to work and
    labor negotiations are occurring under both agreements, there is
    no assurance that a strike or work stoppage may not occur.
    Overall, we consider our relations with our employees to be good.



Executive
    Management

Teledyne’s executive management includes:

Name and Title

Age

Principal Occupations Last 5 Years

Executive Officers:

Robert Mehrabian

*

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Director


Dr. Mehrabian has served as Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer of Teledyne for more than five years. He is a
    director of Teledyne, Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and
    PPG Industries, Inc.

John T. Kuelbs

*

Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary


Mr. Kuelbs has been Executive Vice President, General Counsel
    and Secretary of Teledyne since September 1, 2005. Prior to
    that, he was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
    Secretary of Teledyne.

Dale A. Schnittjer

*

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Mr. Schnittjer has been Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer of the Company since September 1, 2005. From
    January 27, 2004 to September 1, 2005, he was Vice President and
    Chief Financial Officer of Teledyne.

Susan L. Main*

Vice President and Controller


Ms. Main has been Vice President and Controller of the Company
    since March 2004.

Segment Management:

Aldo Pichelli*

President and Chief Operating Officer, Electronics and
    Communications Segment


Mr. Pichelli has been President and Chief Operating Officer of
    Teledyne’s Electronics and Communications segment since
    September 1, 2007. From July 22, 2003 to that date, he was
    Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of that
    segment.

Rex D. Geveden*

President, Engineered Systems and Energy and Power Systems
    Segments


Mr. Geveden has been the President of Teledyne Brown
    Engineering, Inc. and the Engineered Systems segment  since
    August 1, 2007. Since January 1, 2008, he has also been the
    President of the Energy and Power Systems segment. Prior to
    that, Mr. Geveden served as the Associate Administrator of the
    National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) where he
    functioned as the agency’s chief operating officer. Prior
    to that, he served as NASA’s Chief Engineer and Deputy
    Director of NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center in
    Huntsville, Alabama.

Rhett C. Ross

President, Aerospace Engines and Components Segment


Mr. Ross has been the President of Teledyne Continental Motors,
    Inc. since November 5, 2007. Mr. Ross is also referred to as the
    President of the Aerospace Engines and Components segment. Prior
    to that he was the President of Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc.
    since its formation in June 2001.

Other Officers:

Stephen F. Blackwood

Vice President and Treasurer


Mr. Blackwood has been Vice President and Treasurer of Teledyne
    since April 23, 2008.  From March 2007 to April 2008, he was
    Treasurer and Senior Director of Investor Relations of MannKind
    Corporation, a biotechnology company.  From September 2005 until
    the sale of the company in December 2006, he was Vice President
    and Treasurer of Pacific Energy Partners, L.P., a MLP holding
    company. Prior to that, he was Director of Global Treasury at
    Amgen, Inc., a biotechnology company.

Ivars R. Blukis

Chief Business Risk Assurance Officer


Mr. Blukis has been the Chief Business Risk Assurance Officer
    since January 22, 2002 and is responsible for the internal audit
    function.



Name and Title

Age

Principal Occupations Last 5 Years

Melanie S. Cibik

Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary


Miss Cibik has been Vice President, Associate General Counsel
    and Assistant Secretary of the Company for more than five years.

Robyn E. McGowan

Vice President, Administration, Human Resources and Assistant
    Secretary


Ms. McGowan has been Vice
    President — Administration, Human Resources and
    Assistant Secretary of the Company for more than five years.

Robert L. Schaefer

Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary, General
    Counsel of the Electronics and Communications Segment


Mr. Schaefer has been an Associate General Counsel and an
    Assistant Secretary of Teledyne and the General Counsel of
    Teledyne’s Electronics and Communications segment for more
    than five years.

Robert W. Steenberge

Vice President and Chief Technology Officer


Mr. Steenberge became a Vice President of the Company on
    February 21, 2006, and has been Teledyne’s Chief Technology
    Officer for more than five years.

Jason VanWees

Vice President, Corporate Development and Investor Relations


Mr. VanWees has been Vice President, Corporate Development and
    Investor Relations since February 21, 2006. Prior to that, he
    was Director of Corporate Development and Investor Relations of
    Teledyne for more than five years.

*

Such officers are subject to the reporting and other
    requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act
    of 1934, as amended.

Dr. Mehrabian and Teledyne have entered into a Fourth
    Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of
    January 21, 2009. Under the agreement, we will employ
    Dr. Mehrabian as the Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer through at least December 31, 2011,
    because 12 months notice of nonrenewal had not been given
    prior to the expiration of the term ended December 31,
    2009. The agreement automatically renews for a successive one
    year unless either party gives the other written notice of its
    election not to renew at least 12 months before the
    expiration of the current term or any successive renewal terms.
    If notice is given, Dr. Mehrabian would then retire on
    December 31st of the year following the 12th month
    after receipt of the notice. Under the agreement,
    Dr. Mehrabian’s annual base salary is $840,000. The
    agreement provides that Dr. Mehrabian is entitled to
    participate in Teledyne’s annual incentive bonus plan
    (“AIP”) and other executive compensation and benefit
    programs. The agreement provides Dr. Mehrabian with a
    non-qualified pension arrangement, under which Teledyne will pay
    him annually starting six months following his retirement and
    for a period of 10 years, as payments supplemental to any
    accrued pension under our qualified pension plan, an amount
    equal to 50% of his base compensation as in effect at retirement.

Sixteen current members of management have entered into Change
    in Control Severance Agreements with Teledyne. The agreements
    have a three-year, automatically renewing term. Under the
    agreements, the executive is entitled to severance benefits if
    (1) there is a change in control of Teledyne and
    (2) within three months before or 24 months after the
    change in control, either we terminate the executive’s
    employment for reasons other than for cause or the executive
    terminates employment for good reason. “Severance
    benefits” consist of:

•

A cash payment equal to three times (in the case of
    Dr. Mehrabian, Messrs. Kuelbs and Schnittjer) or two
    times (in the case of Mr. Pichelli, Mr. Geveden and 11
    other executives) the sum of (i) the executive’s
    highest annual base salary within the year preceding the change
    in control and (ii) the AIP bonus target for the year in
    which the change in control occurs or the actual bonus payout
    for the year immediately preceding the change in control,
    whichever is higher.

•

A cash payment for the current AIP bonus cycle based on the
    fraction of the year worked times the AIP target objectives at
    120% (with payment of the prior year bonus if not yet paid).



•

Payment in cash for unpaid Performance Share Program awards,
    assuming applicable goals are met at 120% of performance.

•

Continued equivalent health and welfare (e.g., medical, dental,
    vision, life insurance and disability) benefits at
    Teledyne’s expense for a period of up to 36 months
    (24 months in some agreements) after termination (with the
    executive bearing any portion of the cost the executive bore
    prior to the change in control); provided, however, such
    benefits would be discontinued to the extent the executive
    receives similar benefits from a subsequent employer.

•

Immediate vesting of all stock options, with options being
    exercisable for the full remaining term.

•

Removal of restrictions on restricted stock issued by the
    Company under our Restricted Stock Award Programs.

•

Full vesting under the Company’s pension plans (within
    legal parameters) such that the executive shall be entitled to
    receive the full accrued benefit under all such plans in effect
    as of the date of the change in control, without any actuarial
    reduction for early payment.

•

Up to $25,000 ($15,000 in some agreements) reimbursement for
    actual professional outplacement services.

•

A

“gross-up-payment”

to hold the executive harmless against the impact, if any, of
    federal excise taxes imposed on the executive as a result of the
    payments constituting an “excess parachute” as defined
    in Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code.

The agreements were amended as of December 31, 2008 to
    defer certain payments for six months following a separation of
    service to assure compliance with Section 409A of the
    Internal Revenue Code.

Effective April 22, 2009, the Company entered into
    individual Indemnification Agreements with directors and certain
    officers and executives of Teledyne, including those members of
    Executive Management listed above. A total of 25 persons
    have such agreements. Simply, the Indemnification Agreements
    provide the directors and executives who are parties to the
    agreements with a stand-alone contractual right to
    indemnification and expense advancement to the greatest extent
    allowable under Delaware law. Some further details include:

•

In a third-party proceeding, an indemnitee is entitled to
    indemnification if the indemnitee acted in good faith and in a
    manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to
    the best interests of the Company and, if in a criminal action
    or proceeding, if the indemnitee had no reason to believe that
    his or her conduct was unlawful. In a third party proceeding,
    the indemnification obligation covers reasonable expenses,
    judgment fines, and amounts paid in settlement actually and
    reasonably incurred by the indemnity.

•

In proceedings by or in the name of the Company (e.g.,
    derivative suits), an indemnitee is entitled to indemnification
    if the indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner he or she
    reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best
    interests of the Company. In derivative suits, the
    indemnification obligation covers reasonable expenses, but in
    proceedings where the Company is alleging harm caused by the
    indemnitee, the indemnitee would generally not be entitled to be
    indemnified for judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement
    (otherwise the Company would effectively not recover any
    damages), unless perhaps a Delaware or other court determines
    otherwise despite the finding of liability.

•

An indemnitee is presumed to be entitled to indemnification,
    with the Company bearing the burden of proof to demonstrate
    otherwise.



•

The determination of an indemnitee’s entitlement to
    indemnification is to be made, at the Company’s expense, as
    follows:

•

By (i) a majority vote of disinterested directors (or a
    committee thereof); (ii) if no disinterested directors are
    available or if they so direct, by independent legal counsel
    selected by the Board; or (iii) by a stockholder
    vote; or

•

Following a change of control or if the indemnitee requests, by
    independent legal counsel selected by the indemniteee (or, if
    the indemnitee chooses, the independent legal counsel can be
    selected by the Board).

•

The Company has an obligation to advance, on an unsecured and
    interest free basis, reasonable expenses incurred by the
    indemnitee within 30 days of the indemnitee’s request.
    The indemnitee does not need to meet any standard of conduct to
    be entitled to advancement of expenses and there is no
    determination requirement to be made by the Board in connection
    with the advancements of expenses.

•

By signing the agreement, the indemnitee undertakes to repay any
    amounts advanced if it is ultimately determined that the
    indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification.

Our indemnification obligations do not cover the following
    situations:

•

Where the indemnification payments have been made under
    Director’s and Officer’s insurance or other
    indemnification provisions;

•

Where the claim is based on disgorgement of short-swing profits
    under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act;

•

Where the claim is based on reimbursement by the indemnitee to
    the Company of a bonus or other incentive-based or equity-base
    compensation if required under the Exchange Act (e.g., in
    connection with a restatement as a result of the company’s
    noncompliance with the financial reporting requirements required
    by Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act); or

•

Where the proceeding is initiated by the indemnitee (other than
    proceedings that are consented to by the Board or that the
    indemnitee initiates against the Company to enforce the
    Agreement).

Under the Indemnification Agreements, in the event of a change
    in control or we reduce or do not renew our Director’s and
    Officer’s insurance coverage, we are required to purchase
    (or cause the acquirer or successor to the Company to purchase
    or maintain) a six-year tail policy, subject to a 200% premium
    cap. The agreements continue until the later of
    (i) 10 years after the indemnitee ceases to serve as a
    director or officer, and (ii) one year following the final
    termination of any proceeding subject to the agreement.

Item 1

A.
    Risk Factors.

Risk
    Factors; Cautionary Statement as to Forward-Looking
    Statements

The following text highlights various risks and uncertainties
    associated with Teledyne. These factors could materially affect
    “forward-looking statements” (within the meaning of
    the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that
    we may from time to time make, including forward-looking
    statements contained in “Item 1. Business” and
    “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this

Form 10-K

and in Teledyne’s 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders. It is
    not possible for management to predict all such factors, and new
    factors may emerge. Additionally, management cannot assess the
    impact of each such factor on Teledyne or the extent to which
    any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results
    to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking
    statements.



Continuing
    disruptions in the global economy, the financial markets, the
    currency markets and the energy markets, as well as government
    responses to these disruptions, may adversely impact our
    business and results of operations.

Continuing distress in the financial markets has had an adverse
    impact on the availability of credit and liquidity resources. We
    do not believe, however, that any lender commitments under our
    current $590 million credit facility, which expires in July
    2011, have been adversely affected. Continued market
    deterioration nonetheless could jeopardize certain counterparty
    obligations, including those of the insurers and financial
    institutions with which we do business. Some of our customers
    may face issues gaining access to sufficient credit, which could
    result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments
    to us or a determination to cancel, delay or otherwise not
    purchase our products. Due to reduced credit availability, many
    of our marine survey customers are continuing to delay the
    building of new exploration vessels and to reduce maintenance
    expenditures on their existing fleets. Such delays continue to
    adversely affect sales of our geophysical streamer cables and
    hydrophones. Lack of availability of consumer credit and the
    general economic downturn have adversely impacted the market for
    general aviation aircraft, which generally means lower sales of
    piston engines and related components by us. Some of our
    suppliers may also continue to face issues gaining access to
    sufficient credit to maintain their businesses, which could
    reduce the availability of some components and, to the extent
    such suppliers are single source suppliers, could adversely
    affect our ability to continue to manufacture and sell our
    products. Additionally, there have been fluctuations in currency
    markets. To the extent the U.S. dollar becomes stronger
    relative to many other major currencies, our products priced in
    U.S. dollars may be more expensive relative to products of
    our foreign competitors, which could result in lower sales.
    Further, the non-dollar denominated earnings of our foreign
    operations may be lower when reported by us in
    U.S. dollars. A slowdown in economic activity caused by a
    continuing recession would likely reduce worldwide demand for
    energy and result in lower oil and natural gas prices, which
    could result in lower sales at our business units that supply
    the oil and gas industry. Conversely disruptions that increase
    the price of oil and gas could negatively affect market demand
    for products that we sell to general and commercial aircraft
    markets. Government responses to these market disruptions have
    signaled reductions in, and could further reduce, spending for
    defense programs and other government programs in which we
    participate.

We sell
    products and services to customers in industries that are
    cyclical and sensitive to changes in general economic
    activity.

We develop and manufacture products for customers in the energy
    exploration and production markets, each of which has been
    cyclical and suffered from fluctuating market demands. Strong
    demand and increased prices for oil and natural gas historically
    has contributed to substantial revenue growth at Teledyne
    Geophysical Instruments, Teledyne ODI and our other marine
    businesses. A cyclical downturn in these markets may materially
    affect future operating results, particularly given our broader
    range of marine instrumentation businesses acquired since 2003.

Domestic and international commercial aerospace markets are
    cyclical in nature. Historic demand for new commercial aircraft
    has been related to the stability and health of domestic and
    international economies. As a result of economic conditions and
    significant tightening of the credit markets, it may continue to
    be difficult for the commercial airlines and aircraft leasing
    companies to obtain credit to buy new airplanes. Delays or
    changes in aircraft and component orders could impact the future
    demand for our Teledyne Controls and other products and have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
    and financial condition.

Many of the OEM customers of our Aerospace Engines and
    Components segment are privately-held and may not be
    well-capitalized. Over the last several years a few airline
    manufacturer customers of Teledyne Continental Motors have filed
    for bankruptcy protection. For example, in 2007, one such
    bankruptcy resulted in a $1.7 million write-off of our
    related accounts receivable. Besides write-offs, we may have to
    pay back amounts received shortly before a customer’s
    filing of bankruptcy due to purported preferential timing of
    payments received. Fortunately, such deemed preferential
    payments have been relatively small. While Teledyne Continental
    Motors tries to monitor its customers’ payment streams and
    financial wherewithal and avail itself of available
    pre-bankruptcy protections, among other things, such actions may
    only mitigate losses, not prevent them. Any future credit
    problems with our customers could result in similar or larger
    write-offs or



reimbursements, and have a material adverse effect on the
    business, results of operations and financial condition of our
    Aerospace Engines and Components segment.

Some of our businesses are also suppliers to the semiconductor
    industry, which is highly cyclical by nature. The semiconductor
    industry has experienced significant, and sometimes prolonged,
    downturns. Any downturn in the semiconductor industry or any
    other industry that uses a significant number of semiconductor
    devices, such as consumer electronic products, telecommunication
    devices, or computing devices could have a material adverse
    effect on our business and operating results.

In addition, we sell products and services to customers in
    industries that are sensitive to the level of general economic
    activity and consumer spending habits and in more mature
    industries that are sensitive to capacity. Adverse economic
    conditions affecting these industries may reduce demand for our
    products and services, which may reduce our profits, or our
    production levels, or both. Some of our businesses serve
    industries such as power generation and petrochemical refining,
    which may be negatively impacted by reductions in global capital
    expenditures and manufacturing capacity.

Our
    dependence on revenue from government contracts subjects us to
    many risks:

Our
    revenue from government contracts depends on the continued
    availability of funding from the U.S. Government, and,
    accordingly, we have the risk that funding for our existing
    contracts may be canceled or diverted to other uses or
    delayed.

We perform work on a number of contracts with the Department of
    Defense and other agencies and departments of the
    U.S. Government including

sub-contracts

with government prime contractors. Sales under contracts with
    the U.S. Government as a whole, including sales under
    contracts with the Department of Defense, as prime contractor or
    subcontractor, represented approximately 44% of our total
    revenue in 2009, as compared with 40% in 2008 and 41% in 2007.
    Performance under government contracts has certain inherent
    risks that could have a material effect on our business, results
    of operations, and financial condition.

Government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing
    availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress typically
    appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis
    even though contract performance may take more than one year. As
    a result, at the beginning of a major program, a contract is
    typically only partially funded, and additional funding is
    normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only
    as Congress makes appropriations available for future fiscal
    years. The timing of program cycles can also affect our results
    of operations for a particular quarter or year. It is not
    uncommon for the Department of Defense to delay the timing of
    awards for major programs for six to twelve months, or more,
    beyond the original projected timeframe.

While U.S. defense spending increased as a result of the
    September 11th terrorist attacks and the war in Iraq,
    it is currently expected to moderate and then decline over the
    next few years. The continued war on terrorism and the Iraq and
    Afghanistan wars could result in a diversion of funds from
    programs in which Teledyne participates. In addition, continued
    defense spending does not necessarily correlate to continued
    business for us, because not all of the programs in which we
    participate or have current capabilities may be provided with
    continued funding.

Changes in policy and budget priorities by the President, his
    Administration and our Congress for various Defense and NASA
    programs could continue to impact our Engineered Systems and
    Energy and Power Systems segments. For example, changes in
    national space policy that affect NASA’s budget are likely.
    There have already been significant reductions in missile
    defense budgets and we anticipate continuing scrutiny of those
    budgets to impact our revenues. Our Energy and Power Systems
    segment may be further impacted by delays in production funding
    on the Joint Air to Surface Standoff Missile (“JASSM”)
    program. In addition, reductions and delays in research and
    development funding by the U.S. Government may continue to
    impact our revenues. As the new director of the Defense Advanced
    Research Projects Agency, referred to as DARPA, reviews its
    programs aimed to enhance technologically U.S. military
    capabilities and national security, changes to the DARPA
    research and technology development programs in which we
    participate could occur.



Our Electronics and Communications segment provides a variety of
    products for several military platforms, including the F-35
    Joint Strike Fighter. Development and production of this
    aircraft is very expensive and there is no guarantee that the
    Department of Defense, as it balances budget priorities, will
    continue to provide funding to manufacture and support the F-35
    aircraft or other platforms for which we provide products. In
    January 2010, delays in the F-35 program were signaled. In 2009,
    Congress had made the decision to curtail F-22A aircraft
    funding. Reallocation of funding priorities within the
    Department of Defense could also affect repair and spares sales
    for older military platforms, including, by way of example,
    sales of our traveling wave tubes for F-15, F-16, F-18, EA-6B,
    B-52, B-1, C-130 and U-2 aircraft.

Our
    participation in government programs may decrease or be subject
    to renegotiation as those programs evolve over time.

The relocation to Huntsville, Alabama of the Missile Defense
    Agency or MDA has resulted in the transfer to the MDA of certain
    missions and functions from the U.S. Army Space and Missile
    Defense Command or SMDC. New leadership at the MDA is conducting
    solicitations that could impact support by our Engineered
    Systems segment to the Agency. For example, all MDA government
    engineering support services work is now to be recompeted at the
    conclusion of each existing contract, and several major prime
    contracts under which we perform such services are nearing the
    end of their respective periods of performance.

The U.S. Government has also placed emphasis on
    Organizational Conflict of Interest or OCI. As a result,
    requests for proposals in the areas of engineering support,
    testing and operational analysis are restricting bidders from
    related development and integration work. This may require some
    business units or subsidiaries of Teledyne to abstain or
    withdraw from contract competition if other Teledyne businesses
    may be affected by an OCI. In particular, the MDA is
    reconsidering its policy on OCI. It is reviewing all OCI
    mitigation plans and may require more rigid mitigatory
    conditions going forward, potentially limiting our participation
    in certain major MDA programs, such as Ground-Based Midcourse
    Defense.

The U.S. Government has been placing emphasis on small
    business quotas and increasing small business contract set
    asides and minimum work percentages. In some cases, prime
    contractors are required to reduce large subcontractor
    participation in order to fill small business quotas and be
    responsive to proposals and bids. Additionally, the General
    Accounting Office or GAO has issued rulings which favor the
    interests of small businesses under multiple award Indefinite
    Delivery/Indefinite Quantity or IDIQ contracts. Several of the
    contracts under which we perform engineering support services
    for MDA are of this type and, as a result, our engineering
    services business could be significantly impacted.

Over time, and for a variety of reasons, programs can evolve and
    affect the extent of our participation. For example, Teledyne
    Brown Engineering, Inc.’s Ground-based Midcourse Defense
    (“GMD”) program has been negatively impacted by both
    the nominal end date of development activity and the change in
    focus of the current Administration relative to missile defense.
    Teledyne Brown Engineering’s revenues for the GMD program
    declined from approximately $45 million in 2007 to
    $43 million in 2008 to $31 million in 2009. In 2010
    and 2011, revenues from the GMD program are expected to decrease
    below $20 million per year as the U.S Government’s
    priorities for missile defense move toward regional defense
    architectures to defeat short- and mid-range threats. Although
    Teledyne Brown Engineering remains a major subcontractor on the
    GMD program, future growth opportunities revolve around
    MDA’s conduct of ground and flight test activities in 2011
    and beyond, and there is uncertainty regarding these activities.

We have been a significant participant in NASA programs,
    primarily through our Engineered Systems segment and through
    Teledyne Scientific Company. Our current NASA activities focus
    on the International Space Station and the James Webb Space
    Telescope. As NASA approaches completion of the International
    Space Station and retirement of the Space Shuttle, our
    Engineered Systems segment has moved away from its historical
    role in scientific payload development and integration and
    toward supporting NASA with concept development, engineering
    services, and prototype development for the new Ares crew launch
    vehicles for space exploration. The President, his
    Administration and Congress have been leaning towards shifting
    funding away from exploration toward other priorities such as
    earth science and aeronautics. Such policy and priority changes
    would likely negatively impact our business.



We may
    not be successful in bidding for future contracts, which would
    reduce our revenues or slow our growth.

We obtain many U.S. Government prime contracts and
    subcontracts through the process of competitive bidding. We may
    not be successful in having our bids awarded. In addition, we
    may spend substantial amounts of time, money and effort,
    including design, development and marketing activities, required
    to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be
    awarded to us. In 2009, we incurred $13.9 million on bid
    and proposals costs, compared with $13.8 million in 2008
    and $12.2 million in 2007.

Our
    contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to termination
    rights that could adversely affect us.

Most of our U.S. Government contracts are subject to
    termination by the U.S. Government either at its
    convenience or upon the default of the contractor. Even when not
    expressly included in a U.S. Government contract, courts
    have validated termination for convenience as a matter of public
    procurement policy. Termination for convenience provisions
    provide only for the recovery of costs incurred or committed,
    settlement expenses, and profit on work completed prior to
    termination. Termination for default clauses impose liability on
    the contractor for excess costs incurred by the
    U.S. Government in reprocuring undelivered items from
    another source. During 2009, Teledyne had seven
    U.S. Government contracts terminated for convenience, all
    of which were in our Electronics & Communications
    segment. We did not have any of our U.S. Government
    contracts terminated for default during 2009.

We may
    lose money or generate less than expected profits on our
    fixed-price government contracts and we may lose money if we
    fail to meet certain pre-specified targets in government
    contracts.

There is no guarantee that U.S. Government contracts will
    be profitable. A number of our U.S. Government prime
    contracts and subcontracts are fixed-price type contracts (50%
    of our total U.S. Government contracts in 2009, 48% in 2008
    and 42% in 2007). Under these types of contracts, we bear the
    inherent risk that actual performance cost may exceed the fixed
    contract price. This is particularly true when the contract is
    awarded and the price finalized in advance of final completion
    of design. Under such contracts, we must absorb cost overruns,
    notwithstanding the difficulty of estimating all of the costs we
    will incur in performing these contracts. Our failure to
    anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or
    control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract may
    reduce profitability or cause a loss. We have also experienced
    some volatility in the pricing of certain raw materials and
    components underlying our fixed-price contracts. Such contracts
    are typically not subject to renegotiation of profits if we fail
    to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or
    control costs during performance. We cannot assure that our
    contract loss provisions in our financial statements will be
    adequate to cover all actual future losses. We may lose money on
    some contracts if we fail to meet these estimates.

Certain fees under some of our U.S. Government contracts
    are linked to meeting specified technical, cost

and/or

schedule targets, including development or testing deadlines.
    Fees may also be influenced or be dependent on the collective
    efforts and success of other defense contractors over which we
    had no or limited control.

Our
    business is subject to government contracting regulations and
    our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm
    our operating results and prospects.

We, like other government contractors, are subject to various
    audits, reviews and investigations (including private party
    “whistleblower” lawsuits) relating to our compliance
    with federal and state laws. Generally, claims arising out of
    these U.S. Government inquiries and voluntary disclosures
    can be resolved without resorting to litigation. However, should
    the business unit or division involved be charged with
    wrongdoing, or should the U.S. Government determine that
    the business unit or division is not a “presently
    responsible contractor,” that business unit or division,
    and conceivably our Company as a whole, could be temporarily
    suspended or, in the event of a conviction, could be debarred
    for up to three years from receiving new government contracts or
    government-approved subcontracts. In addition, we could expend
    substantial amounts



defending against such charges and in damages, fines and
    penalties if such charges were proven or were to result in
    negotiated settlements.

United
    States and global responses to terrorism, the Iraq and
    Afghanistan wars, Mexican border town violence, nuclear
    proliferation concerns and potential epidemics increase
    uncertainties with respect to many of our businesses and may
    adversely affect our business and results of
    operations.

United States’ and global responses to terrorism, the Iraq
    and Afghanistan wars, Mexican border town violence and nuclear
    proliferation concerns increase uncertainties with respect to
    U.S. and other business and financial markets. Several
    factors associated, directly or indirectly, with terrorism, the
    Iraq and Afghanistan situations and perceived nuclear threats
    and responses may adversely affect us. The reaction to
    Iran’s continuing desire to explore nuclear capabilities
    could adversely affect oil prices and some of our businesses.

While some of our businesses that provide products or services
    to the U.S. Government experienced greater demand as a
    result of increased U.S. Government defense spending,
    various responses could realign government programs and affect
    the composition, funding or timing of our government programs.
    The President, his Administration and Congress could also
    further alter government programs. Government spending could
    shift to the Department of Defense or Homeland Security programs
    in which we may not participate or may not have current
    capabilities. These decisions could curtail less pressing
    non-defense programs in which we do participate, including
    Department of Energy or NASA programs. Government spending could
    also shift towards non-defense programs in which we do not
    currently participate.

Air travel declines have occurred after terrorist attacks and
    heightened security alerts, as well as after the H1N1 virus,
    SARS and bird flu scares. Additional declines in air travel
    resulting from such factors and other factors could adversely
    affect the financial condition of many of our commercial airline
    and aircraft manufacturer customers and, in turn, could
    adversely affect our Electronics and Communications segment. In
    addition, a prolonged virus epidemic or pandemic, or the threat
    thereof, could result in worker absences, lower productivity,
    voluntary closure of our offices and manufacturing facilities,
    disruptions in our supply chain, travel restrictions on our
    employees, and other disruptions to our businesses. Moreover,
    health epidemics may force local health and government
    authorities to mandate the temporary closure of our offices and
    manufacturing facilities, as was done with our Mexico operations
    in 2009.

Deterioration of financial performance of airlines could result
    in a reduction of discretionary spending for upgrades of
    avionics and in-flight communications equipment, which would
    adversely affect our Electronics and Communications segment.

The U.S. Government continues to evaluate potential
    security issues associated with general aviation. Increased
    government regulations, including but not limited to increased
    airspace regulations (including user fees), could lead to an
    overall decline in air travel and have an adverse affect on our
    Aerospace Engines and Components and Energy and Power Systems
    segments. As happened after the
    September 11th terrorist attacks, reinstatement of
    flight restrictions would negatively impact the market for
    general aviation aircraft piston engines and components of our
    Aerospace Engines and Components segment and associated products
    of Teledyne Battery Products. Potential reductions in the need
    for general aviation aircraft maintenance as a result of
    declines in air travel could also adversely affect our Aerospace
    Engines and Components segment.

Higher oil prices could reduce general aviation air travel,
    negatively affecting our Aerospace Engines and Components
    segment. Higher oil prices could also adversely affect
    commercial airline-related customers of our Electronics and
    Communications segment. Conversely, lower oil prices could
    decrease oil exploration and petrochemical refining activities
    and hinder our marine and other instrumentation businesses,
    including Teledyne Geophysical Instruments, Teledyne TSS
    Limited, Teledyne Benthos, Inc., Teledyne D.G. O’Brien and
    Teledyne ODI, Inc., as well as some of our other businesses such
    as Teledyne Storm Products, Inc. In addition, instability in the
    Middle East or other oil-producing regions could adversely
    affect expansion plans of the oil and gas industry customers of
    our instrumentation and cable solutions businesses.

Violence and crime in Mexico, particularly in border towns where
    we conduct some manufacturing activities, could adversely affect
    our relays and cable solutions businesses.



Acquisitions
    involve inherent risks that may adversely affect our operating
    results and financial condition.

Our growth strategy includes acquisitions. Acquisitions involve
    various inherent risks, such as:

•

our ability to assess accurately the value, strengths,
    weaknesses, internal controls, contingent and other liabilities
    and potential profitability of acquisition candidates;

•

the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business;

•

our ability to integrate acquired businesses and to achieve
    identified financial, operating and other synergies anticipated
    to result from an acquisition;

•

our ability to assess, integrate and implement internal controls
    of acquired businesses in accordance with Section 404 of
    the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002;

•

the distraction of management resulting from the need to
    integrate acquired businesses;

•

increased competition for acquisition targets, which may
    increase acquisition costs; and

•

unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions
    affecting an acquired business.

While we conduct financial and other due diligence in connection
    with our acquisitions and generally seek some form of
    protection, including indemnification from a seller and
    sometimes an escrow of a portion of the purchase price to cover
    potential issues, such acquired companies may have weaknesses or
    liabilities that are not accurately assessed or brought to our
    attention at the time of the acquisition. Further, indemnities
    or escrows may not fully cover such matters, particularly
    matters identified after a closing.

We have also acquired several private companies, including the
    2008 acquisitions of Cormon Limited and Odom Hydrographic
    Systems, Inc. and the assets of Webb Research Corp. and Demo
    Systems LLC. Private companies generally do not have as formal
    or comprehensive internal controls and compliance systems in
    place as public companies. While we have required various
    sellers to take certain compliance actions prior to the closing
    of an acquisition, including making voluntary disclosures under
    various export control laws and regulations, and have sought
    protections in the purchase agreement for such matters, there is
    no assurance that we have identified all issues or will be fully
    protected from historic liabilities. After acquiring a company,
    notwithstanding pre-closing due diligence, we have discovered
    issues that required further action, including making voluntary
    disclosures under various defense and export control laws and
    regulations.

While the products and customer base of the companies we have
    acquired over the years are complementary to some of
    Teledyne’s existing businesses, there is no assurance that
    we will achieve all identified financial, operating and
    marketing synergies. We may also experience problems that arise
    in entering new markets through acquisitions in which we may
    have little or no experience.

Additionally, in 2008, we expanded our United Kingdom presence
    with the acquisitions of TSS (International) Limited, Filtronic
    Defence Limited and Cormon Limited. During 2009, our United
    Kingdom operations accounted for 5% of total revenues compared
    with 3% in 2008 and 2% in 2007. There are additional risks
    associated with owning and operating businesses internationally,
    including those arising from U.S. and foreign government
    policy changes or actions and exchange rate fluctuations. With a
    general election to occur in the United Kingdom in May 2010,
    there may be changes to its government policies. Further, it has
    been postulated that the United Kingdom economy may recover more
    slowly to the global economic crisis than the United States and
    mainland Europe.

In connection with acquisitions, we may consolidate one or more
    acquired facilities with other Teledyne facilities to obtain
    synergies and cost-savings. For example, in 2009, we
    consolidated the

2008-acquired

Moorpark, CA-based operations and assets of Demo Systems LLC,
    principally with Teledyne Controls, El Segundo, CA. We also
    combined and relocated, with minimal disruption, the operations
    of the

2008-acquired

Teledyne Impulse and long-time owned Teledyne Interconnect
    Devices to a new leased facility in San Diego, CA. In
    addition, in 2009, we relocated the principal operations of both

2008-acquired

Teledyne TSS Limited and Teledyne Cormon Limited to more modern
    and larger facilities close to their prior locations.
    Nonetheless,



despite planning, relocation and consolidation of manufacturing
    operations has inherent risks, as it tends to involve, among
    other things, change of personnel, application of a new business
    system software and learning or adaptation of manufacturing
    processes and techniques. As a result, production delays at a
    new operating location may occur.

Under SEC rules, Teledyne must issue a report on
    management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal
    controls over financial reporting. The SEC permits a limited
    time-based exclusion for acquisitions to give a company an
    opportunity to evaluate more fully the internal controls of
    acquired companies and correct deficiencies and institute new or
    additional internal controls. Our 2008 management’s report
    specifically excluded from its scope and coverage our 2008
    acquisitions of Filtronic Defence Limited, Cormon Limited and
    Odom Hydrographic Systems, Inc. and the assets of Webb Research
    Corp. and Demo Systems LLC, allowing us additional time to
    evaluate existing internal controls and implement additional
    controls as appropriate. These acquisitions are now included in
    our 2009 management’s report at page 39. With regard
    to future acquisitions, we can provide no assurance that we will
    be able to provide a report that contains no significant
    deficiencies or material weaknesses with respect to these
    acquired companies or other acquisitions.

In connection with our acquisitions, including ones which we do
    not complete, we may incur significant transaction costs. We are
    required to expense as incurred such transaction costs, which
    may have an adverse impact on our quarterly financial results.

Product
    liability claims, product recalls and field service actions
    could have a material adverse effect on our reputation,
    business, results of operations and financial
    condition.

As a manufacturer and distributor of a wide variety of products,
    including aircraft engines, monitoring instruments and medical
    devices, our results of operations are susceptible to adverse
    publicity regarding the quality or safety of our products. In
    part, product liability claims challenging the safety of our
    products may result in a decline in sales for a particular
    product, which could adversely affect our results of operations.
    This could be the case even if the claims themselves are proven
    untrue or settled for immaterial amounts.

While we have general liability and other insurance policies
    concerning product liabilities, we have self-insured retentions
    or deductibles under such policies with respect to a portion of
    these liabilities. For example, our current annual self-insured
    retention for general aviation aircraft liabilities incurred in
    connection with products manufactured by Teledyne Continental
    Motors, Inc., is approximately $17.2 million, a decrease
    from $20.1 million for the prior annual period. Our
    existing aircraft product liability insurance policy expires on
    May 31, 2010. Additionally, based on facts and
    circumstances of claims, we have not always accrued amounts up
    to the applicable annual self-insured retentions. Awarded
    damages could be more than our accruals. We could incur losses
    above the aggregate annual policy limit as well.

Product recalls can be expensive and tarnish our reputation and
    have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products. In
    February 2009, Teledyne Continental Motors commenced a voluntary
    recall of certain aircraft piston engine cylinders produced
    since November 2007. We recorded a pretax charge of
    $18.0 million during the fourth quarter of 2008 to cover
    estimated costs related to the recall and replacement of
    affected cylinders. Subsequently, in October 2009, Teledyne
    Continental Motors learned of another product issue with certain
    aircraft piston engine valve lifters produced by a supplier that
    caused the grounding of a limited number of aircraft for
    inspection and replacement of the valve lifters. During the
    fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded a pretax charge of
    $2.8 million to cover estimated costs related to the recall
    and replacement of the affected lifters. In the second quarter
    of 2009, Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc. recorded a
    $1.2 million product replacement reserve for certain
    commercial energy systems.

We have developed electronic controls, known as PowerLink FADEC,
    for piston aircraft engines that automate many functions
    requiring manual control, such as fuel flow and power
    management. While such control systems should improve engine
    management and facilitate maintenance of engines, we could face
    additional claims as they become standard equipment on selected
    new piston engine aircraft or are retrofitted on some piston
    engine aircraft. New products can trigger additional product
    liability claims as such products are further tested by actual
    usage. Additionally, general aviation aircraft crash lawsuits
    tend to name as defendants manufacturers of a multitude of
    aircraft-related products as discovery and recoveries are
    pursued.



We have been joined, among a number of defendants (often over
    100), in lawsuits alleging injury or death as a result of
    exposure to asbestos. We have not incurred material liabilities
    in connection with these lawsuits. The filings typically do not
    identify any of our products as a source of asbestos exposure,
    and we have been dismissed from cases for lack of product
    identification, but only after some defense costs have been
    incurred. Also, because of the prominent “Teledyne”
    name, we may be mistakenly joined in lawsuits involving a
    company or business that was not assumed by us as part of our
    1999 spin-off. Our historic insurance coverage, including that
    of its predecessors, may not fully cover such claims and the
    defense of such matters. Coverage typically depends on the year
    of purported exposure and other factors. Nonetheless, we intend
    to defend these claims vigorously. Congress from time to time
    has considered tort reform to deal with asbestos-related claims,
    but to date nothing has materialized.

Certain gas generators manufactured by Teledyne Energy Systems,
    Inc. contain a sealed, wetted asbestos component. While the
    company has been transitioning to a replacement material, has
    placed warning labels on its products and takes care in handling
    of this material by employees, there is no assurance that the
    Company will not face product liability or workers compensation
    claims involving this component.

Our Teledyne Brown Engineering’s laboratory in Knoxville,
    Tennessee performs radiological analyses. While the laboratory
    is certified by the Department of Energy and the Nuclear
    Procurement Issues Committee, also known as NUPIC, and has other
    nuclear-related certifications and internal quality controls in
    place, errors and omissions in analyses may occur. We currently
    have errors and omissions insurance coverage and nuclear
    liability insurance coverage that might apply depending on the
    circumstances. We also have sought indemnities from some of our
    customers. Our insurance coverage or indemnities, however, may
    not be adequate to cover potential problems associated with
    faulty radiological analyses.

We cannot assure that we will not have additional product
    liability claims or that we will not recall any additional
    products.

We may
    have difficulty obtaining product liability and other insurance
    coverages, or be subject to increased costs for such
    coverage.

As a manufacturer of a variety of products, including aircraft
    engines used in general aviation aircraft, we have general
    liability and other insurance policies that provide coverage
    beyond self-insured retentions or deductibles. We cannot assure
    that, for 2010 and in future years, insurance carriers will be
    willing to renew coverage or provide new coverage for product
    liability, especially as it relates to general aviation. Over
    the last several years, the number of insurance companies
    providing general aviation product liability insurance coverage
    has decreased. Even if such insurance is available, we may be
    required to pay substantially higher prices for coverage

and/or

increase our levels of self-insured retentions or reserves. Our
    current aircraft product liability insurance policy expires in
    May 2010 and has an annual self-insured retention of
    approximately $17.2 million.

To offset aircraft product liability insurance costs, we
    continue to work to reduce manufacturing and other costs and
    also to pass on such insurance costs through price increases on
    our aircraft engines and spare parts. We cannot provide
    assurances that further cost reduction efforts will prove
    successful or that customers will accept additional price
    increases. Aircraft engines and spare part cost increases,
    coupled with increased costs of insurance for general aviation
    aircraft owners, tend to result in decreasing aftermarket sales
    of our piston engines and component parts. This, in turn, leaves
    our Aerospace Engines and Components segment more dependent on
    sales to OEMs, which is more dependent on general economic
    conditions.

For certain electronic components for medical applications that
    we manufacture, such as those that go into cardiac
    defibrillators, we have asked for indemnities from our customers

and/or

to be
    included under their insurance policies. We cannot, however,
    provide any assurance that such indemnities or insurance will
    offset potential liabilities that we may incur as a result of
    our manufacture of such components. Additionally, while we have
    been exiting the manufacture of some medical components, claims
    may still arise after such manufacturing ceases.

Aside from the uncertainties created by external events that can
    affect insurance coverages, such as the currently unexplained
    crash of Air France Flight 447 in the Atlantic Ocean in June
    2009, the American



International Group, Inc. 2008 failure and bailout, the
    devastating 2005 hurricane season or September 11th events, our
    ability to obtain product liability insurance and the cost for
    such insurance are affected by our historical claims experience.
    While we have taken steps to improve our claims management
    process over the last few years, we cannot assure that, for 2010
    and in future years, our ability to obtain insurance, or the
    cost for such insurance, or the amount of self-insured
    retentions, reserves or limits, will not be negatively impacted
    by our experience in prior years.

Our
    pension expenses and the value of our pension assets are
    affected by factors outside of our control, including the
    performance of plan assets, the stock market, interest rates and
    actuarial data.

We have a defined benefit pension plan covering most of our
    employees hired prior to 2004. The value of the combined pension
    assets is currently less than our accumulated pension benefit
    obligation. Given our pension plan’s underfunded status, in
    2004 we began making required cash contributions to our
    qualified pension plan. In 2009, given the market conditions and
    the reduction in pension asset values, we made pretax cash
    contributions totaling $117.0 million, all of which was
    beyond what was required under ERISA. For 2008 and 2007, pretax
    cash contributions totaled $58.7 million and
    $7.5 million, respectively. The lower contribution level in
    2007 is primarily due to the merger into our qualified pension
    plan of the overfunded qualified Rockwell Scientific Company LLC
    pension plan, which was part of our September 2006 acquisition
    of Rockwell Scientific Company. In 2010, we currently expect to
    make pretax voluntary cash contributions totaling
    $37.0 million. The accounting rules applicable to our
    qualified pension plan require that amounts recognized in the
    financial statements be determined on an actuarial basis, rather
    than as contributions are made to the plan. Two significant
    elements in determining our pension income or pension expense
    are the expected return on plan assets and the discount rate
    used in projecting pension benefit obligations. Declines in the
    stock market and lower rates of return could increase required
    contributions to our qualified pension plan. Any decreases or
    increases in market interest rates will affect the discount rate
    assumption used in projecting pension benefit obligations. If,
    and to the extent, decreases are not offset by voluntary
    contributions or asset returns, our required cash contributions
    and pension expense could increase under the plans. For
    additional discussion of pension matters, see the discussion
    under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition”
    and Notes 2 and 12 to Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements. At the end of 2007, we changed some investment
    allocations to reduce exposure to deterioration in the subprime
    mortgage market. Throughout 2008 and until the latter part of
    2009, given market disruptions and volatility, we maintained a
    greater amount in fixed income investments, including in
    U.S. Treasury notes, to achieve greater stability in our
    pension assets. During the second half of 2009, we began to
    change our investment strategy to more active management and
    increase our equity investments. Due to timing of investment
    allocation changes, we may not have benefited from some upswings
    in certain investments and in the future we may not benefit from
    any such upswings to the extent we change investment allocations
    to meet our current strategy. Additionally, our investment
    strategy may not be successful if the credit, financial or stock
    markets deteriorate.

Our
    future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset
    impairment charges.

Under current accounting guidance, we are required to test
    annually both acquired goodwill and other indefinite-lived
    intangible assets for impairment based upon a fair value
    approach, rather than amortizing them over time. We have chosen
    to perform our annual impairment reviews of goodwill and other
    indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of
    each fiscal year. We also are required to test goodwill for
    impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances
    change that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise
    fair value below its book value. These events or circumstances
    could include a significant change in the business climate,
    including a significant sustained decline in an entity’s
    market value, legal factors, operating performance indicators,
    competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of the
    business, or other factors. If the fair market value is less
    than the book value of goodwill, we could be required to record
    an impairment charge. The valuation of reporting units requires
    judgment in estimating future cash flows, discount rates and
    estimated product life cycles. In making these judgments, we
    evaluate the financial health of the business, including such
    factors as industry performance, changes in technology and
    operating cash flows. As we have grown through acquisitions, we
    have accumulated $502.4 million of



goodwill, and have $109.6 million of net acquired
    intangible assets, which includes $35.3 million of
    indefinite-lived intangible assets, out of total assets of
    $1,421.5 million at January 3, 2010. As a result, the
    amount of any annual or interim impairment could be significant
    and could have a material adverse effect on our reported
    financial results for the period in which the charge is taken.
    We also may be required to record an earnings charge or incur
    unanticipated expenses if, as a result of a change in strategy
    or other reason, we were to determine the value of other assets
    had been impaired.

Generally accepted accounting principles require that a
    long-lived asset to be disposed of be reported at the lower of
    its carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. An asset
    (other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets) is
    considered impaired when estimated future cash flows are less
    than the carrying amount of the asset. In the event the carrying
    amount of such asset is not deemed recoverable, the asset is
    adjusted to its estimated fair value. Fair value is generally
    determined based upon estimated discounted future cash flows.

We may
    not have sufficient resources to fund all future research and
    development and capital expenditures or possible
    acquisitions.

In order to remain competitive, we must make a substantial
    investment in research and development of new or enhanced
    products and continuously upgrade our process technology and
    manufacturing capabilities. In September 2006, we acquired
    Rockwell Scientific Company LLC, a provider of research and
    development services primarily in the areas of electronics,
    optics, information sciences and materials technologies. With
    Teledyne Scientific Company in our portfolio, we have been more
    actively promoting and funding joint research and development
    projects with other Teledyne businesses, including Teledyne
    Brown Engineering, Inc., Teledyne Reynolds, Inc. and our
    Teledyne Oil & Gas businesses. In 2009, we funded
    $46.9 million for research and development, compared to
    $51.9 million in 2008 and $47.5 million in 2007. Our
    capital expenditures totaled $36.2 million in 2009,
    $41.9 million in 2008 and $40.3 million in 2007.
    Although we believe that anticipated cash flows from operations
    and available borrowings under our $590.0 million credit
    facility will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated working
    capital, research and development and capital investment needs,
    we may be unable to fund all of these needs or possible
    acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional capital will
    depend on a variety of factors, some of which will not be within
    our control, including the existence of a public offering
    market, investor perceptions of us, our businesses and the
    industries in which we operate, and general economic conditions.
    We may be unable to successfully raise additional capital, if
    needed. Failure to successfully raise needed capital on a timely
    or cost-effective basis could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our
    indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our
    business.

As of January 3, 2010, we had $252.1 million in total
    outstanding indebtedness, including $240.0 million under
    our $590.0 million credit facility. On February 26,
    2010, we had $240.0 million outstanding under our
    $590.0 million credit facility. Our indebtedness could harm
    our business by, among other things, reducing the funds
    available to make new strategic acquisitions. Our indebtedness
    could also have a material adverse effect on our business by
    increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions or a downturn in our business. General
    adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our
    business could result in our inability to repay this
    indebtedness in a timely manner. In addition, although our
    $590.0 million credit facility does not terminate until
    July 2011, we are planning to refinance such credit facility
    prior to its scheduled maturity. We expect that interest rates
    will be higher under any new or renewed facility due to changes
    in market conditions since our last credit facility was put in
    place. A 100 basis point increase in interest rates would
    result in an annual interest expense of approximately
    $2.4 million, assuming the $240.0 million in debt were
    outstanding for the full year. At this time, there also can be
    no assurance that banks would be willing to maintain such a
    credit limit or otherwise lend to us on the same favorable
    terms. Such limit and terms of borrowing are dependent on many
    factors, including financial, market and economic conditions, as
    well as the composition of the bank lending group. We may also
    elect to raise other forms of debt capital, depending on
    financial, market and economic conditions.



We may be
    unsuccessful in our efforts to increase our participation in
    certain new markets.

We intend to both adapt our existing technologies and develop
    new products to expand into new market segments. We have been
    developing new electronic products, including high-power solid
    state microwave devices and tactical military camera systems,
    which are intended to access markets in which Teledyne does not
    currently participate or has limited participation. We may be
    unsuccessful in accessing these and other new markets if our
    products do not meet our customers’ requirements, as a
    result of changes in either technology and industry standards or
    because of actions taken by our competitors.

Limitations in customer funding for applied research and
    development and technology insertion projects due to the present
    economic downturn and the significant expenditures in Iraq and
    Afghanistan may reduce our ability to apply our ongoing
    investments in some market areas. For example, our Engineered
    Systems segment’s development of Service Oriented
    Architectures for Department of Defense applications relies
    heavily on funding from customers who are actively competing for
    resources with war driven recapitalization, resupply and
    modernization requirements.

As discussed elsewhere herein, there has been a downturn in the
    general aviation market as a direct result of deteriorating
    economic and credit conditions in the United States and the
    world generally. In addition to our Aerospace Engines and
    Components segment, as previously stated, this deterioration
    could further impact battery sales of our Energy and Power
    Systems segment. While we will try to offset such impact with
    battery sales to the military and into other applications, we
    may not be able to offset any such impact.

We may be
    unable to successfully introduce new and enhanced products in a
    timely and cost-effective manner, which could harm our growth
    and prospects.

Our operating results depend in part on our ability to introduce
    new and enhanced products on a timely basis. Successful product
    development and introduction depend on numerous factors,
    including our ability to anticipate customer and market
    requirements, changes in technology and industry standards, our
    ability to differentiate our offerings from offerings of our
    competitors, and market acceptance. We may not be able to
    develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely and
    cost-effective manner or to develop and introduce products that
    satisfy customer requirements.

Our new products also may not achieve market acceptance or
    correctly address new industry standards and technological
    changes. As an example, we continue to work to develop high
    power solid state power amplifiers, which could replace our
    traveling wave tubes in some applications, and, in this field,
    there is a larger base of potential competitors than there is
    for tube amplifiers. As a result, it may be more difficult for
    our solid state power amplifier products to gain market
    acceptance. We may also lose any technological advantage to
    competitors if we fail to develop new products in a timely
    manner. For example, if Teledyne Continental Motors fails to
    execute on its TD300 Turbo Diesel engine, it may be difficult to
    penetrate the diesel engine aircraft markets. Additionally, if
    Teledyne Continental Motors fails to fully launch its PowerLink
    FADEC, an electronic engine control product, competitors may be
    able to introduce similar products that are able to gain market
    acceptance to the disadvantage of Teledyne’s product. Also,
    in today’s economy, general aviation aircraft owners may
    disregard technological advancements for upfront costs-savings
    and determine that they do not yet need such electronic engine
    controls.

Additionally, new products may trigger increased warranty costs
    as such products are tested further by actual usage. Accelerated
    entry of new products to meet heightened market demand and
    competitive pressures may cause additional warranty costs as
    development and testing time periods might be accelerated or
    condensed.

Technological
    change and evolving industry and regulatory standards could
    cause certain of our products or services to become obsolete or
    non-competitive.

The markets for some of our products and services are
    characterized by rapid technological development, evolving
    industry standards, changes in customer requirements and new
    product introductions and enhancements. A faster than
    anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to
    our products or services, or in market demand for products or
    services based on a particular technology, could result in
    faster than



anticipated obsolescence of certain of our products or services
    and could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition. For example,
    Teledyne Reynolds’ high voltage connector business could be
    negatively impacted by marketplace shifts to lower voltage
    requirements where the number of competitors is larger. Most
    lighting displays in legacy aircraft use illumination devices
    that require high voltage connectors. LED backlights, which are
    increasingly being used for aircraft lighting displays, have
    substantially lower voltage requirements.

Currently accepted industry and regulatory standards are also
    subject to change, which may contribute to the obsolescence of
    our products or services. For example, effective July 1,
    2006, a European directive, referred to as RoHS or the
    Restriction on Hazardous Substances directive, provided that
    certain electronic products must not contain impermissible
    levels of lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium,
    polybrominated biphenyls or polybrominated diphenyl ethers. As a
    result, we must make sure that certain of our electronic
    products sold into European member states comply with this
    directive. Although many of our products are exempt from the
    European directive, we continue to expect that, over time,
    component manufacturers may discontinue selling components that
    have the restricted substances. This will, in turn, require us
    to accommodate changes in parameters, such as the way parts are
    soldered, and may, in some cases, require redesign of certain
    products. This could lead to increased costs, which we may not
    be able to recover from our customers, delays in product
    shipments and loss of market share to competitors. The European
    Union’s

2007-adopted

Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of
    Chemical substance reform legislation, commonly referred to as
    REACH, which requires registration and selective evaluation of
    more than 30,000 chemical substances that are deemed of high
    risk to environment, health and safety, is also expected to
    have, over time, an impact on the electronics supply chain
    similar to the RoHS. Additionally, similar laws restricting
    hazardous substances have been promulgated in various
    non-European countries, including China and Korea, as well as in
    various U.S. states.

Revenues of our Teledyne Test Services business, which provides
    testing and certification for products used in nuclear power
    plants, could be negatively impacted in the event of any changes
    in certification standards by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.

Additionally, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
    continues to target general aviation fuel as a key contributor
    to lead in the atmosphere and could try to impose lead-free fuel
    regulations on general aviation. Such a change in the fuel
    standard could have an adverse impact on our Aerospace Engines
    and Components segment, including increasing research and
    development costs. In part, we have been working to manufacture
    an engine that uses diesel fuel to address this risk.

We may
    not be able to reduce the costs of our products to satisfy
    customers’ cost reduction mandates, which could harm our
    sales or margins.

More and more customers continue to seek price reductions of our
    products. While we continually work to reduce our manufacturing
    and other costs of our products, without affecting product
    quality and reliability, there is no assurance that we will be
    able to do so and do so in a timely manner to satisfy the
    pricing pressures of our customers. Cost reductions of raw
    materials and other components used in our products may be
    beyond our control depending on market, credit and economic
    conditions. Customers may seek lower cost products from China
    and other developing countries where manufacturing costs are
    lower.

The
    airline industry is heavily regulated, and if we fail to comply
    with applicable requirements, our results of operations could
    suffer.

Governmental agencies throughout the world, including the
    U.S. Federal Aviation Administration, or the FAA, prescribe
    standards and qualification requirements for aircraft
    components, including virtually all commercial airline and
    general aviation products, as well as regulations regarding the
    repair and overhaul of aircraft engines. Specific regulations
    vary from country to country, although compliance with FAA
    requirements generally satisfies regulatory requirements in
    other countries. We include, with the products and replacement
    parts that we sell to our aircraft industry customers,
    documentation certifying that each part complies with applicable
    regulatory requirements and meets applicable standards of
    airworthiness established by the FAA or the equivalent
    regulatory agencies in other countries. In order to sell our
    products, we and the



products we manufacture must also be certified by our individual
    original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, customers. If any
    material authorization or approval qualifying us to supply our
    products is revoked or suspended, then the sale of the product
    would be prohibited by law, which would have an adverse effect
    on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

From time to time, the FAA or equivalent regulatory agencies in
    other countries propose new regulations or changes to existing
    regulations, which are usually more stringent than existing
    regulations. If these proposed regulations are adopted and
    enacted, we may incur significant additional costs to achieve
    compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.

Increasing
    competition could reduce the demand for our products and
    services.

Although we believe that we have certain advantages that help us
    compete in our markets, each of our markets is highly
    competitive. Many of our competitors have, and potential
    competitors could have, greater name recognition, a larger
    installed base of products, more extensive engineering,
    manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and
    greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we
    do. New or existing competitors may also develop new
    technologies that could adversely affect the demand for our
    products and services. Industry consolidation trends,
    particularly among aerospace and defense contractors, could
    adversely affect demand for our products and services if prime
    contractors seek to control more aspects of vertically
    integrated projects. Low-cost competition from China and other
    developing countries could also result in decreased demand for
    our products. Increasing competition could reduce the volume of
    our sales or the prices we may charge, which would negatively
    impact our revenues.

We sell
    products to customers in industries that may again undergo rapid
    and unpredictable changes, which could adversely affect our
    operations results or production levels.

We develop and manufacture products for customers in industries
    that have undergone rapid changes in the past. For example, we
    manufacture products and provide manufacturing services to
    companies that serve telecommunications markets. During 2001,
    many segments of the telecommunications market experienced a
    dramatic and rapid downturn that resulted in cancellations or
    deferrals of orders for our products and services. This market,
    or others that we serve, may exhibit rapid changes in the future
    and may adversely affect our operating results, or our
    production levels, or both. We also manufacture products using
    fuel cell technology, which is a market that is not
    well-established and subject to significant change and evolution.

Our Engineered Systems segment manufactures gas centrifuge
    service modules for Fluor Enterprises, Inc., acting as agent for
    USEC, Inc., used in the American Centrifuge Project. We
    currently anticipate reduced sales of gas centrifuge service
    modules in 2010 due to a suspension of work notice received on
    August 13, 2009, caused by the U.S. Department of
    Energy’s delayed decision regarding USEC’s application
    for a loan guarantee to complete construction of the American
    Centrifuge Project. Failure to secure such guarantees would
    seriously jeopardize USEC’s ability to finance, and
    therefore complete, the project. In such an event, our
    Engineered Systems segment may experience reduced sales.

We are
    subject to the risks associated with international sales, which
    could harm our business or results of operations.

During 2009, sales to international customers accounted for
    approximately 26% of our total revenues, as compared to 24% in
    2008 and 22% in 2007. We anticipate that future sales to
    international customers will continue to account for a
    significant percentage of our revenues. Risks associated with
    these sales include:

•

political and economic instability;

•

international terrorism;

•

export controls, including U.S. export controls related to
    China;

•

changes in legal and regulatory requirements;

•

U.S. and foreign government policy changes affecting the
    markets for our products;



•

changes in tax laws and tariffs;

•

changes in

U.S.-China

relations;

•

transportation, including piracy in international
    waters; and

•

exchange rate fluctuations.

Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition.
    Exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect the cost of our
    products to international customers and therefore reduce our
    competitive position. If the U.S. dollar strengthens
    against the British Pound Sterling or Euro, our European
    customers may no longer find our product prices more attractive
    than European competitors.

Sales of our products and services internationally are subject
    to U.S. and local government regulations and procurement
    policies and practices including regulations relating to
    import-export control. Violations of export control rules could
    result in suspension of our ability to export items from one or
    more business units or the entire corporation. Depending on the
    scope of the suspension, this could have a material effect on
    our ability to perform certain international contracts. Concerns
    over theft of technology for military uses, nuclear
    proliferation concerns, terrorism and other factors have
    resulted in increased export scrutiny of international sales,
    including some of our products to international customers. There
    has also been increasing export oversight and regulation of
    sales to China. Travel restrictions to Middle Eastern and other
    countries may negatively affect continuing international sales
    or service revenues from such regions. There are also
    U.S. and international regulations relating to investments,
    exchange controls and repatriation of earnings, as well as
    varying currency, political and economic risks.

Among other things, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign
    Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits
    U.S. companies and their intermediaries from bribing
    foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping
    business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. In
    particular, while we have procedures in place and conduct FCPA
    training, we may be held liable for actions taken by our
    strategic or local partners even though our partners are not
    subject to the FCPA. Any determination that we had violated the
    FCPA could result in sanctions that could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.

Our
    business and financial results could be adversely affected by
    conditions and other factors associated with our
    suppliers.

Some items we purchase for the manufacture of our products,
    including certain gyro components for some marine navigation
    applications, are purchased from limited or single sources of
    supply due to technical capability, price and other factors. We
    have also outsourced from time to time the manufacturing of
    certain parts, components, subsystems and even finished products
    to single or limited sources, including international sources.
    For example, Teledyne Relays outsources the manufacture of
    certain relays and relay components to Taiwan and India, as well
    as our own facility in Mexico. Teledyne Imaging Sensors
    outsources the manufacture of read-out integrated circuits for
    focal plane arrays to a Taiwanese foundry. Disruption of these
    sources could cause delays or reductions in shipments of our
    products or increases in our costs, which could have an adverse
    effect on our financial condition or operations. International
    sources possess additional risks, some of which are similar to
    those described above in regard to international sales. With
    continuing disruption in the global economy and financial
    markets, some of our suppliers may also continue to face issues
    gaining access to sufficient credit to maintain their
    businesses, which could reduce the availability of some
    components and, to the extent such suppliers are single source
    suppliers, could adversely affect our ability to continue to
    manufacture and sell our products. Continuing economic pressure
    on suppliers may also trigger increased pricing or workforce
    reductions or reduced workweeks possibly creating longer lead
    times to obtain needed components for our products.



Compliance
    with increasing environmental and climate change regulations, as
    well as the effects of potential environmental liabilities,
    could have a material adverse financial effect on us.

We, like other industry participants, are subject to various
    federal, state, local and international environmental laws and
    regulations. We may be subject to increasingly stringent
    environmental standards in the future, particularly as green
    house gas emissions and climate change regulations and
    initiatives increase. Future developments, administrative
    actions or liabilities relating to environmental and climate
    change matters could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations or financial condition.

While we have, as part of our overall risk management program,
    an environmental management and compliance program applicable to
    our operating facilities, including a “review and
    audit” program to monitor compliance where each facility is
    reviewed and audited by an internal environmental team every
    three years, such program does not eliminate potential
    environmental liabilities. In addition, while we conduct
    environmental-related due diligence in acquisitions and
    generally seek some form of protection, including
    indemnification from a seller, companies we acquire may have
    environmental liabilities that are not accurately assessed or
    brought to our attention at the time of the acquisition.

For additional discussion of environmental matters, see the
    discussion under the caption “Other Matters —
    Environmental” of “Item 7. Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operation and Financial
    Condition” and Note 15 to Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Increased environmental regulatory monitoring requirements of
    the air we breathe and the water we drink could have a favorable
    effect on the results of operations or financial condition of
    our instrumentation businesses, including the sulfur dioxide,
    carbon monoxide and ozone gas monitoring business of Teledyne
    Advanced Pollution Instrumentation, Inc., the air quality
    monitoring business of Teledyne Monitor Labs, Inc., the water
    quality monitoring business of Teledyne Isco, Inc., and the
    mercury monitoring business of Teledyne Leeman Labs. In
    contrast, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s
    efforts to limit lead emissions from general aviation gasoline
    could adversely affect our Aerospace Engines and Components
    segment. Consequently, in part, we have been working to
    manufacture an engine that uses unleaded diesel fuel to address
    this risk. Also, while our lead-acid battery manufacturing
    facility in Redlands, CA has scrubbers and other pollution
    control devices in place, additional lead-related air-emission
    limitations and other requirements could trigger additional
    expenditures and adversely affect the financial results of our
    Energy and Power Systems segment.

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency announced that
    greenhouse gases (GHGs) threaten the public health and welfare
    of the American people. EPA also maintains that GHG emissions
    from on-road vehicles contribute to that threat. EPA’s
    endangerment finding covers emissions of six greenhouse
    gases — carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide,
    hydrofluorocarbons (HFC), perfluorocarbons (PFC) and sulfur
    hexafluoride (SF6). EPA’s efforts to limit GHG emissions
    could adversely affect our U.S. manufacturing operations.
    Restrictions on carbon dioxide emissions may impact energy, fuel
    and transportation prices. Restrictions on HFCs, PFs and SF6
    gases may impact the way these compounds are used and controlled
    at certain of our facilities. This may, in turn, require us to
    accommodate changes in parameters, such as the way parts are
    manufactured, and may, in some cases, require redesign of
    certain products. This could lead to increased costs, which we
    may not be able to recover from customers, delays in product
    shipments and loss of market share to competitors.

Our
    inability to attract and retain key personnel could have a
    material adverse effect on our future success.

Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the
    continued service of our executive officers and other key
    management and technical personnel and on our ability to
    continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We
    also have a maturing work force. While we have engaged in
    succession planning, the loss of the services of one or more of
    our key employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate
    qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.



Our Engineered Systems segment has been facing increasing
    competition for qualified engineering personnel as a result of
    the Department of Defense 2005 Base Realignment and Closure
    (also known as BRAC) decisions, particularly as positions
    continue to move to Huntsville, Alabama over the next several
    years. In addition, the U.S. Secretary of Defense announced
    in 2009 that the Department would decrease the use of
    contractors in support services and increase funding for civil
    service positions in those areas. As a result of this trend, our
    Engineered Systems segment is losing personnel as their jobs are
    being changed from contractor to Federal civil service
    positions. The Engineered Systems segment is also losing
    personnel due to employees pursing vacancies that have been
    created in various industries as other employees accept
    employment with the U.S. government.

A labor
    strike or work stoppage could have a material adverse affect on
    our business.

While we believe our overall relations with our employees to be
    good, a labor strike or work stoppage at our union-represented
    facilities could have a material adverse effect on us. The
    International Union of United Automobile, Aerospace and
    Agricultural Implement Workers of America represents
    approximately 270 active employees at our Teledyne Continental
    Motors piston engine manufacturing facility in Mobile, Alabama
    under a collective bargaining agreement that expired by its
    terms on February 20, 2010. This union also represents
    approximately 10 active employees at the Teledyne Turbine
    Engines facility in Toledo, Ohio under a collective bargaining
    agreement that expired on November 10, 2009. While
    employees continue to work and labor negotiations are occurring
    under both agreements, there is no assurance that a strike or
    work stoppage may not occur.

We may
    not be able to sell, or exit on acceptable terms, product lines
    that we determine no longer meet with our growth
    strategy.

Consistent with our growth strategy to focus on markets to
    expand our profitable niche businesses, we continually evaluate
    our product lines to ensure that they are aligned with our
    strategy. For example, after the June 2004 acquisition of Isco,
    Inc., we determined that the on-line process control
    instrumentation business of its German subsidiary was not
    aligned with our strategy, and in March 2005, we sold this
    non-strategic business. In 2007, principally because of the
    decision of a customer to manufacture certain medical products
    at its facilities in India, we closed our contract manufacturing
    operations in El Rubi, Mexico and transferred the remaining
    operations to our La Mesa, Mexico and our Lewisburg,
    Tennessee facilities.

Our ability to dispose of or exit product lines that may no
    longer be aligned with our growth strategy will depend on many
    factors, including the terms and conditions of any asset
    purchase and sale agreement, as well as industry, business and
    economic conditions. We cannot provide any assurance that we
    will be able to sell non-strategic product lines on terms that
    are acceptable to us, or at all. Also, if the sale of any
    non-strategic product line cannot be consummated or is not
    practical, alternative courses of action, including closure, may
    not be available to us or may be more costly than anticipated.

Provisions
    of our governing documents, applicable law, and our Change in
    Control Severance Agreements could make an acquisition of
    Teledyne Technologies more difficult.

Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and Restated
    Bylaws and Rights Agreement and the General Corporation Law of
    the State of Delaware contain several provisions that could make
    the acquisition of control of Teledyne, in a transaction not
    approved by our board of directors, more difficult. We have also
    entered into Change in Control Severance Agreements with 16
    members of our management, which could have an anti-takeover
    effect. These provisions may prevent or discourage attempts to
    acquire our company.

The
    market price of our Common Stock has fluctuated significantly
    since our spin-off from ATI, and could continue to do
    so.

Since the spin-off from ATI on November 29, 1999, the
    market price of our Common Stock has ranged from a low of
    $7.6875 to a high of $66.21 per share. During 2009 alone, the
    market price of our Common



Stock ranged from $21.65 to $46.75 per share. At
    February 26, 2010, our closing stock price was $37.67.
    Fluctuations in our stock price could continue. Among the
    factors that could affect our stock price are:

•

quarterly variations in our operating results;

•

strategic actions by us or our competitors;

•

acquisitions;

•

adverse business developments;

•

war in the Middle East or elsewhere;

•

terrorist activities;

•

military or homeland defense activities;

•

changes to the Federal budget;

•

changes in the energy exploration or production, semiconductor,
    telecommunications, commercial and general aviation, and
    electronic manufacturing services markets

•

general market conditions;

•

changes in tax laws;

•

general economic factors unrelated to our performance; and

•

one or more of the other risk factors described in this report.

The stock markets in general, and the markets for high
    technology companies in particular, have experienced a high
    degree of volatility that is not necessarily related to the
    operating performance of these companies. We cannot provide
    assurances as to our stock price.

Our
    financial statements are based on estimates required by GAAP,
    and actual results may differ materially from those estimated
    under different assumptions or conditions.

Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with
    generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
    These principles require our management to make estimates and
    assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
    liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
    reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting
    period. For example, estimates are used when accounting for
    items such as asset valuations, allowances for doubtful
    accounts, depreciation and amortization, impairment assessments,
    employee benefits, taxes, recall costs, aircraft product and
    general liability and contingencies. While we base our estimates
    on historical experience and on various assumptions that we
    believe to be reasonable under the circumstances at the time
    made, actual results may differ materially from those estimated.

While we
    believe our internal control systems are effective, there are
    inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements
    resulting from error or fraud may occur and may not be
    detected.

We continue to take action to assure compliance with the
    internal controls, disclosure controls and other requirements of
    the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management, including our
    Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot
    guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls
    will prevent all possible errors or all fraud. A control system,
    no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only
    reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the
    control system are met. In addition, the design of a control
    system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints
    and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs.
    Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no
    system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all
    control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the
    Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include
    the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty
    and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or
    mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual
    acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by
    management override of the



controls. The design of any system of controls is also based, in
    part, upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future
    events, and there can be no assurance that any design will
    succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future
    conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of
    changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the
    policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent
    limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements
    resulting from error or fraud may occur and may not be detected.

Natural
    disasters, such as a serious earthquake or wildfire in
    California or a major hurricane in Alabama, Florida or Texas,
    could adversely affect our business, results of operations and
    financial condition.

Several of our facilities, as a result of their locations could
    be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquakes,
    hurricanes, tornados, floods or other natural disasters. Many of
    our production facilities and our headquarters are located in
    California and thus are in areas with above average seismic
    activity and may also be at risk of damage in wildfires. In
    addition, we have manufacturing facilities in the Southeastern
    United States and Texas that have been threatened and struck by
    major hurricanes. Our facilities in Alabama, Florida, Nebraska
    and Tennessee have also been threatened by tornados. While
    Teledyne Continental Motors’ piston-engines manufacturing
    facility and Teledyne Turbine Engines’ advanced
    manufacturing cell, each located in Mobile, Alabama, Teledyne
    Geophysical Instruments’ facility in Houston, Texas,
    ODI’s facility in Daytona Beach, Florida and Teledyne
    Odom’s facility in Baton Rouge, Louisiana were relatively
    fortunate with respect to the building damage and business
    interruption they suffered during the severe 2005 hurricane
    season, there can be no assurance that any one of them will be
    as fortunate in the future. If any of our California facilities,
    including our California headquarters, were to experience a
    catastrophic earthquake or wildfire loss or if any of our
    Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Nebraska, Tennessee or Texas
    facilities were to experience a catastrophic hurricane, storm,
    tornado or other natural disaster, such event could disrupt our
    operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result
    in large expenses to repair or replace the facility or
    facilities. While Teledyne has property insurance to partially
    reimburse it for losses caused by windstorm and earth movement,
    such insurance would not cover all possible losses. In addition,
    our existing disaster recovery and business continuity plans
    (including those relating to our information technology systems)
    may not be fully responsive to, or minimize losses associated
    with, catastrophic events.

Item 1B.

Unresolved
    Staff Comments.

None.



Item 2.

Properties.

Our principal U.S. facilities as of March 2, 2010 are
    listed below. Although the facilities vary in terms of age and
    condition, our management believes that these facilities have
    generally been well maintained and are adequate for current
    operations.

Facility Location

Principal Use

Owned/Leased

Electronics and Communications Segment

Electronic Instruments

City of Industry, California

Development and production of precision oxygen analyzers

Owned

San Diego, California

Development and production of environmental monitoring
    instrumentation

Leased

San Diego, California

Development and production of electrical interconnection systems

Leased

Poway, California

Development and production of underwater acoustic instrumentation

Leased

Englewood, Colorado

Development and production of environmental monitoring systems

Leased

Daytona Beach, Florida

Development of subsea, wet-mateable electrical and fiber-optic
    interconnect systems

Leased

Baton Rouge, Louisiana

Development and production of hydrographic survey instrumentation

Leased

East Falmouth, Massachusetts

Development and production of autonomous underwater gliding
    vehicles, profilers, drifters and floats

Leased

North Falmouth, Massachusetts

Development and production of underwater acoustic
    instrumentation and package inspection systems

Owned

Lincoln, Nebraska

Development and production of water quality monitoring products,
    chemical separation instruments and flash chromatography
    instruments and consumables

Owned

Hudson, New Hampshire

Development and production of elemental analysis instruments

Leased

Seabrook, New Hampshire

Development and production of electrical and fiber optic
    interconnect systems

Leased

Mason, Ohio

Development and production of chemical analysis instruments

Leased

Dallas, Texas

Development and production of specialty wire and cable assemblies

Leased

Houston, Texas

Development and production of geophysical streamer cables and
    hydrophones for seismic monitoring

Owned

Hampton, Virginia

Development and production of vacuum and flow measurement
    instruments

Owned

Defense Electronics, Products and Services

Camarillo, California

Production of focal plane arrays and imaging sensors and systems

Leased

Los Angeles, California

Development and production of electronic components and
    subsystems

Owned and

Leased

Los Angeles, California

Development and production of high voltage connectors and
    subassemblies and pilot helmet mounted display components and
    subsystems

Leased

Mountain View, California

Production of microwave integrated circuits and systems

Owned

Chatsworth, California

Production of electronic seat ejection sequencers

Leased

Poway, California

Development and production of defense microwave components and
    subsystems

Leased

Rancho Cordova, California

Development and production of traveling wave tubes

Owned

Santa Maria, California

Development and production of high voltage capacitor products

Leased

Sunnyvale, California

Development and production of RF and microwave amplifiers and
    components

Owned and

Leased

Thousand Oaks, California

Provision of research and development services

Owned



Facility Location

Principal Use

Owned/Leased

Tracy, California

Development and production of precision secondary explosive
    components

Leased

Woodridge, Illinois

Development and production of microwave cable and interconnect
    products

Leased

Hudson, New Hampshire

Production of circuit boards

Owned

Montgomeryville, Pennsylvania

Development and production of infrared devices and accessory
    products

Owned and

Leased

Lewisburg, Tennessee

Development and manufacturing of electronic components and
    subsystems

Owned

Avionics and Other Commercial Electronics

El Segundo, California

Development and production of digital data acquisition

Leased

systems for monitoring commercial aircraft and engines

Hawthorne, California

Production of electromechanical relays

Owned

Engineered Systems Segment

Huntsville, Alabama

Provision of engineering services and products, including
    systems engineering, optical engineering, software and hardware
    engineering, and instrumentation technology

Owned and

Leased

Huntsville, Alabama

Production of gas centrifuge modules

Leased

Colorado Springs, Colorado

Provision of engineering services

Leased

Knoxville, Tennessee

Laboratories and offices in support of environmental services

Leased

Arlington, Virginia

Defense program offices supporting governmental customers

Leased

Aerospace Engines and Components Segment

Mobile, Alabama

Design, development and production of new and rebuilt piston
    engines, ignition systems and spare parts for the general
    aviation market

Leased

Mattituck, New York

Supply of aftermarket parts, services and engine overhauls for
    the general aviation market

Leased

Energy and Power Systems

Redlands, California

Manufacturing of batteries for the general aviation and business
    jet market

Owned

Hunt Valley, Maryland

Manufacturing, assembling and maintenance of hydrogen gas
    generators, power generating systems and fuel cell test stations

Leased

Toledo, Ohio

Design, development and production of small turbine engines for
    aerospace and military markets

Leased

We also own or lease facilities and offices elsewhere in the
    United States and outside the United States, including
    facilities in: Tijuana, Mexico; Mitcheldean, Worthing, Newbury,
    Shipley, West Drayton and Watford, England; Cumbernauld and
    Aberdeen, Scotland; Singapore; Cwmbran, Wales; Kreuztal,
    Germany; La Gaude, France; Shanghai, China; and Brisbane,
    Australia. Our corporate executive offices are located at 1049
    Camino Dos Rios, Thousand Oaks, California

91360-2362.

Item 3.

Legal
    Proceedings.

From time to time, we become involved in various lawsuits,
    claims and proceedings related to the conduct of our business,
    including those pertaining to product liability, patent
    infringement, commercial, employment and employee benefits.
    While we cannot predict the outcome of any lawsuit, claim or
    proceeding, our management does not believe that the disposition
    of any pending matters is likely to have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition or liquidity. The resolution
    in any reporting period of one or more of these matters,
    however, could have a material adverse effect on the results of
    operations for that period.



PART II

Item 5.

Market
    for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder
    Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities.

Price
    Range of Common Stock and Dividend Policy

Our Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and
    traded under the symbol “TDY.” The following table
    sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sale
    prices for the Common Stock as reported by the New York Stock
    Exchange.

High

Low


1st Quarter

$

54.65

$

42.89

2nd Quarter

$

59.98

$

46.71

3rd Quarter

$

66.21

$

47.96

4th Quarter

$

57.38

$

33.90


1st Quarter

$

46.75

$

21.65

2nd Quarter

$

37.57

$

26.00

3rd Quarter

$

36.31

$

29.48

4th Quarter

$

39.80

$

32.95


1st Quarter (through February 26, 2010)

$

42.87

$

35.64

On February 26, 2010, the closing sale price of our Common
    Stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange was $37.67 per
    share. As of February 26, 2010, there were 5,417 holders of
    record of the Common Stock.

We currently intend to retain any future earnings to fund the
    development and growth of our businesses, including through
    acquisitions. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash
    dividends in the foreseeable future.

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities

During the fourth quarter of 2009, we made no repurchases of our
    common stock under the program announced on February 25,
    2009, which authorized the repurchase of up to
    1,500,000 shares of our common stock through
    February 28, 2010. To date, we have repurchased
    36,239 shares of Teledyne common stock for
    $0.8 million under this now-expired program.



Item 6.

Selected
    Financial Data.

The following table presents our summary consolidated financial
    data. We derived the following historical selected financial
    data from our audited consolidated financial statements. Our
    fiscal year is determined based on a 52- or 53-week convention
    ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. Fiscal year
    2009 contained 53 weeks, while fiscal years 2005 through
    2008 each contained 52 weeks. The five-year summary of
    selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the
    discussion under “Item 7 — Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operation.”

Five-Year
    Summary of Selected Financial Data






(In millions, except per-share amounts)

Sales

$

1,765.2

$

1,893.0

$

1,622.3

$

1,433.2

$

1,206.5

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies

$

113.3

$

111.3

$

98.5

$

80.3

$

64.2

Working capital

$

250.6

$

281.3

$

213.7

$

216.4

$

154.0

Total assets

$

1,421.5

$

1,534.5

$

1,159.4

$

1,061.4

$

728.2

Long-term debt and capital lease obligations

$

251.6

$

332.1

$

142.4

$

230.7

$

47.0

Total equity

$

667.4

$

506.9

$

506.9

$

408.3

$

326.0

Basic earnings per common share

$

3.15

$

3.14

$

2.82

$

2.34

$

1.93

Diluted earnings per common share

$

3.10

$

3.05

$

2.72

$

2.26

$

1.85



Item 7.

Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operation.

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is a leading provider of
    sophisticated electronic components and subsystems,
    instrumentation and communications products, including defense
    electronics, monitoring and control instrumentation for marine,
    environmental and industrial applications, harsh environment
    interconnect products, data acquisition and communications
    equipment for air transport and business aircraft, and
    components and subsystems for wireless and satellite
    communications. We also provide engineered systems and
    information technology services for defense, space and
    environmental applications, manufacture general aviation engines
    and components, and supply energy generation, energy storage and
    small propulsion products.

We serve niche market segments where performance, precision and
    reliability are critical. Our customers include government
    agencies, aerospace prime contractors, energy exploration and
    production companies, major industrial companies, and airlines
    and general aviation companies.

Strategy

Our strategy continues to emphasize growth in our core markets
    of instrumentation, defense electronics and government
    engineered systems. Our core markets are characterized by high
    barriers to entry and include specialized products and services
    not likely to be commoditized. We intend to strengthen and
    expand our core businesses with targeted acquisitions. We
    aggressively pursue operational excellence to continually
    improve our margins and earnings. At Teledyne, operational
    excellence includes the rapid integration of the businesses we
    acquire. Over time, our goal is to create a set of businesses
    that are truly superior in their niches. We continue to evaluate
    our product lines to ensure that they are aligned with our
    strategy.

Recent
    Acquisitions

The following summarizes the acquisitions we made during fiscal
    years 2009, 2008 and 2007. Other than the purchase of the assets
    of a marine sensor product line for $1.4 million and all of
    the remaining 14.1% minority interest in Ocean Design, Inc.
    (“ODI”) for $25.5 million, no other acquisitions
    were made in fiscal year 2009. See also Note 3 to our
    Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
    about these acquisitions.

Pre-acquisition

Transaction

Purchase

Name and Description(1)

Date Acquired

Primary Location

Sales Volume

Type

Price (2)(3)

(In millions)

Fiscal Year 2008

Impulse Enterprise (“Impulse”)

December 31, 2007

San Diego, CA

$16.8 million for its

Asset

$

35.0

Manufactures underwater electrical interconnection systems for
    harsh environments.

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2006

Storm Products Co. (“Storm”)

December 31, 2007

Dallas, TX

$45.7 million for its

Stock

47.7

Supplies custom, high-reliability bulk wire and cable assemblies
    to a number of markets, including energy exploration,
    environmental monitoring and industrial equipment. Also provides
    coax microwave cable and interconnect products primarily to
    defense customers for radar, electronic warfare and
    communications applications.

Woodridge, IL

fiscal year ended

March 31, 2007

SG Brown Limited and its wholly owned subsidiary TSS
    International Limited (“TSS”)

January 31, 2008

Watford, United

Kingdom

£12.0 million for its

fiscal year ended

Stock

54.8

Designs and manufactures inertial sensing, gyrocompass
    navigation and subsea pipe and cable detection systems for
    offshore energy, oceanographic and military marine markets.

March 31, 2007

Judson Technologies, LLC (“Judson”)

February 1, 2008

Montgomeryville,

$13.8 million for its

Asset

27.0

Manufactures high performance infrared detectors utilizing a
    wide variety of materials such as Mercury Cadmium Telluride
    (HgCdTe), Indium Antimonide (InSb), and Indium Gallium Arsenide
    (InGaAs), as well as tactical dewar and cooler assemblies and
    other specialized standard products for military, space,
    industrial and scientific applications.

PA

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2006

Webb Research Corp. (“Webb”)

July 7, 2008

East Falmouth,

$12.2 million for its

Asset

24.3

Manufacturer of autonomous underwater gliding vehicles and
    autonomous profiling drifters and floats.

MA

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2007

Defense business of Filtronic PLC (“Filtronic”)

August 15, 2008

Shipley, United

£14.5 million for its

Stock

24.1

Provides customized microwave subassemblies and integrated
    subsystems to the global defense industry.

Kingdom

fiscal year ended

May 31, 2008

Cormon Limited and Cormon Technology Limited
    (“Cormon”)

October 16, 2008

Lancing, United

£6.8 million for its

Stock

20.6

(4)

Designs and manufactures subsea and surface sand and corrosion
    sensors, as well as flow integrity monitoring systems, used in
    oil and gas production systems.

Kingdom

fiscal year ended

March 31, 2008

Odom Hydrographic Systems, Inc. (“Odom”)

December 19, 2008

Baton Rouge, LA

$10.9 million for its

Stock

7.0

Designs and manufactures hydrographic survey instrumentation
    used in port survey, dredging, offshore energy and other
    applications.

fiscal year ended

September 30, 2008



Pre-acquisition

Transaction

Purchase

Name and Description(1)

Date Acquired

Primary Location

Sales Volume

Type

Price (2)(3)

(In millions)

Demo Systems LLC (“Demo”)

December 24, 2008

Moorpark, CA

$7.3 million for its

Asset

5.3

Designs and manufactures aircraft data loading equipment, flight
    line maintenance terminals, and data distribution software used
    by commercial airlines, the U.S. military and aircraft
    manufacturers.

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2007

Fiscal Year 2007

D.G. O’Brien, Inc. (“DGO”)

March 30, 2007

Seabrook, NH

$26.2 million for its

Asset

37.1

Manufactures highly reliable electrical and fiber-optic
    interconnect systems, primarily for subsea military and offshore
    oil and gas applications.

fiscal year ended

September 30, 2006

Tindall Technologies, Inc. (“Tindall”)

June 30, 2007

Sunnyvale, CA

$2.7 million for its

Stock

6.2(5

)

Designs and supplies microwave subsystems for defense
    applications.

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2006

Financial
    Highlights

Our fiscal year is determined based on a 52- or 53-week
    convention ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31.
    Fiscal year 2009 contained 53 weeks, while fiscal years
    2007 and 2008 contained 52 weeks. The following is our
    financial information for 2009, 2008 and 2007 (in millions,
    except per-share amounts):




Sales

$

1,765.2

$

1,893.0

$

1,622.3

Costs and Expenses

Cost of sales

1,256.0

1,339.5

1,136.4

Selling, general and administrative expenses

343.2

364.6

323.6

Total costs and expenses

1,599.2

1,704.1

1,460.0

Income before other income and expense and income taxes

166.0

188.9

162.3

Interest and debt expense, net

(4.8

)

(10.9

)

(12.5

)

Other income (expense), net

(0.1

)

0.6

2.9

Income before income taxes

161.1

178.6

152.7

Provision for income taxes(a)

47.3

65.0

50.8

Net income before minority interest

113.8

113.6

101.9

Less: net income attributable to minority interest

(0.5

)

(2.3

)

(3.4

)

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies

$

113.3

$

111.3

$

98.5

Basic earnings per common share

$

3.15

$

3.14

$

2.82

Diluted earnings per common share

$

3.10

$

3.05

$

2.72

(a)

Fiscal year 2009 includes prior year research and development
    tax credits of $14.3 million. Fiscal year 2009 also
    includes the reversal of $1.2 million in income tax
    contingency reserves which were determined to be



no longer needed due to the expiration of applicable statutes of
    limitations, and additional income tax expense of
    $0.5 million primarily related to the impact of California
    income tax law changes. Fiscal year 2008 includes prior year
    research and development tax credits of $2.5 million and
    the reversal of $0.8 million in income tax contingency
    reserves which were determined to be no longer needed due to the
    expiration of applicable statutes of limitations. Fiscal year
    2007 includes prior year research and development tax credits of
    $4.4 million and also reflects the reversal of
    $1.1 million in income tax contingency reserves which were
    determined to be no longer needed due to the completion of state
    tax audits and the expiration of applicable statutes of
    limitations.

Our businesses are divided into and managed as four business
    segments; namely, Electronics and Communications, Engineered
    Systems, Aerospace Engines and Components and Energy and Power
    Systems. Our four business segments and their respective
    contributions to our total sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007 are
    summarized in the following table:

Percentage of Sales

Segment




Electronics and Communications


%


%


%

Engineered Systems


%


%


%

Aerospace Engines and Components


%


%


%

Energy and Power Systems


%


%


%


%


%


%

Results
    of Operations

    Compared with 2008

%

Sales



Change

(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

1,232.2

$

1,276.6

(3.5

)%

Engineered Systems

347.0

361.2

(3.9

)%

Aerospace Engines and Components

113.1

171.0

(33.9

)%

Energy and Power Systems

72.9

84.2

(13.4

)%

Total sales

$

1,765.2

$

1,893.0

(6.8

)%

%

Operating Profit (Loss) and Other Segment Income



Change

(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

163.9

$

183.0

(10.4

)%

Engineered Systems

31.5

35.0

(10.0

)%

Aerospace Engines and Components

(5.4

)

(9.7

)

(44.3

)%

Energy and Power Systems

3.3

10.2

(67.6

)%

Segment operating profit and other segment income

193.3

218.5

(11.5

)%

Corporate expense

(27.3

)

(29.6

)

(7.8

)%

Interest and debt expense, net

(4.8

)

(10.9

)

(56.0

)%

Other income, net

(0.1

)

0.6

*

Income before taxes

161.1

178.6

(9.8

)%

Provision for income taxes(a)

47.3

65.0

(27.2

)%

Net income before noncontrolling interest

113.8

113.6

0.2

%

Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest

(0.5

)

(2.3

)

(78.3

)%

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies

$

113.3

$

111.3

1.8

%

*

not meaningful



(a)

Fiscal year 2009 includes prior year research and development
    tax credits of $14.3 million. Fiscal year 2009 also
    includes the reversal of $1.2 million in income tax
    contingency reserves which were determined to be no longer
    needed due to the expiration of applicable statutes of
    limitations, and additional income tax expense of
    $0.5 million primarily related to the impact of California
    income tax law changes. Fiscal year 2008 includes prior year
    research and development tax credits of $2.5 million and
    the reversal of $0.8 million in income tax contingency
    reserves which were determined to be no longer needed due to the
    expiration of applicable statutes of limitations.

We reported 2009 sales of $1,765.2 million, compared with
    sales of $1,893.0 million for 2008, a decrease of 6.8%. Net
    income attributable to Teledyne Technologies was
    $113.3 million ($3.10 per diluted share) for 2009, compared
    with $111.3 million ($3.05 per diluted share) for 2008, an
    increase of 1.8%.

The decrease in sales in 2009, compared with 2008, reflected
    lower sales in each operating segment. Sales in the Electronic
    and Communications segment included the impact of acquisitions
    made in fiscal 2008. The incremental increase in revenue in 2009
    from businesses acquired since 2008 was $39.9 million (see
    “Recent Acquisitions” table).

The decrease in segment operating profit and other segment
    income for 2009, compared with 2008, reflected the impact of
    lower sales. Operating profit and other segment income was lower
    in each operating segment. Operating profit in the Electronics
    and Communications segment included incremental operating profit
    from acquisitions and related synergies of $1.2 million.
    The Aerospace Engines and Components segment includes the net
    impact of product recall and replacement costs of
    $1.3 million and $18.0 million for 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

Cost of sales in total dollars was lower in 2009, compared with
    2008, primarily due to lower sales. Cost of sales in 2009
    included $1.2 million in LIFO income, compared with
    $0.9 million in LIFO expense in 2008. Cost of sales in 2008
    included the impact of the $18.0 million voluntary product
    recall and replacement charge for the Aerospace Engines and
    Components segment. Of the total $18.0 million charge,
    $15.8 million was related to the costs associated with the
    return and replacement of product and $1.4 million was
    related to the disposal and write-off of inventory both of which
    were recorded as cost of sales and $0.8 million was related
    to estimated customer returns and was recorded as a reduction to
    sales. Cost of sales as a percentage of sales for 2009 was
    71.2%, compared with 70.8% for 2008. The higher cost of sales
    percentage reflected the impact of lower sales and increased
    pension expense, partially offset by cost reductions made
    throughout the year and the absence of the costs related to the
    2008 return and replacement program.

Selling, general and administrative expenses, including research
    and development and bid and proposal expense, in total dollars
    were lower in 2009 compared with 2008. This $21.4 million
    decrease was primarily due to lower sales, lower acquired
    intangible asset amortization of $3.6 million, lower
    corporate administrative expense and lower stock option expense.
    Corporate administrative expense in 2009 was lower by
    $2.3 million compared with 2008 and reflected reduced
    employee compensation and professional fee expenses. For 2009,
    we recorded a total of $5.4 million in stock option
    expense, of which $1.8 million was recorded as corporate
    expense and $3.6 million was recorded in the operating
    segment results. For 2008, we recorded a total of
    $7.5 million in stock option expense, of which
    $2.5 million was recorded as corporate expense and
    $5.0 million was recorded in the operating segment results.
    Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2009, as a
    percentage of sales, increased slightly to 19.4%, compared with
    19.3% for 2008.

Included in operating profit in 2009 was pension expense of
    $22.5 million, of which $12.4 million was recoverable
    in accordance with U.S. Government Cost Accounting
    Standards (“CAS”) from certain government contracts.
    Included in operating profit in 2008 was pension expense of
    $9.6 million, of which $9.8 million was recoverable in
    accordance with CAS. Pension expense determined under CAS can
    generally be recovered through the pricing of products and
    services sold to the U.S. Government.

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2009 was 29.4%,
    compared with 36.4% for 2008. The effective tax rate for total
    year 2009 reflected the impact of prior year research and
    development tax credits of $14.3 million, the reversal of
    $1.2 million in income tax contingency reserves which were
    determined to be no longer needed due to the expiration of
    applicable statutes of limitations and additional income tax
    expense of $0.5 million,



primarily related to the impact of California income tax law
    changes. Excluding these items the effective tax rate for total
    year 2009 would have been 38.7%. The effective tax rate for 2008
    reflects the impact of prior year research and development tax
    credits of $2.5 million and the reversal of
    $0.8 million in income tax contingency reserves that were
    determined to be no longer needed due to the expiration of
    applicable statutes of limitations. Excluding these items the
    effective tax rate for 2008 would have been 38.2%.

During the next twelve months, it is reasonably possible that
    tax audit resolutions and expirations of the statutes of
    limitations could reduce unrecognized tax benefits by
    $2.6 million to $8.7 million, either because our tax
    positions are sustained on audit, because the Company agrees to
    their disallowance, or the expiration of the statutes of
    limitations.

Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government were
    approximately 44% of sales in 2009 and 40% of sales in 2008.
    Sales to international customers represented approximately 26%
    of sales in 2009, compared with 24% of sales in 2008.

Total interest expense, including credit facility fees and other
    bank charges, was $5.1 million in 2009 and
    $11.7 million in 2008. Interest income was
    $0.3 million in 2009 and $0.8 million in 2008. The
    decrease in interest expense in 2009 primarily reflected lower
    average interest rates.

Noncontrolling interest in subsidiaries’ earnings reflects
    the minority ownership interest in ODI and Teledyne Energy
    Systems, Inc. The lower amount in 2009 primarily reflects the
    decrease in minority ownership interest in ODI due to share
    purchases by Teledyne in 2008 and 2009. In 2009, Teledyne
    purchased the remaining minority interest in ODI.

Other income in 2009 and 2008 include sublease rental income and
    royalty income.

    Compared with 2007 (in millions)

%

Sales



Change

Electronics and Communications

$

1,276.6

$

1,071.6

19.1

%

Engineered Systems

361.2

301.7

19.7

%

Aerospace Engines and Components

171.0

180.7

(5.4

)%

Energy and Power Systems

84.2

68.3

23.3

%

Total sales

$

1,893.0

$

1,622.3

16.7

%

%

Operating Profit (Loss) and Other Segment Income



Change

(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

183.0

$

143.2

27.8

%

Engineered Systems

35.0

26.2

33.6

%

Aerospace Engines and Components

(9.7

)

19.2

*

Energy and Power Systems

10.2

6.3

61.9

%

Segment operating profit and other segment income

218.5

194.9

12.1

%

Corporate expense

(29.6

)

(32.6

)

(9.2

)%

Interest and debt expense, net

(10.9

)

(12.5

)

(12.8

)%

Other income, net

0.6

2.9

(79.3

)%

Income before income taxes

178.6

152.7

17.0

%

Provision for income taxes(a)

65.0

50.8

28.0

%

Net income before noncontrolling interest

113.6

101.9

11.5

%

Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest

(2.3

)

(3.4

)

(32.4

)%

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies

$

111.3

$

98.5

13.0

%

*

not meaningful



(a)

Fiscal year 2008 includes prior year research and development
    tax credits of $2.5 million and the reversal of
    $0.8 million in income tax contingency reserves which were
    determined to be no longer needed due to the expiration of
    applicable statutes of limitations. Fiscal year 2007 includes
    prior year research and development tax credits of
    $4.4 million and also reflects the reversal of
    $1.1 million in income tax contingency reserves which were
    determined to be no longer needed due to the completion of state
    tax audits and the expiration of applicable statutes of
    limitations.

We reported 2008 sales of $1,893.0 million, compared with
    sales of $1,622.3 million for 2007, an increase of 16.7%.
    Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies was
    $111.3 million ($3.05 per diluted share) for 2008, compared
    with $98.5 million ($2.72 per diluted share) for 2007, an
    increase of 13.0%.

The increase in sales in 2008, compared with 2007, reflected
    improvement in the Electronic and Communications, Engineered
    Systems and Energy and Power Systems segments. The largest
    increase in sales was in the Electronic and Communications
    segment which grew both organically and through strategic
    acquisitions made in 2008 and in 2007. The incremental increase
    in revenue in 2008 from businesses acquired since 2006 was
    $142.9 million (see “Recent Acquisitions” table).

The increase in segment operating profit and other segment
    income for 2008, compared with 2007, reflected the impact of
    higher sales. Operating profit and other segment income was
    higher in each operating segment except the Aerospace Engines
    and Components segment. The $39.8 million increase in
    operating profit in the Electronics and Communications segment
    included incremental operating profit from acquisitions and
    related synergies of $17.8 million. The Aerospace Engines
    and Components segment includes the impact of an
    $18.0 million charge for a voluntary product recall and
    replacement program.

Cost of sales in total dollars was higher in 2008, compared with
    2007, primarily due to higher sales which resulted from organic
    growth and acquisitions. Fiscal year 2008 included
    $0.9 million in LIFO expense, compared with
    $1.3 million in LIFO expense in 2007. Cost of sales as a
    percentage of sales for 2008 was 70.8%, compared with 70.0% for
    2007. The higher cost of sales percentage reflects the impact of
    the $18.0 million voluntary product recall and replacement
    charge for the Aerospace Engines and Components segment. Of the
    total $18.0 million charge, $15.8 million was related
    to the costs associated with the return and replacement of
    product and $1.4 million was related to the disposal and
    write-off of inventory both of which were recorded as cost of
    sales; and $0.8 million was related to estimated customer
    returns and was recorded as a reduction to sales.

Selling, general and administrative expenses, including research
    and development and bid and proposal expense, in total dollars
    were higher in 2008 compared with 2007. This $41.0 million
    increase was primarily due to higher sales which resulted from
    organic growth and acquisitions and also reflected higher
    acquired intangible asset amortization of $15.8 million in
    2008, compared with $6.4 million in 2007. Corporate
    administrative expense in 2008 was lower by $3.0 million
    compared with 2007 and reflected lower employee compensation and
    relocation expense and lower professional fee expenses. For
    2008, we recorded a total of $7.5 million in stock option
    expense, of which $2.5 million was recorded as corporate
    expense and $5.0 million was recorded in the operating
    segment results. For 2007, we recorded a total of
    $6.8 million in stock option expense, of which
    $2.3 million was recorded as corporate expense and
    $4.5 million was recorded in the operating segment results.
    Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2008, as a
    percentage of sales, were 19.3%, compared with 19.9% for 2007,
    which reflected the impact of higher sales while controlling
    general and administrative expenses.

Included in operating profit in 2008 was pension expense of
    $9.6 million, which was more than offset by
    $9.8 million recoverable in accordance with CAS from
    certain government contracts. Included in operating profit in
    2007 was pension expense of $11.9 million, of which
    $10.2 million was recoverable in accordance with CAS.

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2008 was 36.4%,
    compared with 33.3% for 2007. The effective tax rate for 2008
    reflects the impact of prior year research and development tax
    credits of $2.5 million and also reflects the reversal of
    $0.8 million in income tax contingency reserves that were
    determined to be no longer needed due to the expiration of
    applicable statutes of limitations. Excluding these items the
    effective tax rate



for 2008 would have been 38.2%. The effective tax rate for 2007
    reflects the impact of prior year research and development tax
    credits of $4.4 million and also reflects the reversal of
    $1.1 million in income tax contingency reserves. The
    reserves were determined to be no longer needed due to the
    completion of state tax audits and the expiration of applicable
    statutes of limitations. Excluding these items the effective tax
    rate for 2007 would have been 36.9%.

Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government were
    approximately 40% of sales in 2008 and 41% of sales in 2007.
    Sales to international customers represented approximately 24%
    of sales in 2008, compared with 22% of sales in 2007.

Total interest expense, including credit facility fees and other
    bank charges, was $11.7 million in 2008 and
    $13.1 million in 2007. Interest income was
    $0.8 million in 2008 and $0.6 million in 2007. The
    decrease in interest expense in 2008 primarily reflected lower
    average interest rates, partially offset by higher outstanding
    debt levels due to acquisitions.

Minority interest reflects the minority ownership interests in
    ODI and Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc. The minority interest
    ownership percentage in ODI decreased to 14% at year-end 2008
    since the initial 51% purchase of ODI in August 2006.

Other income in 2008 and 2007 include sublease rental income and
    royalty income. Other income in 2007 also included
    $0.8 million received for the early return of leased
    property.

Segments

The following discussion of our four segments should be read in
    conjunction with Note 13 to the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Electronics
    and Communications




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

1,232

.2

$

1,276

.6

$

1,071

.6

Operating profit

$


.9

$


.0

$


.2

Operating profit % of sales


.3

%


.3

%


.4

%

International sales % of sales


.4

%


.5

%


.0

%

Governmental sales % of sales


.1

%


.2

%


.2

%

Capital expenditures

$


.9

$


.8

$


.7

Our Electronics and Communications segment provides
    sophisticated electronic components and subsystems,
    instrumentation and communications products, including defense
    electronics, monitoring and control instrumentation for marine,
    environmental, laboratory and industrial applications, harsh
    environment interconnect products, data acquisition and
    communications equipment for air transport and business
    aircraft, and components and subsystems for wireless and
    satellite communications.

    compared with 2008

Our Electronics and Communications segment sales were
    $1,232.2 million in 2009, compared with sales of
    $1,276.6 million in 2008, a decrease of 3.5%. Operating
    profit was $163.9 million in 2009, compared with
    $183.0 million in 2008, a decrease of 10.4%.

The 2009 sales decrease resulted primarily from lower sales of
    other commercial electronics and electronic instrumentation,
    partially offset by revenue growth in defense electronics
    products. The revenue growth of $11.4 million in defense
    electronics was primarily driven by incremental revenue of
    $10.2 million from acquisitions, including Judson and the
    Defense Electronics business of Filtronic PLC. Revenue in other
    commercial electronics decreased by $39.1 million and
    primarily reflected decreased sales of avionics, medical
    manufacturing services and other electronic components,
    partially offset by revenue from the Demo acquisition



of $5.6 million. The revenue decrease of $16.6 million
    in electronic instruments was due to lower organic sales growth,
    partially offset by acquisitions, including TSS, Webb, Cormon
    and Odom. The lower organic sales in electronic instruments
    reflected reduced sales of geophysical sensors for the energy
    exploration market, environmental instruments for air and water
    quality monitoring and process instruments for industrial
    applications. The incremental increase in revenue from
    acquisitions in electronic instruments for 2009, compared with
    2008, was $24.1 million. In 2009, revenues included
    $39.9 million and operating profit, including synergies,
    included $1.2 million due to the incremental impact of
    acquisitions acquired since the end of fiscal year 2007. Segment
    operating profit was negatively impacted by the decrease in
    revenue and higher pension expense. Pension expense was
    $9.6 million in 2009, compared with $3.5 million in
    2008. Pension expense allocated to contracts pursuant to CAS was
    $2.4 million in 2009, compared with $1.9 million for
    2008. Segment operating profit included $2.6 million of
    stock option compensation expense in 2009 compared with
    $3.5 million of stock option compensation expense in 2008.
    Segment operating profit in 2009 also reflected higher LIFO
    income of $1.4 million compared with 2008.

    compared with 2007

Our Electronics and Communications segment sales were
    $1,276.6 million in 2008, compared with sales of
    $1,071.6 million in 2007, an increase of 19.1%. Operating
    profit was $183.0 million in 2008, compared with
    $143.2 million in 2007, an increase of 27.8%.

The 2008 sales growth of $205.0 million resulted primarily
    from revenue growth in electronic instruments and defense
    electronics, partially offset by lower sales of other commercial
    electronics. The revenue growth of $141.9 million in
    electronic instruments was driven by organic sales growth and
    the acquisitions, including DGO, Impulse, Storm, TSS, Webb and
    Cormon. Organic sales growth in electronic instruments reflected
    increased sales of geophysical sensors for the energy
    exploration market, other marine instruments and environmental
    instruments for the air and water monitoring markets. The
    incremental increase in revenue from acquisitions in electronic
    instruments for 2008, compared with 2007, was
    $98.0 million. The revenue growth of $66.9 million in
    defense electronics was driven by organic sales growth and
    acquisitions, including Storm, Judson and the Defense
    Electronics business of Filtronic PLC. The increase in revenue
    from acquisitions in defense electronics products for 2008,
    compared with 2007, was $44.9 million. Organic growth of
    defense electronics for 2008 was primarily due to higher sales
    of defense manufacturing services, as well as increased sales of
    imaging sensors and subsystems and greater sales of microwave
    components and subsystems. Revenue in avionics and other
    commercial electronics decreased by $3.8 million and
    primarily reflected decreased sales of medical electronic
    manufacturing services. In 2008, revenues increased by
    $142.9 million and operating profit, including synergies,
    increased by $17.8 million due to the incremental impact of
    acquisitions that we acquired since the end of fiscal year 2006.
    Segment operating profit was favorably impacted by the increase
    in revenue and sales mix. Segment operating profit was
    negatively impacted by $3.5 million of stock option
    compensation expense in 2008 compared with $3.1 million of
    stock option compensation expense in 2007. Fiscal year 2008 also
    reflected lower LIFO expense of $1.0 million compared with
    fiscal year 2007. Pension expense was $3.5 million in 2008,
    compared with $4.0 million in 2007. Pension expense
    allocated to contracts pursuant to CAS was $1.9 million in
    2008, compared with $1.7 million for 2007.

Engineered
    Systems




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$


.0

$


.2

$


.7

Operating profit

$


.5

$


.0

$


.2

Operating profit % of sales


.1

%


.7

%


.7

%

International sales % of sales


.6

%


.3

%


.5

%

Governmental sales % of sales


.6

%


.3

%


.8

%

Capital expenditures

$


.8

$


.2

$


.5



Our Engineered Systems segment, principally through Teledyne
    Brown Engineering, Inc., applies the skills of its extensive
    staff of engineers and scientists to provide innovative
    engineered and information technology services for defense,
    space, environmental and nuclear applications. Our Engineered
    Systems segment manufactures gas centrifuge service modules for
    Fluor Enterprises, Inc., acting as agent for USEC Inc., used in
    the American Centrifuge Plant. We currently anticipate reduced
    sales of gas centrifuge service modules in 2010 due to a
    suspension of work notice received on August 13, 2009,
    caused by the U.S. Department of Energy’s delayed
    decision regarding USEC’s application for a loan guarantee
    to complete construction of the American Centrifuge Plant. In
    addition, given reduced program funding, as well as changes to
    contracting policy by the U.S. Government, we expect
    reduced sales of missile defense engineering services in 2010.

    compared with 2008

Our Engineered Systems segment sales were $347.0 million in
    2009, compared with sales of $361.2 million in 2008, a
    decrease of 3.9%. Operating profit was $31.5 million in
    2009, compared with $35.0 million in 2008, a decrease of
    10.0%.

Sales for 2009, compared with 2008, reflected lower revenue in
    manufacturing, aerospace and defense programs and flat
    environmental sales. The revenue decline of $13.8 million
    in aerospace and defense programs primarily reflected reduced
    aerospace and defense engineering services. Operating profit for
    2009 reflected the impact of lower revenue and higher pension
    expense. Segment operating profit included pension expense of
    $11.0 million in 2009, compared with $5.0 million in
    2008. Pension expense allocated to contracts pursuant to CAS was
    $9.7 million in 2009, compared with $7.7 million in
    2008.

    compared with 2007

Our Engineered Systems segment sales were $361.2 million in
    2008, compared with sales of $301.7 million in 2007, an
    increase of 19.7%. Operating profit was $35.0 million in
    2008, compared with $26.2 million in 2007, an increase of
    33.6%.

Sales for 2008, compared with 2007, reflected revenue growth in
    aerospace and defense programs and higher environmental sales.
    The revenue growth of $51.1 million in aerospace and
    defense programs primarily reflected revenue growth in certain
    manufacturing programs including gas centrifuge service modules
    for nuclear power applications, as well as other aerospace
    programs and specialized engineering and project support for
    NASA. The revenue growth in environmental programs reflected
    engineering support for the gas centrifuge service modules
    program. Operating profit for 2008 reflected the impact of
    higher revenue and higher margins in aerospace programs and
    certain manufacturing programs, increased award fees and
    improved overhead rates. Segment operating profit also included
    pension expense of $5.0 million in 2008 compared with
    $6.4 million in 2007. Pension expense allocated to
    contracts pursuant to CAS was $7.7 million in 2008 compared
    with $8.1 million in 2007.

Aerospace
    Engines and Components




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$


.1

$


.0

$


.7

Operating profit (loss)

$

(5

.4

)

$

(9

.7

)

$


.2

Operating profit (loss) % of sales

(4

.8

)%

(5

.7

)

%


.6

%

International sales % of sales


.9

%


.2

%


.0

%

Capital expenditures

$


.6

$


.7

$


.5

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment, principally
    through Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc., focuses on the
    design, development and manufacture of piston engines,
    aftermarket support and electronic engine controls.

    compared with 2008

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment sales were
    $113.1 million in 2009, compared with sales of
    $171.0 million in 2008, a decrease of 33.9%. The 2009
    operating loss was $5.4 million, compared with operating
    loss of $9.7 million in 2008.



Sales for 2009, compared with 2008, reflected lower sales in all
    end markets, including OEM piston engines, aftermarket engines
    and spare parts, due to lower demand in the general aviation
    market. The 2009 operating loss included the net impact of
    product recall and replacement costs of $1.3 million. The
    2009 operating loss also included a $0.3 million charge
    related to past due accounts receivable, partially offset by a
    favorable worker’s compensation settlement of
    $0.9 million and a reduction in certain insurance reserves.
    The 2008 operating loss included product recall and replacement
    charges of $18.0 million. Segment operating profit also
    included pension expense of $1.0 million in 2009, compared
    with $0.6 million for 2008.

    compared with 2007

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment sales were
    $171.0 million in 2008, compared with sales of
    $180.7 million in 2007, a decrease of 5.4%. The 2008
    operating loss was $9.7 million, compared with operating
    income of $19.2 million in 2007.

Sales for 2008, compared with 2007, reflected reduced OEM piston
    engine and spare parts sales. The decrease in operating profit
    in 2008, compared with 2007, reflected a charge of
    $18.0 million for product recall and replacement costs, the
    impact of lower sales and higher defense and settlement fees.
    The $18.0 million charge was required to replace certain
    aircraft piston engine cylinders produced since November 2007.
    Operating profit in 2007 included the receipt of a litigation
    settlement of $1.4 million, net of expenses and the
    $1.7 million write-down of accounts receivable related to a
    customer bankruptcy. Segment operating profit also included
    pension expense of $0.6 million in 2008, compared with
    $0.7 million for 2007. Segment operating profit for 2008
    also reflected higher LIFO expense of $0.5 million.

Energy
    and Power Systems




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$


.9

$


.2

$


.3

Operating profit

$


.3

$


.2

$


.3

Operating profit % of sales


.5

%


.1

%


.2

%

International sales % of sales


.9

%


.3

%


.2

%

Governmental sales % of sales


.0

%


.8

%


.0

%

Capital expenditures

$


.8

$


.1

$


.0

Our Energy and Power Systems segment provides hydrogen gas
    generators, thermoelectric and fuel cell-based power sources,
    turbine engines and aviation batteries. Delays in production
    funding on the Joint

Air-to-Surface

Standoff Missile (“JASSM”) are expected to result in
    lower sales in 2010.

    compared with 2008

Our Energy and Power Systems segment sales were
    $72.9 million in 2009, compared with sales of
    $84.2 million in 2008, a decrease of 13.4%. Operating
    income was $3.3 million in 2009, compared with
    $10.2 million in 2008, a decrease of 67.6%.

The decrease in sales for 2009, compared with 2008, reflected
    higher government power systems sales more than offset by lower
    turbine engines, commercial hydrogen generators and battery
    product sales. Operating profit reflected the impact of lower
    sales and a $1.0 million product replacement reserve for
    commercial hydrogen generators for energy systems, partially
    offset by lower LIFO expense of $0.7 million. Operating
    profit in 2008 was favorably impacted by $1.3 million for
    environmental reserves no longer needed due to a final
    settlement.

    compared with 2007

Our Energy and Power Systems segment sales were
    $84.2 million in 2008, compared with sales of
    $68.3 million in 2007, an increase of 23.3%. Operating
    income was $10.2 million in 2008, compared with
    $6.3 million in 2007, an increase of 61.9%.



The increase in sales for 2008, compared with 2007, primarily
    resulted from higher government power systems sales and higher
    turbine engine sales, primarily due to JASSM engines. Commercial
    hydrogen generator sales increased slightly. Operating profit in
    2008 reflected the impact of higher sales, higher margins in the
    turbine engine business and the reversal of $1.3 million
    for environmental reserves no longer needed due to a final
    settlement.

Financial
    Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources

Principal
    Capital Requirements

Our principal capital requirements are to fund working capital
    needs, capital expenditures, voluntary and required pension
    contributions, debt service requirements and acquisitions. It is
    anticipated that operating cash flow, together with available
    borrowings under the credit facility described below, will be
    sufficient to meet these requirements and could be used to fund
    some acquisitions in the year 2010. To support acquisitions, we
    may need to raise additional capital. Our liquidity is not
    dependent upon the use of off-balance sheet financial
    arrangements. We have no off-balance sheet financing
    arrangements that incorporate the use of special purpose
    entities or unconsolidated entities.

Revolving
    Credit Agreement

On February 8, 2008, Teledyne entered into a First
    Amendment to its Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as
    of July 14, 2006. The amended and restated credit facility
    has lender commitments totaling $590.0 million and expires
    on July 14, 2011. Excluding interest and fees, no payments
    are due under the amended and restated credit facility until it
    matures. The credit agreement requires the Company to comply
    with various financial and operating covenants, including
    maintaining certain consolidated leverage and interest coverage
    ratios, as well as minimum net worth levels and limits on
    acquired debt. At January 3, 2010, we were in compliance
    with these covenants. Total debt at year-end 2009 includes
    $240.0 million outstanding under the $590.0 million
    credit facility. Available borrowing capacity under the
    $590.0 million credit facility, which is reduced by
    borrowings, outstanding letters of credit and certain guarantees
    was $336.3 million at January 3, 2010. For a
    description of some terms of our credit facility, see
    “Financing Activities” beginning on page 53.

In addition, although our $590.0 million credit facility
    does not terminate until July 2011, we are planning to refinance
    such credit facility prior to its scheduled maturity. We expect
    that our interest rates will be higher with any new or renewed
    facility due to changes in market conditions since our last
    credit facility was put in place. We may also elect to raise
    other forms of debt capital, depending on financial, market and
    economic conditions.

Contractual
    Obligations

The following table summarizes our expected cash outflows
    resulting from financial contracts and commitments at
    January 3, 2010. We have not included information on our
    normal recurring purchases of materials for use in our
    operations. These amounts are generally consistent from year to
    year, closely reflect our levels of production, and are not
    long-term in nature (in millions):

2015 and






beyond

Total

Long-term debt obligations

$

—

$

240.0

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

240.0

Interest expense(a)

2.8

1.4

—

—

—

—

4.2

Operating lease obligations

17.2

13.5

10.7

9.0

8.4

24.4

83.2

Capital lease obligations(b)

1.1

1.2

1.1

1.1

1.1

12.2

17.8

Purchase obligations(c)

42.9

3.7

0.8

0.7

—

0.3

48.4

Total

$

64.0

$

259.8

$

12.6

$

10.8

$

9.5

$

36.9

$

393.6

(a)

Interest expense, including facility fees, is assumed to accrue
    at the rates in effect at year-end 2009 and is assumed to be
    paid at the end of each quarter with the final payment in July
    2011 when the credit facility expires.



(b)

Includes imputed interest and short-term portion.

(c)

Purchase obligations generally include long-term contractual
    obligations for the purchase of goods and services.

At January 3, 2010, we do not have a minimum qualified
    pension plan funding requirement for 2010. Teledyne expects to
    make a voluntary pretax contribution to its qualified pension
    plan of approximately $37.0 million in the third quarter of
    2010. Based on current assumptions and expected contributions to
    be made in 2010, we would not have a minimum qualified pension
    plan funding requirement, as set forth by ERISA, in 2011. Our
    minimum funding requirements after 2009 are dependent on several
    factors as discussed under “Accounting for Pension
    Plans” in the Critical Accounting Policies section of this
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operation. Estimates beyond 2011 have not been
    provided due to the significant uncertainty of these amounts,
    which are subject to change until the Company’s pension
    assumptions can be updated at the appropriate times. In
    addition, certain pension contributions are eligible for future
    recovery through the pricing of products and services to the
    U.S. government under certain government contracts,
    therefore, the amounts noted are not necessarily indicative of
    the impact these contributions may have on our liquidity. We
    also have payments due under our other postretirement benefits
    plans. These plans are not required to be funded in advance, but
    are pay as you go. See further discussion in Note 12 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

On August 16, 2006, Teledyne through its subsidiary,
    Teledyne Instruments, Inc., acquired an initial majority
    interest in ODI for approximately $30 million in cash.
    Pursuant to agreements made in connection with our acquisition
    of a majority interest in ODI, Teledyne Instruments made
    subsequent share purchases at a formula-determined price based
    principally on ODI’s earnings before interest, taxes,
    depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) for the twelve months
    preceding each applicable quarter end. In 2009, Teledyne
    Instruments purchased all the remaining minority shares for
    $25.5 million and now owns 100% of ODI. Ownership purchases
    in ODI were as follows, including the initial purchase in 2006
    and the final purchase in 2009: 2006 — 60.9% for
    $35.8 million, 2007 — 0.9% for $0.9 million,
    2008 — 24.1% for $38.5 million and
    2009 — 14.1% for $25.5 million.

Operating
    Activities

In 2009, net cash provided by operating activities was
    $154.9 million, compared with $120.4 million in 2008
    and $166.7 million in 2007.

The higher net cash provided for 2009, compared with 2008,
    reflected lower income tax payments of $34.2 million, lower
    aircraft product defense and settlement payments of
    $23.0 million, the incremental cash contribution from
    acquisitions made in 2008 and improved working capital
    management, partially offset by higher pretax pension
    contributions of $58.3 million.

The lower net cash provided for 2008, compared with 2007, was
    primarily due to higher pretax voluntary pension contributions
    of $52.4 million, higher aircraft product defense and
    settlement payments of $25.5 million and higher working
    capital requirements, partially offset by higher net income, the
    incremental cash contribution from recent acquisitions and lower
    income tax payments of $22.5 million.



Free cash flow (cash from operating activities less capital
    expenditures) was $118.7 million, compared with
    $78.5 million in 2008 and $126.4 million in 2007.

Total

Total

Total

Year

Year

Year

Free Cash Flow(a)




(In millions,

brackets indicate use of funds)

Cash provided by operating activities

$

154.9

$

120.4

$

166.7

Capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment

(36.2

)

(41.9

)

(40.3

)

Free cash flow

118.7

78.5

126.4

Pension contributions, net of tax

71.1

35.7

3.9

Adjusted free cash flow

$

189.8

$

114.2

$

130.3

(a)

We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating
    activities (a measure prescribed by generally accepted
    accounting principles) less capital expenditures for property,
    plant and equipment. Adjusted free cash flow eliminates the
    impact of pension contributions on a net of tax basis. We
    believe that this supplemental non-GAAP information is useful to
    assist management and the investment community in analyzing our
    ability to generate cash flow, including the impact of voluntary
    and required pension contributions.

Working
    Capital

Working capital decreased to $250.6 million at year-end
    2009, compared with $281.3 million at year-end 2008. The
    decrease in working capital reflected the lower sales level in
    2009, compared with 2008, including lower accounts receivable
    and inventory balances.

Balance
    Sheet Changes

The changes in the following selected components of
    Teledyne’s balance sheet are discussed below (in millions):



Accounts receivable, net

$

245.8

$

281.4

Inventories, net

$

189.6

$

207.0

Long-term deferred income taxes,net

$

29.9

$

89.2

Acquired intangible assets, net

$

109.6

$

117.0

Accrued liabilities — short term

$

176.8

$

202.4

Long-term debt and capital lease obligations, net of current
    portion

$

251.6

$

332.1

Accrued pension obligation

$

79.8

$

227.9

Redeemable minority interest

$

—

$

28.3

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

$

(171.8

)

$

(205.8

)

The lower balances in accounts receivable and inventory
    reflected the impact of the lower sales level in 2009, compared
    with 2008. The lower balance in short-term accrued liabilities
    reflected the use of most of the $15.8 million reserve for
    product recall and replacement reserves established at the end
    of 2008, as well as a reduced level of customer advances. The
    decrease in long-term deferred income taxes was primarily due to
    the pension contributions in 2009. The decrease in acquired
    intangible assets primarily reflected current year amortization.
    The decrease in long-term debt and capital lease obligations
    primarily reflected the use of cash flow to reduce the debt
    balance. The accrued pension obligation decreased primarily as a
    result of pension contributions, and a decrease in the unfunded
    pension liability in 2009 due to the increase in pension assets
    during the year resulting from positive market returns, as well
    as the positive impact of demographic experience compared to
    original assumptions. The balance in redeemable minority
    interest was eliminated in connection with the purchase of the
    remaining minority interest in ODI. The change in the
    accumulated other



comprehensive loss reflected the $30.9 million non-cash
    adjustment related to the decrease in the unfunded pension
    liability in 2009.

Investing
    Activities

Net cash used in investing activities included capital
    expenditures as presented below:

Capital
    Expenditures

Capital Expenditures




(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

29.9

$

33.8

$

33.7

Engineered Systems

1.8

2.2

1.5

Aerospace Engines and Components

2.7

3.7

3.5

Energy and Power Systems

1.8

2.1

1.0

Corporate

—

0.1

0.6

$

36.2

$

41.9

$

40.3

During 2010 we plan to invest approximately $40.0 million
    in capital expenditures, principally to upgrade capital
    equipment, reduce manufacturing costs and introduce new
    products. Commitments at January 3, 2010, for capital
    expenditures were approximately $6.8 million.

Investing activities used cash for acquisitions of
    $32.5 million, $285.1 million and $48.1 million,
    in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively (see “Recent
    Acquisitions” table). Included in the $32.5 million
    for 2009 is a payment of $5.4 million to license certain
    aircraft diesel engine technology. We received $0.4 million
    and $0.8 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, from the
    sale of assets.

Teledyne funded the acquisitions primarily from borrowings under
    its credit facility and cash on hand.

In all acquisitions, the results of operations and cash flows
    are included in our consolidated financial statements from the
    date of each respective acquisition. Each of the companies
    acquired is part of the Electronics and Communications segment.
    During 2009, we completed the process of specifically
    identifying the amount to be assigned to intangible assets, as
    well as certain assets and liabilities for the Webb, Filtronic,
    Cormon, Odom and Demo acquisitions made in fiscal 2008. We
    completed the purchase price valuation for the Webb acquisition,
    and as a result, goodwill was decreased by $1.0 million and
    other acquired intangible assets were increased by
    $1.1 million. We completed the purchase price valuation for
    the Filtronic acquisition, and as a result, goodwill was
    increased by $5.2 million, other acquired intangible assets
    were decreased by $3.7 million and accrued liabilities were
    increased by $1.5 million. We completed the purchase price
    valuation for the Cormon acquisition, and as a result, goodwill
    was decreased by $5.1 million and other acquired intangible
    assets were increased by $5.3 million. We completed the
    purchase price valuation for the Odom acquisition, and as a
    result, goodwill was decreased by $0.8 million and other
    acquired intangible assets were increased by $0.8 million.
    We completed the purchase price valuation for the Demo
    acquisition, and as a result, goodwill was increased by
    $0.9 million, other acquired intangible assets were
    decreased by $0.2 million and inventory was decreased by
    $0.7 million.



The following table shows the purchase price, goodwill acquired
    and intangible assets acquired for the acquisitions made in
    fiscal 2008, and includes changes resulting from completion, in
    2009, of the purchase price valuation for certain acquisitions
    (in millions):

Acquired

Purchase

Goodwill

Intangible

Acquisition Date

Name

Price

Acquired

Assets

December 31, 2007

Impulse

$

35.0

$

15.3

$

16.2

December 31, 2007

Storm

47.7

31.4

10.0

January 31, 2008

TSS

54.8

28.6

23.0

February 1, 2008

Judson

27.0

13.9

7.9

July 7, 2008

Webb

24.3

13.6

8.1

August 15, 2008

Filtronic

24.1

9.8

2.8

August 16, 2008

Cormon

20.9

11.9

8.3

December 19, 2008

Odom

7.0

4.5

2.3

December 24, 2008

Demo

5.3

4.0

1.0

$

246.1

$

133.0

$

79.6

Except for the Storm and Demo acquisitions, goodwill resulting
    from the acquisitions made in fiscal 2008 and 2009 will be
    deductible for tax purposes.

The following is a summary at the acquisition date of the
    estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed for the acquisitions made in fiscal 2008 (in millions):

Current assets, excluding cash acquired

$

61.6

Property, plant and equipment

17.8

Goodwill

133.0

Intangible assets

79.6

Total assets acquired

292.0

Current liabilities, including short-term debt

34.1

Other long-term liabilities

11.8

Total liabilities assumed

45.9

Purchase price, net of cash acquired

$

246.1

Financing
    Activities

Cash provided by financing activities for 2009 reflected net
    repayment of borrowings of $81.6 million, primarily under
    our revolving credit agreement. Cash provided by financing
    activities for 2008 reflected net borrowings of
    $189.9 million, primarily under our revolving credit
    agreement, to acquire businesses and fund the pension plan. Cash
    provided by financing activities for 2007 reflected the net
    repayments of borrowings of $88.8 million. Fiscal years
    2009, 2008 and 2007 all reflect proceeds from the exercise of
    stock options of $1.1 million, $13.0 million and
    $6.5 million, respectively. Fiscal years 2009, 2008 and
    2007 included $0.8 million, $10.3 million and
    $3.6 million, respectively, in excess tax benefits related
    to stock-based compensation.

On February 8, 2008, Teledyne entered into a First
    Amendment to its $400.0 million Amended and Restated Credit
    Agreement dated as of July 14, 2006. The amended and
    restated credit facility has lender commitments of
    $590.0 million and expires in July 2011. At year-end 2009,
    we had $336.3 million of available committed credit under
    the credit facility, which can be utilized, as needed, for daily
    operating and periodic cash needs, including acquisitions.
    Excluding interest and fees, no payments are due under the
    amended and restated credit facility until it matures.
    Borrowings under our credit facility are at variable rates which
    are, at our option, tied to a eurodollar base rate equal to
    LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate) plus



an applicable rate or a base rate as defined in our credit
    agreement. LIBOR based loans under the facility typically have
    terms of one, two, three or six months and the interest rate for
    each such loan is subject to change if the loan is continued or
    converted following the applicable maturity date. Base rate
    loans have interest rates that primarily fluctuate with changes
    in the prime rate. Interest rates are also subject to change
    based on our debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
    depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) ratio. The credit
    agreement also provides for facility fees that vary between
    0.10% and 0.25% of the credit line, depending on our
    consolidated leverage ratio as calculated from time to time. The
    credit agreement requires the Company to comply with various
    financial and operating covenants, including maintaining certain
    consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios, as well as
    minimum net worth levels and limits on acquired debt. We also
    have a $5.0 million uncommitted credit line available. This
    credit line is utilized, as needed, for periodic cash needs.
    Total debt at year-end 2009 includes $240.0 million
    outstanding under the $590.0 million credit facility. No
    amounts were outstanding under the uncommitted bank facility at
    January 3, 2010. The Company also has a $12.1 million
    outstanding under capital leases, of which $0.5 million is
    current. At year-end 2009, Teledyne had $13.7 million in
    outstanding letters of credit.

In February 2009, our Board of Directors approved a stock
    repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to
    1,500,000 shares of its common stock. Shares may be
    repurchased from time to time in open market transactions at
    prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions
    through February 28, 2010. The timing and actual number of
    shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, such as
    price, corporate and regulatory requirements, alternative
    investment opportunities, and other market and economic
    conditions. Repurchases will be funded with cash on hand and
    borrowings under the Company’s credit facility. In 2009,
    Teledyne repurchased 36,239 shares of Teledyne common stock
    for $0.8 million under this now-expired program.

Pension
    and Postretirement Plans

As of January 1, 2004, non-union new hires participate in
    an enhanced defined contribution plan as opposed to the
    Company’s existing defined benefit pension plan. Teledyne
    anticipates making after-tax cash contributions of approximately
    $22.6 million to its pension plan in 2010 before recovery
    from the U.S. Government.

Other
    Matters

Income
    Taxes

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2009 was 29.4%,
    compared with 36.4% for 2008 and 33.3% for 2007. The effective
    tax rate for 2009 reflected the impact of prior year research
    and development tax credits of $14.3 million, the reversal
    of $1.2 million in income tax contingency reserves which
    were determined to be no longer needed due to the expiration of
    applicable statutes of limitations and additional income tax
    expense of $0.5 million, primarily related to the impact of
    California income tax law changes. Excluding these items the
    company’s effective tax rate for total year 2009 would have
    been 38.7%. The effective tax rate for total year 2008 reflected
    the impact of prior year research and development tax credits of
    $2.5 million and the reversal of $0.8 million in
    income tax contingency reserves which were determined to be no
    longer needed due to the expiration of applicable statutes of
    limitations. Excluding these items, the company’s effective
    tax rate for total year 2008 would have been 38.2%. The
    effective tax rate for 2007 reflects the impact of prior year
    research and development tax credits of $4.4 million and
    also reflects the reversal of $1.1 million in income tax
    contingency reserves which were determined to be no longer
    needed due to the completion of state tax audits and the
    expiration of applicable statutes of limitations. Excluding
    these items the effective tax rate for 2007 would have been
    37.7%. Based on the Company’s history of operating
    earnings, expectations of future operating earnings and
    potential tax planning strategies, it is more likely than not
    that the deferred income tax assets at January 3, 2010 will
    be realized.



Costs and
    Pricing

Inflationary trends in recent years have been moderate. Current
    inventory costs, the increasing costs of equipment and other
    costs are considered in establishing sales pricing policies. The
    Company emphasizes cost containment in all aspects of its
    business.

Hedging
    Activities; Market Risk Disclosures

We have not entered into any derivative financial instruments
    such as futures contracts, options and swaps, forward foreign
    exchange contracts or interest rate swaps and futures during
    2009 or 2008. We have no derivative financial instruments
    outstanding at January 3, 2010. We believe that adequate
    controls are in place to monitor any hedging activities. Our
    primary exposure to market risk relates to changes in interest
    rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We periodically
    evaluate these risks and have taken measures to mitigate these
    risks. We own assets and operate facilities in countries that
    have been politically stable. Also, our foreign risk management
    objectives are geared towards stabilizing cash flow from the
    effects of foreign currency fluctuations. Most of our sales are
    denominated in U.S. dollars which mitigates the effect of
    exchange rate changes. Borrowings under our credit facility are
    at fixed rates that vary with the term and timing of each loan
    under the facility. Loans under the facility typically have
    terms of one, two, three or six months and the interest rate for
    each such loan is subject to change if the loan is continued or
    converted following the applicable maturity date. Interest rates
    are also subject to change based on our debt to earnings before
    interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ratio. As of
    January 3, 2010, we had $240.0 million in outstanding
    indebtedness under our amended and restated credit facility. A
    100 basis point change in interest rates would result in an
    increase in annual interest expense of approximately
    $2.4 million, assuming the $240.0 million in debt was
    outstanding for the full year. Any borrowings under the
    Company’s revolving credit line are based on a fluctuating
    market interest rate and, consequently, the fair value of any
    outstanding debt should not be affected materially by changes in
    market interest rates. Overall, we believe that our exposure to
    interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate changes is
    not material to our financial condition or results of operations.

Related
    Party Transactions

Our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer is a
    director of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, as is one
    of our other directors. The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation
    is the successor to Mellon Financial Corporation following its
    merger with The Bank of New York in 2007. Another of our
    directors was a former chief executive officer of Mellon
    Financial Corporation. All transactions with The Bank of New
    York Mellon Corporation and its respective affiliates are
    effected under normal commercial terms, and we believe that our
    relationships with The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and
    its respective affiliates are arms-length. The Bank of New York
    Mellon Corporation is one of 13 lenders under our
    $590.0 million credit facility, having committed up to
    $90.0 million under the facility. The Bank of New York
    Mellon Corporation also provides cash management services,
    serves as trustee for the Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    Pension Plan and, through its subsidiaries and affiliates,
    provides asset management and transition management services for
    the Pension Plan. Mellon Investor Services LLC, dba BNY
    Mellon Shareowner Services, serves as our transfer agent and
    registrar and also handles administration of our stock options.
    We engaged BNY Mellon Shareowner Services to help us solicit
    proxies in connection with our annual meetings. Until its
    expiration in November 2009, BNY Mellon Shareowner Services was
    the rights agent under our Shareholder Rights Plan.

Environmental

We are subject to various federal, state, local and
    international environmental laws and regulations which require
    that we investigate and remediate the effects of the release or
    disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present
    operations. These include sites at which Teledyne has been
    identified as a potentially responsible party under the
    Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
    Act, commonly known as Superfund, and comparable state laws. We
    are currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a
    number of sites. Reserves for environmental investigation and
    remediation totaled $3.0 million



at January 3, 2010 and $2.9 million at
    December 28, 2008. As investigation and remediation of
    these sites proceed and new information is received, the Company
    expects that accruals will be adjusted to reflect new
    information. Based on current information, we do not believe
    that future environmental costs, in excess of those already
    accrued, will materially and adversely affect our financial
    condition or liquidity. However, resolution of one or more of
    these environmental matters or future accrual adjustments in any
    one reporting period could have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations for that period. See also our
    environmental risk factor disclosure beginning at page 31.

For additional discussion of environmental matters, see
    Notes 2 and 15 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Government
    Contracts

We perform work on a number of contracts with the Department of
    Defense and other agencies and departments of the
    U.S. Government including

sub-contracts

with government prime contractors. Sales under these contracts
    with the U.S. Government, which included contracts with the
    Department of Defense, were approximately 44% of total sales in
    2009, 40% of total sales in 2008 and 41% of total sales in 2007.
    For a summary of sales to the U.S. Government by segment,
    see Note 13 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements. Sales to the Department of Defense represented
    approximately 33%, 29% and 30% of total sales for 2009, 2008 and
    2007, respectively. See also our government contracts risks
    factor disclosure beginning at page 18.

Performance under government contracts has certain inherent
    risks that could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s business, results of operations and financial
    condition. Government contracts are conditioned upon the
    continuing availability of Congressional appropriations, which
    usually occurs on a fiscal year basis even though contract
    performance may take more than one year.

For information on accounts receivable from the
    U.S. Government, see Note 5 to the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Estimates
    and Reserves

Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results
    of operations are based upon our consolidated financial
    statements, which have been prepared in accordance with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
    The preparation of these financial statements requires us to
    make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of
    assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
    disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we
    evaluate our estimates, including those related to product
    returns and replacements, allowance for doubtful accounts,
    inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty
    obligations, pension and other postretirement benefits,
    long-term contracts, environmental, workers’ compensation
    and general liability, aircraft product liability, employee
    dental and medical benefits and other contingencies and
    litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and
    on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable
    under the circumstances at the time, the results of which form
    the basis for making our judgments. Actual results may differ
    materially from these estimates under different assumptions or
    conditions. In some cases, such differences may be material. See
    “Other Matters — Critical Accounting
    Policies”.



The following table reflects significant reserves and valuation
    accounts, which are estimates and based on judgments as
    described above, at January 3, 2010 and December 28,
    2008:

Reserves
    and Valuation Accounts (a)



(In millions)

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

2.9

$

3.2

LIFO reserves

$

25.3

$

26.5

Other inventory reserves

$

31.2

$

31.6

Aircraft product liability reserves(b)

$

44.7

$

39.6

Workers’ compensation and general liability reserves(b)

$

10.8

$

12.0

Warranty reserves(b)

$

15.9

$

14.0

Environmental reserves(b)

$

3.0

$

2.9

Other accrued liability reserves(b)

$

7.2

$

20.6

(a)

This table should be read in conjunction with the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b)

Includes both long-term and short-term reserves.

Some of the Company’s products are subject to specified
    warranties and the Company provides for the estimated cost of
    product warranties. We regularly assess the adequacy of our
    pre-existing warranty liabilities and adjust amounts as
    necessary based on a review of historic warranty experience with
    respect to the applicable business or products, as well as the
    length and actual terms of the warranties, which are typically
    one year. The product warranty reserve is included in current
    and long term accrued liabilities and other long-term
    liabilities on the balance sheet. Changes in the Company’s
    product warranty reserve are as follows (in millions):




Balance at beginning of year

$

14.0

$

11.4

$

11.4

Accruals for product warranties charged to expense

9.6

9.0

7.4

Cost of product warranty claims

(7.7

)

(8.7

)

(7.6

)

Acquisitions

—

2.3

0.2

Balance at year-end

$

15.9

$

14.0

$

11.4

Critical
    Accounting Policies

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with United States generally accepted accounting
    principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions
    that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
    the notes to the financial statements. Some of those judgments
    can be subjective and complex, and therefore, actual results
    could differ materially from those estimates under different
    assumptions or conditions. Our critical accounting policies are
    those that are reflective of significant judgment, complexity
    and uncertainty, and may potentially result in materially
    different results under different assumptions and conditions. We
    have identified the following as critical accounting policies:
    revenue recognition; aircraft product liability reserve;
    accounting for pension plans; accounting for business
    combinations, goodwill and other long-lived assets; and
    accounting for income taxes. For additional discussion of the
    application of these and other accounting policies, see
    Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Revenue
    Recognition

Commercial sales and sales from U.S. Government fixed-price
    type contracts are generally recorded as shipments are made or
    as services are rendered. Occasionally, for certain fixed-price
    type contracts that require substantial performance over a long
    time period (generally one or more years), revenues are recorded
    under the

percentage-of-completion

method. We measure the extent of progress toward completion
    using the



units-of-delivery

method,

cost-to-cost

method or upon attainment of scheduled performance milestones
    which could be time, event or expense driven. Occasionally,
    invoices are submitted to and paid by the customer under a
    contractual agreement which has a different time schedule than
    the related revenue recognition. Sales under cost-reimbursement
    contracts, usually from the U.S. Government, are recorded
    as allowable costs are incurred and fees are earned.

The development of cost of sales percentages used to record
    costs under certain fixed-price type contracts and fees under
    certain cost-reimbursement type contracts requires
    management’s judgment to make reasonably dependable cost
    estimates for the design, manufacture and delivery of products
    and services, generally over a long time period. Since certain
    fixed-price and cost-reimbursement type contracts extend over a
    long period of time, the impact of revisions in cost and revenue
    estimates during the progress of work may adjust the current
    period earnings on a cumulative

catch-up

basis. This method recognizes in the current period the
    cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior quarters.
    For fixed-price contracts, if the current contract estimate
    indicates a loss, a provision is made for the total anticipated
    loss in the period that it becomes evident. Contract cost and
    revenue estimates for significant contracts are generally
    reviewed and reassessed quarterly. These types of contracts and
    estimates are most frequently related to our sales to the
    U.S. Government or sales to other defense contractors for
    ultimate sale to the U.S. Government. The Company follows
    the revenue recognition criteria under Accounting Standards
    Codification (“ASC”)

605-10-S99-1,

Revenue Recognition, (formerly SAB Topic 13.A.3.a, Bill and
    Hold Arrangements). For our sales to the U.S. Government in
    2009, 2008 and 2007, operating income as a percent of sales did
    not vary by more than 0.7%. If operating income as a percent of
    sales to the U.S. Government had been higher or lower by
    0.7% in 2009, the Company’s operating income would have
    changed by approximately $4.7 million.

Aircraft
    Product Liability Reserve

We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings related
    to aircraft product liability claims. We have accrued an
    estimate for the probable costs for the resolution of these
    claims. At January 3, 2010, we have a reserve of
    $44.7 million for aircraft product liability claims, of
    which $2.3 million is current. This estimate has been
    developed in consultation with our insurers, outside counsel
    handling our defense in these matters, historical experience,
    the number and nature of claims, the level of annual
    self-insurance retentions, past payment history and is based
    upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of
    litigation and settlement strategies. We do not believe these
    proceedings will have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated financial position. It is possible, however, that
    future results of operations for any particular quarterly or
    annual period could be materially affected by specific events
    occurring in the period, changes in our assumptions, or the
    effectiveness of our strategies, related to these proceedings.
    The Company has aircraft and product liability insurance. The
    current annual self-insurance retention is $17.2 million
    compared with $20.1 million in 2008. If a significant
    liability claim or combination of claims were identified, even
    taking into account insurance coverage, operating profit in a
    given period could be reduced significantly. Accruals could be
    made in a given period for amounts up to our annual
    self-insurance retention. Based on the facts and circumstances
    of the claims, we have not always accrued amounts up to our
    annual self-insurance retention. We could incur losses above the
    aggregate annual policy limit as well. Also, we cannot assure
    that, for 2010 and in future years, our ability to obtain
    insurance, or the premiums for such insurance, or the amount of
    our self-insured retention or reserves will not be negatively
    impacted by our experience in prior years or other factors. Our
    current aircraft product liability insurance policy expires in
    May 2010.

Accounting
    for Pension Plans

The Company’s accounting for its defined benefit pension
    plan requires that amounts recognized in financial statements be
    determined on an actuarial basis, rather than as contributions
    are made to the plan. A significant element in determining the
    Company’s pension income or expense is the expected return
    on plan assets, as well as the assumed discount rate on pension
    liabilities. The Company has assumed, based upon the types of
    securities the plan assets are invested in and the long-term
    historical returns of these investments, that the long-term
    expected return on pension assets will be 8.25% in 2010 and its
    assumed discount rate will be 6.25% in 2010. The Company’s
    long-term expected return on pension assets used in 2009 was
    8.25% and the assumed discount rate used in 2009 was 6.25%. The
    actual rate of return on pension assets was 12.5% in 2009



and a negative 28.2% in 2008. If the actual rate of return on
    pension assets is above the projection, the Company may be able
    to reduce its contributions to the pension trust. If the actual
    rate of return on pension assets is below the projection, the
    Company may be required to make additional contributions to the
    pension trust. The Company made after-tax contributions of
    $71.1 million to its pension benefit plans in 2009 and
    currently anticipates making an after-tax cash contribution of
    approximately $22.6 million to its pension benefit plans in
    2010, before recovery from the U.S. Government. The assumed
    long-term rate of return on assets is applied to the
    market-related value of plan assets at the end of the previous
    year. This produces the expected return on plan assets that is
    included in annual pension income or expense calculation for the
    current year. The cumulative difference between this expected
    return and the actual return on plan assets is deferred and
    amortized into pension income or expense over future periods. At
    year-end 2009 the Company has a $160.2 million non-cash
    reduction to stockholders’ equity and a long-term
    additional liability of $263.6 million related to its
    pension plans. At year-end 2008, the Company had a
    $191.3 million non-cash reduction to stockholders’
    equity and a long-term additional liability of
    $315.0 million related to its pension plans. See
    Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    for additional pension disclosures.

Differences in the discount rate and expected long-term rate of
    return on assets within the indicated range would have had the
    following impact on 2009 pension expense:

0.25 Percentage

0.25 Percentage

Point Increase

Point Decrease

In millions

Increase (decrease) to pension expense resulting from:

Change in discount rate

$

(1.9

)

$

1.9

Change in long-term rate of return on plan assets

$

(1.5

)

$

1.5

See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for additional pension disclosures.

Accounting for Business Combinations, Goodwill, Acquired
    Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets

The Company accounts for goodwill and purchased intangible
    assets under ASC 80, (formerly SFAS No. 141R,
    “Business Combinations”). In all acquisitions, the
    results are generally included in the Company’s
    consolidated financial statements from the date of each
    respective acquisition. Business acquisitions are accounted for
    under the purchase method by assigning the purchase price to
    tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
    Assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their
    fair values and the excess of the purchase price over the
    amounts assigned is recorded as goodwill. Purchased intangible
    assets with finite lives are amortized over their estimated
    useful lives. Adjustments to fair value assessments are recorded
    to goodwill over the purchase price allocation period (generally
    not longer than twelve months) with the exception of certain
    adjustments related to income tax uncertainties, the resolution
    of which may extend beyond the purchase price allocation period.

Goodwill and acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives
    are not amortized. We review goodwill and acquired
    indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever
    events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
    amount of these assets may not be recoverable. The Company also
    performs an annual impairment test in the fourth quarter of each
    year. Based on the annual impairment test completed in the
    fourth quarter of 2009, no impairment of goodwill or intangible
    assets with indefinite lives was indicated. The Company
    estimates the fair value of the reporting units, which are our
    four business segments, using a discounted cash flow model based
    on our best estimate of amounts and timing of future revenues
    and cash flows and our most recent business and strategic plans,
    and compares the estimated fair value to the net book value of
    the reporting unit, including goodwill. The development of
    future revenue and cash flow projections for our business and
    strategic plan, and the annual impairment test involve
    significant judgments. Changes in these projections could affect
    the estimated fair value of certain of the Company’s
    reporting units and could result in a goodwill impairment charge
    in a future period. However, a 10 percent decrease in the
    current fair value estimate of each of the Company’s
    reporting units would not result in a goodwill impairment charge.

We monitor the recoverability of the carrying value of our
    long-lived assets. An impairment charge is recognized when
    events and circumstances indicate that the undiscounted cash
    flows expected to be generated



by an asset (including any proceeds from dispositions) are less
    than the carrying value of the asset and the asset’s
    carrying value is less than its fair value. Our cash flow
    estimates are based on historical results adjusted to reflect
    our best estimate of future market and operating conditions. The
    net carrying value of assets not recoverable is reduced to fair
    value. Our estimates of fair value represent our best estimate
    based on industry trends and reference to market rates and
    transactions. Our determination of what constitutes an
    indication of possible impairment, the estimation of future cash
    flows and the determination of estimated fair value are all
    significant judgments.

Accounting
    for Income Taxes

Income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities
    reflect management’s assessment of actual future taxes to
    be paid on items reflected in the financial statements.
    Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions
    and determining our provision for income taxes. Uncertainty
    exists regarding tax positions taken in previously filed tax
    returns still under examination and positions expected to be
    taken in future returns. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
    arise due to differences between the consolidated financial
    statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities
    and their respective tax bases and tax carryforwards. Although
    we believe our income tax expense and deferred tax assets and
    liabilities are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the
    final tax outcome will not be different from that which is
    reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals.
    To the extent that the final tax outcome is different than the
    amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for
    income taxes in the period in which such determination is made.
    The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve
    provisions and changes to reserves that are considered
    appropriate, as well as the related net interest.

Significant judgment is required in determining any valuation
    allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the
    need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available
    evidence including past operating results, estimates of future
    taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies.
    In the event that we change our determination as to the amount
    of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our
    valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision
    for income taxes in the period in which such determination is
    made.

Our effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate primarily
    due to the tax impact of the prior year research and development
    tax credits, state taxes and tax audit settlements. The
    effective tax rate was 29.4%, 36.4% and 34.1% in fiscal 2009,
    2008 and 2007, respectively.

The following presents a rollforward of our unrecognized tax
    benefits (in millions):



Unrecognized

Unrecognized

Tax Benefits

Interest

Tax Benefits

Interest

Beginning of year

$

36.8

$

0.8

$

27.8

$

0.5

Increase (decrease) in prior year tax positions

(3.2

)

0.4

0.2

0.3

Increase for tax positions taken during the current period

5.0

—

9.8

0.2

Reduction related to settlements with taxing authorities

(12.3

)

—

—

—

Reduction related to lapse of the statue of limitations

(1.1

)

(0.2

)

(1.0

)

(0.2

)

End of year

$

25.2

$

1.0

$

36.8

$

0.8

We recognized interest related to unrecognized tax benefits of
    $0.9 million and $0.5 million within the provision for
    income taxes in our statements of operations for fiscal year
    2009 and 2008, respectively.

As of January 3, 2010, we estimated that the entire balance
    of unrecognized tax benefits, if resolved in our favor, would
    positively impact the effective tax rate and, therefore be
    recognized as additional tax benefits in our income statement.



We file income tax returns in the United States federal
    jurisdiction and in various states and foreign jurisdictions.
    Except for refund claims related to credits for research
    activities, the Company has substantially concluded on all
    U.S. federal income tax matters for all years through 2005.
    Substantially all other material state and local and foreign
    income tax matters have been concluded for years through 2004.

The Company anticipates the total unrecognized tax benefit for
    various federal and state tax items may be reduced by
    $2.6 million due to the expiration of statutes of
    limitation for various federal and state tax issues in the next
    12 months.

Accounting
    Pronouncements Adopted

In the third quarter of 2009, we adopted the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) ASC. The ASC does
    not alter current U.S. GAAP, but rather integrates existing
    accounting standards with other authoritative guidance. The ASC
    provides a single source of authoritative U.S. GAAP for
    nongovernmental entities and supersedes all other previously
    issued non-SEC accounting and reporting guidance. The adoption
    of the ASC did not have any effect on our results of operations
    or financial position. All prior references to U.S. GAAP
    have been revised to conform to the ASC. Updates to the ASC are
    issued in the form of Accounting Standards Updates
    (“ASU”).

In May 2009, we adopted ASC 855, (formerly Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 165,
    Subsequent Events), which establishes general standards of
    accounting for and disclosure of subsequent events that occur
    after the balance sheet date. The Company has evaluated
    subsequent events through the date of issuance of these
    financial statements.

In April 2009, ASC

820-10-65,

(formerly

SFAS 157-4,

“Determining Fair Value When Market Activity Has
    Decreased,”), ASC

320-10-65

(formerly

FSP 115-2

and

FSP 124-2,

“Other-Than-Temporary

Impairment”) and ASC

825-10-65,

(formerly

FSP 107-1/APB

28-1,

“Interim Fair Value Disclosures for Financial
    Instruments.”) were issued. These topics impact certain
    aspects of fair value measurement and related disclosures. The
    provisions of these topics were effective beginning in the
    second quarter of 2009. The impact of adopting these topics in
    the second quarter of 2009 did not have a material effect on our
    consolidated financial position or results of operations.

Effective December 29, 2008, Teledyne adopted the
    provisions of ASC 80, (formerly SFAS No. 141R,
    “Business Combinations”). This revised guidance
    establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer of
    a business recognizes and measures in its financial statements
    the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and
    any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. It provides
    guidance for recognizing and measuring the goodwill acquired in
    the business combination and determines what information to
    disclose to enable users of the financial statement to evaluate
    the nature and financial effects of the business combination. It
    applies prospectively to business combinations for which the
    acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first
    annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15,
    2008, with an exception related to the accounting for valuation
    allowances on deferred taxes and acquired tax contingencies
    related to acquisitions completed before the effective date. The
    revised guidance also requires adjustments, made after the
    effective date, to valuation allowances for acquired deferred
    tax assets and income tax positions to be recognized as income
    tax expense. The adoption of the revised guidance, effective
    December 29, 2008, did not have a material effect on the
    Company’s consolidated results of operations or financial
    position for the acquisitions made prior to its adoption. For
    any acquisitions completed after our 2008 fiscal year, we expect
    the revised guidance will have an impact on our consolidated
    financial statements, however the nature and magnitude of the
    specific effects will depend upon the nature, terms and size of
    the acquisitions, if any, we consummate. In 2009, Teledyne
    acquired assets of a marine sensor product line for an initial
    payment of $1.4 million. Due to the size of the purchase,
    the revised guidance did not have an impact on the consolidated
    financial statements.

Effective December 29, 2008, the Company adopted the
    provisions of ASC

810-10-65

(formerly SFAS No. 160, “Noncontrolling Interests
    in Consolidated Financial Statements — an amendment of
    ARB No. 51”). The revised guidance establishes new
    accounting, reporting and disclosure standards for the
    noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the
    deconsolidation of a subsidiary and requires the recognition of
    a noncontrolling interest as equity in the condensed
    consolidated financial statements and separate from the



parents’ equity. The revised guidance was applied
    prospectively as of the beginning of fiscal year 2009, except
    for the presentation and disclosure requirements which were
    applied retrospectively for the prior periods presented. In
    connection with the adoption, and in compliance with ASC 480
    (formerly Emerging Issues Task Force Abstracts Topic

No. D-98,

“Classification and Measurement of Redeemable
    Securities”), the Company restated the prior year balance
    sheet to reflect the fair value of the obligation to purchase
    the remaining shares of ODI of $24.2 million at fiscal
    year-end 2008 as redeemable noncontrolling interest and
    classified the amount as mezzanine equity (temporary equity) on
    the balance sheet. The Company also restated the year-end 2008
    balance in retained earnings to reflect a corresponding
    $24.2 million decrease. Additionally, the Company
    reclassified noncontrolling interests of $4.1 million,
    related to ODI, from long-term liabilities at year-end 2008 to
    redeemable noncontrolling interest on the balance sheet. The
    Company also reclassified noncontrolling interests of
    $1.1 million, related to Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc.,
    from long-term liabilities at year-end 2008 to the
    noncontrolling interest component of the equity section of the
    balance sheet. In 2009, Teledyne purchased all of the remaining
    14.1% minority interest in Ocean Design, Inc. (“ODI”)
    for $25.5 million and now owns 100% of ODI. See Footnote 2,
    “Business Combinations” for a discussion of the ODI
    acquisition.

In September 2006 and in February 2009, the FASB issued
    guidelines, under ASC 820, (formerly SFAS No. 157,
    “Fair Value Measurements” and related FASB Staff
    Positions) related to fair value measurements that, defines fair
    value, establishes a framework in generally accepted accounting
    principles for measuring fair value and expands disclosures
    about fair value measurements. The guidelines do not increase
    the use of fair value measurement and only apply when other
    guidelines require or permit the fair value measurement of
    assets and liabilities. The implementation of the guidelines for
    financial assets and financial liabilities, effective
    December 31, 2007, and the implementation the guidelines
    for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, effective
    December 29, 2008, did not have a material impact on our
    consolidated financial position or results of operations.

ASC 820 also establishes a valuation hierarchy for disclosure of
    the inputs to the valuations used to measure fair value. This
    hierarchy prioritizes the inputs into three broad levels as
    follows: Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in
    active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2
    inputs are inputs that are observable for an asset or liability,
    either directly or indirectly, through corroboration with
    observable market data; and Level 3 inputs are unobservable
    inputs based on a reporting entity’s own assumptions used
    to measure assets and liabilities at fair value. A financial
    asset or liability’s classification within the hierarchy is
    determined based on the lowest level input that is significant
    to the fair value measurement.

Safe
    Harbor Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking
    Data

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operation contains forward-looking
    statements, as defined in the Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995, directly and indirectly relating to
    earnings, growth opportunities, product sales, capital
    expenditures, pension matters, stock option compensation
    expense, taxes and strategic plans. All statements made in this
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operation that are not historical in nature
    should be considered forward-looking. Actual results could
    differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Many
    factors could change the anticipated results, including
    continuing disruptions in the global economy, insurance and
    credit markets, changes in demand for products sold to the
    defense electronics, instrumentation and energy exploration and
    production, commercial aviation, semiconductor and
    communications markets, funding, continuation and award of
    government programs, continued liquidity of our suppliers and
    customers (including commercial and aviation customers) and
    availability of credit to our suppliers and customers, and the
    availability of valve lifters and the cost of the lifter issue
    at Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc. Increasing fuel costs could
    negatively affect the markets of our commercial aviation
    businesses. Lower oil and natural gas prices could negatively
    affect our business units that supply the oil and gas industry.
    In addition, financial market fluctuations affect the value of
    our pension assets.

Global responses to terrorism and other perceived threats
    increase uncertainties associated with forward-looking
    statements about our businesses. Various responses to terrorism
    and perceived threats could realign government programs, and
    affect the composition, funding or timing of our programs.
    Flight restrictions would



negatively impact the market for general aviation aircraft
    piston engines and components. Changes in U.S. Government
    policy could result, over time, in reductions and realignment in
    defense or other government spending and further changes in
    programs in which the Company participates, including
    anticipated reductions in the Company’s missile defense
    engineering services and gas centrifuge service module
    manufacturing programs.

The Company continues to take action to assure compliance with
    the internal controls, disclosure controls and other
    requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we believe
    our control systems are effective, there are inherent
    limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to
    error or fraud may occur and may not be detected.

While Teledyne’s growth strategy includes possible
    acquisitions, we cannot provide any assurance as to when, if or
    on what terms any acquisitions will be made. Acquisitions
    involve various inherent risks, such as, among others, our
    ability to integrate acquired businesses, retain customers and
    achieve identified financial and operating synergies. There are
    additional risks associated with acquiring, owning and operating
    businesses outside of the United States, including those arising
    from U.S. and foreign government policy changes or actions
    and exchange rate fluctuations.

Additional information concerning factors that could cause
    actual results to differ materially from those projected in the
    forward-looking statements is contained beginning on
    page 16 of this

Form 10-K

under the caption “Risk Factors; Cautionary Statements as
    to Forward-Looking Statements.” Forward-looking statements
    are generally accompanied by words such as “estimate”,
    “project”, “predict”, “believes”
    or “expect”, that convey the uncertainty of future
    events or outcomes. We assume no obligation to publicly update
    or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of
    new information or otherwise.

Item 7A.

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

The information required by this item is included in this Report
    at page 55 under the caption “Other
    Matters — Hedging Activities; Market Risk
    Disclosures” of “Item 7. Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operation.”

Item 8.

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data.

The information required by this item is included in this Report
    at pages 69 through 104. See the “Index to Financial
    Statements and Related Information” at page 68.

Item 9.

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure.

None.

Item 9A.

Controls
    and Procedures.

Disclosure
    Controls

Teledyne’s disclosure controls and procedures are designed
    to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports
    that it files or submits, under the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, was recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
    the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the
    Securities and Exchange Commission and to provide reasonable
    assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in
    such reports is accumulated and communicated to the
    Company’s management, including its principal executive
    officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow
    timely decisions regarding required disclosure. The
    Company’s Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
    and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, with the
    participation and assistance of other members of management,
    have evaluated the effectiveness, as of January 3, 2010, of
    the Company’s “disclosure controls and
    procedures,” as that term is defined in

Rule 13a-15(e)

under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
    (“the Exchange Act”). Based upon that evaluation, our
    Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer
    concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures as of
    January 3, 2010, are effective.



Internal
    Controls

See Management Statement on page 69 for management’s
    annual report on internal control over financial reporting. See
    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
    page 70 for Ernst & Young LLP’s attestation
    report on management’s assessment of internal control over
    financial reporting.

There was no change in the Company’s “internal control
    over financial reporting” (as such term is defined in

Rule 13a-15(f)

under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the quarter ended
    January 3, 2010, that has materially affected, or is
    reasonably likely to materially effect, the Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting. There also were no
    significant deficiencies or material weaknesses identified for
    which corrective action needed to be taken.

Sarbanes-Oxley
    Disclosure Committee

The Company’s Sarbanes-Oxley Disclosure Committee includes
    the following members:

Stephen F. Blackwood, Vice President and Treasurer

Ivars R. Blukis, Chief Business Risk Assurance Officer (Internal
    Audit)

Melanie S. Cibik, Vice President, Associate General Counsel and
    Assistant Secretary

John T. Kuelbs, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
    Secretary

Brian A. Levan, Director of External Financial Reporting and
    Assistant Controller

Susan L. Main, Vice President and Controller

Robyn E. McGowan, Vice President, Administration, Human
    Resources and Assistant Secretary

S. Paul Sassalos, Senior Corporate Counsel

Dale A. Schnittjer, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
    Officer

Jason VanWees, Vice President, Corporate Development and
    Investor Relations

Among its tasks, the Sarbanes-Oxley Disclosure Committee
    discusses and reviews disclosure issues to help us fulfill our
    disclosure obligations on a timely basis in accordance with SEC
    rules and regulations and is intended to be used as an
    additional resource for employees to raise questions regarding
    accounting, auditing, internal controls and disclosure matters.
    Our toll-free Ethics Help Line (1-877-666-6968) continues to be
    an alternative means to communicate concerns to the
    Company’s management.

Item 9B.

Other
    Information.

None.



PART III

Item 10.

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.

In addition to the information set forth under the caption
    “Executive Management” beginning at page 13 in
    Part I of this Report, the information required by this
    item is set forth in the 2010 Proxy Statement under the captions
    “Item 1 on Proxy Card — Election of
    Directors,” “Board Composition and Practices,”
    “Corporate Governance,” “Committees of Our Board
    of Directors — Audit Committee” and “Report
    of the Audit Committee” and “Stock
    Ownership — Sections 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
    Reporting Compliance.” This information is incorporated
    herein by reference.

Item 11.

Executive
    Compensation.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2010
    Proxy Statement under the captions “Executive and Director
    Compensation” “Compensation Committee Interlocks and
    Insider Participation” and “Personnel and Compensation
    Committee Report.” This information is incorporated herein
    by reference.

Item 12.

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters.

Equity
    Compensation Plans Information

Except for the table below, the information required by this
    item is set forth in the 2010 Proxy Statement under the caption
    “Stock Ownership Information.”

The following table summarizes information with respect to
    equity compensation plans as of January 3, 2010:

Number of Securities

Remaining Available

for Future Issuance

Number of Securities

under Equity

to be Issued upon

Weighted-Average

Compensation Plans

Exercise of

Exercise Price of

[excluding securities

Outstanding Options,

Outstanding Options,

reflected in

Warrants and Rights

Warrants or Rights

column

Plan Category

(a)

(b)

(a)]

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders:

1999 Incentive Plan(1)

1,016,179

$

33.02

—

1999 Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan(1)

300,408

20.74

—

2002 Stock Incentive Plan(1)

1,301,371

29.38

—

2008 Incentive Plan

49,909

32.38

1,391,146

(2)

Employee Stock Purchase Plan(3)

—

—

1,000,000

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders

—

—

—

Total

2,667,867

$

29.85

2,391,146

(1)

The 1999 Incentive Plan, the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan and the
    1999 Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan terminated
    following stockholder approval of the 2008 Incentive Award Plan
    at our 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, and no additional
    awards under these plans may be made thereafter.

(2)

The amount includes: up to 56,582 shares of our common
    stock potentially issuable at January 3, 2010, for the
    third and final installment under our Performance Share Plan
    (PSP) for the

2006-2008

performance cycle. A total of 53,834 shares were issued on
    February 2, 2009 with respect to the first installment
    thereto and 44,751 shares were issued on February 3,
    2010, with respect to the second installment thereto. The



amount also includes: up to 103,824 shares of our common
    stock potentially issuable at January 3, 2010 under our
    Performance Share Plan (PSP) for the

2009-2011

performance cycle. The shares would be issuable in three equal
    annual installments beginning in 2012.

(3)

We maintain an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (commonly known as
    The Stock Advantage Plan) for eligible employees. It enables
    employees to invest in our common stock through automatic,
    after-tax payroll deductions, within specified limits. We add a
    25% matching company contribution up to $1,200 annually. Our
    contribution is currently paid in cash and the plan
    administrator purchases shares of our common stock in the open
    market.

Item 13.

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2010
    Proxy Statement under the captions “Corporate
    Governance” and “Certain Transactions” and is
    incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2010
    Proxy Statement under the captions “Fees Billed by
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” and
    “Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policies” under
    “Item 2 on Proxy Card — Ratification of
    Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm” and is incorporated herein by reference.



PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules.

(a) Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules:

(1) Financial Statements

See the “Index to Financial Statements and Related
    Information” at page 68 of this Report, which is
    incorporated herein by reference.

(2) Financial Statement Schedules

See Schedule II captioned “Valuation and Qualifying
    Accounts” at page 104 of this Report, which is
    incorporated herein by reference.

(3) Exhibits

A list of exhibits filed with this

Form 10-K

or incorporated by reference is found in the Exhibit Index
    immediately following the certifications of this Report and
    incorporated herein by reference.

(b) Exhibits:

See Item 15(a)(3) above.

(c) Financial Schedules:

See Item 15(a)(2) above.


INDEX TO
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RELATED INFORMATION

Page

Financial Statements and Related Information:

Management Statement


Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting


Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm


Consolidated Statements of Income


Consolidated Balance Sheets


Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’
    Equity


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Financial Statement Schedule:

Schedule II — Valuation and
    Qualifying Accounts




MANAGEMENT
    STATEMENT

RESPONSIBILITY
    FOR PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND ESTABLISHING AND
    MAINTAINING ADEQUATE INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

We are responsible for the preparation of the financial
    statements included in this Annual Report. The financial
    statements were prepared in accordance with accounting
    principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America and include amounts that are based on the best estimates
    and judgments of management. The other financial information
    contained in this Annual Report is consistent with the financial
    statements.

Our internal control system is designed to provide reasonable
    assurance concerning the reliability of the financial data used
    in the preparation of Teledyne Technologies’ financial
    statements, as well as to safeguard the Company’s assets
    from unauthorized use or disposition.

All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have
    inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined
    to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with
    respect to financial statement presentation.

REPORT OF
    MANAGEMENT ON TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED’S INTERNAL
    CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

We are also responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting. We conducted
    an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting as of January 3,
    2010. In making this evaluation, we used the criteria set forth
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission (“COSO”) in Internal Control —
    Integrated Framework. Our evaluation included reviewing the
    documentation of our controls, evaluating the design
    effectiveness of our controls and testing their operating
    effectiveness. Based on this evaluation we believe that, as of
    January 3, 2010, the Company’s internal controls over
    financial reporting were effective.

Ernst and Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting
    firm, has issued their report on the effectiveness of Teledyne
    Technologies’ internal control over financial reporting.
    Their report appears on page 70 of this Annual Report.

Date:
    March 2, 2010

/s/

Robert
    Mehrabian

Robert Mehrabian

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Date:
    March 2, 2010

/s/

Dale
    A. Schnittjer

Dale A. Schnittjer

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer



REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

We have audited Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s
    internal control over financial reporting as of January 3,
    2010, based on criteria established in Internal
    Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee
    of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO
    criteria). Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s management
    is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
    financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting included in the
    accompanying Report of Management on Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated’s Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.
    Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
    company’s internal control over financial reporting based
    on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Teledyne Technologies Incorporated maintained,
    in all material respects, effective internal control over
    financial reporting as of January 3, 2010, based on the
    COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated balance sheets of Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated as of January 3, 2010 and December 28,
    2008, and the related consolidated statements of income,
    stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended January 3, 2010 of Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated and our report dated March 2,
    2010 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/

Ernst &
    Young LLP

Los Angeles,
    California

March 2, 2010



REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated as of January 3, 2010
    and December 28, 2008, and the related consolidated
    statements of income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows
    for each of the three years in the period ended January 3,
    2010. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule
    listed in the index at Item 15(a)(2). These financial
    statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
    Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
    opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our
    audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated at
    January 3, 2010 and December 28, 2008, and the
    consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for
    each of the three years in the period ended January 3,
    2010, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial
    statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
    financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
    material respects the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial
    statements, in 2009 the Company changed its method of accounting
    for business combinations and noncontrolling interests. Also, in
    2007, the Company changed its method of accounting for uncertain
    tax positions.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s internal control over
    financial reporting as of January 3, 2010, based on
    criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework
    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission and our report dated March 2, 2010
    expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/

Ernst &
    Young LLP

Los Angeles,
    California

March 2, 2010



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(In
    millions, except per-share amounts)




Sales

$

1,765.2

$

1,893.0

$

1,622.3

Costs and Expenses

Cost of sales

1,256.0

1,339.5

1,136.4

Selling, general and administrative expenses

343.2

364.6

323.6

Total costs and expenses

1,599.2

1,704.1

1,460.0

Income before other income and expense and income taxes

166.0

188.9

162.3

Interest and debt expense, net

(4.8

)

(10.9

)

(12.5

)

Other income (expense), net

(0.1

)

0.6

2.9

Income before income taxes

161.1

178.6

152.7

Provision for income taxes

47.3

65.0

50.8

Net income before noncontrolling interest

113.8

113.6

101.9

Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interest

(0.5

)

(2.3

)

(3.4

)

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies

$

113.3

$

111.3

$

98.5

Basic earnings per common share

$

3.15

$

3.14

$

2.82

Diluted earnings per common share

$

3.10

$

3.05

$

2.72

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
    statements.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS

(In
    millions, except share amounts)



Assets

Cash and cash equivalents

$

26.1

$

20.4

Accounts receivable, net

245.8

281.4

Inventories, net

189.6

207.0

Deferred income taxes, net

37.4

42.6

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

32.8

41.6

Total current assets

531.7

593.0

Property, plant and equipment, net

206.6

202.6

Deferred income taxes, net

29.9

89.2

Goodwill, net

502.4

502.5

Acquired intangibles, net

109.6

117.0

Other assets, net

41.3

30.2

Total Assets

$

1,421.5

$

1,534.5

Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity

Accounts payable

$

103.8

$

108.2

Accrued liabilities

176.8

202.4

Current portion of long-term debt and capital lease

0.5

1.1

Total current liabilities

281.1

311.7

Long-term debt and capital lease obligations

251.6

332.1

Accrued pension obligation

79.8

227.9

Accrued postretirement benefits

15.7

16.7

Other long-term liabilities

125.9

110.9

Total Liabilities

754.1

999.3

Redeemable noncontrolling interest

—

28.3

Stockholders’ equity

Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; outstanding
    shares — none

—

—

Common stock, $0.01 par value; authorized 125 million
    shares;

Outstanding shares: 2009 — 36,078,269 and
    2008 — 35,926,224

0.4

0.4

Additional paid-in capital

254.7

240.0

Treasury stock

—

—

Retained earnings

583.2

471.2

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(171.8

)

(205.8

)

Total Stockholders’ Equity

666.5

505.8

Noncontrolling interest

0.9

1.1

Total Equity

667.4

506.9

Total Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity

$

1,421.5

$

1,534.5

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
    statements.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(In
    millions)

Total

Teledyne

Accumulated

Technologies

Additional

Other

Incorporated

Common

Paid-in

Treasury

Retained

Comprehensive

Stockholders’

Noncontrolling

Total

Stock

Capital

Stock

Earnings

Income (Loss)

Equity

Interest

Equity

Balance, December 31, 2006 (as reported)

$

0.3

$

188.0

$

—

$

285.8

$

(42.3

)

$

431.8

$

—

$

431.8

Adoption of accounting for non controlling interests

—

—

—

(24.2

)

—

(24.2

)

0.7

(23.5

)

Balance, December 31, 2006 (as adjusted)

0.3

188.0

—

261.6

(42.3

)

407.6

0.7

408.3

Net income

—

—

—

98.5

—

98.5

3.4

101.9

Cumulative effect of the adoption of FIN No. 48

—

—

—

(0.2

)

—

(0.2

)

—

(0.2

)

Other comprehensive loss, net of tax:

Foreign currency translation losses

—

—

—

—

0.4

0.4

—

0.4

Minimum pension liability adjustment

—

—

—

—

(19.3

)

(19.3

)

—

(19.3

)

Comprehensive income

—

—

98.3

(18.9

)

79.4

3.4

82.8

Reclassification to redeemable noncontrolling interest

—

—

—

—

—

—

(3.2

)

(3.2

)

Stock option compensation expense

—

6.8

—

—

—

6.8

—

6.8

Exercise of stock options and other, net

0.1

12.1

—

—

—

12.2

—

12.2

Balance, December 30, 2007

0.4

206.9

—

359.9

(61.2

)

506.0

0.9

506.9

Net income

—

—

—

111.3

—

111.3

2.3

113.6

Other comprehensive loss, net of tax:

Foreign currency translation gains

—

—

—

—

(23.4

)

(23.4

)

—

(23.4

)

Minimum benefit plan liability adjustment

—

—

—

—

(121.2

)

(121.2

)

—

(121.2

)

Comprehensive loss

—

—

—

111.3

(144.6

)

(33.3

)

2.3

(31.0

)

Reclassification to redeemable noncontrolling interest

—

—

—

—

—

—

(2.1

)

(2.1

)

Stock option compensation expense

—

7.5

—

—

—

7.5

—

7.5

Exercise of stock options and other, net

—

25.6

—

—

—

25.6

—

25.6

Balance, December 28, 2008

0.4

240.0

—

471.2

(205.8

)

505.8

1.1

506.9

Net income

—

—

—

113.3

—

113.3

0.5

113.8

Other comprehensive loss, net of tax:

Foreign currency translation losses

—

—

—

—

3.4

3.4

—

3.4

Minimum benefit plan liability adjustment

—

—

—

—

30.6

30.6

—

30.6

Comprehensive income

—

—

—

113.3

34.0

147.3

0.5

147.8

Purchase of redeemable noncontrolling interest

—

4.7

—

(1.3

)

—

3.4

(0.7

)

2.7

Treasury Stock-purchase

—

—

0.8

—

—

0.8

—

0.8

Treasury Stock-issuance

—

—

(0.8

)

—

—

(0.8

)

—

(0.8

)

Stock option compensation expense

—

5.4

—

—

—

5.4

—

5.4

Exercise of stock options and other, net

—

4.6

—

—

—

4.6

—

4.6

Balance, January 3, 2010

$

0.4

$

254.7

$

—

$

583.2

$

(171.8

)

$

666.5

$

0.9

$

667.4

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
    statements.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In
    millions)




Operating activities

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies

$

113.3

$

111.3

$

98.5

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
    operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization of assets

44.7

47.3

34.7

Deferred income taxes

64.6

(41.0

)

(21.3

)

Stock option expense

5.4

7.5

6.8

Noncontrolling interest

0.5

2.3

3.4

Excess income tax benefits from stock options

(0.8

)

(10.3

)

(3.6

)

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, excluding the
    effect of businesses acquired:

Decrease (increase) in accounts receivable

36.1

(16.0

)

(8.7

)

Decrease (increase) in inventories

16.8

(2.3

)

(10.2

)

Decrease (increase) in prepaid expenses and other assets

4.3

(2.0

)

0.8

Decrease (increase) in long-term assets

(5.7

)

5.2

(6.9

)

Increase (decrease) in accounts payable

(4.7

)

(6.1

)

8.7

Increase (decrease) in accrued liabilities

(24.8

)

25.3

25.0

Decrease (increase) in current income taxes payable, net

5.3

(6.7

)

6.3

Increase (decrease) in other long-term liabilities

16.6

(16.2

)

17.2

Decrease in accrued postretirement benefits

(0.9

)

(6.2

)

(1.5

)

Increase (decrease) in accrued pension obligation

(117.4

)

32.4

17.0

Other operating, net

1.6

(4.1

)

0.5

Net cash provided by operating activities

154.9

120.4

166.7

Investing activities

Purchases of property, plant and equipment

(36.2

)

(41.9

)

(40.3

)

Purchase of businesses and other investments, net of cash
    acquired

(32.5

)

(285.1

)

(48.1

)

Proceeds from sale of assets

—

0.4

0.8

Net cash used by investing activities

(68.7

)

(326.6

)

(87.6

)

Financing activities

Net proceeds from (repayments of) long-term debt

(81.6

)

189.9

(88.8

)

Purchase of treasury stock

(0.8

)

—

—

Issuance of treasury shares for stock options exercised

0.8

—

—

Tax benefit from stock options exercised

0.8

10.3

3.6

Proceeds from exercise of stock options

0.3

13.0

6.5

Net cash provided (used) by financing activities

(80.5

)

213.2

(78.7

)

Increase in cash and cash equivalents

5.7

7.0

0.4

Cash and cash equivalents — beginning of year

20.4

13.4

13.0

Cash and cash equivalents — end of year

$

26.1

$

20.4

$

13.4

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
    statements.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1.  Description
    of Business

Effective November 29, 1999 (the “Distribution
    Date”), Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    (“Teledyne” or the “Company”), became an
    independent, public company as a result of the distribution by
    Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated, now known as Allegheny
    Technologies Incorporated (“ATI”), of the
    Company’s Common Stock, $.01 par value per share, to
    holders of ATI Common Stock at a distribution ratio of one for
    seven (the “spin-off”). The spin-off has been treated
    as a tax-free distribution for federal income tax purposes. The
    spin-off included the transfer of certain of the businesses of
    ATI’s Aerospace and Electronics segment to the new
    corporation, immediately prior to the Distribution Date. ATI no
    longer has a financial investment in Teledyne.

Teledyne is a leading provider of sophisticated electronic
    components and subsystems, instrumentation and communications
    products, including defense electronics, monitoring and control
    instrumentation for marine, environmental and industrial
    applications, harsh environment interconnect products, data
    acquisition and communications equipment for air transport and
    business aircraft, and components and subsystems for wireless
    and satellite communications. We also provide engineered systems
    and information technology services for defense, space,
    environmental and nuclear applications, manufacture general
    aviation engines and components, and supply energy generation,
    energy storage and small propulsion products.

Teledyne serves niche market segments where performance,
    precision and reliability are critical. Teledyne’s
    customers include government agencies, aerospace prime
    contractors, energy exploration and production companies, major
    industrial companies, and airlines and general aviation
    companies.

Teledyne consists of the operations of the Electronics and
    Communications segment with operations in the United States,
    United Kingdom, Mexico, Singapore, China, France and Australia;
    the Engineered Systems segment with operations in the United
    States; the Aerospace Engines and Components segment with
    operations in the United States; and the Energy and Power
    Systems segment with operations in the United States.

Note 2.  Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles
    of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    Teledyne and all wholly-owned and majority-owned domestic and
    foreign subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts and transactions
    have been eliminated.

Fiscal
    Year

The Company operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year convention
    ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. Fiscal year
    2009 was a 53-week fiscal year and ended on January 3,
    2010. Fiscal year 2008 was a 52-week fiscal year and ended on
    December 28, 2008. Fiscal year 2007 was a 52-week fiscal
    year and ended on December 30, 2007. References to the
    years 2009, 2008 and 2007 are intended to refer to the
    respective fiscal year unless otherwise noted.

Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
    make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of
    assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
    disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, the
    Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to
    product returns and replacements, allowance for doubtful
    accounts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty
    obligations, pension and other postretirement benefits,
    long-term contracts, environmental, workers’ compensation
    and general liability, aircraft product liability, employee
    dental and medical benefits and other contingencies, and
    litigation. The Company bases its



estimates on historical experience and on various other
    assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the
    circumstances at the time, the results of which form the basis
    for making its judgments. Actual results may differ materially
    from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
    Management believes that the estimates are reasonable.

Revenue
    Recognition

Commercial sales and revenue from U.S. Government
    fixed-price type contracts generally are recorded as shipments
    are made, as services are rendered or in some cases, on a

percentage-of-completion

basis. Sales under cost-reimbursement contracts are recorded as
    work is performed. Occasionally, for certain fixed-price type
    contracts that require substantial performance over a long time
    period (generally one or more years), revenues are recorded
    under the

percentage-of-completion

method. We measure the extent of progress toward completion
    using the

units-of-delivery

method,

cost-to-cost

method or based upon attainment of scheduled performance
    milestones which could be time, event or expense driven.
    Occasionally, invoices are submitted to be paid by the customer
    under a contractual agreement which has a different time
    schedule than the related revenue recognition. Since certain
    contracts extend over a long period of time, all revisions in
    cost and revenue estimates during the progress of work have the
    effect of adjusting the current period earnings on a cumulative

catch-up

basis. If the current contract estimate indicates a loss,
    provision is made for the total anticipated loss in the period
    that it becomes evident. Sales under cost-reimbursement
    contracts are recorded as allowable costs are incurred and fees
    are earned. The Company follows the revenue recognition criteria
    under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”)

605-10-S99-1,

Revenue Recognition, (formerly SAB Topic 13.A.3.a, Bill and
    Hold Arrangements).

Shipping
    and Handling

Shipping and handling fees charged to customers are classified
    as revenue while shipping and handling costs retained by
    Teledyne are classified as cost of sales in the accompanying
    consolidated statements of income.

Product
    Warranty and Recall and Replacement Costs

Some of the Company’s products are subject to specified
    warranties and the Company provides for the estimated cost of
    product warranties. The adequacy of the preexisting warranty
    liabilities is assessed regularly and the reserve is adjusted as
    necessary based on a review of historic warranty experience with
    respect to the applicable business or products, as well as the
    length and actual terms of the warranties, which are typically
    one year. The product warranty reserve is included in current
    and long term accrued liabilities on the balance sheet. Changes
    in the Company’s product warranty reserve are as follows
    (in millions):




Balance at beginning of year

$

14.0

$

11.4

$

11.4

Accruals for product warranties charged to expense

9.6

9.0

7.4

Cost of product warranty claims

(7.7

)

(8.7

)

(7.6

)

Acquisitions

—

2.3

0.2

Balance at year-end

$

15.9

$

14.0

$

11.4

The Company establishes reserves for product returns and
    replacements on a product-specific basis when circumstances
    giving rise to the return become known. Facts and circumstances
    related to a return, including where the product affected by the
    return is located (e.g., the end user, customers’
    inventory, or in Teledyne’s inventory) and cost estimates
    to return, repair

and/or

replace the product are considered when establishing a product
    return reserve. The reserve is reevaluated each period and is
    adjusted when the reserve is either not sufficient to cover or
    exceeds the estimated product return expenses. The Company
    recorded a net charge of $1.3 million in 2009 and an
    $18.0 million charge in 2008 for a product recall and
    replacement program in the Aerospace Engines and Components
    segment. The Company had no such charges in 2007.



Research
    and Development

Selling, general and administrative expenses include
    company-funded research and development and bid and proposal
    costs which are expensed as incurred and were $60.8 million
    in 2009, $65.6 million in 2008, and $59.7 million in
    2007. Costs related to customer-funded research and development
    contracts were $316.0 million in 2009, $330.2 million
    in 2008, and $295.4 million in 2007 and are charged to cost
    of sales as the related sales are recorded. A portion of the
    costs incurred for company-funded research and development is
    recoverable through overhead cost allocations on government
    contracts.

Income
    Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with
    Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Deferred income tax
    assets and liabilities are determined on the estimated future
    tax effects of differences between the financial reporting and
    tax basis of assets and liabilities given the application of
    enacted tax laws. Deferred income tax provisions and benefits
    are based on changes to the asset or liability from year to
    year. A valuation allowance is recorded when it is more likely
    than not that some of the deferred tax assets will not be
    realized.

The Company accounts for uncertain tax positions in accordance
    with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Income tax
    positions must meet a more-likely-than-not recognition in order
    to be recognized in the financial statements. We recognize
    potential accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized
    tax benefits within operations as income tax expense. As new
    information becomes available, the assessment of the recognition
    threshold and the measurement of the associated tax benefit of
    uncertain tax positions may result in financial statement
    recognition or derecognition.

Net
    Income Per Common Share

Basic and diluted earnings per share were computed based on net
    earnings. The weighted average number of common shares
    outstanding during the period was used in the calculation of
    basic earnings per share. This number of shares was increased by
    contingent shares that could be issued under various
    compensation plans as well as by the dilutive effect of stock
    options based on the treasury stock method in the calculation of
    diluted earnings per share.

The following table sets forth the computations of basic and
    diluted earnings per share (amounts in millions, except per
    share data):




Basic earnings per share

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies

$

113.3

$

111.3

$

98.5

Weighted average common shares outstanding

36.0

35.5

34.9

Basic earnings per common share

$

3.15

$

3.14

$

2.82

Diluted earnings per share

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies

$

113.3

$

111.3

$

98.5

Weighted average common shares outstanding

36.0

35.5

34.9

Dilutive effect of contingently issuable shares

0.6

1.0

1.3

Weighted average diluted common shares outstanding

36.6

36.5

36.2

Diluted earnings per common share

$

3.10

$

3.05

$

2.72

For 2009 and 2008, 910,539 and 194,897 stock options were
    excluded in the computation of diluted earnings per share
    because they had exercise prices that were greater than the
    average market price of the Company’s common stock during
    2009 and 2008, respectively. For 2007, no stock options were
    excluded in the computation of diluted earnings per share.



Stock options to purchase 1.8 million, 2.5 million and
    3.0 million shares of common stock at fiscal year-end 2009,
    2008, and 2007, respectively, had exercise prices that were less
    than the average market price of the Company’s common stock
    during the respective periods and are included in the
    computation of diluted earnings per share.

In addition 14,135 and 5,902 contingent shares of the
    Company’s common stock under a compensation plan were
    excluded from fully diluted shares outstanding for 2009 and
    2008, respectively, since performance and other conditions for
    issuance have not yet been met. No shares were excluded for 2007.

Accounts
    Receivable

Receivables are presented net of a reserve for doubtful accounts
    of $2.9 million at January 3, 2010, and
    $3.2 million at December 28, 2008. Expense recorded
    for the reserve for doubtful accounts was $0.5 million,
    $1.0 million, and $2.3 million for 2009, 2008, and
    2007, respectively. An allowance for doubtful accounts is
    established for losses expected to be incurred on accounts
    receivable balances. Judgment is required in the estimation of
    the allowance and is based upon specific identification,
    collection history and creditworthiness of the debtor. The
    Company markets its products and services principally throughout
    the United States, Europe, Japan and Canada to commercial
    customers and agencies of, and prime contractors to, the
    U.S. Government. Trade credit is extended based upon
    evaluations of each customer’s ability to perform its
    obligations, which are updated periodically.

Cash
    Equivalents

Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid money-market mutual
    funds and bank deposits with initial maturities of three months
    or less. Cash equivalents totaled $11.2 million at
    January 3, 2010, and $7.6 million at December 28,
    2008.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, less
    progress payments. The majority of inventory values are stated
    at cost based on the

last-in,

first-out method, while the remainder are principally valued on
    an average cost, or

first-in,

first-out method. Costs include direct material, direct labor,
    applicable manufacturing and engineering overhead, and other
    direct costs.

Property,
    Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment is capitalized at cost. Property,
    plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated
    depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are
    determined using a combination of accelerated and straight-line
    methods over the estimated useful lives of the various asset
    classes. Buildings are depreciated over periods not exceeding
    45 years, equipment over 5 to 18 years, computer
    hardware and software over 3 to 5 years and leasehold
    improvements over the shorter of the estimated remaining lives
    or lease terms. Significant improvements are capitalized while
    maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred.
    Depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment, including
    assets under capital leases, was $32.4 million in 2009,
    $31.5 million in 2008 and $28.3 million in 2007.

Goodwill
    and Other Intangible Assets

The Company performs an annual impairment test for goodwill and
    other intangible assets in the fourth quarter of each year, or
    more often as circumstances require. The two-step impairment
    test is used to first identify potential goodwill impairment and
    then measure the amount of goodwill impairment loss, if any.
    When it is determined that an impairment has occurred, an
    appropriate charge to operations is recorded. Based on the
    annual impairment test completed in the fourth quarter of 2009,
    no impairment of goodwill or intangible assets was indicated.

Business acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase
    method by assigning the purchase price to tangible and
    intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Assets
    acquired and liabilities assumed are



recorded at their fair values and the excess of the purchase
    price over the amounts assigned is recorded as goodwill.
    Purchased intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over
    their estimated useful lives. Goodwill and intangible assets
    with indefinite lives are not amortized, but tested at least
    annually for impairment.

Other
    Long-Lived Assets

The carrying value of long-lived assets is periodically
    evaluated in relation to the operating performance and sum of
    undiscounted future cash flows of the underlying businesses. An
    impairment loss is recognized when the sum of expected
    undiscounted future net cash flows is less than book value.

Environmental

Costs that mitigate or prevent future environmental
    contamination or extend the life, increase the capacity or
    improve the safety or efficiency of property utilized in current
    operations are capitalized. Other costs that relate to current
    operations or an existing condition caused by past operations
    are expensed. Environmental liabilities are recorded when the
    Company’s liability is probable and the costs are
    reasonably estimable, but generally not later than the
    completion of the feasibility study or the Company’s
    recommendation of a remedy or commitment to an appropriate plan
    of action. The accruals are reviewed periodically and, as
    investigations and remediations proceed, adjustments are made as
    necessary. Accruals for losses from environmental remediation
    obligations do not consider the effects of inflation, and
    anticipated expenditures are not discounted to their present
    value. The accruals are not reduced by possible recoveries from
    insurance carriers or other third parties, but do reflect
    anticipated allocations among potentially responsible parties at
    federal Superfund sites or similar state-managed sites and an
    assessment of the likelihood that such parties will fulfill
    their obligations at such sites. The measurement of
    environmental liabilities by the Company is based on currently
    available facts, present laws and regulations, and current
    technology. Such estimates take into consideration the
    Company’s prior experience in site investigation and
    remediation, the data concerning cleanup costs available from
    other companies and regulatory authorities, and the professional
    judgment of the Company’s environmental personnel in
    consultation with outside environmental specialists, when
    necessary.

Foreign
    Currency Translation

The Company’s foreign entities’ accounts are generally
    measured using local currency as the functional currency. Assets
    and liabilities of these entities are translated at the exchange
    rate in effect at year-end. Revenues and expenses are translated
    at average month end rates of exchange prevailing during the
    year. Unrealized translation gains and losses arising from
    differences in exchange rates from period to period are included
    as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in
    stockholders’ equity. Most of the Company’s sales are
    denominated in U.S. dollars which mitigates the effect of
    exchange rate changes.

Accounting
    Pronouncements Adopted

In the third quarter of 2009, we adopted the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) ASC. The ASC does
    not alter current U.S. GAAP, but rather integrates existing
    accounting standards with other authoritative guidance. The ASC
    provides a single source of authoritative U.S. GAAP for
    nongovernmental entities and supersedes all other previously
    issued non-SEC accounting and reporting guidance. The adoption
    of the ASC did not have any effect on our results of operations
    or financial position. All prior references to U.S. GAAP
    have been revised to conform to the ASC. Updates to the ASC are
    issued in the form of Accounting Standards Updates
    (“ASU”).

In May 2009, we adopted ASC 855, (formerly Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 165,
    Subsequent Events), which establishes general standards of
    accounting for and disclosure of subsequent events that occur
    after the balance sheet date. Entities are also required to
    disclose the date through. The Company has evaluated subsequent
    events through the date of issuance of these financial
    statements.

In April 2009, ASC

820-10-65,

(formerly

SFAS 157-4,

“Determining Fair Value When Market Activity Has
    Decreased,”), ASC

320-10-65

(formerly

FSP 115-2

and

FSP 124-2,

“Other-Than-Temporary

Impairment”)



and ASC

825-10-65,

(formerly

FSP 107-1/APB

28-1,

“Interim Fair Value Disclosures for Financial
    Instruments.”) were issued. These topics impact certain
    aspects of fair value measurement and related disclosures. The
    provisions of these topics were effective beginning in the
    second quarter of 2009. The impact of adopting these topics in
    the second quarter of 2009 did not have a material effect on our
    consolidated financial position or results of operations.

Effective December 29, 2008 Teledyne adopted the provisions
    of ASC 80, (formerly SFAS No. 141R, “Business
    Combinations”). This revised guidance establishes
    principles and requirements for how the acquirer of a business
    recognizes and measures in its financial statements the
    identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any
    noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. It provides guidance
    for recognizing and measuring the goodwill acquired in the
    business combination and determines what information to disclose
    to enable users of the financial statement to evaluate the
    nature and financial effects of the business combination. It
    applies prospectively to business combinations for which the
    acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first
    annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15,
    2008, with an exception related to the accounting for valuation
    allowances on deferred taxes and acquired tax contingencies
    related to acquisitions completed before the effective date. The
    revised guidance also requires adjustments, made after the
    effective date, to valuation allowances for acquired deferred
    tax assets and income tax positions to be recognized as income
    tax expense. The adoption of the revised guidance, effective
    December 29, 2008, did not have a material effect on the
    Company’s consolidated results of operations or financial
    position for the acquisitions made prior to its adoption. For
    any acquisitions completed after our 2008 fiscal year, we expect
    the revised guidance will have an impact on our consolidated
    financial statements, however the nature and magnitude of the
    specific effects will depend upon the nature, terms and size of
    the acquisitions, if any, we consummate. In 2009, Teledyne
    acquired assets of a marine sensor product line for an initial
    payment of $1.4 million. Due to the size of the purchase,
    the revised guidance did not have an impact on the consolidated
    financial statements.

Effective December 29, 2008, the Company adopted the
    provisions of ASC

810-10-65

(formerly SFAS No. 160, “Noncontrolling Interests
    in Consolidated Financial Statements — an amendment of
    ARB No. 51”). The revised guidance establishes new
    accounting, reporting and disclosure standards for the
    noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the
    deconsolidation of a subsidiary and requires the recognition of
    a noncontrolling interest as equity in the condensed
    consolidated financial statements and separate from the
    parents’ equity. The revised guidance was applied
    prospectively as of the beginning of fiscal year 2009, except
    for the presentation and disclosure requirements which were
    applied retrospectively for the prior periods presented. In
    connection with the adoption, and in compliance with ASC 480
    (formerly Emerging Issues Task Force Abstracts Topic

No. D-98,

“Classification and Measurement of Redeemable
    Securities”), the Company restated the prior year balance
    sheet to reflect the fair value of the obligation to purchase
    the remaining shares of ODI of $24.2 million at fiscal
    year-end 2008 as redeemable noncontrolling interest and
    classified the amount as mezzanine equity (temporary equity) on
    the balance sheet. The Company also restated the year-end 2008
    balance in retained earnings to reflect a corresponding
    $24.2 million decrease. Additionally, the Company
    reclassified noncontrolling interests of $4.1 million,
    related to ODI, from long-term liabilities at year-end 2008 to
    redeemable noncontrolling interest on the balance sheet. The
    Company also reclassified noncontrolling interests of
    $1.1 million, related to Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc.,
    from long-term liabilities at year-end 2008 to the
    noncontrolling interest component of the equity section of the
    balance sheet. In 2009, Teledyne purchased all of the remaining
    14.1% minority interest in Ocean Design, Inc. (“ODI”)
    for $25.5 million and now owns 100% of ODI. See Footnote 2,
    “Business Combinations” for a discussion of the ODI
    acquisition.

In September 2006 and in February 2009, the FASB issued
    guidelines, under ASC 820, (formerly SFAS No. 157,
    “Fair Value Measurements” and related FASB Staff
    Positions) related to fair value measurements that, defines fair
    value, establishes a framework in generally accepted accounting
    principles for measuring fair value and expands disclosures
    about fair value measurements. The guidelines do not increase
    the use of fair value measurement and only apply when other
    guidelines require or permit the fair value measurement of
    assets and liabilities. The implementation of the guidelines for
    financial assets and financial liabilities, effective
    December 31, 2007, and the implementation the guidelines
    for nonfinancial assets and



nonfinancial liabilities, effective December 29, 2008, did
    not have a material impact on our consolidated financial
    position or results of operations.

ASC 820 also establishes a valuation hierarchy for disclosure of
    the inputs to the valuations used to measure fair value. This
    hierarchy prioritizes the inputs into three broad levels as
    follows: Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in
    active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2
    inputs are inputs that are observable for an asset or liability,
    either directly or indirectly, through corroboration with
    observable market data; and Level 3 inputs are unobservable
    inputs based on a reporting entity’s own assumptions used
    to measure assets and liabilities at fair value. A financial
    asset or liability’s classification within the hierarchy is
    determined based on the lowest level input that is significant
    to the fair value measurement.

Hedging
    Activities

The Company has not entered into any derivative financial
    instruments such as futures contracts, options and swaps,
    forward foreign exchange contracts or interest rate swaps and
    futures during 2009 or 2008. We have no derivative financial
    instruments outstanding at January 3, 2010.

Supplemental
    Cash Flow Information

Cash payments for federal, foreign and state income taxes were
    $28.1 million for 2009. Tax refunds received in 2009
    totaled $32.9 million. Cash payments for federal, foreign
    and state income taxes were $29.3 million for 2008 which is
    net of refunds of $0.5 million. Cash payments for federal,
    foreign and state income taxes were $52.0 million for 2007
    which is net of refunds of $0.2 million. Cash payments for
    interest and credit facility fees totaled $6.5 million,
    $10.4 million and $12.7 million for 2009, 2008 and
    2007, respectively.

Comprehensive
    Income (Loss)

The Company’s comprehensive income consists of net income,
    the minimum benefit plan liability adjustment and foreign
    currency translation adjustments. See Note 12 for a further
    discussion of the minimum benefit plan liability adjustment. The
    Company’s comprehensive income was $147.3 million for
    2009, compared with comprehensive loss of $33.3 million for
    2008 and comprehensive income of $79.4 million for 2007.

The year-end components of accumulated other comprehensive loss
    are shown in the following table (in millions):

Balance at year end




Foreign currency translation gains (losses)

$

(18.5

)

$

(21.9

)

$

1.5

Minimum benefit plan liability adjustment(a)

(153.3

)

(183.9

)

(62.7

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

$

(171.8

)

$

(205.8

)

$

(61.2

)

(a)

Net of deferred taxes of $99.0 million in 2009,
    $118.9 million in 2008 and $40.4 million in 2007.



Note 3.  Business
    Acquisitions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets

The table below summarizes the acquisitions we made during
    fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007. Other than the purchase of the
    assets of a marine sensor product line for $1.4 million and
    all of the remaining 14.1% minority interest in Ocean Design,
    Inc. (ODI) for $25.5 million, no other acquisitions have
    been made in fiscal year 2009.

Pre-acquisition

Transaction

Purchase

Name and Description(1)

Date Acquired

Primary Location

Sales Volume

Type

Price (2)(3)

(In millions)

Fiscal Year 2008

Impulse Enterprise (“Impulse”)

Manufactures underwater electrical interconnection systems
    for harsh environments.

December 31, 2007

San Diego, CA

$16.8 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2006

Asset

$

35.0

Storm Products Co. (“Storm”)

Supplies custom, high-reliability bulk wire and cable
    assemblies to a number of markets, including energy exploration,
    environmental monitoring and industrial equipment. Also provides
    coax microwave cable and interconnect products primarily to
    defense customers for radar, electronic warfare and
    communications applications.

December 31, 2007

Dallas, TX

Woodridge, IL

$45.7 million for its

fiscal year ended

March 31, 2007

Stock

47.7

SG Brown Limited and its wholly owned subsidiary TSS
    International Limited (“TSS”)

Designs and manufactures inertial sensing, gyrocompass
    navigation and subsea pipe and cable detection systems for
    offshore energy, oceanographic and military marine markets.

January 31, 2008

Watford, United

Kingdom

£12.0 million for its

fiscal year ended

March 31, 2007

Stock

54.8

Judson Technologies, LLC (“Judson”)

Manufactures high performance infrared detectors utilizing a
    wide variety of materials such as Mercury Cadmium Telluride
    (HgCdTe), Indium Antimonide (InSb), and Indium Gallium Arsenide
    (InGaAs), as well as tactical dewar and cooler assemblies and
    other specialized standard products for military, space,
    industrial and scientific applications.

February 1, 2008

Montgomeryville,

PA

$13.8 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2006

Asset

27.0

Webb Research Corp. (“Webb”)

Manufacturer of autonomous underwater gliding vehicles and
    autonomous profiling drifters and floats.

July 7, 2008

East Falmouth,

MA

$12.2 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2007

Asset

24.3

Defense business of Filtronic PLC (“Filtronic”)

Provides customized microwave subassemblies and integrated
    subsystems to the global defense industry.

August 15, 2008

Shipley, United

Kingdom

£14.5 million for its

fiscal year ended

May 31, 2008

Stock

24.1

Cormon Limited and Cormon Technology Limited
    (“Cormon”)

Designs and manufactures subsea and surface sand and
    corrosion sensors, as well as flow integrity monitoring systems,
    used in oil and gas production systems.

October 16, 2008

Lancing, United

Kingdom

£6.8 million for its

fiscal year ended

March 31, 2008

Stock

20.6

(4)

Odom Hydrographic Systems, Inc. (“Odom”)

Designs and manufactures hydrographic survey instrumentation
    used in port survey, dredging, offshore energy and other
    applications.

December 19, 2008

Baton Rouge, LA

$10.9 million for its

fiscal year ended

September 30, 2008

Stock

7.0

Demo Systems LLC (“Demo”)

Designs and manufactures aircraft data loading equipment,
    flight line maintenance terminals, and data distribution
    software used by commercial airlines, the U.S. military and
    aircraft manufacturers.

December 24, 2008

Moorpark, CA

$7.3 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2007

Asset

5.3

Fiscal Year 2007

D.G. O’Brien, Inc. (“DGO”)

Manufactures highly reliable electrical and fiber-optic
    interconnect systems, primarily for subsea military and offshore
    oil and gas applications.

March 30, 2007

Seabrook, NH

$26.2 million for its

fiscal year ended

September 30, 2006

Asset

37.1

Tindall Technologies, Inc. (“Tindall”)

Designs and supplies microwave subsystems for defense
    applications.

June 30, 2007

Sunnyvale, CA

$2.7 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2006

Stock

6.2

(5)



The unaudited pro forma information for the periods set forth
    below gives effect to the nine acquisitions made in fiscal year
    2008 as if they had been acquired at the beginning of each
    fiscal year and includes the effect of estimated amortization of
    acquired identifiable intangible assets, increased depreciation
    expense for fixed assets, as well as increased interest expense
    on acquisition debt. This pro forma financial information is
    presented for informational purposes only and is not necessarily
    indicative of the results of operations that actually would have
    resulted had the acquisition been in effect at the beginning of
    the respective periods. In addition, the pro forma results are
    not intended to be a projection of future results and do not
    reflect any operating efficiencies or cost savings that might be
    achievable.



(unaudited in millions, except per-share amounts)

Sales

$

1,942.6

$

1,789.9

Net income

$

108.9

$

93.0

Basic earnings per common share

$

3.07

$

2.66

Diluted earning per common share

$

2.98

$

2.57

The primary reasons for the above acquisitions was to strengthen
    and expand our core businesses through adding complementary
    product and service offerings, allowing greater integrated
    products and services, enhancing our technical capabilities or
    increasing our addressable markets. The significant factors that
    resulted in recognition of goodwill were: (a) the purchase
    price was based on cash flow and return on capital projections
    assuming integration with our businesses and (b) the
    calculation of the fair value of tangible and intangible assets
    acquired that qualified for recognition.

Teledyne’s goodwill was $502.4 million at
    January 3, 2010, and $502.5 million at
    December 28, 2008. Teledyne’s acquired intangible
    assets were $109.6 million at January 3, 2010, and
    $117.0 million at December 28, 2008. The decrease in
    goodwill in 2009 reflected a decrease for foreign currency
    changes, partially offset by the acquisitions made in fiscal
    2009 and an increase for adjustments for acquisitions made prior
    to fiscal 2009. The decrease in the balance of acquired
    intangible assets in 2009 resulted from the amortization of
    acquired intangible assets, a decrease for foreign currency
    changes and adjustments for the finalization of the intangible
    valuation.

During 2009, the Company completed the process of specifically
    identifying the amount to be assigned to intangible assets, as
    well as certain assets and liabilities for the Webb, Filtronic,
    Cormon, Odom and Demo acquisitions made in fiscal 2008. The
    Company completed the purchase price valuation for the Webb
    acquisition, and as a result, goodwill was decreased by
    $1.0 million and other acquired intangible assets were
    increased by $1.1 million. The Company completed the
    purchase price valuation for the Filtronic acquisition, and as a
    result, goodwill was increased by $5.2 million, other
    acquired intangible assets were decreased by $3.7 million
    and accrued liabilities were increased by $1.5 million. The
    Company completed the purchase price valuation for the Cormon
    acquisition, and as a result, goodwill was decreased by
    $5.1 million and other acquired intangible assets were
    increased by $5.3 million. The Company completed the
    purchase price valuation for the Odom acquisition, and as a
    result, goodwill was decreased by $0.8 million and other
    acquired intangible assets were increased by $0.8 million.
    The Company completed the purchase price valuation for the Demo
    acquisition, and as a result, goodwill was increased by
    $0.9 million, other acquired intangible assets were
    decreased by $0.2 million and inventory was decreased by
    $0.7 million.



The following table shows the purchase price, goodwill acquired
    and intangible assets acquired for the acquisitions made in
    fiscal 2008, and includes changes resulting from completion in
    2009 of the purchase price valuation for certain acquisitions
    (in millions):

Acquired

Purchase

Goodwill

Intangible

Acquisition Date

Name

Price

Acquired

Assets

December 31, 2007

Impulse

$

35.0

$

15.3

$

16.2

December 31, 2007

Storm

47.7

31.4

10.0

January 31, 2008

TSS

54.8

28.6

23.0

February 1, 2008

Judson

27.0

13.9

7.9

July 7, 2008

Webb

24.3

13.6

8.1

August 15, 2008

Filtronic

24.1

9.8

2.8

August 16, 2008

Cormon

20.9

11.9

8.3

December 19, 2008

Odom

7.0

4.5

2.3

December 24, 2008

Demo

5.3

4.0

1.0

$

246.1

$

133.0

$

79.6

Goodwill resulting from the acquisitions made in fiscal 2008 and
    2009 will be deductible for tax purposes, except for the Storm
    and Demo acquisitions.

The following table summarizes the changes in the carrying value
    of goodwill (in millions):

Aerospace

Energy

Electronics and

Engineered

Engines and

and Power

Communications

Systems

Components

Systems

Total

Balance at December 30, 2007

$

335.1

$

15.8

$

0.7

$

—

$

351.6

Current year acquisitions, including ODI

165.9

—

0.3

—

166.2

Impact of foreign currency changes

(10.7

)

—

—

—

(10.7

)

Adjustment to prior year acquisitions(a)

(4.6

)

—

—

—

(4.6

)

Balance at December 28, 2008

485.7

15.8

1.0

—

502.5

Current year acquisitions

1.0

—

—

—

1.0

Impact of foreign currency changes

1.8

—

—

—

1.8

Adjustment to prior year acquisitions(b)

(2.9

)

—

—

—

(2.9

)

Balance at January 3, 2010

$

485.6

$

15.8

$

1.0

$

—

$

502.4

(a)

The adjustments to prior year acquisitions primarily related to
    final estimates of fair value for assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed in connection with business acquisitions
    completed prior to 2008.

(b)

The adjustments to prior year acquisitions primarily related to
    final estimates of fair value for assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed in connection with business acquisitions
    completed prior to 2009.



The following table summarizes the carrying value of other
    acquired intangible assets (in millions):



Gross

Net

Gross

Net

carrying

Accumulated

Carrying

carrying

Accumulated

Carrying

amount

amortization

Amount

amount

amortization

Amount

Other acquired intangible assets:

Proprietary Technology

$

70.7

$

25.0

$

45.7

$

70.5

$

17.0

$

53.5

Customer List/Relationships

38.4

12.8

25.6

37.9

8.4

29.5

Patents

0.7

0.5

0.2

0.7

0.4

0.3

Non-compete agreements

1.0

0.7

0.3

0.9

0.6

0.3

Trademarks

7.0

7.0

—

3.2

0.5

2.7

Backlog

3.3

0.8

2.5

8.0

7.4

0.6

Oher acquired intangible assets subject to amortization

$

121.1

$

46.8

$

74.3

$

121.2

$

34.3

$

86.9

Oher acquired intangible assets not subject to
    amortization

Trademarks

35.3

—

35.3

30.1

—

30.1

Total other acquired intangible assets:

$

156.4

$

46.8

$

109.6

$

151.3

$

34.3

$

117.0

Amortizable other intangible assets are amortized on a
    straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives ranging
    from one to 20 years. The Company recorded
    $12.4 million and $15.8 million in amortization
    expense in 2009 and 2008, respectively, for other acquired
    intangible assets. The expected future amortization expense for
    the next five years is as follows (in millions):
    2010 — $12.7; 2011 — $11.9; 2012 —
    $10.3; 2013 — $8.9; 2014 — $8.8.

The estimated remaining useful lives by asset category as of
    January 3, 2010, are as follows:

Weighted

average

remaining

useful life

Intangibles subject to amortization

in years

Proprietary Technology

5.8

Customer List/Relationships

6.0

Patents

3.9

Non-compete agreements

1.6

Trademarks

11.7

Total intangibles subject to amortization

5.9

The following is a summary at the acquisition date of the
    estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed for the acquisitions made in 2008 (in millions):

Current assets, excluding cash acquired

$

61.6

Property, plant and equipment

17.8

Goodwill

133.0

Intangible assets

79.6

Total assets acquired

292.0

Current liabilities, including short-term debt

34.1

Other long-term liabilities

11.8

Total liabilities assumed

45.9

Purchase price, net of cash acquired

$

246.1



The following table summarizes the intangible assets acquired as
    part of the acquisitions made in 2008 (dollars in millions):

Weighted average

Intangible

useful life

assets

in years

Intangibles assets not subject to amortization:

Goodwill

$

133.0

n/a

Trademarks

$

23.7

n/a

Intangibles assets subject to amortization:

Proprietary Technology

$

31.3

8.4

Customer List/Relationships

21.9

7.2

Trademarks

0.1

0.2

Backlog

2.6

0.7

$

55.9

5.5

Note 4.  Financial
    Instruments

The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents approximate
    fair value because of the short maturity of those instruments.
    Teledyne estimates the fair value of its long-term debt based on
    the quoted market prices for debt of similar rating and similar
    maturity and at comparable interest rates. The estimated fair
    value of Teledyne’s long-term debt at January 3, 2010,
    approximated the carrying value of $240.0 million. The
    estimated fair value of Teledyne’s long-term debt at
    December 28, 2008, approximated the carrying value of
    $326.0 million. The estimated fair value of Teledyne’s
    long-term debt at December 30, 2007, approximated the
    carrying value of $138.0 million.

The carrying value of other on-balance-sheet financial
    instruments approximates fair value, and the cost, if any, to
    terminate off-balance sheet financial instruments (primarily
    letters of credit) is not significant.

Note 5.  Accounts
    Receivable

Accounts receivable are summarized as follows (in millions):

Balance at year-end



U.S. Government and prime contractors contract receivables:

Billed receivables

$

20.9

$

28.1

Unbilled receivables

42.8

39.4

Commercial and other receivables

185.0

217.1

248.7

284.6

Reserve for doubtful accounts

(2.9

)

(3.2

)

Total accounts receivable, net

$

245.8

$

281.4

The billed contract receivables from the U.S. Government
    and prime contractors contain $11.7 million and
    $17.9 million at January 3, 2010 and December 28,
    2008, respectively, due to long-term contracts. The unbilled
    contract receivables from the U.S. Government and prime
    contractors contain $31.1 million and $22.4 million at
    January 3, 2010 and December 28, 2008, respectively,
    due to long-term contracts.

Unbilled contract receivables represent accumulated costs and
    profits earned but not yet billed to customers. The Company
    believes that substantially all such amounts will be billed and
    collected within one year.



Note 6.  Inventories

Inventories consisted of the following (in millions):

Balance at year-end



Raw materials and supplies

$

107.5

$

89.8

Work in process

100.4

125.8

Finished goods

15.9

22.2

Total inventories at cost, net

223.8

237.8

LIFO reserve

(25.3

)

(26.5

)

Progress payments

(8.9

)

(4.3

)

Total inventories, net

$

189.6

$

207.0

Inventories at cost determined on the

last-in,

first-out method were $117.3 million at January 3,
    2010, and $126.2 million at December 28, 2008. The
    remainder of the inventories using average cost or the

first-in,

first-out methods, were $106.5 million at January 3,
    2010, and $111.6 million at December 28, 2008.

The Company recorded LIFO income of $1.2 million in 2009,
    LIFO expense of $0.9 million in 2008 and LIFO expense of
    $1.3 million in 2007.

Total inventories at current cost were net of reserves for
    excess, slow moving and obsolete inventory of $31.2 million
    and $30.2 million at January 3, 2010, and
    December 28, 2008, respectively. The reserve for excess,
    slow moving and obsolete inventory at December 28, 2008
    reflected reserves of $6.2 million acquired as part of the
    acquisitions made in 2008.

Inventories, before progress payments, related to long-term
    contracts were $20.8 million and $24.0 million at
    January 3, 2010, and December 28, 2008, respectively.
    Progress payments related to long-term contracts were
    $1.5 million and $0.8 million at January 3, 2010
    and December 28, 2008, respectively. Under the contractual
    arrangements by which progress payments are received, the
    customer has an ownership right in the inventories associated
    with specific contracts.

Note 7.  Supplemental
    Balance Sheet Information

Property, plant and equipment were as follows (in millions):

Balance at year-end



Land

$

21.3

$

20.9

Buildings

106.6

96.8

Equipment and software

354.6

329.7

482.5

447.4

Accumulated depreciation and amortization

(275.9

)

(244.8

)

Total property, plant and equipment, net

$

206.6

$

202.6

Other long-term assets included amounts related to deferred
    compensation of $26.7 million and $18.6 million at
    January 3, 2010 and December 28, 2008, respectively.
    Accrued liabilities included salaries and wages and other
    related compensation reserves of $76.0 million and
    $77.8 million at January 3, 2010 and December 28,
    2008, respectively. Accrued liabilities also included customer
    related deposits and credits of $30.8 million and
    $42.4 million at January 3, 2010 and December 28,
    2008, respectively, and a product replacement reserve of
    $5.0 million and $15.8 million at January 3,
    2010, and December 28, 2008, respectively. Other long-term
    liabilities included aircraft product liability reserves of
    $42.4 million and $37.1 million at January 3,
    2010 and December 28, 2008, respectively, and deferred
    compensation liabilities of $26.7 million and
    $19.2 million at January 3, 2010 and December 28,
    2008, respectively. Other long-term liabilities also included
    reserves for self-insurance, environmental liabilities and the
    long-term portion of compensation reserves.



Note 8.  Stockholders’
    Equity

The following is an analysis of Teledyne’s common stock
    share activity:

Balance, December 31, 2006

34,719,700

Stock options exercised and other

430,417

Balance, December 30, 2007

35,150,117

Stock options exercised and other

776,107

Balance, December 28, 2008

35,926,224

Stock options exercised and other

152,253

Balance, January 3, 2010

36,078,477

Shares issued in all three fiscal years include stock options
    exercised as well as shares issued under certain compensation
    plans.

Preferred
    Stock

Authorized preferred stock may be issued with designations,
    powers and preferences designated by the Board of Directors.
    There were no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding in
    2009, 2008 or 2007.

Stockholder
    Rights Plan

On November 12, 1999, the Company’s Board of Directors
    unanimously adopted a stockholder rights plan under which
    preferred share purchase rights were distributed as a dividend
    on each share of Teledyne’s Common Stock distributed to
    ATI’s stockholders in connection with the spin-off and each
    share to become outstanding between the effective date of the
    spin-off and the earliest of the distribution date, redemption
    date and final expiration date. The rights expired on
    November 12, 2009.

Stock
    Incentive Plan

Teledyne has long-term incentive plans which provide its Board
    of Directors the flexibility to grant restricted stock,
    performance shares, non-qualified stock options, incentive stock
    options and stock appreciation rights to officers and employees
    of Teledyne. Stock options become exercisable in one-third
    increments on the first, second and third anniversary of the
    grant and have a maximum 10 year life.

The valuation methodologies and assumptions in estimating the
    fair value of stock options granted in 2009 were similar to
    those used in estimating the fair value of stock options granted
    in 2008 and 2007. Stock option compensation expense is recorded
    on a straight line basis over the appropriate vesting period,
    generally three years. The Company recorded $5.4 million,
    $7.5 million, and $6.8 million for stock option
    expense, for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company
    issues shares of common stock upon the exercise of stock options.

The Company used a combination of its historical stock price
    volatility and the volatility of exchange traded options on the
    Company stock to compute the expected volatility for purposes of
    valuing stock options issued. The period used for the historical
    stock price corresponded to the expected term of the options and
    was between five and six years. The period used for the exchange
    traded options extended to the longest-dated options publicly
    available, generally six to nine months. The expected dividend
    yield is based on Teledyne’s practice of not paying
    dividends. The risk-free rate of return is based on the yield of
    U.S. Treasury Strips with terms equal to the expected life
    of the option as of the grant date. The expected life in years
    is based on



historical actual stock option exercise experience. The
    following assumptions were used in the valuation of stock
    options granted in 2009, 2008 and 2007:

For the year




Expected dividend yield

—

—

—

Expected volatility

38.8

%

34.7

%

33.0

%

Risk-free interest rate

2.1

%

3.3

%

4.9

%

Expected lives

5.6

5.6

5.6

Based on the assumptions in the table above, the grant date fair
    value of stock options granted in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was
    $10.02, $19.35 and $15.54, respectively.

Stock option transactions for Teledyne’s employee stock
    option plans are summarized as follows:




Weighted

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Average

Exercise

Exercise

Exercise

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Beginning balance

2,339,970

$

30.39

2,702,157

$

24.71

2,537,559

$

20.97

Granted

—

$

—

356,298

$

50.81

533,153

$

39.48

Exercised

(76,517

)

$

12.83

(693,197

)

$

18.66

(345,487

)

$

18.82

Canceled or expired

(14,403

)

$

28.04

(25,288

)

$

31.91

(23,068

)

$

24.46

Ending balance

2,249,050

$

30.40

2,339,970

$

30.39

2,702,157

$

24.71

Options exercisable at year-end

1,879,554

$

27.29

1,513,815

$

23.39

1,752,624

$

18.90

The following table provides certain information with respect to
    stock options outstanding and stock options exercisable at
    January 3, 2010 under the employee stock option plans:

Stock Options Outstanding

Stock Options Exercisable

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Exercise

Remaining

Exercise

Range of Exercise Prices

Shares

Price

Life

Shares

Price

$9.67-$10.00

23,832

$

9.67

0.1

23,832

$

9.67

$10.01-$20.00

738,518

$

16.72

2.8

738,518

$

16.72

$20.01-$30.00

322,091

$

26.93

5.0

322,091

$

26.93

$30.01-$40.00

827,970

$

36.26

6.7

678,907

$

35.56

$40.01-$50.00

2,000

$

45.41

7.4

1,335

$

45.41

$50.01-$59.05

334,639

$

50.85

8.1

114,871

$

50.85

2,249,050

$

30.40

5.3

1,879,554

$

27.29

Non-Employee
    Director Stock Compensation Plan

Teledyne also sponsors a stock plan for non-employee directors
    pursuant to which non-employee directors receive annual stock
    options and may receive stock or stock options in lieu of their
    respective retainer and meeting fees. The options become
    exercisable one year after issuance and have a maximum
    10 year life.



Stock option transactions for Teledyne’s non-employee
    director stock option plan are summarized as follows:




Weighted

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Average

Exercise

Exercise

Exercise

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Beginning balance

392,002

$

25.53

348,266

$

22.44

301,186

$

19.32

Granted

42,483

$

30.66

43,736

$

50.15

48,271

$

41.59

Exercised

(15,668

)

$

9.26

—

$

—

(1,191

)

$

10.08

Ending balance

418,817

$

26.66

392,002

$

25.53

348,266

$

22.44

Options exercisable at year-end

378,974

$

26.24

348,266

$

22.44

299,995

$

19.36

The following table provides certain information with respect to
    stock options outstanding and stock options exercisable at
    January 3, 2010 under the non-employee director stock
    option plan:

Stock Options Outstanding

Stock Options Exercisable

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Exercise

Remaining

Exercise

Range of Exercise Prices

Shares

Price

Life

Shares

Price

$8.37-$10.00

19,108

$

9.21

2.9

19,108

$

9.21

$10.01-$20.00

173,719

$

15.15

3.1

172,753

$

15.14

$20.01-$30.00

66,842

$

26.46

6.1

59,965

$

26.87

$30.01-$40.00

85,148

$

34.24

7.8

53,148

$

35.08

$40.01-$50.00

38,000

$

45.79

7.4

38,000

$

45.79

$50.01-$53.76

36,000

$

53.76

8.4

36,000

$

53.76

418,817

$

26.66

5.4

378,974

$

26.24

The total pretax intrinsic value of options exercised during
    2009 and 2008 (which is the amount by which the stock price
    exceeded the exercise price of the options on the date of
    exercise) was $1.9 million and $26.8 million,
    respectively. At January 3, 2010, the intrinsic value of
    stock options outstanding was $27.0 million and the
    intrinsic value of stock options exercisable was
    $26.8 million. During 2009 and 2008, the amount of cash
    received from the exercise of stock options was
    $1.1 million and $13.0 million, respectively.

At January 3, 2010, there was $2.5 million of total
    unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock
    option awards which is expected to be recognized over a
    weighted-average period of 0.9 years.

Performance
    Share Plan

Teledyne’s Performance Share Plan (“PSP”)
    provides grants of performance share units, which key officers
    and executives may earn if Teledyne meets specified performance
    objectives over a three-year period. Awards are payable in cash
    and shares of Teledyne common stock. Awards are generally paid
    to the participants in three annual installments after the end
    of the performance cycle so long as they remain employed by
    Teledyne (with exceptions for retirement, disability and death).

In January 2006, the performance cycle for the three-year period
    ending December 28, 2008 was set. Based on the performance
    over the three-year period, 53,834 shares were issued in
    2009, 44,751 shares were issued in February 2010 and
    56,582 shares are expected to be issued in 2011.



In January 2009, the performance cycle for the three-year period
    ending January 1, 2012 was set. Based on the estimated
    performance over the three-year period, an aggregate of
    103,824 shares are expected to be issued in three equal
    installments during 2012, 2013 and 2014.

The calculated expense for each plan year was based on the
    expected cash payout and the expected shares to be issued,
    valued at the share price at the inception of the performance
    cycle, except for the shares that can be issued based on a
    market comparison. The expected expense for these shares was
    calculated using a Monte-Carlo type simulation which takes into
    consideration several factors including volatility, risk free
    interest rates and correlation of Teledyne’s stock price
    with the comparator, the Russell 2000 Index. No adjustment to
    the calculated expense for the shares issued based on a market
    based comparison will be made regardless of the actual
    performance. The Company recorded $2.5 million,
    $3.9 million and $5.3 million in compensation expense
    related to the PSP program for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. At January 3, 2010, based on estimated
    performance over the three year period, there was
    $5.0 million in unrecognized compensation cost related to
    the PSP program.

Restricted
    Stock Award Program

Under Teledyne’s restricted stock award program selected
    officers and key executives receive a grant of stock equal to
    30% of the participant’s annual base salary at the date of
    grant. The Restricted Stock is subject to transfer and
    forfeiture restrictions during an applicable “restricted
    period”. The restrictions have both time-based and
    performance-based components. The restricted period expires (and
    the restrictions lapse) on the third anniversary of the date of
    grant, subject to the achievement of stated performance
    objectives over a specified three-year performance period. If
    employment is terminated (other than via death, retirement or
    disability) during the restricted period, stock is forfeited.
    Under the 2007 to 2009 and 2008 to 2010 and 2009 to 2011
    performance periods an aggregate of 101,340 shares of
    restricted stock were issued and outstanding at year-end 2009.

The following table summarizes Teledyne’s restricted stock
    activity:

Weighted

average

fair value

Shares

per share

Balance, December 31, 2006

130,450

$

25.45

Granted

34,223

$

27.71

Issued

(52,368

)

$

19.18

Balance, December 30, 2007

112,305

$

25.76

Granted

27,913

$

37.89

Issued

(39,270

)

$

28.54

Balance, December 28, 2008

100,948

$

28.04

Granted

39,204

$

30.97

Issued

(37,100

)

$

21.24

Forfeited/Canceled

(1,712

)

$

21.24

Balance, January 3, 2010

101,340

$

31.77

The calculated expense for each plan year is based on a
    Monte-Carlo type simulation which takes into consideration
    several factors including volatility, risk free interest rates
    and the correlation of Teledyne’s stock price with the
    comparator, the Russell 2000 Index. No adjustment to the
    calculated expense will be made regardless of actual
    performance. The Company recorded $1.1 million,
    $0.9 million and $1.0 million in compensation expense
    related to the restricted stock award program for fiscal years
    2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. At January 3, 2010,
    there was $1.1 million of total unrecognized compensation
    cost related to non-vested awards which is expected to be
    recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.3 years.



Note 9.  Related
    Party Transactions

The Company’s Chairman, President and Chief Executive
    Officer is a director of The Bank of New York Mellon
    Corporation, as is one of our other directors. The Bank of New
    York Mellon Corporation is the successor to Mellon Financial
    Corporation following its merger with The Bank of New York in
    2007. Another of the Company’s directors was a former chief
    executive officer and director of Mellon Financial Corporation.
    The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation is one of 13 lenders
    under the Company’s $590.0 million credit facility,
    having committed up to $90.0 million under the facility.
    The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation also provides cash
    management services, serves as trustee for the Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated Pension Plan and, through its
    subsidiaries and affiliates, provides asset management and
    transition management services for the Pension Plan. Mellon
    Investor Services LLC, dba BNY Mellon Shareowner Services,
    serves as our transfer agent and registrar, as well as handles
    administration of our stock options. We engaged BNY Mellon
    Shareowner Services to help us solicit proxies in connection
    with our annual meetings. Until its expiration in November 2009,
    BNY Mellon Shareowner Services was the rights agent under our
    Shareholder Rights Plan.

Note 10.  Long-Term
    Debt

At January 3, 2010, Teledyne had $240.0 million in
    long-term debt outstanding. At December 28, 2008, Teledyne
    had $326.0 million in long-term debt outstanding.

In February 2008, Teledyne Technologies entered into a First
    Amendment to its $400.0 million Amended and Restated Credit
    Agreement dated as of July 14, 2006. The amended and
    restated credit facility has lender commitments of
    $590.0 million and expires in July 2011. At year-end 2009,
    we had $336.3 million of available committed credit under
    the credit facility, which can be utilized, as needed, for daily
    operating and periodic cash needs, including acquisitions.
    Excluding interest and fees, no payments are due under the
    amended and restated credit facility until it matures.
    Borrowings under our credit facility are at variable rates which
    are at our option tied to a eurodollar base rate equal to LIBOR
    (London Interbank Offered Rate) plus an applicable rate or a
    base rate as defined in our credit agreement. LIBOR based loans
    under the facility typically have terms of one, two, three or
    six months and the interest rate for each such loan is subject
    to change if the loan is continued or converted following the
    applicable maturity date. Base rate loans have interest rates
    that primarily fluctuate with changes in the prime rate.
    Interest rates are also subject to change based on our debt to
    earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
    (EBITDA) ratio. Borrowings under the credit facility bear
    interest, at our option, at a rate based on either a defined
    base rate or the LIBOR, plus applicable margins. The credit
    agreement also provides for facility fees that vary between
    0.10% and 0.25% of the credit line, depending on our
    consolidated leverage ratio as calculated from time to time. The
    credit agreement requires the Company to comply with various
    financial and operating covenants, including maintaining certain
    consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios, as well as
    minimum net worth levels and limits on acquired debt. At
    January 3, 2010, the Company was in compliance with these
    covenants. We also have a $5.0 million uncommitted credit
    line available. This credit line is utilized, as needed, for
    periodic cash needs. Total debt at year-end 2009 includes
    $240.0 million outstanding under the $590.0 million
    credit facility. No amounts were outstanding under the
    uncommitted bank facility at January 3, 2010. The Company
    also has a $12.1 million outstanding under capital leases,
    of which $0.5 million is current. At year-end 2009,
    Teledyne had $13.7 million in outstanding letters of credit.

Total interest expense including credit facility fees and other
    bank charges was $5.1 million in 2009, $11.7 million
    in 2008 and $13.1 million in 2007.



At January 3, 2010 and December 28, 2008, long-term
    debt consisted of the following (in millions):



Revolving credit facility, weighted average rate of 0.9% at
    January 3, 2010

$

240.0

$

326.0

Other unsecured debt due through 2009 at varying rates

—

0.6

Total

240.0

326.6

Less:

Current portion

—

(0.6

)

Total long-term debt

$

240.0

$

326.0

No minimum principal payments on long-term debt are required
    until July 2011.

Note 11.  Income
    Taxes

Provision for income taxes was as follows (in millions):




Current

Federal

$

(2.8

)

$

30.1

$

46.2

State

2.1

6.7

7.9

Foreign

3.5

4.2

2.5

Total current

2.8

41.0

56.6

Deferred

Federal

37.2

20.0

(4.8

)

State

7.3

4.0

(1.0

)

Total deferrred

44.5

24.0

(5.8

)

Provision for income taxes

$

47.3

$

65.0

$

50.8

Income before income taxes included income from domestic
    operations of $148.6 million for 2009, $167.5 million
    for 2008 and $144.6 million for 2007. In 2009, 2008 and
    2007, Teledyne reversed income tax contingency reserves of
    $1.2 million, $0.8 million and $1.1 million,
    respectively. These reserves were determined to be no longer
    needed due to the expiration of applicable statutes of
    limitations. The following is a reconciliation of the statutory
    federal income tax rate to the actual effective income tax rate:




U.S. federal statutory tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

State and local taxes, net of federal benefit

4.2

4.2

3.9

Research and development tax credits

(9.8

)

(1.4

)

(2.9

)

Qualified production activity deduction

(0.6

)

(1.4

)

(1.6

)

Other

0.6

—

(1.1

)

Effective income tax rate

29.4

%

36.4

%

33.3

%

Deferred income taxes result from temporary differences in the
    recognition of income and expense for financial and income tax
    reporting purposes, and differences between the fair value of
    assets acquired in business combinations accounted for as
    purchases for financial reporting purposes and their
    corresponding tax bases. Deferred income taxes represent future
    tax benefits or costs to be recognized when those temporary
    differences reverse. A valuation allowance of $0.6 million
    existed against deferred tax assets for 2009. A valuation
    allowance of $0.6 million existed against deferred tax
    assets for 2008. A valuation allowance of $0.8 million
    existed against deferred tax assets for 2007.



Teledyne had net deferred tax assets of $67.3 million at
    the end of 2009 and $131.8 million at the end of 2008. The
    amount of future taxable income required to realize the deferred
    tax assets was $171.5 million and $335.5 million,
    respectively.

The categories of assets and liabilities that have resulted in
    differences in the timing of the recognition of income and
    expense were as follows (in millions):



Deferred income tax assets:

Current

Reserves

$

20.7

$

22.4

Inventory valuation

9.0

9.9

Accrued vacation

9.4

10.3

Long-term

Postretirement benefits other than pensions

7.0

9.1

Reserves

21.6

20.8

Deferred compensation and other benefit plans

40.6

96.4

Other items

4.0

0.9

Total deferred income tax assets

112.3

169.8

Deferred income tax liabilities:

Current

Other items

1.7

1.8

Long-term

Property, plant and equipment differences

12.2

10.3

Intangible amortization

29.3

25.9

Other items

1.8

—

Total deferred income tax liabilities

45.0

38.0

Net deferred income tax assets

$

67.3

$

131.8

Additional paid in capital was credited $0.8 million in
    2009, $10.3 million in 2008 and $3.6 million in 2007
    for the tax benefit resulting from the exercise of stock options.

The following presents a rollforward of our unrecognized tax
    benefits (in millions):



Unrecognized

Unrecognized

Tax Benefits

Interest

Tax Benefits

Interest

Beginning of year

$

36.8

$

0.8

$

27.8

$

0.5

Increase (decrease) in prior year tax positions

(3.2

)

0.4

0.2

0.3

Increase for tax positions taken during the current period

5.0

—

9.8

0.2

Reduction related to settlements with taxing authorities

(12.3

)

—

—

—

Reduction related to lapse of the statue of limitations

(1.1

)

(0.2

)

(1.0

)

(0.2

)

End of year

$

25.2

$

1.0

$

36.8

$

0.8

We recognized interest related to unrecognized tax benefits of
    $0.9 million and $0.5 million within the provision for
    income taxes in our statements of operations for fiscal year
    2009 and 2008, respectively. Interest in the amount of
    $1.0 million was recognized in the 2009 statement of
    financial position. As of January 3, 2010, we estimated
    that the entire balance of unrecognized tax benefits, if
    resolved in our favor, would



positively impact the effective tax rate and, therefore, be
    recognized as additional tax benefits in our income statement.

We file income tax returns in the United States federal
    jurisdiction and in various states and foreign jurisdictions.
    Except for refund claims related to credits for research
    activities, the Company has substantially concluded on all
    U.S. federal and California income tax matters for all
    years through 2005. Substantially all other material state and
    local and foreign income tax matters have been concluded for
    years through 2004.

The Company anticipates the total unrecognized tax benefit for
    various federal and state tax items may be reduced by
    $2.6 million due to the expiration of statutes of
    limitation for various federal and state tax issues in the next
    12 months.

Note 12.  Pension
    Plans and Postretirement Benefits

Prior to the spin-off, certain Teledyne’s employees
    participated in the defined benefit plan sponsored by ATI.
    Benefits under the defined benefit plan are generally based on
    years of service

and/or

final
    average pay. ATI funded the pension plan in accordance with the
    requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
    1974, as amended, and the Internal Revenue Code.

As of the spin-off date, Teledyne assumed the existing defined
    benefit plan obligations for all of Teledyne’s employees,
    both active and inactive, at its companies that perform
    government contract work and for Teledyne’s active
    employees at its companies that do not perform government
    contract work. As of January 1, 2004, non-union new hires
    participate in an enhanced defined contribution plan as opposed
    to the Company’s existing defined benefit plan. The plan
    was closed to all union new hires as of February 2007.

Teledyne’s pension expense was $22.5 million in 2009
    of which $12.4 million was recoverable in accordance with
    U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards (“CAS”)
    from certain government contracts compared with pension expense
    of $9.6 million in 2008 of which $9.8 million was
    recoverable in accordance with CAS and pension expense of
    $11.9 million in 2007 of which $10.2 million was
    recoverable in accordance with CAS. Teledyne made pretax
    contributions to its pension plans of $117.0 million in
    2009 and $58.7 million in 2008, prior to any recovery from
    the U.S. Government. The Company anticipates making total
    pretax contributions, before any recovery from the
    U.S. Government, of approximately $37.0 million to its
    pension plan in 2010.

The Company’s contribution associated with 401(k) plans
    were $7.4 million, $7.5 million and $5.6 million,
    for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

The Company sponsors several postretirement defined benefit
    plans covering certain salaried and hourly employees. The plans
    provide health care and life insurance benefits for certain
    eligible retirees.

The following table sets forth the components of net period
    pension benefit income/expense for Teledyne’s defined
    benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for 2009,
    2008 and 2007 (in millions):

Pension Benefits

Postretirement Benefits







Service cost — benefits earned during the period

$

14.8

$

17.1

$

16.6

$

0.1

$

0.1

$

0.1

Interest cost on benefit obligation

40.1

38.4

36.8

1.1

1.4

1.5

Expected return on plan assets

(48.6

)

(49.7

)

(46.9

)

—

—

—

Amortization of prior service cost

0.4

0.7

1.6

(0.5

)

(0.5

)

(0.5

)

Recognized actuarial (gain) loss

15.8

3.1

3.8

(1.3

)

(0.8

)

(0.7

)

Net periodic benefit (income) expense

$

22.5

$

9.6

$

11.9

$

(0.6

)

$

0.2

$

0.4



The following table sets forth the reconciliation of the
    beginning and ending balances of the benefit obligation of the
    defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans (in
    millions):

Pension Benefits

Postretirement Benefits





Changes in benefit obligation:

Benefit obligation — beginning of year

$

667.8

$

655.6

$

18.9

$

25.1

Service cost — benefits earned during the year

14.8

17.1

0.1

0.1

Interest cost on projected benefit obligation

40.1

38.4

1.1

1.4

Actuarial (gain) loss

(19.7

)

(12.0

)

(0.9

)

(6.2

)

Benefits paid

(33.7

)

(32.2

)

(1.6

)

(1.5

)

Plan amendments

—

0.9

—

—

Benefit obligation — end of year

$

669.3

$

667.8

$

17.6

$

18.9

Accumulated benefit obligation — end of year

$

633.2

$

611.3

The measurement date for the Company’s pension and
    postretirement plans is December 31.

The following table presents the estimated future benefit
    payments for the Company’s pension and postretirement plans
    (in millions):

Pension

Postretirement

Plan

Benefit Plan


$

38.7

$

1.9


40.7

1.9


42.7

1.9


44.5

1.8


46.6

1.8

2015-2019

259.4

8.9

Total

$

472.6

$

18.2

The following tables set forth the reconciliation of the
    beginning and ending balances of the fair value of plan assets
    for Teledyne’s defined benefit pension plans and the
    percentage of year-end market value by asset class (in millions):

Pension Benefits



Changes in plan assets:

Fair value of plan assets — beginning of year

$

436.0

$

577.5

Actual return on plan assets

64.0

(169.0

)

Employer contribution — defined benefit plan

117.0

58.7

Employer contribution — other benefit plan

1.2

1.0

Benefits paid

(33.7

)

(32.2

)

Fair value of net plan assets — end of year

$

584.5

$

436.0

Plan Assets % to Total



Equity instruments

54.0

%

55.0

%

Domestic fixed income instruments

46.0

%

44.0

%

Cash

—

1.0

%

Total

100.0

%

100.0

%



The Company has an active management policy for a portion of its
    pension assets. The investment policy includes a target
    allocation percentage of 70% in equity instruments and 30% in
    domestic fixed income instruments. The balance in equity
    instruments can range from 45% to 75% before rebalancing is
    required under the Company’s policy.

The plan’s investments are stated at fair value. A total of
    $377.3 million in plan investments are considered a
    level 1 fair value hierarchy and are valued at quoted
    market prices in active markets. A total of $212.2 million
    in plan investments are considered a level 2 fair value
    hierarchy and are valued based on observable market data. The
    plan has no investments that would be considered a level 3
    fair value hierarchy.

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is reviewed
    annually, taking into consideration the Company’s asset
    allocation, historical returns on the types of assets held, and
    the current economic environment. We determined the discount
    rate based on a model which matches the timing and amount of
    expected benefit payments to maturities of quality bonds priced
    as of the pension plan measurement date. For some years, there
    were no bonds maturing. In these instances, we chose to estimate
    the missing bond by using bonds that have similar features as
    the prior year’s bond. The yields on the bonds are used to
    derive a discount rate for the liability.

The following assumptions were used to determine the benefit
    obligation and the net benefit cost:

For the year




Weighted average discount rate

6.25

%

6.00

%

6.00

%

Weighted average increase in future compensation levels

3.50

%

3.66

%

3.66

%

Expected weighted-average long-term rate of return

8.25

%

8.50

%

8.50

%

The Company is projecting a long-term rate of return on plan
    assets of 8.25% in 2010. The discount rate used in determining
    the benefit obligations is expected to be 6.25% in 2010 and the
    expected weighted average increase in future compensation levels
    is 3.50%.

The following table sets forth the funded status and amounts
    recognized in Teledyne’s consolidated balance sheets for
    the pension and postretirement plans at year-end 2009 and 2008
    (in millions):

Pension Benefits

Postretirement Benefits





Funded status

$

(84.8

)

$

(231.8

)

$

(17.6

)

$

(18.9

)

Unrecognized prior service cost

1.8

2.2

(2.3

)

(2.9

)

Unrecognized net (gain) loss

261.8

312.7

(9.0

)

(9.3

)

Prepaid (accrued) benefit cost

$

178.8

$

83.1

$

(28.9

)

$

(31.1

)

Accrued pension obligation (long-term)

$

(79.8

)

$

(227.9

)

$

—

$

—

Accrued pension obligation (short-term)

(2.0

)

(0.8

)

—

—

Accrued postretirement benefits (long-term)

—

—

(15.7

)

(16.7

)

Accrued postretirement benefits (short-term)

—

—

(1.9

)

(2.2

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income

263.6

315.0

(11.3

)

(12.2

)

Other liabilities

(3.0

)

(3.2

)

—

—

Net amount recognized

$

178.8

$

83.1

$

(28.9

)

$

(31.1

)

At year-end 2009 the Company had a $153.3 million non-cash
    reduction to stockholders’ equity and a long-term
    additional liability of $252.3 million. At year-end 2008,
    the Company had a $183.9 million non-cash reduction to
    stockholders’ equity and a long-term additional liability
    of $302.8 million. The adjustments to equity did not affect
    net income and are recorded net of deferred taxes.

At January 3, 2010, the amounts in the minimum liability
    adjustment that have not yet been recognized as components of
    net periodic benefit cost for the pension plans are: net loss
    $261.8 million and net prior



service cost $1.8 million. At January 3, 2010, the
    amounts in the minimum liability adjustment that have not yet
    been recognized as components of net periodic benefit income for
    the retiree medical plans are: net gain $9.0 million and
    net prior service cost $2.3 million.

At January 3, 2010, the estimated amounts of the minimum
    liability adjustment that are expected to be recognized as
    components of net periodic benefit cost during 2010 for the
    pension plans are: net loss $7.8 million and net prior
    service cost $0.4 million. At January 3, 2010, the
    estimated amounts in the minimum liability expected to be
    recognized as components of net periodic benefit income during
    2010 for the retiree medical plans are: net gain
    $1.2 million and net prior service cost $0.5 million.

The annual assumed rate of increase in the per capita cost of
    covered benefits (the health care cost trend rate) for health
    care plans is 8.0% in 2010 and was assumed to decrease to 5.0%
    by the year 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. Assumed
    health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the
    amounts reported for the health care plans. A one percentage
    point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would
    result in an increase in the annual service and interest costs
    by $0.1 million for 2009 and would result in an increase in
    the postretirement benefit obligation by $0.8 million at
    January 3, 2010. A one percentage point decrease in the
    assumed health care cost trend rates would result in a decrease
    in the annual service and interest costs by $0.1 million
    for 2009 and would result in a decrease in the postretirement
    benefit obligation by $0.7 million at January 3, 2010.

Note 13.  Business
    Segments

Teledyne is a leading provider of sophisticated electronic
    components and subsystems, instrumentation and communications
    products, engineered systems and information technology
    services, general aviation engines and components, and energy
    generation, energy storage and small propulsion products. Our
    customers include government agencies, aerospace prime
    contractors, energy exploration and production companies, major
    industrial companies, and airlines and general aviation
    companies.

Teledyne operates in four business segments: Electronics and
    Communications, Engineered Systems, Aerospace Engines and
    Components and Energy and Power Systems. The factors for
    determining the reportable segments were based on the distinct
    nature of their operations. They are managed as separate
    business units because each requires and is responsible for
    executing a unique business strategy. The Electronics and
    Communications segment provides a wide range of specialized
    electronic systems, instruments, components and services that
    address niche market applications in defense, commercial
    aerospace, communications, industrial and scientific markets.
    The Engineered Systems segment, principally through Teledyne
    Brown Engineering, Inc., applies the skills of its extensive
    staff of engineers and scientists to provide innovative systems
    engineering, advanced technology, software development and
    manufacturing solutions to defense, space, environmental, and
    homeland security requirements. The Aerospace Engines and
    Components segment, principally through Teledyne Continental
    Motors, Inc., focuses on the design, development and manufacture
    of piston engines and electronic engine controls. The Energy and
    Power Systems segment provides hydrogen gas generators,
    thermoelectric and fuel cell-based power sources, turbine
    engines and aviation batteries.

Segment operating profit includes other income and expense
    directly related to the segment, but excludes minority interest,
    interest income and expense, gains and losses on the disposition
    of assets, sublease rental income and non-revenue licensing and
    royalty income, domestic and foreign income taxes and corporate
    office expenses.

Identifiable assets are those assets used in the operations of
    the segments. Corporate assets primarily consist of cash and
    cash equivalents, deferred tax assets, net pension
    assets/liabilities and other assets.



Information on the Company’s business segments was as
    follows (in millions):




Sales

Electronics and Communications

$

1,232.2

$

1,276.6

$

1,071.6

Engineered Systems

347.0

361.2

301.7

Aerospace Engines and Components

113.1

171.0

180.7

Energy and Power Systems

72.9

84.2

68.3

Total sales

$

1,765.2

$

1,893.0

$

1,622.3




Income before taxes

Electronics and Communications

$

163.9

$

183.0

$

143.2

Engineered Systems

31.5

35.0

26.2

Aerospace Engines and Components

(5.4

)

(9.7

)

19.2

Energy and Power Systems

3.3

10.2

6.3

Segment operating profit and other segment income

193.3

218.5

194.9

Corporate expense

(27.3

)

(29.6

)

(32.6

)

Interest and debt expense, net

(4.8

)

(10.9

)

(12.5

)

Other income (expense), net

(0.1

)

0.6

2.9

Income before taxes

$

161.1

$

178.6

$

152.7




Depreciation and amortization

Electronics and Communications

$

39.1

$

41.8

$

29.0

Engineered Systems

1.8

1.6

1.5

Aerospace Engines and Components

2.2

2.3

2.7

Energy and Power Systems

1.4

1.5

1.4

Corporate

0.2

0.1

0.1

Total depreciation and amortization

$

44.7

$

47.3

$

34.7




Capital expenditures

Electronics and Communications

$

29.9

$

33.8

$

33.7

Engineered Systems

1.8

2.2

1.5

Aerospace Engines and Components

2.7

3.7

3.5

Energy and Power Systems

1.8

2.1

1.0

Corporate

—

0.1

0.6

Total capital expenditures

$

36.2

$

41.9

$

40.3






Identifiable assets

Electronics and Communications

$

1,129.6

$

1,184.5

$

861.4

Engineered Systems

74.6

91.3

79.3

Aerospace Engines and Components

66.8

58.1

66.2

Energy and Power Systems

25.0

30.2

27.2

Corporate

125.5

170.4

125.3

Total identifiable assets

$

1,421.5

$

1,534.5

$

1,159.4

Information on the Company’s sales to the
    U.S. Government, including direct sales as a prime
    contractor and indirect sales as a subcontractor, were as
    follows (in millions):




Electronics and Communications

$

420.0

$

386.0

$

334.4

Engineered Systems

307.5

322.4

298.0

Energy and Power Systems

50.3

46.1

32.1

Total U.S. Government sales

$

777.8

$

754.5

$

664.5

Sales to the U.S. Government included sales to the
    Department of Defense of $590.5 million in 2009,
    $557.1 million in 2008, and $481.5 million in 2007.
    Total sales to international customers were $455.8 million
    in 2009, $450.3 million in 2008, and $362.7 million in
    2007. Of these amounts, sales by operations in the United States
    to customers in other countries were $394.6 million in
    2009, $329.4 million in 2008, and $315.1 million in
    2007. There were no sales to individual countries outside of the
    United States in excess of 10 percent of the Company’s
    sales. More than 95 percent of our total sales were made by
    our operations located in the United States. Sales between
    business segments, which were not material, generally were
    priced at prevailing market prices.

Note 14.  Lease
    Commitments

The Company leases buildings and equipment under capital and
    operating leases. The present value of the minimum capital lease
    payments, net of the current portion, totaled $11.6 million
    at January 3, 2010. Operating lease agreements, which
    include leases for manufacturing facilities and office space
    frequently include renewal options and require the Company to
    pay for utilities, taxes, insurance and maintenance expense.

At January 3, 2010, future minimum lease payments for
    capital leases and for operating leases with non-cancelable
    terms of more than one year were as follows (in millions):

Capital

Operating


$

1.1

$

17.2


1.2

13.5


1.1

10.7


1.1

9.0


1.1

8.4

Thereafter

12.2

24.4

Total minimum lease payments

17.8

$

83.2

Less:

Imputed interest

(5.7

)

Current portion

(0.5

)

Present value of minimum capital lease payments, net of current
    portion

$

11.6



The 2009 property, plant and equipment accounts included
    $12.2 million of property leased under capital leases and
    $1.2 million of related accumulated depreciation. The 2008
    property, plant and equipment accounts included
    $6.3 million of property leased under capital leases and
    $0.6 million of related accumulated depreciation. Rental
    expense under operating leases, net of sublease income, was
    $21.0 million in 2009, $20.9 million in 2008, and
    $17.8 million in 2007.

Note 15.  Commitments
    and Contingencies

The Company is subject to federal, state and local environmental
    laws and regulations which require that it investigate and
    remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at
    sites associated with past and present operations, including
    sites at which the Company has been identified as a potentially
    responsible party under the federal Superfund laws and
    comparable state laws.

In accordance with the Company’s accounting policy
    disclosed in Note 2, environmental liabilities are recorded
    when the Company’s liability is probable and the costs are
    reasonably estimable. In many cases, however, investigations are
    not yet at a stage where the Company has been able to determine
    whether it is liable or, if liability is probable, to reasonably
    estimate the loss or range of loss, or certain components
    thereof. Estimates of the Company’s liability are further
    subject to uncertainties regarding the nature and extent of site
    contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available,
    evolving remediation standards, imprecise engineering
    evaluations and estimates of appropriate cleanup technology,
    methodology and cost, the extent of corrective actions that may
    be required, and the number and financial condition of other
    potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their
    responsibility for the remediation. Accordingly, as
    investigation and remediation of these sites proceeds, it is
    likely that adjustments in the Company’s accruals will be
    necessary to reflect new information. The amounts of any such
    adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations in a given period, but the
    amounts, and the possible range of loss in excess of the amounts
    accrued, are not reasonably estimable. Based on currently
    available information, however, management does not believe that
    future environmental costs in excess of those accrued with
    respect to sites with which the Company has been identified are
    likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    financial condition or liquidity. However, there can be no
    assurance that additional future developments, administrative
    actions or liabilities relating to environmental matters will
    not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    financial condition or results of operations.

At January 3, 2010, the Company’s reserves for
    environmental remediation obligations totaled $3.0 million,
    of which approximately $0.3 million was included in other
    current liabilities. The Company is evaluating whether it may be
    able to recover a portion of future costs for environmental
    liabilities from its insurance carriers and from third parties.

The timing of expenditures depends on a number of factors that
    vary by site, including the nature and extent of contamination,
    the number of potentially responsible parties, the timing of
    regulatory approvals, the complexity of the investigation and
    remediation, and the standards for remediation. The Company
    expects that it will expend present accruals over many years,
    and will complete remediation of all sites with which it has
    been identified in up to thirty years.

Various claims (whether based on U.S. Government or Company
    audits and investigations or otherwise) may be asserted against
    the Company related to its U.S. Government contract work,
    including claims based on business practices and cost
    classifications and actions under the False Claims Act. Although
    such claims are generally resolved by detailed fact-finding and
    negotiation, on those occasions when they are not so resolved,
    civil or criminal legal or administrative proceedings may ensue.
    Depending on the circumstances and the outcome, such proceedings
    could result in fines, penalties, compensatory and treble
    damages or the cancellation or suspension of payments under one
    or more U.S. Government contracts. Under government
    regulations, a company, or one or more of its operating
    divisions or units, can also be suspended or debarred from
    government contracts based on the results of investigations.
    However, although the outcome of these matters cannot be
    predicted with certainty, management does not believe there is
    any audit, review or investigation currently pending against the
    Company of which management is aware that is likely to result in
    suspension or debarment of the Company, or that is otherwise
    likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s



financial condition or liquidity, although the resolution in any
    reporting period of one or more of these matters could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
    operations for that period.

A number of other lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or
    may be asserted against the Company relating to the conduct of
    its business, including those pertaining to product liability,
    patent infringement, commercial, employment and employee
    benefits. While the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted
    with certainty, and some of these lawsuits, claims or
    proceedings may be determined adversely to the Company,
    management does not believe that the disposition of any such
    pending matters is likely to have a material adverse effect on
    the Company’s financial condition or liquidity, although
    the resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these
    matters could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations for that period. Teledyne
    has aircraft and product liability insurance with an annual
    self-insured retention for general aviation aircraft liabilities
    incurred in connection with products manufactured by Teledyne
    Continental Motors of $17.2 million. The Company’s
    current aircraft product liability insurance policy expires in
    May 2010.

Note 16.  Quarterly
    Financial Data (Unaudited)

The following is Teledyne’s quarterly information (in
    millions, except per-share amounts):

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

4th Quarter

Fiscal year 2009(a)

Sales

$

440.3

$

441.1

$

429.4

$

454.4

Gross profit

$

126.5

$

127.3

$

125.2

$

130.2

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies(b)

$

20.8

$

25.2

$

35.1

$

32.2

Basic earnings per share

$

0.58

$

0.70

$

0.98

$

0.89

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.57

$

0.69

$

0.96

$

0.88

(a)

Fiscal year 2009 was a 53-week year, each quarter contained
    13 weeks, except for the fourth quarter which contained
    14 weeks.

(b)

Includes research and development tax credits of
    $14.3 million of which $8.2 million was recorded in
    the third quarter and $6.1 million was recorded in the
    fourth quarter. Includes the reversal of $1.2 million in
    income tax contingency reserves which were determined to be no
    longer needed due to the completion of state tax audits and the
    expiration of applicable statutes of limitations, of which
    $1.1 million was recorded in the third quarter and
    $0.1 million was recorded in the fourth quarter. Includes
    additional tax expense of $0.5 million, primarily related
    to the impact of California income tax law changes, of which
    $0.3 million was recorded in the first quarter and
    $0.2 million was recorded in the fourth quarter.

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

4th Quarter

Fiscal year 2008(a)

Sales

$

451.8

$

478.8

$

497.6

$

464.8

Gross profit

$

136.5

$

147.9

$

149.1

$

120.0

(c)

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies(b)

$

27.9

$

32.6

$

30.9

$

19.9

Basic earnings per share

$

0.79

$

0.92

$

0.87

$

0.56

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.77

$

0.89

$

0.84

$

0.54



Schedule II

VALUATION
    AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

For the
    Fiscal Years Ended January 3, 2010, December 28, 2008
    and December 30, 2007

(In
    millions)

Additions

Balance at

Charged to

beginning of

costs and

Balance at end

Description

period

expenses

Acquisitions

Deductions(a)

of period

Fiscal 2009

Reserve for doubtful accounts

$

3.2

0.5

—

(0.8

)

$

2.9

Aircraft product liability reserve

$

39.6

11.8

—

(6.7

)

$

44.7

Product recall and replacement reserve

$

15.8

1.3

—

(12.1

)

$

5.0

Environmental reserves

$

2.9

1.2

—

(1.1

)

$

3.0

Fiscal 2008

Reserve for doubtful accounts

$

4.6

0.7

0.3

(2.4

)

$

3.2

Aircraft product liability reserve

$

53.8

11.8

—

(26.0

)

$

39.6

Product recall and replacement reserve

$

—

15.8

—

—

15.8

Environmental reserves

$

4.4

(0.5

)

—

(1.0

)

$

2.9

Fiscal 2007

Reserve for doubtful accounts

$

2.7

2.3

—

(0.4

)

$

4.6

Aircraft product liability reserve

$

46.9

12.0

—

(5.1

)

$

53.8

Environmental reserves

$

5.1

(0.5

)

—

(0.2

)

$

4.4

(a)

Represents payments except the amounts for allowance for
    doubtful accounts primarily represents uncollectible accounts
    written off, net of recoveries.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized as of March 2, 2010.

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated (Registrant)

By:

/s/

Robert
    Mehrabian

Robert Mehrabian

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

/s/

Robert
    Mehrabian

Robert
    Mehrabian

Chairman, President and

Chief Executive Officer

(Principal Executive Officer)

and Director

March 2, 2010

/s/

Dale
    A. Schnittjer

Dale
    A. Schnittjer

Senior Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

(Principal Financial Officer)

March 2, 2010

/s/

Susan
    L. Main

Susan
    L. Main

Vice President and Controller

(Principal Accounting Officer)

March 2, 2010

*

Roxanne
    S. Austin

Director

March 2, 2010

*

Frank
    V. Cahouet

Director

March 2, 2010

*

Charles
    Crocker

Director

March 2, 2010

*

Kenneth
    C. Dahlberg

Director

March 2, 2010

*

Simon
    M. Lorne

Director

March 2, 2010

*

Paul
    D. Miller

Director

March 2, 2010

*

Michael
    T. Smith

Director

March 2, 2010

*

Wesley
    W. von Schack

Director

March 2, 2010

*By:

/s/

Melanie
    S. Cibik

Melanie
    S. Cibik

Pursuant to Power of Attorney

filed as Exhibit 24.1



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

No.

Description


.1

Separation and Distribution Agreement dated as of
    November 29, 1999 by and among Allegheny Teledyne
    Incorporated, TDY Holdings, LLC, Teledyne Industries, Inc. and
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of November 29, 1999 (File

No. 1-15295))


.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated (including Certificate of Designation of
    Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock)
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
    Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295))


.2

Amended and Restated Bylaws of Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to
    the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295))


.1

Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement between Allegheny
    Teledyne Incorporated and Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of November 29, 1999 (File

No. 1-15295))


.2

Employee Benefits Agreement between Allegheny Teledyne
    Incorporated and Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K/A

(Amendment No. 1) dated as of November 29, 1999
    (File

No. 1-15295))†


.3

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999 Incentive Plan
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the
    Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.4

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999 Non-Employee Director
    Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.5

Amendment No. 1 to Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999
    Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295)†


.6

Amendment No. 2 to Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999
    Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295)†


.7

Amendment No. 3 to Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999
    Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 29, 2002 (File

No. 1-15295)†


.8

Amendment No. 4 to Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999
    Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s

Form 10-Q

for the period ended September 28, 2003) (File

No. 1-15295)†


.9

Fourth Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of
    January 21, 2009, by and between Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated and Dr. Robert Mehrabian (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 20, 2009 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.10

Form of Change of Control Severance Agreement (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295)

with regard to Dale A. Schnittjer (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the period ended June 29, 2003 (File

No. 1-15295))

and with regard to Rex Geveden (filed herewith)†*


.11

Form of Amendment to the Change of Control Severance Agreement
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated December 31, 2008 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.12

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated Executive Deferred
    Compensation Plan, as originally effective as of
    November 29, 1999, as amended and restated effective
    December 31, 2004 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated December 31, 2008)

(File No. 1-15295)†



Exhibit

No.

Description


.13

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated Pension Equalization/Benefit
    Restoration Plan, as originally effective as of
    November 29, 1999, as amended and restated effective
    December 31, 2004 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated December 31, 2008) (File

No. 1-15295))†


.14

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the
    Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 30, 2001 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.15

Administrative Rules of the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan Related to
    Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 23, 2007)†


.16

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 2008 Incentive Award Plan
    (incorporated by reference to Annex A of the Company’s
    Definitive Proxy Statement filed March 7, 2008 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.17

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated Administrative Rules of the
    2008 Incentive Award Plan Related to Non-Employee Director Stock
    Compensation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
    the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the fiscal quarter ended March 30, 2008 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.18

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement —
    January 22, 2008 Award (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.21 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 30, 2008 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.19

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement —
    January 20, 2009 Award (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 20, 2009 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.20

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the 2008
    Incentive Award Plan†*


.21

Administrative Rules for the Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    Restricted Stock Award Program under the 2008 Incentive Award
    Plan, effective as of January 20, 2009 (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 20, 2009 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.22

Summary Plan Description for the Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated Performance Share Plan under the 2008 Incentive
    Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
    the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 20, 2009 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.23

Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of July 14,
    2006, among Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, Bank of America,
    N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer,
    certain lenders thereunder and certain subsidiaries of Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated as guarantors (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated July 14, 2006 (File

No. 1-15295))


.24

First Amendment to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement,
    dated as of February 8, 2008, by and among Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated, certain subsidiaries of Teledyne as
    Guarantors, the Lender parties thereto and Bank of America, N.A.
    as Administrative Agent (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated February 8, 2008 (File

No. 1-15295))


.25

Form of Amendment to Stock Options, dated October 1, 2007,
    by and between Teledyne Technologies Incorporated and directors
    Frank V. Cahouet, Charles Crocker, Simon M. Lorne, Paul D.
    Miller and Michael T. Smith (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.26

Form of Indemnification Agreement executed by each of the
    Company’s directors and named executive officers
    (incorporated by reference to the Company’s Current Report
    on

Form 8-K

dated April 22, 2009 (File

No. 1-15295))†.


.27

Form of Stock Option Agreement under the 2008 Incentive Award
    Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 19, 2010 (File

No. 1-15295))†.



Exhibit

No.

Description


.1

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated Corporate Objectives and
    Guidelines for Employee Conduct — this code of ethics
    may be accessed via the Company’s website at
    www.teledyne.com/aboutus/ethics.asp


.2

Code of Ethics for Financial Executives — this code of
    ethics may be accessed via the Company’s website at
    www.teledyne.com/aboutus/ethics.asp


.3

Directors Code of Business Conduct and Ethics — this
    code of ethics may be accessed via the Company’s website at
    www.teledyne.com/aboutus/ethics.asp


Subsidiaries of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated*


Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm*


.1

Power of Attorney — Directors*


.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*


.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*


.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*


.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*

*

Submitted electronically herewith.

†

Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
    required to be filed as an Exhibit to this Form 10-K.

108