10-K405


v79210e10-k405.htm

FORM 10-K405

Teledyne Technologies, Inc, 10-K405

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR SECTION 15(d) OF THE
	SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 30, 2001

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
	SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

.

Commission file number: 1-15295

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Delaware

25-1843385

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification Number)

12333 West Olympic Boulevard

Los Angeles, California 90064-1021

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip
Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code: (310) 893-1600

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter period that
the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days.  Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this
Form 10-K.

x

At February 28, 2002, the number of
outstanding shares of Common Stock of the registrant was
31,967,834. At February 28, 2002, the aggregate market
value of the registrant’s Common Stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately
$504.5 million, based on the closing price of $16.35 per
share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on that date.
Shares of Common Stock known by the registrant to be
beneficially owned by the registrant’s directors and the
registrant’s executive officers subject to Section 16
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are not included in the
computation. The registrant, however, has made no determination
that such persons are “affiliates” within the meaning
of Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Selected portions of the registrant’s proxy
statement for its 2002 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the
“2002 Proxy Statement”) are incorporated by reference
in Part III of this Report. Information required by
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Item 306 of Regulations S-K
and by paragraphs (k) and (l) of Item 402 of
Regulation S-K is not incorporated by reference in this
Form 10-K or in any other filing of the registrant. Such
information shall not be deemed “soliciting material”
or to be filed with the Commission as permitted by paragraph
(c) of Item 306 and Instruction (9) to
Item 402 of Regulation S-K.

INDEX

Defined Terms

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Teledyne
Technologies Incorporated is sometimes referred to as the
“Company”, “Teledyne”, “Teledyne
Technologies” or “TDY”. References to
“ATI” mean Allegheny Technologies Incorporated,
formerly known as Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated, the company
from which we were spun-off on November 29, 1999.

i

PART I

Item 1. Business.

Who We Are

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is a leading
provider of sophisticated electronic components, instruments and
communications products, including data acquisition and
communications equipment for airlines and business aircraft,
monitoring and control instruments for industrial and
environmental applications and components, and subsystems for
wireless and satellite communications. We also provide systems
engineering solutions and information technology services for
space, defense and industrial applications, and manufacture
general aviation and missile engines and components, as well as
on-site gas and power generation systems.

We serve niche market segments where performance,
precision and reliability are critical. Our customers include
major industrial and communications companies, government
agencies, aerospace prime contractors and general aviation
companies. We have developed strong core competencies in
engineering, software development and manufacturing that we can
leverage both to sustain and grow our current niche businesses,
and to become an innovator in related higher-growth markets.

We seek to grow in niche market segments where we
have a strong competitive position, both by development of new
products and services and by acquiring businesses that are
highly complementary to our current product lines.

Total sales in 2001 were $744.3 million,
compared to $795.1 million and $761.4 million in 2000
and 1999, respectively. Our aggregate segment operating profits
were $24.2 million, $72.4 million and
$87.6 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.
Approximately 55% of our total sales in 2001 was to commercial
customers and the balance was to the U.S. Government.
Approximately 41% of these U.S. Government sales was
attributable to fixed price-type contracts and the balance to
cost plus fee-type contracts. International sales accounted for
approximately 17% of total sales in 2001.

In 2001, we realigned and changed the reporting
structure of some of our business units. Our Test Services and
Geophysical Instruments business units that were previously part
of our Systems Engineering Solutions segment are now part of an
instruments group under our Electronics and Communications
segment. This realignment also resulted in a new segment, the
Energy Systems segment, the results of which had previously been
reported under our Systems Engineering Solutions segment. Our
four business segments and their respective contributions to our
total sales in 2001, 2000 and 1999 are summarized in the
following table:

Teledyne Technologies was organized as a Delaware
corporation on August 23, 1999. Teledyne Technologies is
comprised of certain businesses of the former Aerospace and
Electronics segment of Allegheny Technologies Incorporated. On
November 29, 1999, we were spun off from ATI after a
strategic review concluded that our businesses would be able to
grow faster and that we would be a stronger competitor as a
separate company. Our origin can be traced to Teledyne, Inc.,
founded in 1960 by Dr. Henry Singleton.

Our principal executive offices are located at
12333 West Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California
90064-1021. Our telephone number is (310) 893-1600.

Strategy

Our strategy is to focus on markets for
electronic and communication products, while we continue to
expand our profitable niche market businesses. We continually
evaluate our product lines to ensure that they are aligned with
our strategy. For example, we plan to exit certain non-core
microwave switches and filters product lines within our
Electronics and Communications segment. These actions help us to
direct capital and management focus to opportunities that best
utilize our engineering resources and technical expertise.

Specific elements of our strategy include:

Leverage Niche Market
Leadership.

We have developed strong,
proprietary technical capabilities that have enabled us to
achieve leading market positions in many of our niche markets,
including those for oxygen analyzers, high frequency
electromechanical relays, traveling wave tubes, data acquisition
avionics, piston engines for general aviation, small turbine
engines, and medical microelectronics. We intend to continue to
leverage our leadership position in these niche markets to
accelerate the introduction of new products and to increase our
value-added service offerings. For example, we have been
expanding our line of monitoring and control instruments. We
also continue to work towards extending our position in data
acquisition avionics by introducing new data acquisition
products specifically designed for the business and commuter
aircraft market. In addition, within our Systems Engineering
Solutions segment, we have sold, closed or transferred to other
segments certain commercial product lines or business units so
that this segment can focus on and expand its core government
defense and aerospace programs.

Enhance Manufacturing
Efficiency.

We intend to continue to
enhance our manufacturing capability to both reduce the cost of
our products and enable us to react quickly to changes in market
demand. For example, we have added state-of-the-art automated
equipment for high volume manufacturing of components for
optoelectronic components at our microelectronics facility. We
have expanded our manufacturing operations in Mexico to reduce
the cost of our products and to expand our capabilities in
contract manufacturing of sophisticated electronic modules that
are typically produced in low to moderate volumes. We have
implemented new streamlined work cells for several product
lines, including microelectronics, connectors, relays and
aircraft engines. In 2001, to be ready for production of
components used in our turbine engines for the Joint
Air-to-Surface Standoff Missiles, we completed construction of a
small turbine manufacturing cell at our Mobile, Alabama
facility. Using state-of-the-art machine tool technology,
coupled with computer aided process planning, we have achieved
significant cycle time reductions on some components.

Acquire Complementary
Businesses.

We intend to grow in
market segments where we have a strong competitive position,
both by developing new products and services and by acquiring
highly complementary businesses. We are focused on acquiring
companies or product lines that might add new products to
existing markets, expand sales into related growth markets,
increase service revenues or enhance manufacturing or
distribution capabilities. Our goal is to leverage both
operational and market synergies so that acquisitions result in
near-term improvements in earnings. For example, during the
fourth quarter of 2001 we acquired Advanced Pollution
Instrumentation Inc., a private company that manufactures a
broad line of instruments for monitoring low levels of gases
such as sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide and ozone. While this
company’s products have historically been used in
environmental applications, it recently introduced instruments
for Teledyne’s traditional markets in semiconductor
manufacturing and industrial process control. We anticipate that
the Advanced Pollution Instrumentation product line will be
highly complementary to our existing lines with respect to
distribution channels, technology and manufacturing capabilities.

Our Business Segments

Electronics and
Communications

Our Electronics and Communications segment,
sometimes referred to as Teledyne Electronic Technologies,
provides a wide range of specialized electronic systems,
instruments, components and


services that address niche market applications
in commercial aerospace, communications, defense, industrial and
medical markets.

Data
Acquisition and Communication Products

Our aircraft information management solutions are
designed to increase the safety and efficiency of airline
transportation. With over 200 commercial airline customers, we
are a leading supplier of digital flight data acquisition
systems for the commercial airline industry. We have provided
these systems to our airline customers for over one-half of
Boeing aircraft currently in production. We also introduced our
systems to Airbus aircraft, including the single-aisle
A319/320/321 and long-range A340/500-600. These systems acquire
data for use by the aircraft’s flight data recorder, and
record additional data for the airline’s operation, such as
performance and engine condition monitoring.

Our newest digital flight data acquisition units
have some of the most advanced features in the industry. These
systems conform to the required expansion of data recording
capabilities, which were mandated by the FAA in 1997. At that
time, the FAA increased the number of mandatory parameters to be
monitored from the 17 then required to 88 by 2002.

During 2001, we obtained FAA Supplemental Type
Certification for our new Wireless GroundLink

TM

product for use on Boeing 737 series aircraft, and intend to
obtain certification on other aircraft. This system automates
the transfer of in-flight data recorded by our data acquisition
systems to an airline’s operations center. As soon as an
aircraft lands, recorded flight data is transmitted to the
airline’s operations center over the cellular telephone
network and through the Internet. Our Flight Data Replay and
Analysis System can process the data into useful formats that
can be used by the airline to schedule maintenance services and
implement proper crew training and safety procedures.

The market for data acquisition systems has been
extended to business and commuter aircraft as these aircraft
have begun to mirror air transport aircraft in terms of data
gathering and aircraft monitoring. We have obtained FAA
certification for our mini flight data acquisition unit on
multiple platforms. We are also one of the largest suppliers of
air-to-ground telephony and data transmission products to the
business and commuter aircraft market.

Although our data acquisition products are
primarily used on commercial aircraft, the United States Air
Force recently selected our Optical Quick Access Recorder for
use on its C-17 Globemaster III military transport aircraft.

Instrumentation
Products

During 2001, we formed Teledyne Instruments, a
group of business units drawn from our Electronics and
Communications segment and our Systems Engineering Solutions
segment, to focus on monitoring and process control
instrumentation. In the fourth quarter of 2001, we acquired
Advanced Pollution Instrumentation, Inc., a private company that
manufactures a broad line of instruments for monitoring low
levels of gases such as sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide and
ozone.

Gas Analysis.

Teledyne Analytical Instruments was a pioneer in the development
of precision oxygen analyzers and now offers a broad range of
products with various sensitivities for petrochemical,
semiconductor manufacturing and other industrial applications.
We also manufacture analyzers for a variety of other gases for
such market applications and, with the addition of Advanced
Pollution Instrumentation, offer a range of products for
environmental monitoring.

Vacuum and Flow
Measurement.

Teledyne Hastings
Instruments manufactures a broad line of instruments for precise
measurement and control of vacuum and gas flows. Our instruments
are used in such varied applications as semiconductor
manufacturing, refrigeration, metallurgy and food processing.

Geophysical
Instruments.

We manufacture
geophysical streamer cables, hydrophones and specialty products
used in offshore drilling applications to locate oil reserves
beneath the ocean floor. We are also adapting this technology
for military antisubmarine warfare applications.


Test Services.

We
manufacture torque sensors and provide technical services for
such critical applications as monitoring valves in nuclear power
plants.

Electronic
Components

Traveling Wave
Tubes.

Our helix traveling wave tubes
are used to provide broadband power amplification of microwave
signals. Military applications include radar, electronic warfare
and satellite communication. Commercial applications include
electromagnetic compatibility test equipment and satellite
communication terminals for mobile newsgathering. Teledyne
Technologies was the first company to offer multi-band tubes
that permit a satellite communication earth station to quickly
switch from one satellite system to another without the need for
transmitter replacement.

Microwave Amplifiers and
Subsystems.

We supply solid-state
microwave power amplifiers used in satellite uplink terminals
for corporate networking and to provide two-way Internet access
via satellite for both consumer and commercial customers. Our
new line of integrated transceiver modules provides
point-to-point connectivity in cellular telephone infrastructure.

Relays.

Our Teledyne
Relays miniature electromechanical relays are used where
maintenance of signal fidelity is essential. Applications
include microwave test equipment, automatic test equipment used
in semiconductor manufacturing, wireless communication base
stations and military and commercial aerospace. We also supply
solid-state relays used in military and industrial applications.

Connectors.

We
manufacture custom surface mount connectors for applications in
computer disk drives and consumer medical electronic devices.
Teledyne Interconnect Devices recently introduced a high-density
microprocessor connector for high-end workstations and network
servers.

Rigid-Flex Printed Circuit
Boards.

Our patented rigid-flex
printed circuit boards permit our customers to assemble reliable
high-density electronic modules that are used in a variety of
military and commercial aerospace applications.

Electronic
Manufacturing Services

Electronics Equipment and Printed Circuit Card
Assembly.

We serve the market for
high-mix, low-volume manufacturing of electronic products
principally through facilities in Tennessee and Mexico. Examples
of the types of products that we manufacture include
sophisticated military electronics equipment and key subsystems
in medical equipment such as magnetic resonance imaging
(MRI) systems.

Microelectronic
Modules.

We develop and manufacture
custom microelectronic modules that provide both high
reliability and extremely dense packaging for military,
implantable medical devices and wireless communication products.
For example, over 50 of our microelectronic modules are used for
optical communications on each of the new F-22 Raptor aircraft.
Examples of applications in the medical field include cardiac
pacemakers, defibrillators and cochlear implant hearing aids.

Optoelectronic
Modules.

We provide turnkey
manufacturing services for custom optoelectronic modules used in
high data rate communications. Our capabilities include
submicron alignment of single mode fiber, environmental and life
certification, and test of transmitter and receiver capabilities
at data rates up to 40 gigabits per second.

Systems
Engineering Solutions

Our Systems Engineering Solutions segment,
principally through Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc., applies
the skills of its extensive staff of engineers and scientists to
solve the increasingly complex problems of our government
defense and aerospace customers.


Defense
Solutions

Teledyne Brown Engineering is a well-recognized
missile defense contractor with over 40 years’
experience in missile defense systems integration. Our diverse
customer base in this field includes the U.S. Army’s
Space and Missile Defense Command, the Missile Defense Agency,
formerly known as the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization,
and major prime defense contractors.

We have significant continuing roles in multiple
missile defense programs, in such diverse areas as deployment
and transition, targets and countermeasures, survivability,
vulnerability and lethality analysis, systems engineering and
integration, test and assessment, and the development of
modeling and simulation test beds.

Our engineering and technological services
include systems design, development, integration and testing,
with specialization in real-time distributed systems. Our
expertise is evidenced by wide customer usage of our
capabilities in systems such as our Missile Defense System
Exerciser and our ground-based missile defense products. Our
Systems Exerciser is a simulation tool used to verify the
inter-operational compatibility of geographically separated,
complex defense systems. The System Exerciser “drives”
actual weapon systems with a simulated environment including
threats, weather and terrain, creating a robust virtual world in
which real systems can operate and interact.

We have developed and maintain a variety of
world-class modeling and simulation tools, ranging from
architecture/force structure to components-requirement-focused
tools. Examples include our Extended Air Defense Simulation,
Joint Force Analysis Simulation, and Advanced Subsystems Element
and Systems Simulation software tools. Many of these products
are employed globally for applications such as training, metrics
development, cost/risk assessments, trade studies,
force/architecture investment strategy development, and
operations planning.

Aerospace
Programs

We have been active in U.S. space programs for
more than 47 years and continue to be a significant
contributor to NASA programs. We play a key role in the
International Space Station (ISS), one of the most complex
scientific endeavors ever undertaken. The ISS recently completed
its first year of continuously manned operations. We have
provided 24-hour-per-day service for the payload operation cadre
for the ISS Payload Operations and Integration Center, located
at NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center.

In addition to payload operations support, we
have performed design and development work on ISS flight systems
and ground support hardware, including the Vacuum Vent System
which supports science payloads, flight support equipment for
Orbital Replacement Units, and the Element Rotation Stand that
manipulates large hardware items during ground integration
activities.

We have also completed development and
qualification of flight hardware for the Observable Protein
Crystal Growth Apparatus for the University of California,
Irvine that is used in protein crystal research. Scientists
expect the data from this research to further the understanding
of why crystals grow differently in the micro-gravity
environment.

The Marshall Space Flight Center awarded 20
blanket purchase agreements for engineering services provided by
individual contractor companies under the Specialized
Engineering and Project Planning Support program. We were
awarded a broad-range, pre-qualified approval to service all
four of the Center’s participating organizations: the
Engineering, the Science and the Space Transportation
Directorates and the Systems Management Office.

Information
Technology

We continue to work to expand our information
technology products and services. We have developed a web-based
program management software for NASA’s Marshall Space
Flight Center. This program, called the Space Transportation and
Information Network (STIN), enables NASA to manage centrally all


space transportation and propulsion technology
development projects at NASA centers and partner organizations.
This task was previously done manually by program managers and
staff involved in the three areas of financial programs,
management milestones and reviews, and technology development.
We also provide information technology services to
Marshall’s Microgravity Research Program Office.

Environmental
Programs

We support the U.S. Government’s efforts to
clean up dangerous materials and waste. We operate the Rapid
Response System, a mobile chemical waste treatment system
developed by the U.S. Army. This system is used to process
chemical agents for disposal. These chemical agents had been
used in the past to train military personnel in the detection,
measurement and decontamination of dangerous chemicals. We also
produce canisters for the processing, stabilization and storage
of nuclear waste products. In addition, we produce detonation
chambers for use in the disposal of both chemical weapons and
conventional munitions.

Teledyne
Solutions, Inc.

Through Teledyne Solutions, Inc., we are the
primary Ballistic Missile Defense (BMD) systems engineering
and technical assistance contractor for the U.S. Army. Teledyne
Solutions has responsibility for the Systems Engineering and
Technical Assistance Contract (SETAC) in support of the
U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command. Through the SETAC,
Teledyne Solutions also directly supports the Program Executive
Office for Air and Missile Defense and the Ground-Based
Midcourse Defense Joint Program Office.

Aerospace Engines and
Components

Our Aerospace Engines and Components Segment
focuses on the design, development and manufacture of piston
engines, turbine engines, electronic engine controls and
aviation batteries.

Piston
Engines

Principally through Teledyne Continental Motors,
Inc., we design, develop and manufacture piston engines and
ignition systems for major general aviation airframe
manufacturers and provide spare parts and engine rebuilding
services. We are one of two primary worldwide original equipment
producers of piston engines for the general aviation marketplace.

Our product lines include engines powering the
Raytheon Beech Bonanza and Baron aircraft, the Mooney Aircraft
line of advanced single engine aircraft, and the popular New
Piper Seneca V twin-engine aircraft. In addition to these
long-standing products, our engines power four new high-speed
composite aircraft that recently entered production, the Cirrus
SR-20, Lancair Columbia, Diamond Katana C1 and the Extra 400.

In addition to the sales of new aircraft engines
to aircraft producers, we actively support the aircraft engine
aftermarket. Piston aircraft engines are produced with a finite
utilization life generally expressed as time between overhauls.
Our after-market support includes the building and rebuilding of
nearly 3,000 of these units annually with our Gold
Medallion® Rebuilt Engine. We provide a full complement of
spare parts such as cylinders, crankcases, fuel systems,
crankshafts, camshafts and ignition products. In addition,
through Teledyne Mattituck Services, Inc., located in Long
Island, New York, we serve as an aftermarket supplier and piston
engine overhauler to the general aviation marketplace. We
continue to believe that these service capabilities will
leverage our investments in manufacturing excellence and the
development of digital electronic controls for piston aircraft
engines.

Through Aerosance, Inc., we developed the first
production full authority digital electronic controls for piston
aircraft engines. These controls, known as
PowerLink

TM

FADEC (Full Authority Digital Electronic
Control), are designed to automate many functions that currently
require manual control, such as fuel flow and power management.
This system also saves fuel as a result of improved engine
management. We


continue the development of FADEC-equipped
engines targeted at the most popular models of four and six
cylinder piston aircraft engines in use throughout the world. We
believe that these control systems will become standard
equipment on new aircraft and will be retrofitted on higher-end,
piston engine general aviation aircraft. In addition, our
Gill

TM

line of lead acid batteries is widely
recognized as the premier power source for general aviation. We
are now working to have our batteries included in business jet
applications.

Turbine
Engines

We design, develop and manufacture small turbine
engines for missiles and unmanned aerial vehicles. We also
produce engines that power military trainer aircraft.

Our J402 engine powers the HARPOON missile
system. Derivatives of this engine power the Standoff Land
Attack Missile and the Standoff Land Attack Missile-Expanded
Response. Lockheed Martin Corporation selected a derivative of
the J402 engine to power the Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff
Missile (JASSM). We are the sole source provider of engines for
the JASSM system. The JASSM production requirement is currently
estimated at 3,700 units.

Another of our engines provides the turbine power
for the Improved Tactical Air Launched Decoy being built for the
U.S. Navy. This system enhances combat aircraft survivability by
both serving as a decoy and identifying enemy radar sources.
This low-cost turbine engine is the first of a family of
lower-thrust engines to enter production.

We are the sole source for major spare parts for
the engine for the T-37 aircraft, the primary jet trainer for
the U.S. Air Force. This engine has been in service for over
40 years and is expected to continue to power the T-37 well
into this decade.

Energy Systems

Our Energy Systems segment, through Teledyne
Energy Systems, Inc., provides hydrogen gas generators and
thermoelectric and fuel-cell-based power sources. Teledyne
Energy Systems, Inc., a majority owned subsidiary of TDY, was
formed in 2001 by combining Teledyne Brown Engineering’s
Energy Systems business unit with assets and intellectual
properties of Florida-based Energy Partners, Inc.

Our energy systems activities include a 50-year
history of supplying high reliability energy conversion devices
and gas generation products based on thermoelectric and
electrochemical processes. We provided power systems for several
successful deep-space missions such as the Viking 1 and Viking 2
Mars Landers and the Pioneer 10 and 11 missions to Jupiter and
Saturn. The Pioneer 10 power system is still operating some
28 years after its launch and is now more than
7 billion miles from earth. Earthbound applications have
included systems for high reliability unattended power
generation in remote installations such as gas pipeline control
stations and electrolytic high-purity hydrogen and oxygen gas
generation used in many industrial processes.

The transaction with Energy Partners, Inc. added
its capabilities in Proton Exchange Membrane (PEM) fuel
cell technology to our existing capabilities in electrochemical
conversion processes. Fuel cells produce electrical energy by
direct electrochemical conversion of hydrogen and oxygen,
without moving parts and with pure water as the only byproduct.
We believe that PEM technology is at the leading edge of the new
global thrust to advance the development of fuel cell generators
for a variety of uses ranging from space missions to distributed
power generation, uninterruptible power supplies, and portable
power applications using either hydrogen or natural gas as a
fuel.

We also manufacture hydrogen/oxygen gas
generators that utilize the principle of electrolysis to convert
water into high purity hydrogen gas at useable pressures. We
expect that this market will expand because of the interest in
fuel cells using hydrogen as a fuel. In 2001, we introduced two
new products in this series with higher outputs that meet
requirements in alternative fuel development.


In 2001, we introduced a new line of fuel cell
test stations designed to provide a completely integrated system
for fuel cell testing for the PEM fuel cell development market.
At present they are used for testing fuel cell components and
single cells, but we are expanding this product line to provide
systems capable of testing multi-cell stacks rated from watts to
kilowatts.

We continue to seek applications for high
reliability, long endurance power systems for extreme
environment applications. We were recently awarded a project to
develop an advanced PEM fuel cell for NASA’s Second
Generation Reusable Launch Vehicle that is expected to replace
the existing Space Shuttle fleet.

Customers

We have hundreds of customers in the electronics,
communications, aerospace and defense industries. No commercial
customer accounted for more than 10% of our total sales during
2001, 2000 or 1999.

Approximately 45%, 44% and 44% of our total sales
for 2001, 2000 and 1999 were derived from contracts with
agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government.
Our principal U.S. Government customer is the
U.S. Department of Defense. In 2001 and 2000, our largest
program with the U.S. Government, The Boeing
Company — National Missile Defense contract,
represented 7.4% and 6.6% of total sales, respectively. In 1999,
the Systems Engineering and Technical Assistance contract with
the Space and Missiles Defense Command was our largest
U.S. Government program, and represented 6.2% of total
sales. Set forth below are sales by our segments to agencies and
prime contractors to the U.S. Government for the periods
presented:

U.S. Government Sales

Our total backlog of confirmed orders was
approximately $300.8 million at December 30, 2001,
$339.2 million at December 31, 2000 and $348.0 million
at January 2, 1999.

Sales and Marketing

Our sales and marketing approach varies by
segment and products within our segments. A shared fundamental
tenet is the commitment to work closely with our customers to
understand their needs, with an aim to secure preferred supplier
and longer-term relationships.

Our business segments use a combination of
internal sales forces, distributors and commissioned sales
representatives to market and sell our products and services.
Products are also advertised in appropriate trade journals and
by means of various Internet web sites. To promote our products
and other capabilities, our personnel regularly participate in
relevant trade shows and professional associations. Many of our
government contracts are awarded after a competitive bidding
process in which we seek to emphasize our ability to provide
superior products and technical solutions in addition to
competitive pricing.

Principally through Teledyne Technologies
International Corp., the Company has established branch offices
in foreign countries to facilitate international sales for
various businesses.

Competition

We believe that technological capabilities and
innovation and the ability to invest in the development of new
and enhanced products are critical to obtaining and maintaining
leadership in our markets and the


industries in which we compete generally.
Although we have certain advantages that we believe help us
compete in our markets effectively, each of our markets is
highly competitive. Our businesses vigorously compete on the
basis of quality, product performance and reliability, technical
expertise, price and service. Many of our competitors have, and
potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a
larger installed base of products, more extensive engineering,
manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and
greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we
do.

Research and Development

Our research and development efforts primarily
involve engineering and design relating to improving product
lines and developing new products and technologies in the same
or related fields. We spent a total of $210.7 million,
$247.4 million and $215.9 million on research and
development and bid and proposal costs for 2001, 2000 and 1999,
respectively. Customer-funded research and development, most of
which was attributable to work under contracts with the U.S.
Government, represented approximately 85%, 87% and 87% of total
research and development costs for 2001, 2000 and 1999,
respectively.

In 2001, approximately 62% of the
$31.3 million in Company-funded research and development
and bid and proposal costs were incurred in our electronics and
communications businesses. We expect the level of Company-funded
research and development and bid and proposal costs to be
approximately $29.2 million in 2002.

Intellectual Property

While we own and control various intellectual
property rights, including patents, trade secrets, confidential
information, trademarks, trade names, and copyrights, which, in
the aggregate, are of material importance to our business, our
management believes that our business as a whole is not
materially dependent upon any one intellectual property or
related group of such properties. We own several hundred active
patents and are licensed to use certain patents, technology and
other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by
others. Similarly, other companies are licensed to use certain
patents, technology and other intellectual property rights owned
and controlled by us.

Patents, patent applications and license
agreements will expire or terminate over time by operation of
law, in accordance with their terms or otherwise. We do not
expect the expiration or termination of these patents, patent
applications and license agreements to have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations or financial
condition.

In connection with our spin-off in 1999, an
affiliate of ATI granted us an exclusive license to use the
“Teledyne” name and related logos, symbols and marks
in connection with our operations. The annual fee is $100,000
for this license and on November 24, 2004, we have an
option to purchase all rights and interests in the Teledyne
marks for $412,000.

Employees

During 2001, we reduced our workforce by
approximately 14%. Our total current workforce consists of
approximately 5,100 employees. The International Union of
United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers
of America represents approximately 65 of our employees in
Toledo, Ohio under a collective bargaining agreement that has
been recently extended to November 23, 2003. In addition,
this union also represents approximately 310 employees in
Mobile, Alabama under a collective bargaining agreement that
expires on December 16, 2003 and approximately 50 employees
in Abbeville, Alabama under a collective bargaining agreement
that expires on October 15, 2004. We consider our relations
with our employees to be good.


Executive Management

TDY’s executive management includes:



*

Such officers are subject to the reporting and
	other requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act
	of 1934, as amended.

Dr. Mehrabian has an Amended and Restated
Employment Agreement with Teledyne Technologies, which provides
that we will employ him as the Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer. The agreement terminates on December 31
of each year, but will be extended annually unless either party
gives the other written notice prior to October 31 of the
year of such term that it will not be extended.
Dr. Mehrabian has a base salary of $565,000 for 2002. The
agreement provides that Dr. Mehrabian is entitled to
participate in TDY’s annual incentive bonus plan and other
executive compensation and benefit programs. The agreement
provides Dr. Mehrabian with a non-qualified pension
arrangement, under which Teledyne Technologies will pay him
following his retirement, as payments supplemental to any
accrued pension under our qualified pension plan, an amount
equal to 50 percent of his base compensation as in effect
at retirement. The number of years for which such annual amount
shall be paid will be equal to the number of years of his
service to TDY (including service to ATI), but not more than
10 years.

Thirteen current members of management have
entered into Change in Control Severance Agreements with
Teledyne Technologies. The agreements have a three-year,
automatically renewing term. Under the agreements, the executive
is entitled to severance benefits if (1) there is a change
in control of TDY and (2) within three months before or
24 months after the change in control, either we terminate
the executive’s employment for reasons other than for cause
or the executive terminates employment for good reason.
“Severance benefits” consist of:


Risk Factors; Cautionary Statement as to
Forward-Looking Statements

The following text highlights various risks and
uncertainties associated with Teledyne Technologies. These
factors could materially affect “forward-looking
statements” (within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that we may from time to time
make, including forward-looking statements contained in
“Item 1. Business” and “Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K and in
TDY’s 2001 Summary Annual Report to Stockholders.

The September 11th terrorist attacks and
subsequent events have caused uncertainty with respect to many
of our businesses and may adversely affect the Company’s
business and results of operations.

The September 11th terrorist attacks and
subsequent events have caused uncertainty with respect to U.S.
and other business and financial markets. Although many of our
businesses that provide products or services to the U.S.
Government may experience greater demand for their products and
services as a result of increased U.S. Government defense
spending, several factors associated, directly or indirectly,
with terrorist attacks and possible future terrorist attacks and
responses may adversely affect the Company. These factors
include the following:

We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to
increase our participation in certain new markets.

We intend to both adapt our existing technology
and develop new products to expand into new market segments. For
example, we are developing new fuel cell related technologies.
The market for fuel cell technologies is not well established
and there are a number of companies that have announced
intentions to develop and market fuel cell products. Some of
these companies have greater financial and/or technological
resources than we do.

We are also developing new electronic products,
including high-density microprocessor connectors and microwave
modules for radios used in cellular communications
infrastructure, which are intended to access markets in which
Teledyne does not currently participate. We may be unsuccessful
in accessing these markets if our products do not meet our
customers’ requirements, due to either changes in
technology and industry standards or because of actions taken by
our competitors.

In 2000, we announced our intention to capitalize
on our existing technology and experience to penetrate
communications markets, particularly fiber optic communications
components and wireless and satellite communications equipment.
The downturn in the semiconductor, telecommunications and
electronic manufacturing services markets, coupled with
deteriorating general economic conditions, negatively impacted
our optoelectronics growth initiative and our short-cycle
electronics businesses, such as electronic relays used in
semiconductor test equipment and communications applications.


Our dependence on revenue from government
contracts subjects us to many risks, including the risk that we
may not be successful in bidding for future contracts and the
risk that Government funding for these contracts may be diverted
to other uses or delayed.

We perform work on a number of contracts with the
Department of Defense and other agencies and departments of the
U.S. Government. Sales under contracts with the
U.S. Government as a whole, including sales under contracts
with the Department of Defense, as prime contract or
subcontractor, represented approximately 45% of our total
revenue for 2001. Performance under government contracts has
certain inherent risks that could have a material effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

Government contracts are conditioned upon the
continuing availability of Congressional appropriations.
Congress typically appropriates funds for a given program on a
fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more
than one year. As a result, at the beginning of a major program,
a contract is typically only partially funded, and additional
monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring
agency only as appropriations are made by Congress for future
fiscal years.

While the overall U.S. military budget declined
in real dollars from the mid-1980’s through the early
1990’s, as a result of the September 11th terrorist
attacks, U.S. defense spending is expected to increase over the
next several years. Increased defense spending does not
necessarily correlate to increased business for the Company,
because not all the programs in which TDY participates or has
current capabilities may be earmarked for increased funding. In
addition, we obtain many U.S. Government prime contracts
and subcontracts through the process of competitive bidding. We
may not be successful in having our bids accepted.

Most of our U.S. Government contracts are
subject to termination by the U.S. Government either at its
convenience or upon the default of the contractor.
Termination-for-convenience provisions provide only for the
recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses,
and profit on work completed prior to termination.
Termination-for-default imposes liability on the contractor for
excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in reprocuring
undelivered items from another source.

There is no guarantee that U.S. Government
contracts will be profitable. A number of our
U.S. Government prime contracts and subcontracts are fixed
price-type contracts (41% in 2001). Under these types of
contracts, we bear the inherent risk that actual performance
cost may exceed the fixed contract price. This is particularly
true where the contract was awarded and the price finalized in
advance of final completion of design. We believe that the
U.S. Government is increasingly requesting proposals for
fixed-price-type contracts.

Certain fees under some of our
U.S. Government contracts are linked to meeting development
or testing deadlines and depend on the collective efforts and
success of other defense contractors over which we have no
control. For example, under one of our missile defense contracts
in which we provide engineering and testing support, we will be
entitled to an approximate $1.0 million award fee if, during an
upcoming 2002 test, a missile strikes its planned target. If the
test is delayed or the target is missed, we may not receive any
of this fee, notwithstanding whether we fully performed our
contractual requirements under the program.

We, like other government contractors, are
subject to various audits, reviews and investigations (including
private party “whistleblower” lawsuits) relating to
our compliance with federal and state laws. In addition, we have
a compliance program designed to surface issues that may lead to
voluntary disclosures to the U.S. Government. Generally,
claims arising out of these U.S. Government inquiries and
voluntary disclosures can be resolved without resorting to
litigation. However, should the business unit or division
involved be charged with wrongdoing, or should the
U.S. Government determine that the unit or division is not
a “presently responsible contractor,” that unit or
division, and conceivably our company as a whole, could be
temporarily suspended or, in the event of a conviction, could be
debarred for up to three years from receiving new government
contracts or government-approved subcontracts. In addition, we


could expend substantial amounts in defending
against such charges and in damages, fines and penalties if such
charges are proven or result in negotiated settlements.

We may be unable to successfully introduce new
and enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective
manner.

Our operating results depend in part on our
ability to introduce new and enhanced products on a timely
basis. Successful product development and introduction depend on
numerous factors, including our ability to anticipate customer
and market requirements, changes in technology and industry
standards, our ability to differentiate our offerings from
offerings of our competitors, and market acceptance.

We may not be able to develop and introduce new
or enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner or to
develop and introduce products that satisfy customer
requirements. Our new products also may not achieve market
acceptance or correctly anticipate new industry standards and
technological changes.

Technological change could cause certain of
our products or services to become obsolete or
non-competitive.

The markets for a number of our products and
services are generally characterized by rapid technological
development, evolving industry standards, changes in customer
requirements and new product introductions and enhancements. A
faster than anticipated change in one or more of the
technologies related to our products or services or in market
demand for products or services based on a particular technology
could result in faster than anticipated obsolescence of certain
of our products or services and could have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operation and financial
condition. Currently accepted industry standards are also
subject to change, which may contribute to the obsolescence of
our products or services.

We may not have sufficient resources to fund
all future research and development and capital expenditures or
possible acquisitions.

In order to remain competitive, we must make
substantial investments in research and development to develop
new and enhanced products and continuously upgrade our process
technology and manufacturing capabilities.

Although we believe that anticipated cash flows
from operations and available borrowings under our
$200 million credit facility will be sufficient to satisfy
our anticipated working capital, research and development and
capital investment needs, we may be unable to fund all of these
needs or possible acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional
capital will depend on a variety of factors, some of which will
not be within our control, including resurgence of the public
offering market, investor perceptions of us, our businesses and
the industries in which we operate, and general economic
conditions. We may be unable to successfully raise additional
capital, if needed. Failure to successfully raise needed capital
on a timely or cost-effective basis could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.

Product liability claims or recalls could have
a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results
of operations and financial condition.

As a manufacturer and distributor of various
products, our results of operations are susceptible to adverse
publicity regarding the quality or safety of our products. In
part, product liability claims challenging the safety of our
products may result in a decline in sales for a particular
product, which could adversely affect our results of operations.
This could be true even if the claims themselves are proven to
not be truthful or settled for immaterial amounts.

While we have general liability and other
insurance policies concerning product liabilities, we have
self-insured retentions or deductibles under such policies with
respect to a portion of these liabilities. For


example, our annual self-insured retention for
general aviation aircraft liabilities incurred in connection
with products manufactured by Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc.
is $10 million. We are monitoring the impact of the
September 11th tragedy on insurance markets, which could result
in material cost increases for our insurance policies or greater
self-insured retentions. Our existing aircraft product liability
policy expires in May 2003.

Product recalls and field service actions could
also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition. For example, Teledyne
Continental Motors has been engaged in a product recall of
piston engine crankshafts whereby the Company took a
$12 million pretax charge in the fiscal 2000 second
quarter. In the second quarter of 1999, Teledyne Continental
Motors had an unrelated recall of piston engines for which the
Company took a $3 million pretax charge. Product recalls
have the potential for tarnishing a company’s reputation
and could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our
products. In regard to the 2000 crankshaft product recall, while
the Company has been pursuing cost recovery through litigation
against certain materials suppliers, there is no assurance that
it will recover, fully or in part, the costs incurred or its
reputation.

The gas generators manufactured by Teledyne
Energy Systems, Inc. currently contain an asbestos component.
While the company is currently examining replacement materials,
has placed warning labels on its products and takes care in its
handling with employees, there is no assurance that the Company
will not face asbestos-related liability claims.

We cannot assure that we will not have additional
product liability claims or that we will not recall any
additional products.

We may have difficulty obtaining product
liability insurance coverage, or be subject to increased costs
for such coverage in future years.

The tragic events of September 11th have had
a significant impact on the insurance industry. As a
manufacturer of a variety of products including aircraft engines
used in general aviation aircraft, we have general liability and
other insurance policies that provide coverage beyond
self-insured retentions or deductibles.

We cannot assure that, in future years, insurance
carriers will be willing to renew coverage or provide new
coverage for product liability, especially as it relates to
general aviation. If such insurance is available, we may be
required to pay substantially higher prices for coverage and/or
increase our levels of self-insured retentions or reserves.

Aside from the uncertainties created by the
events of September 11th and subsequent activities, our
ability to obtain product liability insurance and the cost for
such insurance are affected by our prior experience with claims.
We cannot assure that, in future years, our ability to obtain
insurance, or the cost for such insurance, or the amount of
self-insured retentions or reserves will not be negatively
impacted by our experience in prior years.

Increasing competition could reduce the demand
for our products and services.

Although we believe that we have certain
advantages that help us compete in our markets, each of our
markets is highly competitive. Many of our competitors have, and
potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a
larger installed base of products, more extensive engineering,
manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and
greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we
do. New or existing competitors may also develop new
technologies that could adversely affect the demand for our
products and services. Industry consolidation trends,
particularly among aerospace and defense contractors, could
adversely affect demand for our products and services if prime
contractors seek to control more aspects of vertically
integrated projects.


We sell products and services to customers in
industries that are cyclical and sensitive to changes in general
economic activity.

We derive significant revenues from the
commercial aerospace industry. Domestic and international
commercial aerospace markets are cyclical in nature. Historic
demand for new commercial aircraft has been related to the
stability and health of domestic and international economies.
Delays or changes in aircraft and component orders could impact
the future demand for our products and have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition. The tragic events of September 11th resulted in
an accelerated downturn in the market for commercial aircraft
and have increased the level of uncertainty regarding future
orders for aircraft.

In addition, we sell products and services to
customers in industries that are sensitive to the level of
general economic activity and in mature industries that are
sensitive to capacity. Adverse economic conditions affecting
these industries may reduce demand for our products and
services, which may reduce our profits, or our production
levels, or both.

We sell products to customers in industries
that may undergo rapid and unpredictable changes.

We develop and manufacture products for customers
in industries that have undergone rapid changes in the past. For
example, we manufacture products and provide manufacturing
services to companies that serve telecommunications markets.
During 2001, many segments of the telecommunications market
experienced a dramatic and rapid downturn that resulted in
cancellations or deferrals of orders for our products and
services. This market segment, or others that we serve, may
exhibit rapid changes in the future and may adversely affect our
operating results, or our production levels, or both.

We are subject to the risks associated with
international sales.

During 2001, international sales accounted for
approximately 17% of our total revenues. We anticipate that
future international sales will continue to account for a
significant percentage of our revenues. Risks associated with
these sales include:

Any of these factors could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition. Exchange rate fluctuations may negatively
affect the cost of our products to international customers and
therefore reduce our competitive position. In prior years, weak
conditions in Asian economies have affected our results of
operations adversely. The September 11th terrorist attacks
have resulted in increased export scrutiny of sales of some of
our products to international customers.

Compliance with increasing environmental
regulations and the effects of potential environmental
liabilities could have a material adverse financial effect on
us.

We, like other industry participants, are subject
to various federal, state, local and international environmental
laws and regulations. We may be subject to increasingly
stringent environmental standards in the future. Future
developments, administrative actions or liabilities relating to
environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on
our business, results of operations or financial condition.


Some of our businesses work with highly dangerous
substances that require heightened standards of care. For
example, as a systems contractor for the U.S. Army’s
Product Manager for Non-Stockpile Chemical Materiel, we conduct
research, development, manufacturing, test and evaluation and
site operations related to the safe and environmentally
protective disposal of small caches of chemical munitions and
materiel located in over 30 states and territories. The
destruction of chemical weapons is an inherently dangerous
activity. Except for a contained fire during a demonstration
testing of a process designed to access rockets in a former
program, we have not experienced any accidents or other adverse
consequences as a result of our participation in weapon
destruction programs. We cannot, however, assure that we will
not experience any problems in the future. Although the federal
government provides certain indemnities to contractors in these
programs, these indemnities may be insufficient to offset
liabilities that we may incur in connection with our
participation in these programs.

For additional discussion of environmental
matters, see the discussion under the caption “Other
Matters — Environmental” of “Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
Operations and Financial Condition” and Notes 2 and 15
to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Having limited operating history as an
independent company makes it difficult to predict our
profitability as a stand-alone company.

We have a limited operating history as an
independent company. Prior to the spin-off, our businesses
relied on ATI for various financial, managerial and
administrative services and benefited from the earnings,
financial resources, assets and cash flows of ATI’s other
businesses.

In 2000, we dedicated managerial and other
resources at the corporate level to establish the infrastructure
and systems necessary for us to operate as an independent public
company. In 2001, as we reduced our workforce by approximately
14% as part of multiple cost reduction actions, we took out some
layers of management at our Electronics and Communications
segment. While we believe that we have sufficient management
resources, we cannot assure you that this will be the case or
that we will successfully implement our operating and growth
initiatives. Failure to implement these initiatives successfully
could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.

Our inability to attract and retain key
personnel could have a material adverse effect on our future
success.

Our future success depends to a significant
extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and
other key management and technical personnel and on our ability
to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.
Recruiting and retaining skilled technical personnel is highly
competitive. The loss of the services of one or more of our key
employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate
qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

Acquisitions involve inherent risks that may
adversely affect our operating results and financial
condition.

Our growth strategy includes possible
acquisitions. Acquisitions involve various inherent risks, such
as:


In the fourth quarter of 2001, we acquired
Advanced Pollution Instrumentation, Inc. While this
company’s products and customer base are complementary to
TDY’s existing monitoring and control instruments, there is
no assurance that we will achieve all identified financial,
operating and distribution synergies.

We may not be able to sell, or exit on
acceptable terms, product lines that we determine no longer meet
with our growth strategy.

Consistent with our growth strategy to focus on
markets to expand our profitable niche businesses, we
continually evaluate our product lines to ensure that they are
aligned with our strategy. Our ability to dispose of product
lines that may no longer be aligned with our strategy will
depend on many factors, including the terms and conditions of
any asset purchase and sale agreement, as well as industry,
business and economic conditions. We cannot provide any
assurance as to when, if or on what terms any non-strategic
product lines will be sold. Also, we cannot provide any
assurance as to the availability, timing, terms or conditions of
alternative courses of action, including closure, if any sale of
any non-strategic product line cannot be consummated.

Failure of representations and assumptions
underlying the IRS tax ruling could cause the spin-off not to be
tax-free to ATI or to ATI’s stockholders and may require us
to indemnify ATI.

While the tax ruling relating to the
qualification of the spin-off as a tax-free distribution within
the meaning of Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code
generally is binding on the IRS, the continuing validity of the
tax ruling is subject to certain factual representations and
assumptions. While we successfully and timely completed our
required public offering in the third quarter of 2000 and
finished using the net proceeds of the public offering during
the fourth quarter of 2001 in accordance with the ruling, as
revised, we must continue to satisfy other requirements. Until
the second anniversary of our public offering, we cannot make
stock repurchases or redemptions without ATI’s consent and
we are required to use proceeds of asset dispositions to expand
our businesses purposes as set forth in the IRS ruling. See
“Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity
and Related Stockholder Matters — Use of Proceeds from
Completed Public Offering”.

If the spin-off were not to qualify as a tax-free
distribution within the meaning of Section 355 of the Code,
ATI would recognize taxable gain generally equal to the amount
by which the fair market value of the TDY Common Stock
distributed to ATI’s stockholders exceeded the tax basis in
our assets. In addition, the distribution of our Common Stock to
each ATI stockholder would generally be treated as taxable in an
amount equal to the fair market value of the TDY Common Stock
such stockholder receives.

If the spin-off qualified as a distribution under
Section 355 of the Code but failed to be tax-free to ATI
because of certain post-spin-off circumstances (such as an
acquisition of Teledyne Technologies), ATI would recognize
taxable gain as described above, but the distribution of our
Common Stock in the spin-off would generally be tax-free to each
ATI stockholder.

The Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement
between ATI and TDY provides that we will be responsible for any
taxes imposed on, or other amounts paid by, ATI, its agents and
representatives and its stockholders as a result of the failure
of the spin-off to qualify as a tax-free distribution within the
meaning of Section 355 of the Code if the failure or
disqualification is caused by certain post-spin-off actions by
or with respect to us (including our subsidiaries) or our
stockholders. If any of the taxes or other amounts described
above were to become payable by us, the payment could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
operations and cash flow and could exceed our net worth by a
substantial amount.


Provisions of our governing documents,
applicable law, and our Change in Control Severance Agreements
could make an acquisition of Teledyne Technologies more
difficult.

Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation,
Amended and Restated Bylaws and Rights Agreement, and the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware contain several
provisions that could make the acquisition of control of
Teledyne Technologies in a transaction not approved by our board
of directors more difficult. We have also entered into Change in
Control Severance Agreements with 13 members of our
management, which could have an anti-takeover effect. The
Company’s indemnification obligation to ATI and its
stockholders that could be triggered by a takeover or tender
offer of TDY during the two-year period following the spin-off
has terminated and is no longer a takeover deterrent.

The market price of our Common Stock has
fluctuated significantly since our spin-off from ATI, and could
continue to do so.

Since the spin-off on November 29, 1999, the
market price of our Common Stock has ranged from a low of
$7.8125 to a high of $30.5625 per share. At February 28,
2002, our closing stock price was $16.35. Fluctuations in our
stock price could continue. Among the factors that could affect
our stock price are:

The stock markets in general, and the markets for
high technology companies in particular, have experienced a high
degree of volatility not necessarily related to the operating
performance of particular companies. We cannot provide
assurances as to our stock price.


Item 2. Properties.

Our principal facilities as of December 30,
2001 are listed below. Although the facilities vary in terms of
age and condition, our management believes that these facilities
have generally been well maintained and are adequate for current
operations.

We also own or lease facilities elsewhere in the
United States and outside the United States, including Tijuana,
Mexico, Gloucester, England and Cumbernauld, Scotland. Our
executive offices are currently located at 12333 West
Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90064-1021.


Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

From time to time, we become involved in various
lawsuits, claims and proceedings related to the conduct of our
business. While we cannot predict the outcome of any lawsuits,
claims or proceedings, our management does not believe that the
disposition of any pending matters is likely to have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition or liquidity. The
resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these
matters, however, could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations for that period.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote
of Security Holders.

No matters were submitted to a vote of TDY’s
stockholders during the fourth quarter of 2001.


PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and
	Related Stockholder Matters.

Price Range of Common Stock and Dividend
Policy

Our Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange and traded under the symbol “TDY.” The
following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high
and low sale prices for the Common Stock as reported by the New
York Stock Exchange.

On February 28, 2002, the closing sale price
of our Common Stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange
was $16.35 per share. As of February 28, 2002, there were
approximately 8,160 holders of record of the Common Stock.

We currently intend to retain any future earnings
to fund the development and growth of our business. Therefore,
we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the
foreseeable future. Provisions of our credit agreement limit our
ability to pay dividends to amounts exceeding 25% of cumulative
net income subsequent to the effective date of the credit
agreement. As of December 30, 2001, approximately
$11.1 million was available for the payment of dividends
under these provisions.

Use of Proceeds from Completed Public
Offering

In the third quarter of 2000, Teledyne
Technologies received net proceeds of approximately
$84.0 million from an underwritten public offering of
4,605,000 shares of its Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share.
On August 22, 2000, the Company sold 4,100,000 shares of
Common Stock and on September 15, 2000, 505,000 additional
shares were sold pursuant to the exercise by the underwriters of
their over-allotment option. Gross proceeds totaled $89,797,500
(at $19.50 per share). The underwriting discount totaled
$5,157,600. Offering expenses were $646,600 at December 31,
2000. No payments were made to directors or officers of the
Company; however, payments were made to Kirkpatrick &
Lockhart LLP, the Company’s counsel in connection with the
offering and of which Charles J. Queenan, Jr., a member of the
Company’s Board of Directors, is Senior Counsel.

The Company used the net proceeds from the
offering to repay borrowings under its revolving credit facility
pending their use in accordance with the modified IRS tax ruling
received by ATI in connection with the spin-off. Consistent with
the IRS tax ruling, we have spent: $108.9 million for
product development and enhancements and process improvements,
$59.6 million for capital and facility improvements, and
$25.9 for acquisitions and/or joint ventures. These spending
levels have exceeded our average annual historical expenditures
of $47.7 million for these types of uses. The increased
spending (including the impact of working capital changes and
the disposition of Cast Parts) of $143.2 million was
funded, in part, from the net proceeds of the offering.
Considering this, none of the net proceeds remains to be used.


Item 6. Selected Financial
Data.

The following table presents our summary
consolidated financial data. Effective November 29, 1999,
Teledyne Technologies was spun off from ATI. Our fiscal year is
determined based on a 53/52-week convention and ends on or about
December 31. The historical financial information is not
necessarily indicative of the results of operations or financial
position that would have occurred if we had been a separate,
independent company during the periods presented prior to 2000,
nor is it indicative of future performance. This historical
financial information does not include pro forma adjustments
that reflect estimates of the expenses that we would have
incurred had we been operated as an independent company and as
capitalized at the time of its spin-off from ATI for each period
presented. The historical financial information should be read
in conjunction with the discussion under
“Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial
Data

(a)

Prior to the spin-off, the average outstanding
	shares used to compute earnings per share were based on a
	distribution ratio of one share of TDY Common Stock for every
	seven shares of ATI Common Stock. The treasury stock method is
	used to calculate diluted earnings per share.


Item 7. Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.

Teledyne Technologies is a leading provider of
sophisticated electronic components, instruments and
communications products, including data acquisition and
communications equipment for airlines and business aircraft,
monitoring and control instruments for industrial and
environmental applications and components and subsystems for
wireless and satellite communications. We also provide systems
engineering solutions and information technology services for
space, defense and industrial applications, and manufacture
general aviation and missile engines and components, as well as
on-site gas and power generation systems.

We serve niche market segments where performance,
precision and reliability are critical. Our customers include
major industrial and communications companies, government
agencies, aerospace prime contractors and general aviation
companies. We have developed strong core competencies in
engineering, software development and manufacturing that we can
leverage both to sustain and grow our current niche businesses,
and to become an innovator in related higher-growth markets.

We seek to grow in niche market segments where we
have a strong competitive position, both by development of new
products and services and by acquiring businesses that are
highly complementary to our current product lines. We
continually evaluate our product lines to ensure that they are
aligned with our strategy. These actions help us to redirect
capital and management focus to opportunities that best utilize
our engineering resources and technical expertise. Consistent
with this strategy, we sold the assets of Teledyne Cast Parts,
our sand and investment casting business in December 2000.
Accordingly, our consolidated financial statements have been
restated to reflect Teledyne Cast Parts as a discontinued
operation.

In addition, in 2001, we realigned and changed
the reporting structure of some of our business units. Our Test
Services and Geophysical Instruments business units that were
previously part of our Systems Engineering Solutions segment are
now part of an expanded instruments group under our Electronics
and Communications segment. This realignment also resulted in a
new segment, the Energy Systems segment, the results of which
had previously been reported under our Systems Engineering
Solutions segment. The Energy Systems segment, which provides
on-site gas and power generation systems based on proprietary
fuel cell, electrolysis and thermoelectric technologies,
currently includes the majority-owned entity that was formed in
the third quarter of 2001. Accordingly, we have restated our
previously reported segment data to reflect this realignment and
structure. Total sales and operating profit were not affected by
these segment reporting changes.


Our fiscal year is determined based on a
53/52-week convention and ends on or about December 31. The
following is our financial information for 2001 and 2000 and pro
forma financial information for 1999 (in millions, except
per-share amounts):

The pro forma financial information for 1999 has
been presented for informational purposes only and may not
reflect the results of operations that would have occurred had
we operated as a separate, independent company for that period.
The pro forma financial information should not be relied upon as
being indicative of future results. Pro forma adjustments
reflect the estimated expense impacts (primarily interest
expense and corporate expenses) that would have been incurred
had we been operated as a separate company as of the beginning
of 1999 and as capitalized at the time of the spin-off. As part
of the spin-off, we assumed $100 million in long-term debt
incurred by ATI. Pro forma income includes pro forma interest
expense on this long-term debt as if it had been outstanding for
1999. Pro forma income adjusts corporate expenses to an annual
level of $15 million from the amount previously allocated,
which was lower.

We operate in four business segments: Electronics
and Communications; Systems Engineering Solutions; Aerospace
Engines and Components; and Energy Systems. The segments’
respective contributions to total sales from continuing
operations for 2001, 2000 and 1999 are summarized in the
following table:


Results of Operations

We reported 2001 sales from continuing operations
of $744.3 million, compared with net sales from continuing
operations of $795.1 million for 2000 and
$761.4 million for 1999. Net income from continuing
operations was $6.8 million ($0.21 per diluted share) for 2001,
compared with $31.9 million ($1.08 per diluted share) for
2000 and pro forma net income from continuing operations of
$39.1 million ($1.44 per diluted share) for 1999. Net
income including discontinued operations was $6.6 million
($0.20 per diluted share) for 2001, compared with
$32.3 million ($1.09 per diluted share) for 2000 and pro
forma net income including discontinued operations of
$40.9 million ($1.50 per diluted share) for 1999.

During the second quarter of 2001, the Company
recorded a pretax charges of $26.4 million for asset
impairment ($7.4 million), restructuring and other charges
($8.7 million), inventory write-down ($10.0 million)
and a charge for discontinued operations ($0.3 million).
Our 2001 pretax charges included plans to exit, within
12 months, the following non-core product lines from its
Electronics and Communications segment: industrial solid state
relays; and certain microwave switches and filters. The
Company’s process control software and sodium iodide
crystals product lines within its Systems Engineering Solutions
segment were sold in the second quarter of 2001. Teledyne
Technologies also plans to exit certain environmental programs
within this same segment. Annual sales for these non-core
product lines were approximately $10.0 million in 2000. At
December 30, 2001, our projected charges remain in line
with management’s expectations at $26.4 million. While
the total amount remained the same, there were some changes in
estimates, which are described in the table below.

The decrease in sales in 2001, compared with
2000, reflected significantly lower sales in the Aerospace
Engines and Components segment, as well as slightly lower sales
in the Electronics and Communications segment and the Systems
Engineering Solutions segment, offset in part by higher sales in
the Energy Systems segment. The increase in sales in 2000,
compared with 1999, reflected higher sales in each operating
segment except for the Energy Systems segment.

Cost of sales as a percentage of sales for 2001
was higher, compared with 2000, due to the effect of lower
volume on fixed costs, product mix differences, the impact of
the $9.8 million inventory write-down and higher investment
in growth initiatives of $2.8 million for 2001. Cost of
sales as a percentage of sales for 2000 reflected increased
depreciation and the $2.2 million of pretax charges in 2000, as
well as optoelectronics development costs, partially offset by
higher pension income, compared with 1999.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for
2001 were lower, compared with 2000 both in total dollars and as
a percentage of sales. Selling, general and administrative
expenses for 2001 included greater investment in growth
initiatives of $2.7 million, compared with 2000. Selling,
general and administrative expenses for 2000 include the
$12.0 million piston engine product recall reserve as well
as a gain of $1.4 million in our chemical weapons
demilitarization business related to additional program funding.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased in 2000,
compared with 1999, reflecting higher corporate administrative
expenses, compared with the historical allocation from ATI, and
higher research and development costs for the Electronics and
Communications segment as well as the impact of the product
recall charge in 2000 described above.


Restructuring, Asset Impairment and Other
Charge Information

(In millions)

The 2001 pretax charges of $26.4 million are
comprised of the following items. Teledyne Technologies recorded
pretax restructuring charges of $8.8 million, of which
$5.7 million is for employee termination benefits. We
reduced our total workforce by approximately 790 employees
or 14% during 2001 and expect an additional reduction of
approximately 25 employees under the restructuring plan.
Our plan for consolidation and downsizing of manufacturing
operations included actions in the Electronics and
Communications segment’s domestic locations as well as in a
United Kingdom facility. The remaining $3.1 million of the
restructuring charges were for consolidation expenses of
$1.6 million; non-cancelable lease expenses of
$0.6 million; and $0.9 million of incurred transaction
costs associated with the formation of Teledyne Energy Systems,
Inc. We recorded pretax asset impairment charges of
$7.5 million for equipment, net of expected sale proceeds,
and goodwill related to product lines to be discontinued and the
loss on the sale of non-core product lines. We also recorded a
pretax charge of $9.8 million in cost of sales for the
write off of inventory from discontinued product lines
($4.4 million) and the write-down of excess inventory
($5.4 million) resulting from reduced customer demand.
Total charges by segment were as follows: $15.6 million in the
Electronics and Communications segment; $5.5 million in the
Energy Systems segment; $4.5 million in the Systems
Engineering Solutions segment; and $0.3 million in the
Aerospace Engines and Components segment. The Company also
recorded a $0.2 million restructuring charge for its
corporate office and a pretax charge of $0.3 million was
recorded for discontinued operations. The majority of the
remaining liability of $2.8 million at December 30,
2001 is expected to be paid in 2002.

The 2000 and 1999 results include pretax charges
of $12.0 million and $3.0 million, respectively, for
product recall reserves in the Aerospace Engines and Components
segment. The 2000 results also include $1.4 million of
pretax charges for cost adjustments in selected product lines in
the Systems Engineering Solutions segment and $0.8 million
of pretax charges for receivables adjustments in the Energy
Systems segment.

Prior to the charges in all three years, income
from continuing operations was $22.5 million ($0.69 per
diluted share) for 2001, compared with $40.5 million ($1.37
per diluted share) for 2000 and pro forma income from continuing
operations of $40.9 million ($1.50 per diluted share) for
1999.

International sales represented approximately 17%
of total sales for 2001 and 2000 and 18% of total sales for
1999. Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government, which
included contracts with the Department of Defense, were
approximately 45% of total sales for 2001 and 44% of total sales
for 2000 and 1999.

In 2001, aggregate segment operating profit was
$24.2 million, compared with $72.4 million in 2000 and
$87.6 million in 1999 and reflects the pretax charges noted
above. Included in operating profit was pension income of
$9.5 million in 2001, $9.0 million in 2000 and
$6.6 million in 1999. Pension income for 2002 is expected
to be approximately $1.0 million. The reduction in net
pension income reflects the completion of income amortization
associated with the transition assets recorded pursuant to
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 87 —


“Employers’ Accounting for
Pensions”, as well as the decline in the market value of
the Company’s pension assets during 2000 and 2001.

Net income, before pro forma adjustments, was
$49.0 million ($1.79 per diluted share) in 1999. The
historical financial statements for 1999 reflect allocations
representing corporate expense from ATI of $7.3 million for
1999. These allocations were based on sales. The historical
financial statements for 1999 also include one month of actual
corporate expenses incurred by the Company after the spin-off
and one month of interest costs on long-term debt. Total
interest expense on debt was $2.1 million in 2001,
$5.4 million in 2000 and less than $1.0 million in
1999. The decrease in interest expense in 2001, compared with
2000, primarily reflected lower average outstanding debt levels
in 2001. The increase in interest expense in 2000, compared with
1999, primarily reflected higher average outstanding debt levels
in 2000.

Segments

As noted above, following a realignment of the
Company’s business units, Teledyne Technologies has
restated its previously reported segment data. The following
discussion of our four segments should be read in conjunction
with Note 14 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Electronics and Communications

Our Electronics and Communications segment
provides a wide range of specialized electronic systems,
instruments, components and services that address niche market
applications in commercial aerospace, communications, defense,
industrial and medical markets.

Compared with 2000

Our Electronics and Communications segment sales
were $369.7 million in 2001, compared with sales of
$373.4 million in 2000. Operating profit was $9.9 million
in 2001, compared with $39.3 million in 2000. Excluding the
2001 pretax charges of $15.6 million described below,
operating profit was $25.5 million.

Sales in 2001, compared with 2000, grew in
military and commercial microwave products, microelectronic
products (including optoelectronics), business and commuter
aircraft communications equipment and geophysical sensors for
the petroleum exploration market. Orders for military microwave
and microelectronic products remained strong. This growth was
more than offset by continued weakness in demand for relays used
in semiconductor test equipment and communications applications,
electronic manufacturing services and other commercial
electronic products. Operating profit reflects the impact of
sales differences. Operating profit for 2001 reflects
$14.8 million of costs associated with optoelectronics and
wireless growth initiatives, compared with $9.3 million in
2000. Additionally, 2001 included pretax charges of $15.6
million related to the following actions: $6.7 million of
restructuring costs; $3.7 million of asset impairment
charges; and $5.2 million to write off inventory for
products to be discontinued and excess inventory.

Compared with 1999

Our Electronics and Communications segment sales
were $373.4 million in 2000, compared with
$361.7 million in 1999. Operating profit was
$39.3 million in 2000, compared with $45.8 million in
1999.


Sales in 2000, compared with 1999, grew in
electronic manufacturing services, relay products, business and
commuter aircraft communications equipment and wireless
products. Sales from electronic manufacturing services and
wireless products grew as a result of new orders from military
and commercial customers. Relay products reported improved sales
based on demand from the communications and semiconductor test
equipment markets. Sales of medical and military
microelectronics were down from the same period last year. Sales
for 2000 were negatively impacted by the significant decline in
orders for our geophysical sensors for the petroleum exploration
market, which has been very weak since the second quarter of
1999. Segment operating profit decreased due to increased
spending in optoelectronics and broadband wireless initiatives
and reduced margins on electronic manufacturing services.
Approximately $9.3 million was spent on optoelectronics and
broadband wireless initiatives beginning in the second quarter
of 2000. Sales and operating profit in 1999 reflected
non-recurring licensing revenue of $3.3 million.

Systems Engineering Solutions

Our Systems Engineering Solutions segment,
principally through Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc., offers a
wide range of engineering solutions and information services to
government defense and aerospace customers.

Compared with 2000

Sales for our Systems Engineering Solutions
segment in 2001 were $200.8 million, compared with
$212.3 million in 2000. For 2001, operating profit was
$12.1 million, compared with $18.2 million for 2000.
Excluding the 2001 pretax charges of $4.5 million described
below, operating profit was $16.6 million.

The 2001 results, compared with 2000, reflected
growth in core defense and aerospace programs. This growth was
more than offset by reduced work for environmental programs and
sales reductions resulting from the disposition of the process
control software and certain environmental product lines.
Additionally, results for 2001 included pretax charges of
$4.5 million related to the following actions: asset
impairment charges of $3.7 million, $0.3 million to
write off inventory for discontinued products and excess
inventory and $0.5 million of restructuring costs.

Compared with 1999

Sales for our Systems Engineering Solutions
segment in 2000 were $212.3 million, compared with
$191.7 million for 1999. For 2000, operating profit was
$18.2 million, compared with $15.7 million for 1999.

The 2000 results, compared with 1999, reflected
strong sales growth in systems engineering and integration as
well as environmental programs and a gain of approximately
$1.4 million in the Company’s chemical weapons
demilitarization business related to additional program funding.
Operating results for


2000, compared with 1999, were negatively
impacted by $1.4 million for cost adjustments and a write
down of approximately $0.9 million in our process control
software business.

Aerospace Engines and Components

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment,
principally through Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc., focuses
on the design, development and manufacture of piston engines,
turbine engines, electronic engine controls and batteries.

Compared with 2000

Our Aerospace Engines and Components
segment’s sales were $159.2 million in 2001, compared
with sales of $199.8 million in 2000. For 2001, operating
profit was $8.2 million compared with $15.8 million
for 2000. Excluding the 2001 pretax charge of $0.3 million
and the $12 million pre-tax piston engine product recall
reserves taken in the second quarter of 2000, operating profit
was $8.5 million in 2001 and $27.8 million in 2000.
The Company continues to pursue cost recovery through litigation
against certain materials suppliers as a result of the 2000
product recall program.

Sales in 2001, compared with 2000, reflected
reduced orders for piston engine aftermarket products due to the
weakness of the economy. Flight restrictions resulting from the
September 11th terrorist attacks also adversely affected
orders for aftermarket piston engines and components. Turbine
engine sales were lower in 2001, compared with 2000, due to
reduced spare part sales for air force training aircraft and
reduced foreign demand for cruise missiles. Operating profit
reflects the lower level of sales, which was partially offset by
cost reductions implemented in the first quarter of 2001.
Additionally, pretax charges of $0.3 million for 2001 were
related to the second quarter restructuring charge.

Compared with 1999

Our Aerospace Engines and Components
segment’s sales were $199.8 million in 2000, compared
with sales of $194.2 million in 1999. For 2000, operating
profit was $15.8 million compared with $24.8 million
for 1999. Excluding piston engine product recall reserves taken
in the second quarters of 2000 and 1999, operating profit was
$27.8 million in both 2000 and 1999. Increased sales for
piston engines for 2000, compared with 1999, reflected
aftermarket new engine sales and overhaul services. Sales for
piston engines were negatively impacted from the operational
disruption associated with the piston engine recall program and
lower sales of spare parts. Teledyne Technologies recorded
pretax charges of $12 million and $3 million, in the
second quarters of 2000 and 1999, respectively, for estimated
costs associated with piston engine recall programs. Sales and
operating profit in 2000, compared with 1999, in the turbine
engine business were lower due to reduced sales from development
phase work on new turbine engine programs and lower sales of new
turbine engines for air force training aircraft, which were
$558 thousand for 2000,


compared with $5.9 million in 1999. These
reduced sales and operating profit were partially offset by
increased spare part sales for air force training aircraft.

Energy Systems

Our Energy Systems segment, through Teledyne
Energy Systems, Inc., provides on-site gas and power generation
systems based on proprietary fuel cell, electrolysis and
thermoelectric technologies.

Compared with 2000

Our Energy Systems segment’s sales were
$14.6 million in 2001, compared with sales of
$9.6 million in 2000. The 2001 operating loss was
$6.0 million compared with an operating loss of
$0.9 million for 2000. Excluding the 2001 pretax charge of
$5.5 million, the operating loss was $0.5 million in
2001. The pretax charges of $5.5 million related to the
following actions: $1.1 million of restructuring and other
costs; $4.3 million to write off inventory for products to
be discontinued and excess inventory; and $0.1 million of
asset impairment. The 2000 results included pretax charges of
$0.8 million for receivables adjustments. Excluding these
charges, the operating loss was $0.1 million for 2000. Sales in
2001, compared with 2000, reflected improved sales in long-term
government contracts as well as improved performance in the
hydrogen generator product line. The 2001 operating results,
compared with the 2000 operating results, reflected increased
fuel cell development spending.

Compared with 1999

Our Energy Systems segment’s sales were
$9.6 million in 2000, compared with sales of
$13.8 million in 1999. The 2000 operating loss was
$0.9 million compared with operating profit of
$1.3 million for 1999. The 2000 results included pretax
charges of $0.8 million for receivables adjustments.
Excluding these charges, the operating loss was
$0.1 million for 2000. Sales in 2000 reflected lower
hydrogen generator and commercial thermoelectric sales, compared
with 1999. Operating results in 2000, compared with 1999,
reflected the impact of lower sales as well as higher fuel cell
development spending.

Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital
Resources

Our principal capital requirements are to fund
working capital needs, capital expenditures and any debt service
requirements. It is anticipated that operating cash flow,
together with available borrowings under the credit facility
described below, will be sufficient to meet these requirements
in the year 2002. Our liquidity is not dependent upon the use of
off-balance sheet financial arrangements. We have no off-balance
sheet financing arrangements that incorporate the use of special
purpose entities or unconsolidated entities.

In 2001, cash provided from continuing operations
was $19.0 million, compared with $36.5 million in 2000
and $45.9 million in 1999. The decrease in cash provided
from operations in 2001, compared with 2000, primarily reflected
lower net income from continuing operations in 2001, the effect
of a decrease in accounts payable and short-term and long-term
liabilities during 2001, compared with an increase in accounts
payable and short-term and long-term liabilities during 2000,
offset, in part, by a decrease in accounts receivable and
deferred tax assets during 2001, compared with an increase in
accounts receivable during 2000. The $1.3 million in cash
used by discontinued operations in 2001 primarily reflected the


payment of a purchase price adjustment as well as
an additional accrual. The decrease in cash provided from
operations in 2000, compared with 1999, primarily reflected
lower net income from continuing operations in 2000. The lower
net income from continuing operations, and resulting lower cash
from operations, reflected the costs associated with the product
recall as well as development spending on optoelectronics and
broadband wireless initiatives. The impact of the change in
deferred taxes offset the impact of changes in operating assets
and liabilities.

Working capital increased to $115.3 million
at year-end 2001, compared with $107.6 million at year-end
2000. The increase in working capital was primarily due to lower
accounts payable, partially offset by lower accounts receivable
and inventories. The Company has experienced some recent
customer bankruptcies, none of which have had or currently are
expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company.

Net cash used in investing activities included
capital expenditures as presented below:

Capital Expenditures

During 2002, we plan to invest approximately
$21 million in capital spending principally for
manufacturing cost reduction, new products and upgrades to
capital equipment. Commitments at December 30, 2001 for
capital expenditures were approximately $1.7 million. The
increase in property plant and equipment primarily reflected
capital spending offset, in part, by depreciation and
amortization.

Investing activity in 2001 also reflected the
acquisition of San Diego, California-based Advanced Pollution
Instrumentation, Inc. (“API”) for $25 million. API is
a designer and manufacturer of advanced air quality monitoring
instruments. API had sales of approximately $16.3 million
for the twelve months ended September 30, 2001. We expect
to obtain significant synergies in product development and
manufacturing by leveraging its design and manufacturing
resources. Investing activity in 2000 also reflected the
proceeds from the sale of Teledyne Cast Parts and payments for
licensing fees and certain investments.

In July 2001, Teledyne Technologies combined its
Energy Systems business unit with assets of Florida-based Energy
Partners, Inc., to create majority-owned (86%) Teledyne Energy
Systems, Inc. The new company will continue focusing on our core
business of supplying hydrogen gas generators and thermoelectric
power systems, while working to commercialize proton exchange
membrane (PEM) fuel cell stacks, test stands and systems.

Prepaid expenses, taxes and other assets in 2001
include income taxes receivable of approximately
$5.8 million. The lower balance in other long-term
liabilities reflects the impact of 2001 payments related to
aircraft product liability and the 2000 product recall.

Cash provided by financing activities for 2001
primarily reflected borrowings under a revolving credit
agreement. Cash used in financing activities for 2000 reflected
the payment of long-term debt and use of the proceeds from the
public offering of 4.6 million shares of our Common Stock
as well as proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Cash
used in financing activities for 1999 primarily reflected net
transactions with ATI as well as net payments on long-term debt.
A $200 million five-year revolving credit agreement that
terminates in November 2004 was arranged with a syndicate of
banks in connection with the spin-off. ATI drew
$100 million under the facility prior to our assumption of
the facility. Teledyne Technologies assumed the repayment
obligation for the amount drawn by ATI. At December 30,
2001 we had


$30 million outstanding under the facility
at an average interest rate of 2.60%. At December 31, 2000
we had no long-term debt outstanding. Excluding interest and
fees, no payments are due under the credit facility until the
facility terminates. The estimated fair value of our long-term
debt at year-end 2001 was $30 million.

At year-end 2001, we had $170.0 million of
available committed credit under the credit facility, which is
utilized, as needed, for daily operating and periodic cash
needs. Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest, at
our option, at a rate based on either a defined base rate or the
London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), plus applicable margins.
The credit agreement also provides for facility fees that vary
between 0.35% and 0.20% of the credit line, depending on our
capitalization ratio as calculated from time to time. This
credit facility requires the Company to comply with various
financial covenants and restrictions, including covenants and
restrictions relating to indebtedness, liens, investments,
dividend payments, consolidated net worth, interest coverage and
the relationship of total consolidated indebtedness to earnings
before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization. The
credit agreement prohibits the declaration of dividends or
making other specified distributions in amounts exceeding 25% of
cumulative net income after the effective date of the credit
agreement ($11.1 million at December 30, 2001). We
also have available $10 million under an uncommitted bank
facility with no outstanding amounts at year-end 2001 or 2000.
This credit line is utilized, as needed, for periodic cash needs.

In connection with the spin-off, a new defined
benefit pension plan was established and Teledyne Technologies
assumed the existing pension obligations for all of the
employees, both active and inactive, at the operations which
perform government contract work and for active employees at
operations which do not perform government contract work. ATI
transferred pension assets to fund the new defined benefit
pension plan, which at the time of the transfer had assets in
excess of liabilities. At year-end 2001, such assets continue to
exceed liabilities, but by a declining proportion. See
Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

In connection with the spin-off, ATI received a
tax ruling from the Internal Revenue Service stating in
principle that the spin-off will be tax-free to ATI and
ATI’s stockholders. The continuing validity of the IRS tax
ruling is subject to the use of the proceeds from our 2000
public offering for research and development and related capital
projects, for the further development of manufacturing
capabilities and for acquisitions and/or joint ventures. At
December 30, 2001, this requirement has been satisfied.

The Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement
between ATI and Teledyne Technologies provides that we will
indemnify ATI and its agents or representatives for taxes
imposed on, and other amounts paid by, them or ATI’s
stockholders if we take actions or fail to take actions that
result in the spin-off not qualifying as a tax-free
distribution. If any of the taxes or other amounts described
above were to become payable by Teledyne Technologies, the
payment could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations and cash flow and could exceed
our net worth by a substantial amount.

Other Matters

Taxes

The effective income tax rate was 39.7% in both
2001 and 2000 and was 40.2% in 1999. Based on the Company’s
history of operating earnings, expectations of future operating
earnings and potential tax planning strategies, it is more
likely than not that the deferred income tax assets at
December 30, 2001 will be realized.

Costs
and Pricing

Inflationary trends in recent years have been
moderate. We primarily use the last-in, first-out method of
inventory accounting that reflects current costs in the costs of
products sold. These costs, the increasing costs of equipment
and other costs are considered in establishing sales pricing
polices. The Company emphasizes cost containment in all aspects
of its business.


Hedging Activities;
Market Risk Disclosures

We have not utilized derivative financial
instruments such as futures contracts, options and swaps,
forward exchange contracts or interest rate swaps and futures
during 2001 and 2000. While we believe that adequate controls
are in place to monitor any hedging activities in which we may
engage, many factors, including those beyond our control such as
changes in domestic and foreign political and economic
conditions, could adversely affect these activities. Our primary
exposure to market risk relates to changes in interest rates and
foreign currency exchange rates. We periodically evaluate these
risks and have taken measures to mitigate these risks. We own
assets and operate facilities in countries that have been
politically stable. Also, our foreign risk management objectives
are geared towards stabilizing cash flow from the effects of
foreign currency fluctuations. All of the Company’s
long-term debt has been based on a fluctuating market interest
rate and, consequently, the fair value should not be affected
materially by changes in market interest rates. Overall, we
believe that our exposure to interest rate risk and foreign
currency exchange rate changes is not material to our financial
condition or results of operations.

Related Party
Transactions

In connection with the spin-off, Teledyne
Technologies and ATI entered into several agreements governing
the separation of our businesses and various employee benefits,
compensation, tax, indemnification and transition arrangements.
While we successfully completed our required public offering and
other requirements have been satisfied or lapsed, several
agreements have continuing obligations. For example, until the
second anniversary of our 2000 public offering, we would need
ATI’s consent to make stock repurchases. The requirement
that at least a majority of our directors be members of the
board of directors of ATI expires at our 2002 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders. Six of our 10 directors are currently directors of
ATI. At the 2002 Annual Meeting, we expect that four of eight of
our directors will also serve on ATI’s board (given the
retirement of two of our directors). We also license the
“Teledyne” name and related logos, symbols and marks
from an affiliate of ATI.

Mellon Financial Corporation reported that
subsidiaries in fiduciary capacities beneficially own about 5.2%
of our Common Stock at December 30, 2001. Our Chairman,
President and Chief Executive Officer is a director of Mellon
Financial Corporation. Another of our directors is a former
chief executive officer and director of Mellon Financial
Corporation. All transactions with Mellon Bank, N.A. and its
affiliates are effected under normal commercial terms, and we
believe that our relationships with Mellon Bank, N.A. and its
affiliates are arms-length. Mellon Bank, N.A. is one of nine
lenders under our $200 million credit facility, having
committed up to $33,750,000 under the facility. It also provides
cash management services and an uncommitted $10 million
line of credit. Mellon Bank, N.A. also serves as trustee under
our pension plan. Mellon Investor Services LLC serves as
our transfer agent and registrar, as well as agent under our
stockholders rights plan.

Environmental

We are subject to various federal, state, local
and international environmental laws and regulations which
require that we investigate and remediate the effects of the
release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past
and present operations. These include sites at which Teledyne
Technologies has been identified as a potentially responsible
party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and
comparable state laws. We are currently involved in the
investigation and remediation of a number of sites. Reserves for
environmental investigation and remediation totaled
approximately $2.4 million at December 30, 2001. As
investigation and remediation of these sites proceed and new
information is received, the Company expects that accruals will
be adjusted to reflect new information. Based on current
information, we do not believe that future environmental costs,
in excess of those already accrued, will materially and
adversely affect our financial condition or liquidity. However,
resolution of one or more of these environmental matters or
future accrual adjustments in any one reporting period could
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for
that period.


With respect to proceedings brought under the
federal Superfund laws, or similar state statutes, the Company
has been identified as a potentially responsible party at
approximately 17 such sites, excluding those sites at which
Teledyne Technologies believes it has no future liability. Our
involvement is very limited or de minimis at approximately nine
of these sites, and the potential loss exposure with respect to
any of the remaining eight sites is not considered to be
material.

For additional discussion of environmental
matters, see Notes 2 and 15 to Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Government Contracts

We perform work on a number of contracts with the
Department of Defense and other agencies and departments of the
U.S. Government. Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government,
which included contracts with the Department of Defense, were
approximately 45% of total sales in 2001 and 44% of total sales
in both 2000 and 1999. For a breakdown of sales to the U.S.
Government by segment, see Note 14 to the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements. Sales to the Department of
Defense represented approximately 30%, 31% and 30% of total
sales for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

Performance under government contracts has
certain inherent risks that could have a material adverse effect
on the Company’s business, results of operations and
financial condition. Government contracts are conditioned upon
the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations,
which usually occurs on a fiscal year basis even though contract
performance may take more than one year. While the overall U.S.
military budget declined in real dollars from the mid-1980s
through the early 1990s, U.S. defense spending is expected to
increase over the next several years as a result of the
September 11th terrorist attacks. Notwithstanding the
potential for increased defense spending, delays or declines in
U.S. military expenditures in the programs that we participate
in could adversely affect our business, results of operations
and financial condition.

For information on accounts receivable from the
U.S. Government, see Note 6 to Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Estimates and Reserves

Our discussion and analysis of financial
condition and results of operations are based upon our
consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States. The preparation of these financial statements
requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses,
and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing
basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to
allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories, investments,
intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations,
restructuring charges, pension and other postretirement
benefits, and contingencies and litigation. We base our
estimates on historical experience and on various other
assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the
circumstances at the time, the results of which form the basis
for making our judgments. Actual results may differ from these
estimates under different assumptions or conditions. In some
cases, such differences may be material. See
“Other — Critical Accounting Policies”.


The following table reflects significant reserves
and valuation accounts, which are estimates and based on
judgments as described above, at December 30, 2001 and
December 31, 2000:

Reserves and Valuation Accounts(a)

(In millions)

(a)

This table should be read in conjunction with the
	Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b)

The difference between 2001 and 2000 principally
	reflects usage of funds with respect to settlements of aircraft
	product liability claims within the self-insured retentions and
	the 2000 piston engine product recall and reserves remaining
	from the second quarter 2000 charge.

(c)

Includes both long-term and short-term accrued
	liability reserves.

Critical
Accounting Policies

Our critical accounting policies are those that
are reflective of significant judgments and uncertainties, and
may potentially result in materially different results under
different assumptions and conditions. We have identified the
following as critical accounting policies to our company:
revenue recognition, impairment of long-lived assets, income
taxes, inventories, and related allowance for obsolete and
excess inventory, and aircraft product liability reserve. For
additional discussion of the application of these and other
accounting policies, see Note 2 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Revenue
Recognition

Commercial sales and revenue from U.S. Government
fixed-price-type contracts are generally recorded as shipments
are made or as services are rendered. Occasionally, for certain
fixed-price type contracts that require substantial performance
over a long time period (one or more years) before shipments
begin, sales may be recorded based upon attainment of scheduled
performance milestones which could be time, event or expense
driven. In these instances, invoices are submitted to the
customer under a contractual agreement and the customer makes
payments. Sales under cost-reimbursement contracts are recorded
as costs are incurred and fees are earned. Since certain
contracts extend over a long period of time, all revisions in
cost and funding estimates during the progress of work have the
effect of adjusting the current period earnings on a cumulative
catch-up basis. If the current contract estimate indicates a
loss, provision is made for the total anticipated loss.

Some of the Company’s products are subject
to specified warranties. The Company maintains a reserve for the
estimated future costs of repair, replacement or customer
accommodation and periodically reviews this reserve for
adequacy. Such review would generally include a review of
historic warranty experience with respect to the applicable
business or products, as well as the length and actual terms of
the warranties.

The Company also follows the requirements of the
Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin
No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements
(“SAB No. 101”). SAB No. 101 provides
the guidelines that must be followed regarding revenue
recognition. The Company has reviewed the requirements of
SAB No. 101 and has determined that it is in
compliance with SAB No. 101.


Impairments of
Long-Lived Assets

We monitor the recoverability of the carrying
value of our long-lived assets. An impairment charge is
recognized when events and circumstances indicate that the
undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by an asset
(including any proceeds from dispositions) are less than the
carrying value of the asset and the asset’s carrying value
is less than its fair value. Our cash flow estimates are based
on historical results adjusted to reflect our best estimate of
future market and operating conditions. The net carrying value
of assets not recoverable is reduced to fair value. Our
estimates of fair value represent our best estimate based on
industry trends and reference to market rates and transactions.
As a result of a review in the second quarter of 2001, we
determined that the carrying amounts of certain of our
long-lived assets were no longer recoverable based on estimates
of future operating cash flows to be generated by these assets.
As a result, we recognized an impairment charge of approximately
$7.5 million in 2001.

Accounting for
Income Taxes

As part of the process of preparing our
consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate
our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we
operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax
exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting
from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting
purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and
liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance
sheet. We assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets
will be recovered from future taxable income, recognizing that
future taxable income may give rise to new deferred tax assets.
To the extent that we believe that future recovery is not
likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. To the extent
we establish or increase a valuation allowance, we must include
an expense within the tax provision in the income statement.

Significant management judgment is required in
determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax
assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded
against our net deferred tax assets. Based on our history of
operating earnings, we have not recorded a valuation as of
December 30, 2001. In the event that actual results differ
from these estimates, or we adjust these estimates in future
periods, we may need to establish a valuation allowance, which
could impact our financial position and results of operations.

Until the effective date of the spin-off,
Teledyne Technologies was included in the consolidated federal
and certain state income tax returns of ATI. ATI is responsible
for paying the taxes related to such returns, including any
subsequent adjustment resulting from the re-determination of
such tax liability by the applicable taxing authorities.
Provision for income taxes for 1999 was calculated as if
Teledyne Technologies had filed separate income tax returns for
that year. Provisions for income taxes for 2000 and 2001 are
based on numerous factors that are subject to audit by the
Internal Revenue Service and the tax authorities in the various
jurisdictions in which we do business.

Inventories and Related Allowance for Obsolete
	and Excess Inventory

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost
(last-in, first-out; first-in, first-out; and average cost
methods) or market, less progress payments. We primarily use the
last-in, first-out method of inventory accounting that reflects
current costs in the costs of products sold. Costs include
direct material, direct labor, applicable manufacturing and
engineering overhead, and other direct costs. Inventories have
been reduced by an allowance for excess and obsolete
inventories. The estimated allowance is based on
management’s review of inventories on hand compared to
assumptions about future demand and market conditions. We
recorded a charge of $9.8 million in 2001 for the write-off
of inventory from discontinued product lines and the write-down
of excess inventory resulting from reduced customer demand. If
actual future demand or market conditions are more or less
favorable than those currently projected by management,
adjustments may be required.


Aircraft Product Liability Reserve

We are currently involved in certain legal
proceedings related to aircraft product liability claims. We
have accrued an estimate of the probable costs for the
resolution of these claims. This estimate has been developed in
consultation with our insurers, outside counsel handling our
defense in these matters and historical experience, and is based
upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of
litigation and settlement strategies. We do not believe these
proceedings will have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated financial position. It is possible, however, that
future results of operations for any particular quarterly or
annual period could be materially affected by specific events
occurring in the period, changes in our assumptions, or the
effectiveness of our strategies, related to these proceedings.
While we have aircraft and product liability insurance, our
annual self-insured retention for general aviation aircraft
liabilities incurred in connection with products manufactured by
Teledyne Continental Motors is $10 million. We cannot
assure that, in future years, our ability to obtain insurance,
or the premiums for such insurance, or the amount of our
self-insured retention or reserves will not be negatively
impacted by our experience in prior years or other factors. We
are monitoring the impact of the September 11th tragedy on
insurance markets.

Recent Accounting
Pronouncements

SFAS Nos. 138 and 133

In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 133 — “Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities,” which establishes
accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments
and hedging activities. It requires that an entity recognize all
derivatives in the statement of financial position and measure
those instruments at fair value. In June 2000, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 138 — “Accounting for Certain
Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging
Activities — an amendment of SFAS No. 133,”
which amends the accounting and reporting standards of SFAS
No. 133 for certain derivative and hedging activities.
Teledyne Technologies’ adoption of SFAS No. 133 as
amended, effective January 1, 2001, did not have an impact
on Teledyne Technologies’ financial position or results of
operations. See “Other Matters — Hedging
Activities; Market Risk Disclosures” above.

SFAS Nos. 141 and 142

In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 141 — “Business Combinations,”
which changes the accounting for business combinations. This
statement supersedes APB Opinion No. 16, “Business
Combinations,” and amends or supersedes a number of
interpretations of APB 16. Also in June 2001, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 142 — “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets,” which changes the accounting for
goodwill. This statement supersedes Accounting Principles Board
(APB) Opinion No. 17, “Intangible Assets,”
but carries forward some of the prior provisions. In accordance
with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, goodwill will no
longer be amortized, but must be reviewed for impairment.
Teledyne Technologies’ goodwill amortization for fiscal
years 2001, 2000 and 1999 was $0.6 million,
$0.8 million and $0.7 million, respectively. The
requirements of SFAS No. 141 are effective for any business
combination that is completed after June 30, 2001. SFAS
No. 142 is effective January 1, 2002, except for
certain provisions that apply to goodwill and intangible assets
acquired after June 30, 2001. The initial adoption of the
statements is not currently expected to have a material effect
on Teledyne Technologies’ financial position or results of
operations. During 2002, Teledyne Technologies will perform the
first of the required impairment tests of goodwill and
indefinite lived intangible assets as of January 1, 2002.

SFAS No. 143

In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 143 — “Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations,” which addresses financial accounting and
reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of
tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement
costs. Teledyne Technologies must implement SFAS No. 143 by
the first quarter of 2003. We do not currently expect a material
impact on our financial position or results of operations from
the initial adoption.


SFAS No. 144

In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 144 — “Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” which addresses financial
accounting and reporting for impairment or disposal of
long-lived assets. It supersedes FASB SFAS
No. 121 — “Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of,
and supersedes certain provisions of APB Opinion
No. 30 — “Reporting the Results of
Operations  — Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a
Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and
Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions” and amends
Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51-Consolidated Financial
Statements. Teledyne Technologies must implement SFAS
No. 144 by the first quarter of 2002. We do not expect a
material impact on our financial position or results of
operations from the initial adoption.

Outlook

Teledyne Technologies maintains a balanced
portfolio of approximately 45% government and 55% commercial
businesses. In our government and defense businesses as a whole,
we expect modest revenue growth in 2002, primarily driven by
demand for defense electronics products. Given the current state
of the commercial aviation market, we expect sales of avionics
equipment to decline in 2002; however, we expect revenue growth
in our instrumentation businesses to offset the sales decline in
avionics.

Orders for our short-cycle electronics product
lines serving the semiconductor and communications markets
continued to deteriorate in the fourth quarter of 2001. We
currently expect orders in these businesses to be flat in the
first two quarters of 2002, relative to the fourth quarter of
2001, and orders and revenues to improve in the second half of
2002. In addition, the divestiture or closure of several
non-core product lines will negatively impact reported 2002
revenues for the Electronics and Communications and Systems
Engineering Solutions segments relative to 2001.

Although government restrictions on general
aviation airspace impacted the fourth quarter 2001 performance
of our Teledyne Continental Motors aircraft piston engine
business, the majority of these restrictions have been lifted.
Nonetheless, given the current state of the economy and our
dependence on aftermarket aviation sales, we expect 2002 sales
for the Aerospace Engines and Components segment to be flat
relative to 2001.

Full-year 2001 earnings included
$9.5 million or $0.18 per share in non-cash net pension
income. We currently expect approximately $1.0 million of
net pension income in 2002. The reduction in net pension income
reflects the completion of the recognition of income associated
with FAS 87 transition asset amortization as well as the decline
in the market value of the Company’s pension assets during
2000 and 2001.

In connection with our restructuring and
realignment actions, we previously announced that we expected to
achieve annualized savings of approximately $25 million, of
which approximately $15 million was realized in 2001. We
continue to anticipate approximately $10 million of
additional cost savings in 2002, which should offset the
reduction in non-cash net pension income.

Based on our current outlook, we estimate that
first quarter and full-year 2002 earnings per share will be in
the range of approximately $0.14 to $0.17 and $0.65 to $0.80,
respectively. Excluding $0.18 per share in non-cash net pension
income, full year 2001 earnings per share from continuing
operations were $0.51 (excluding asset impairment, restructuring
and other charges).

Safe Harbor Cautionary Statement Regarding
Outlook and Other Forward Looking Data

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains
forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, relating to earnings,
cost-savings, growth opportunities, capital expenditures and
strategic plans. Actual results could differ materially from
these forward-looking statements. Many factors, including
changes in demand for products sold to the semiconductor and
communications markets, timely development of acceptable and
competitive fuel cell products and systems, renewed outsourced
manufacturing of


optoelectronics products by customers, funding,
continuation and award of government programs and the outcome of
the crankshaft litigation, as well as economic and political
conditions, could change the anticipated results.

The September 11th terrorist attacks and
subsequent events increase uncertainties associated with
forward-looking statements about our businesses. For example,
flight restrictions negatively impact the market for general
aviation aircraft piston engine and components. In addition,
reduced shipments of commercial aviation aircraft, as well as
the financial positions of major airlines, could negatively
affect our Electronics and Communications segment.

While Teledyne Technologies’ growth strategy
includes possible acquisitions, we cannot provide any assurance
as to when, if or on what terms any acquisitions will be made.
Acquisitions involve various inherent risks, such as, among
others, the Company’s ability to integrate acquired
businesses and to achieve identified financial and operating
synergies. Also, the Company may not be able to sell or exit
timely or on acceptable terms its remaining non-core or
under-performing product lines, particularly given the current
economic environment.

Additional information concerning factors that
could cause actual results to differ materially from those
projected in the forward-looking statements is contained
beginning on page 13 of this Form 10-K under the
caption “Risk Factors; Cautionary Statements as to
Forward-Looking Statements.” Forward-looking statements are
generally accompanied by words such as “estimate”,
“project”, “predict”, “believes”
or “expect”, that convey the uncertainty of future
events or outcomes. We assume no obligation to publicly update
or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of
new information or otherwise.

Report of Management

The management of Teledyne Technologies is
responsible for the integrity of the financial data reported by
Teledyne Technologies. Fulfilling this responsibility requires
the preparation and presentation of consolidated financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. Management uses internal accounting controls,
corporate-wide policies and procedures and judgment so that such
statements reflect fairly the consolidated financial position,
results of operations and cash flows of Teledyne Technologies.

Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.

The information required by this item is included
in this Report at page 35 under the caption “Other
Matters — Hedging Activities; Market Risk Disclosures”
of “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.

The information required by this item is included
in this Report at pages 43 through 71. See the “Index
to Financial Statements and Related Information” at
page 43.

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
	on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.

Not applicable.


PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive
Officers of the Registrant.

In addition to the information set forth under
the caption “Executive Management” in Part I of
this Report, the information concerning the directors of
Teledyne Technologies required by this item is set forth in the
2002 Proxy Statement under the caption “Item 1 on
Proxy Card — Election of Directors” and is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11. Executive
Compensation.

The information required by this item is set
forth in the 2002 Proxy Statement under the captions
“Directors Compensation”, “Executive
Compensation” and “Compensation Committee Interlocks
and Insider Participation” and is incorporated herein by
reference. TDY does not incorporate by reference in this
Form 10-K either the “Report on Executive
Compensation” or the “Cumulative Total Stockholder
Return” section of the 2002 Proxy Statement.

Item 12. Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

The information required by this item is set
forth in the 2002 Proxy Statement under the caption “Stock
Ownership Information” and is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions.

The information required by this item is set
forth in the 2002 Proxy Statement under the caption
“Certain Transactions” and is incorporated herein by
reference.

PART IV

Item 14.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and
	Reports on Form 8-K.

(a) Exhibits and Financial Statement
Schedules:


INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RELATED
INFORMATION


REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated as of
December 30, 2001 and December 31, 2000, and the
related consolidated statements of income, stockholders’
equity and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the
period ended December 30, 2001. Our audits also included
the financial statement schedule listed in the index at
Item 14(a). These financial statements and schedule are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
consolidated financial position of Teledyne Technologies
Incorporated at December 30, 2001 and December 31,
2000, and the consolidated results of its operations and its
cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period
ended December 30, 2001, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States. Also, in our
opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken
as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.

Los Angeles, California

January 24, 2002


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(In millions, except per-share
amounts)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these financial statements.


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In millions, except share amounts)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these financial statements.


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

(In millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these financial statements


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

(In millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these financial statements.


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Note 1. Teledyne Technologies
Incorporated Spin-Off from Allegheny Teledyne
Incorporated

Effective November 29, 1999 (the
“Distribution Date”), Teledyne Technologies
Incorporated (“Teledyne Technologies” or the
“Company”), became an independent, public company as a
result of the distribution by Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated,
now known as Allegheny Technologies Incorporated
(“ATI”), of the Company’s Common Stock, $.01 par
value per share, to holders of ATI Common Stock at a
distribution ratio of one for seven (the “spin-off”).
The spin-off has been treated as a tax-free distribution for
federal income tax purposes. The spin-off included the transfer
of certain of the businesses of ATI’s Aerospace and
Electronics segment to the new corporation, immediately prior to
the Distribution Date. ATI no longer has a financial investment
in Teledyne Technologies.

Teledyne Technologies consists of the operations
of the Electronics and Communications segment with operations in
the United States, United Kingdom and Mexico; the Systems
Engineering Solutions segment with operations in the United
States; the Aerospace Engines and Components segment with
operations in the United States; and the Energy Systems segment
with operations in the United States. In 2001, the Company
realigned and changed the reporting structure of some of its
business units. The Test Services and Geophysical Instruments
business units that were previously part of our Systems
Engineering Solutions segment are now part of an expanded
instruments group under our Electronics and Communications
segment. This realignment also resulted in a new segment, the
Energy Systems segment, the results of which had previously been
reported under our Systems Engineering Solutions segment. The
Energy Systems segment, which provides on-site gas and power
generation systems based on proprietary fuel cell, electrolysis
and thermoelectric technologies, currently includes the
majority-owned entity that was formed in the third quarter of
2001. Accordingly, the Company has restated its previously
reported segment data to reflect this realignment and structure.

A $200 million five-year revolving credit
agreement was arranged with a syndicate of banks in connection
with the spin-off. ATI drew $100 million under the facility
prior to the assumption of the facility by Teledyne
Technologies. Teledyne Technologies assumed the repayment
obligation for the amount drawn by ATI. In addition, prior to
and in connection with the spin-off, Teledyne Technologies and
ATI entered into agreements providing for the separation of the
companies and governing various relationships for separating
employee benefits and tax obligations, indemnification and
transition services.

The consolidated financial statements for periods
prior to the spin-off included certain expenses (primarily
corporate expense) based on an allocation of the overall expense
of ATI. ATI’s historical cost basis of assets and
liabilities has been reflected in the Teledyne
Technologies’ financial statements. The financial
information in these financial statements is not necessarily
indicative of results of operations, financial position and cash
flows that would have occurred if Teledyne Technologies had been
a separate stand-alone entity during the periods presented or of
future results. The consolidated financial statements included
herein do not reflect changes that occurred in the
capitalization and operations of Teledyne Technologies as a
result of, or after, the spin-off other than for the periods
following the spin-off.

The following unaudited pro forma financial
information for 1999 is presented for informational purposes
only and may not reflect the results of operations or financial
position of Teledyne Technologies that would have occurred had
Teledyne Technologies operated as a separate, independent
company for the periods presented. The pro forma financial
information should not be relied upon as being indicative of
future results. Pro forma adjustments reflect the estimated
expense impacts (primarily interest expense and corporate
expenses) that would have been incurred had Teledyne
Technologies been operated as a separate company as of the
beginning of each year and as capitalized at the time of the
spin-off for each period presented. As part of the spin-off,
Teledyne Technologies assumed $100 million of long-term
debt incurred by ATI. Pro forma income includes pro forma
interest expense on the long-term debt as if it had been
outstanding for all periods presented. Pro forma income adjusts
corporate expenses to an annual level of


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

$15 million from the amount previously
allocated, which was lower. The following is Teledyne
Technologies’ financial information for 2001 and 2000 and
its unaudited pro forma financial information for 1999 (in
millions, except per-share amounts):

Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies

Principles
of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements of Teledyne
Technologies include the accounts of the businesses as described
in Note 1. Significant intercompany accounts and transactions
have been eliminated. Certain financial statements, notes and
supplementary data for prior years have been changed to conform
to the 2001 presentation.

Fiscal
Year

The Company is on a 53/52-week fiscal year
convention. Fiscal years 2001, 2000 and 1999 were 52-week years
and ended on December 30, 2001, December 31, 2000 and
January 2, 2000, respectively. References to the years
2001, 2000 and 1999 are intended to refer to the respective
fiscal year unless otherwise noted.

Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities,


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of
contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, the Company
evaluates its estimates, including those related to product
returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories,
investments, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty
obligations, restructuring charges, pension and other
postretirement benefits, and contingencies and litigation. The
Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on
various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable
under the circumstances at the time, the results of which form
the basis for making its judgments. Actual results may differ
from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
Management believes that the estimates are reasonable.

Revenue
Recognition

Commercial sales and revenue from U.S. Government
fixed-price-type contracts generally are recorded as shipments
are made or as services are rendered. Occasionally, for certain
fixed-price-type contracts that require substantial performance
over a long time period (one or more years) before shipments
begin, sales may be recorded based upon attainment of scheduled
performance milestones which could be time, event or expense
driven. In these few instances, invoices are submitted to the
customer under a contractual agreement and payments are made by
the customer. Sales under cost-reimbursement contracts are
recorded as costs are incurred and fees are earned.

Since certain contracts extend over a long period
of time, all revisions in cost and funding estimates during the
progress of work have the effect of adjusting the current period
earnings on a cumulative catch-up basis. If the current contract
estimate indicates a loss, provision is made for the total
anticipated loss.

Some of the Company’s products are subject
to specified warranties. The Company maintains a reserve for the
estimated future costs of repair, replacement or customer
accommodation and periodically reviews this reserve for
adequacy. Such review would generally include a review of
historic warranty experience with respect to the applicable
business or products, as well as the length and actual terms of
the warranties.

In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange
Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101,
Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements (SAB No. 101).
SAB No. 101 provides the Commission’s views in
applying generally accepted accounting principles to selected
revenue recognition issues. The Company has reviewed the
requirements of SAB No. 101 and has determined that it is
in compliance with SAB No. 101.

Research
and Development

Selling, general and administrative expenses
include company-funded research and development and bid and
proposal costs which are expensed as incurred and were
$31.3 million in 2001, $31.7 million in 2000 and
$27.8 million in 1999. Costs related to customer-funded
research and development contracts were $179.4 million in
2001, $215.7 million in 2000 and $188.1 million in
1999 and are charged to costs and expenses as the related sales
are recorded. A portion of the costs incurred for Company-funded
research and development is recoverable through overhead cost
allowances on government contracts.

Income
Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.”
Under this method, deferred income tax assets and liabilities
are determined on the estimated future tax effects of
differences between the financial reporting and tax basis of
assets and liabilities given the application of enacted tax
laws. Deferred income tax provisions and benefits are based on
changes to the asset or liability from year to year.


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Net
Income Per Common Share

Prior to the spin-off, the number of shares
outstanding were based on a distribution ratio of one share of
Teledyne Technologies’ Common Stock for every seven shares
of ATI Common Stock. The average number of shares of Teledyne
Technologies’ Common Stock used in the computation of basic
net income per common share were 31,736,215, 28,589,597 and
27,303,421 for the 2001, 2000 and 1999 fiscal years,
respectively. The Company uses the treasury stock method to
calculate diluted earnings per share. The average number of
shares of Teledyne Technologies’ Common Stock used in the
computation of diluted net income per common share were
32,357,315, 29,477,594 and 27,334,737 for the 2001, 2000 and
1999 fiscal years, respectively. A distribution ratio of 1.527
shares of Teledyne Technologies Common Stock for every one share
of ATI Common Stock was used to adjust stock options converted
at the spin-off date.

Accounts
Receivable

Receivables are presented net of a reserve for
doubtful accounts of $2.7 million at December 30, 2001
and $2.0 million at December 31, 2000. Expense
recorded for the reserve for doubtful accounts was
$0.7 million, $0.1 million and $0.5 million for
2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively. In 2000, the Company
collected $1.3 million for a receivable that was reserved
for at January 2, 2000. The Company markets its products
and services principally throughout the United States, Europe,
Japan and Canada to commercial customers and agencies of, and
prime contractors to, the U.S. Government. Trade credit is
extended based upon evaluations of each customer’s ability
to perform its obligations, which are updated periodically.

Cash
and Cash Equivalents

Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid
money-market mutual funds and bank deposits with initial
maturities of three months or less. Cash equivalents totaled
approximately $4.5 million and $11.6 million at
December 30, 2001 and December 31, 2000, respectively.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost
(last-in, first-out; first-in, first-out; and average cost
methods) or market, less progress payments. Costs include direct
material, direct labor, applicable manufacturing and engineering
overhead, and other direct costs.

Property,
Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment is capitalized at
cost. The method of depreciation adopted for all property, plant
and equipment placed into service after July 1, 1996 is the
straight-line method. For property, plant and equipment acquired
prior to July 1, 1996, depreciation is computed using a
combination of accelerated and straight-line methods. The
Company believes the straight-line method more appropriately
reflects its financial results by better allocating costs of new
property over the useful lives of these assets.

Goodwill

Teledyne Technologies’ goodwill was
$26.2 million at December 30, 2001 and
$7.6 million at December 31, 2000. The goodwill amount
at December 30, 2001 includes goodwill acquired as part of
the acquisition of Advanced Pollution Instrumentation, Inc.
(“API”).

In accordance with the provisions of
SFAS No. 142 — “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets,” goodwill will no longer be amortized,
but must be reviewed for impairment. Teledyne Technologies’
goodwill amortization for fiscal years 2001, 2000 and 1999 was
$0.6 million, $0.8 million and $0.7 million,
respectively.


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Other
Long-Lived Assets

The carrying value of long-lived assets is
periodically evaluated in relation to the operating performance
and future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying businesses.
Adjustments are made if the sum of expected future net cash
flows is less than book value.

Environmental

Costs that mitigate or prevent future
environmental contamination or extend the life, increase the
capacity or improve the safety or efficiency of property
utilized in current operations are capitalized. Other costs that
relate to current operations or an existing condition caused by
past operations are expensed. Environmental liabilities are
recorded when the Company’s liability is probable and the
costs are reasonably estimable, but generally not later than the
completion of the feasibility study or the Company’s
recommendation of a remedy or commitment to an appropriate plan
of action. The accruals are reviewed periodically and, as
investigations and remediations proceed, adjustments are made as
necessary. Accruals for losses from environmental remediation
obligations do not consider the effects of inflation, and
anticipated expenditures are not discounted to their present
value. The accruals are not reduced by possible recoveries from
insurance carriers or other third parties, but do reflect
anticipated allocations among potentially responsible parties at
federal Superfund sites or similar state-managed sites and an
assessment of the likelihood that such parties will fulfill
their obligations at such sites. The measurement of
environmental liabilities by the Company is based on currently
available facts, present laws and regulations, and current
technology. Such estimates take into consideration the
Company’s prior experience in site investigation and
remediation, the data concerning cleanup costs available from
other companies and regulatory authorities, and the professional
judgment of the Company’s environmental experts in
consultation with outside environmental specialists, when
necessary.

Foreign
Currency Translation

The Company’s foreign entities’
accounts are measured using local currency as the functional
currency. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange
rate in effect at year end. Revenues and expenses are translated
at the rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Unrealized
translation gains and losses arising from differences in
exchange rates from period to period are included as a component
of accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders’
equity.

Recent
Accounting Pronouncements

SFAS Nos. 138 and 133.

In June 1998, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 133 —
“Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities,” which establishes accounting and reporting
standards for derivative instruments and hedging activities. It
requires that an entity recognize all derivatives in the
statement of financial position and measure those instruments at
fair value. In June 2000, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 138 — “Accounting for Certain Derivative
Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities — an
amendment of SFAS No. 133,” which amends the
accounting and reporting standards of SFAS No. 133 for
certain derivative and hedging activities. Teledyne
Technologies’ adoption of SFAS No. 133 as amended,
effective January 1, 2001, did not have a material impact
on Teledyne Technologies’ financial position or results of
operations.

SFAS Nos. 141 and 142.

In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 141 — “Business Combinations,”
which changes the accounting for business combinations. This
statement supersedes APB Opinion No. 16, “Business
Combinations,” and amends or supersedes a number of
interpretations of APB 16. Also in June 2001, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 142 — “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets,” which changes the accounting for
goodwill. This statement supersedes Accounting Principles Board
(APB) Opinion No. 17, “Intangible Assets,”
but carries forward some of the provisions. In accordance with
the provisions


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

of SFAS No. 142, goodwill will no longer be
amortized, but must be reviewed for impairment. Teledyne
Technologies’ goodwill amortization for fiscal years 2001,
2000 and 1999 was $0.6 million, $0.8 million and
$0.7 million, respectively. The requirements of SFAS
No. 141 are effective for any business combination that is
completed after June 30, 2001. SFAS No. 142 is
effective January 1, 2002, except for certain provisions
that apply to goodwill and intangible assets acquired after
June 30, 2001. The initial adoption of the statements is
not currently expected to have a material effect on Teledyne
Technologies’ financial position or results of operations.
During 2002, Teledyne Technologies will perform the first of the
required impairment tests of goodwill and indefinite lived
intangible assets as of January 1, 2002.

SFAS No. 143.

In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 143 — “Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations,” which addresses financial accounting and
reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of
tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement
costs. Teledyne Technologies must implement SFAS No. 143 by
the first quarter of 2003. The Company does not currently expect
a material impact on the financial position or results of
operations from the initial adoption.

SFAS No. 144.

In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 144 — “Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” which addresses financial
accounting and reporting for impairment or disposal of
long-lived assets. It supersedes FASB SFAS
No. 121 — “Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of,
and supersedes certain provisions of APB Opinion
No. 30 — “Reporting the Results of
Operations — Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a
Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and
Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions and amends
Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51-Consolidated Financial
Statements. Teledyne Technologies must implement SFAS
No. 144 by the first quarter of 2002. The Company does not
currently expect a material impact on the financial position or
results of operations from the initial adoption.

Hedging
Activities

Teledyne Technologies has not utilized derivative
financial instruments such as futures contracts, options and
swaps, forward exchange contracts or interest rate swaps and
futures during 2001 and 2000. Teledyne Technologies believes
that adequate controls are in place to monitor any hedging
activities.

Supplemental
Cash Flow Information

Teledyne Technologies received a net cash refund
for federal, foreign and state income taxes of
$10.0 million in 2001. Cash payments for federal, foreign
and state income taxes were $22.1 million for 2000. Until
the spin-off date, ATI was responsible for cash payments for
federal, foreign and state income taxes. No tax payments were
made by Teledyne Technologies from the date of the spin-off
through year end 1999. Cash payments for interest and facility
fees by Teledyne Technologies totaled approximately
$1.7 million and $5.3 million for 2001 and 2000,
respectively. Interest paid by Teledyne Technologies from the
date of the spin-off to year end 1999 totaled approximately
$0.6 million.

Comprehensive
Income

Teledyne Technologies’ comprehensive income
consists of net income and foreign currency translation
adjustments. Teledyne Technologies’ comprehensive income
was $6.7 million, $31.7 million and $48.9 million
for the years 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

Note 3. Restructuring, Asset Impairment,
Product Recall and Other Charges

During the second quarter of 2001, the Company
recorded a pretax charge of $26.4 million for asset
impairment ($7.4 million), restructuring and other charges
($8.7 million), inventory write-down


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

($10.0 million) and a pretax charge for
discontinued operations ($0.3 million). Teledyne
Technologies’ 2001 second quarter pretax charge included
plans to exit, within 12 months, the following non-core
product lines from its Electronics and Communications segment:
industrial solid state relays; and certain microwave switches
and filters. The Company’s process control software and
sodium iodide crystals product lines within its Systems
Engineering Solutions segment were sold in the second quarter of
2001. Teledyne Technologies also plans to exit certain
environmental programs within this same segment. Annual sales
for these non-core product lines were approximately
$10.0 million in 2000. At December 30, 2001 the
Company’s projected charge remains in line with management
expectations at $26.4 million for asset impairment
($7.5 million) restructuring ($8.8 million), inventory
write-down ($9.8 million) and a pretax charge for
discontinued operations ($0.3 million). While the total
charge did not change, the previously reported fourth quarter
results of operations will be reclassified to reflect the change
in estimates of the charge as noted in the table below. A
summary of the components of the second quarter charge and the
activity during the remainder of the year is as follows:

Restructuring, Asset Impairment and Other
Charge Information

(In millions)

The 2001 pretax charges of $26.4 million are
comprised of the following items. Teledyne Technologies recorded
pretax restructuring charges of $8.8 million, of which
$5.7 million is for employee termination benefits. The
Company reduced its total workforce by approximately
790 employees or 14% during 2001 and expects an additional
reduction of approximately 25 employees under the
restructuring plan. The Company’s plan for consolidation
and downsizing of manufacturing operations included actions in
the Electronics and Communications segment domestic locations as
well as in a United Kingdom facility. The remaining
$3.1 million of the restructuring charges were for
consolidation expenses of $1.6 million; non-cancelable
lease expenses of $0.6 million; and $0.9 million of
incurred transaction costs associated with the formation of
Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc. The Company recorded pretax asset
impairment charges of $7.5 million for equipment, net of
expected sale proceeds, and goodwill related to product lines to
be discontinued and the loss on the sale of non-core product
lines. The Company also recorded a pretax charge of
$9.8 million in cost of sales for the write off of
inventory from discontinued product lines ($4.4 million)
and the write-down of excess inventory ($5.4 million)
resulting from reduced customer demand. Total charges by segment
were as follows: $15.6 million in the Electronics and
Communications segment; $5.5 million in the Energy Systems
segment; $4.5 million in the Systems Engineering Solutions
segment; and $0.3 million in the Aerospace Engines and
Components segment. The Company also recorded a
$0.2 million restructuring charge for its corporate office
and a pretax charge of $0.3 million was recorded for
discontinued operations. The majority of the remaining liability
of $2.8 million at December 30, 2001 is expected to be
paid in 2002.


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

The 2000 and 1999 results include pretax charges
of $12.0 million and $3.0 million, respectively, for
product recall reserves in the Aerospace Engines and Components
segment. The 2000 results also include $1.4 million of
pretax charges for cost adjustments in selected product lines in
the Systems Engineering Solutions segment and $0.8 million
of pretax charges for receivables adjustments in the Energy
Systems segment.

Note 4. Business Combinations and Discontinued
Operation

In November 2001, Teledyne Technologies acquired
API for $25 million and this acquisition was recorded as a
purchase in accordance with SFAS No. 141. API is a designer
and manufacturer of advanced air quality monitoring instruments,
based in San Diego, California. Teledyne Technologies’
results of operations include the operations of API from the
date of acquisition.

In July 2001, Teledyne Technologies combined its
Energy Systems business unit with assets of Florida-based Energy
Partners, Inc., to create majority-owned (86%) Teledyne Energy
Systems, Inc. This transaction was recorded as a transfer of net
assets between entities under common control in accordance with
SFAS No. 141. The new company will continue focusing on
Teledyne’s core business of supplying hydrogen gas
generators and thermoelectric power systems, while expanding
Energy Partners’ commercialization of proton exchange
membrane (PEM) fuel cell stacks, test stands and systems.

In 2000, Teledyne Technologies sold the assets of
Teledyne Cast Parts, a provider of sand and investment castings
to the aerospace and defense industries which was previously
reported as part of the Aerospace Engines and Components segment
for a net after-tax gain of $0.7 million. Initial net
proceeds from the sale in 2000 were $17.0 million. In 2001,
Teledyne Technologies made certain payments, including working
capital adjustments, of approximately $0.7 million. In the
first quarter of 2002, Teledyne Technologies made a payment of
approximately $0.4 million related to the sale. The
consolidated financial statements have been restated to reflect
Teledyne Cast Parts as a discontinued operation. Sales for
Teledyne Cast Parts were $31.8 million and
$42.0 million for 2000 and 1999, respectively. The income
from discontinued operations for 2000 includes the after-tax
gain on the sale and an after-tax net operating loss of
$0.2 million. The operating results of Teledyne Cast Parts
were net of an income tax benefit of $0.1 million in 2000
and were net of income taxes of $1.2 million for 1999. In
2001, Teledyne Technologies recorded a pretax charge of
$0.3 million for discontinued operations.

Note 5. Financial Instruments

Teledyne Technologies values financial
instruments as required by SFAS No. 107 —
“Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial
Instruments,” as amended. The carrying amounts of cash and
cash equivalents approximate fair value because of the short
maturity of those instruments. Teledyne Technologies estimates
the fair value of its long-term debt based on the quoted market
prices for debt of similar rating and similar maturity. The
estimated fair value of Teledyne Technologies’ long-term
debt at December 30, 2001 approximated the carrying value
of $30 million. Teledyne Technologies had no long-term debt
outstanding at December 31, 2000.

The carrying value of other on-balance-sheet
financial instruments approximates fair value, and the cost, if
any, to terminate off-balance sheet financial instruments
(primarily letters of credit) is not significant.


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Note 6. Accounts Receivable

Accounts receivable are summarized as follows (in
millions):

The billed contract receivables from the U.S.
Government and prime contractors contain $8.2 million and
$9.3 million at December 30, 2001 and
December 31, 2000, respectively, due to long-term
contracts. The unbilled contract receivables from the U.S.
Government and prime contractors contain $8.7 million and
$18.3 million at December 30, 2001 and
December 31, 2000, respectively, due to long-term contracts.

Unbilled contract receivables represent
accumulated costs and profits earned but not yet billed to
customers. The Company believes that substantially all such
amounts will be billed and collected within one year.

Note 7. Inventories

Inventories consisted of the following (in
millions):

Inventories, before progress payments, determined
on the last-in, first-out method were $52.0 million at
December 30, 2001 and $61.1 million at
December 31, 2000. The remainder of the inventory was
determined using the first-in, first-out and average cost
methods. These inventory values do not differ materially from
current cost.

During 2001, 2000 and 1999, inventory usage
resulted in liquidations of last-in, first-out inventory
quantities. These inventories were carried at the lower costs
prevailing in prior years as compared with the cost of current
purchases. The effect of these last-in, first-out liquidations
was to increase net income by $1.9 million in 2001,
$2.1 million in 2000 and $2.2 million in 1999.

Total inventories at cost were net of
$10.1 million and $12.0 million at December 30,
2001 and December 31, 2000, respectively, which were
related to reserves for excess, slow moving and obsolete
inventory.


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Inventories, before progress payments, related to
long-term contracts were $7.4 million and $4.1 million
at December 30, 2001 and December 31, 2000,
respectively. There were no progress payments related to
long-term contracts at December 30, 2001. Progress payments
related to long-term contracts were $3.4 million at
December 31, 2000.

Under the contractual arrangements by which
progress payments are received, the customer has a security
interest in the inventories associated with specific contracts.

Note 8. Supplemental Balance Sheet
Information

Property, plant and equipment were as follows (in
millions):

Other long-term assets included amounts related
to deferred compensation, investments and intangible assets.
Accrued liabilities included salaries and wages of
$24.6 million and $27.4 million at December 30,
2001 and December 31, 2000, respectively. Other long-term
liabilities included reserves for self-insurance, deferred
compensation liabilities and the long-term portion of product
recall reserves.

Note 9. Stockholders’ Equity

Common Stock

At December 30, 2001, Teledyne Technologies
had 31,859,839 shares of its Common Stock outstanding. During
2001, 273,104 shares were issued under certain compensation
plans including the exercise of stock options.

In 2000, Teledyne Technologies issued 4,605,000
shares of its Common Stock in an underwritten public offering
for net proceeds of approximately $84.0 million. At
December 31, 2000, Teledyne Technologies had 31,586,735
shares of its Common Stock outstanding. During 2000, 294,733
shares were issued under certain compensation plans including
the exercise of stock options.

In connection with the spin-off, 26,687,002
shares of Teledyne Technologies’ Common Stock were issued
and were outstanding at year end 1999. This amount includes 943
shares issued under the Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation
Plan.

Preferred Stock

Authorized preferred stock may be issued with
designations, powers and preferences designated by the Board of
Directors. At December 30, 2001 and December 31, 2000,
there were no shares of preferred stock issued.

Stockholder Rights Plan

On November 12, 1999, the Company’s
Board of Directors unanimously adopted a stockholder rights plan
under which preferred share purchase rights were distributed as
a dividend on each share of Teledyne


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Technologies’ Common Stock distributed to
ATI’s stockholders in connection with the spin-off and each
share to become outstanding between the effective date of the
spin-off and the earliest of the distribution date, redemption
date and final expiration date. The rights will be exercisable
only if a person or group acquires 15 percent or more of
the Company’s Common Stock or announces a tender offer, the
consummation of which would result in ownership by a person or
group of 15 percent or more of the Common Stock. Each right will
entitle stockholders to then buy one-hundredth of a share of a
new series of junior participating preferred stock at an
exercise price of $60 per share. There are 1,250,000 shares of
Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock authorized
for issuance under the plan. The record date for the
distribution was the close of business of November 22,
1999. The rights will expire on November 12, 2009, subject
to earlier redemption or exchange by Teledyne Technologies as
described in the plan. The rights distribution is not taxable to
stockholders.

Stock Incentive Plan

ATI sponsored an incentive plan that provided for
ATI stock option awards to officers and key employees. Teledyne
Technologies had officers and key employees that participated in
this plan prior to the spin-off. In connection with the
spin-off, outstanding stock options held by Teledyne
Technologies’ employees were converted into options to
purchase Teledyne Technologies’ Common Stock. The number of
shares and the exercise price of each ATI option that was
converted to a Teledyne Technologies’ option was converted
based upon a formula designed to preserve the inherent economic
value, vesting and term provisions of such ATI options as of the
Distribution Date. The exchange ratio and fair market value of
the Teledyne Technologies’ Common Stock, upon active
trading, also impacted the number of options issued to Teledyne
Technologies’ employees.

Teledyne Technologies has established its own
long-term incentive plan which provides its Board of Directors
the flexibility to grant restricted stock, performance shares,
non-qualified stock options, incentive stock options and stock
appreciation rights to officers and employees of Teledyne
Technologies.

The following disclosures are based on stock
options held by Teledyne Technologies’ employees and
include the stock options that have been converted from ATI
options to Teledyne Technologies’ options as noted above.
Teledyne Technologies accounts for its stock option plans in
accordance with APB Opinion 25 — “Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees,” (APB 25) and related
Interpretations. Under APB 25, no compensation expense is
recognized because the exercise price of the Company’s
employee stock options equals the market price of the underlying
stock at the date of the grant.

If compensation cost for these options had been
determined using the fair-value method prescribed by SFAS
Statement No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-based
Compensation,” (SFAS No. 123) net income would have
been $2.0 million, $29.4 million and
$47.4 million for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Basic
earnings per share, if determined under SFAS No. 123, would have
been $0.06 for 2001, $1.03 for 2000 and $1.74 for 1999. Diluted
earnings per share, if determined under SFAS No. 123, would
have been $0.06 for 2001, $1.00 for 2000 and $1.74 for 1999. The
method of accounting under SFAS No. 123 has not been
applied to options granted prior to January 1995; therefore, the
resulting pro forma compensation expense may not be
representative of that to be expected in future years. Under
SFAS No. 123, the fair


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

value of each option grant is estimated on the
date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with
the following weighted-average assumptions:

Stock option transactions, including transactions
in ATI Common Stock under ATI’s incentive plan for Teledyne
Technologies’ employees that have been converted to
Teledyne Technologies options as noted above, are summarized as
follows:

The following table provides certain information
with respect to stock options outstanding and stock options
exercisable at year end 2001:

Non-Employee
Director Stock Compensation Plan

Teledyne Technologies also sponsors a stock plan
for non-employee directors pursuant to which non-employee
directors receive annual stock options and may receive stock or
stock options in lieu of their respective retainer and meeting
fees. During 2001, options for 48,661 shares were issued
under the plan with exercise prices between $8.67 and $22.47 and
a weighted-average exercise price of $13.04. During 2000,
options for 20,659 shares were issued under the plan with
exercise prices between $6.31 and $14.75 and a weighted-average
exercise price of $12.63. At year end 1999, options for
15,073 shares were issued


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

under the plan with exercise prices between $6.62
and $9.94 and a weighted-average exercise price of $9.70. The
options become exercisable one year after issuance and none have
been exercised.

Note 10. Related Party
Transactions

The accompanying financial statements include
transactions with ATI for the year-to-date period ended
November 29, 1999 (in millions):

(a)

For the year-to-date period ending
	November 29, 1999.

(b)

Includes $100 million in long-term debt
	incurred by ATI and assumed by Teledyne Technologies at the date
	of the spin-off.

Until the spin-off date, Teledyne Technologies
participated in ATI’s centralized cash management system.
Cash receipts in excess of cash requirements were transferred to
ATI. These transactions with ATI were non-interest bearing and
the net advances fluctuated on a daily basis.

Corporate general and administrative expenses
represent allocations for expenses incurred by ATI on the
Company’s behalf including costs for finance, legal, tax
and human resources functions. Amounts above were allocated
based on net sales, which management believes to be reasonable.
Teledyne Technologies participated in the defined benefit
pension plan sponsored by ATI through the date of the spin-off.
The expense for the plan was allocated to Teledyne Technologies
based upon actuarially-determined amounts for the pension
obligation and assets ultimately transferred from ATI to
Teledyne Technologies at the time of the spin-off. Teledyne
Technologies also participated in casualty, medical and life
insurance programs sponsored by ATI. Insurance expense was
allocated to Teledyne Technologies based upon actual losses
incurred plus a share of pooled catastrophic losses under the
ATI self-insurance program. In the opinion of management, the
allocations of these expenses were reasonable.

In addition, prior to and in connection with the
spin-off, Teledyne Technologies and ATI entered into agreements
providing for the separation of the companies and governing
various relationships for separating employee benefits and tax
obligations, indemnification and transition services.

Net sales include $1.4 million of sales to
other ATI subsidiaries for the eleven month period ended
November 29, 1999.

Mellon Financial Corporation reported that
subsidiaries in fiduciary capacities beneficially own about 5.2%
of our Common Stock at December 30, 2001. The
Company’s Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
is a director of Mellon Financial Corporation. Another of its
directors is a former chief executive officer and director of
Mellon Financial Corporation. All transactions with Mellon Bank,
N.A. and its affiliates are effected under normal commercial
terms, and the Company believes that its


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

relationships with Mellon Bank, N.A. and its
affiliates are arms-length. Mellon Bank, N.A. is one of nine
lenders under the Company’s $200 million credit
facility, having committed up to $33,750,000 under the facility.
It also provides cash management services and an uncommitted
$10 million line of credit. Mellon Bank, N.A. also serves
as trustee under our pension plan. Mellon Investor
Services LLC serves as our transfer agent and registrar, as
well as agent under our stockholders’ rights plan.

Note 11. Long-Term Debt

Long-term debt at December 30, 2001 was
$30 million in the form of bank borrowings under a
$200 million long-term, revolving credit agreement.
Borrowings under the agreement are on a revolving basis under
commitments available until November 2004. The Company had
$170 million available under its credit facility at
December 30, 2001. At December 31, 2000, Teledyne
Technologies had no long-term debt outstanding.

Borrowings under the revolving credit facility
bear interest, at Teledyne Technologies’ option, at a rate
based on either a defined base rate or the London Interbank
Offered Rate (LIBOR), plus applicable margins. At
December 30, 2001, the interest rate payable on the
outstanding debt was 2.60%. The agreement also provides for
facility fees which will vary between .35% and .20% of the
credit line, depending on Teledyne Technologies’
capitalization ratio as calculated from time to time. Total
interest expense including facility fees and other bank charges
was $2.1 million in 2001, $5.4 million in 2000 and
$0.8 million in 1999 from the date of the spin-off.

The financial covenants of the revolving credit
agreement require the Company to maintain specified minimum
consolidated net worth and ratios of consolidated debt and
interest expense to certain measures of income. Under the most
restrictive of these covenants, approximately $11.1 million
($9.5 million at December 31, 2000) of
stockholders’ equity was available for dividends as of
December 30, 2001.

Note 12. Income Taxes

Until the effective date of the spin-off,
Teledyne Technologies was included in the consolidated federal
and certain state income tax returns of ATI. ATI is responsible
for paying the taxes related to such returns including any
subsequent adjustment resulting from the redetermination of such
tax liability by the applicable taxing authorities. Provision
for income taxes for 1999 was calculated as if Teledyne
Technologies had filed separate income tax returns for that
year. Provision for income taxes from continuing operations was
as follows (in millions):


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Income before income taxes included income from
domestic operations of $11.7 million for 2001,
$52.4 million for 2000 and $78.1 million for 1999. The
following is a reconciliation of the statutory federal income
tax rate to the actual effective income tax rate:

Deferred income taxes result from temporary
differences in the recognition of income and expense for
financial and income tax reporting purposes, and differences
between the fair value of assets acquired in business
combinations accounted for as purchases for financial reporting
purposes and their corresponding tax bases. Deferred income
taxes represent future tax benefits or costs to be recognized
when those temporary differences reverse. No valuation allowance
has been recorded against deferred tax assets for 2001 or 2000.
The categories of assets and liabilities that have resulted in
differences in the timing of the recognition of income and
expense were as follows (in millions):

Note 13. Pension Plans and
Postretirement Benefits

Prior to the spin-off, certain Teledyne
Technologies’ employees participated in the noncontributory
defined benefit plan sponsored by ATI. Benefits under the
defined benefit plan are generally based on years of service
and/or final average pay. ATI funded the pension plan in
accordance with the requirements of the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the Internal
Revenue Code.

Net periodic pension income allocated to Teledyne
Technologies was $9.5 million, $9.0 million and
$6.6 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

As of the spin-off date, Teledyne Technologies
assumed the existing defined benefit plan obligations for all of
Teledyne Technologies’ employees, both active and inactive,
at its companies that perform government contract work and for
Teledyne Technologies’ active employees at its companies
that do not perform government contract work. ATI transferred
pension assets to fund the new Teledyne Technologies’
defined benefit pension plan, which at the time of the transfer
had assets in excess of liabilities.


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Teledyne Technologies also participated in a
401(k) plan that was open to all full time U.S. employees
and was sponsored by ATI. Teledyne Technologies established its
own 401(k) plan effective April 1, 2000. The costs
associated with these plans were $2.9 million,
$3.1 million, and $2.8 million, for 2001, 2000 and
1999, respectively.

The Company sponsors several postretirement
defined benefit plans covering certain salaried and hourly
employees. The plans provide health care and life insurance
benefits for certain eligible retirees.

The following table sets forth the components of
net period pension benefit (income) expense for Teledyne
Technologies’ defined benefit pension plans and
postretirement benefit plans for 2001, 2000 and 1999 (in
millions):

The following table sets forth the reconciliation
of the beginning and ending balances of the benefit obligation
of the defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans
(in millions):

The following table sets forth the reconciliation
of the beginning and ending balances of the fair value of plan
assets for Teledyne Technologies’ defined benefit pension
plans (in millions):


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

The weighted average discount rate used in
determining the benefit obligations was 7.5% as of
December 30, 2001 and December 31, 2000. The weighted
average rate of increase in future compensation levels used in
determining the benefit obligations was approximately 4.5% in
2001 and 2000. The expected weighted average long-term rate of
return on assets was 9.0% in 2001 and 2000.

The following table sets forth the funded status
and amounts recognized in Teledyne Technologies’
consolidated balance sheets for the defined benefit pension plan
and the postretirement benefit plan at year end 2001 and 2000
(in millions):

The annual assumed rate of increase in the per
capita cost of covered benefits (the health care cost trend
rate) for health care plans was 9% in 2002 and was assumed to
decrease to 5.5% by the year 2009 and remain at that level
thereafter. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a
significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care
plans. A one percentage point increase in the assumed health
care cost trend rates would result in an increase in the annual
service and interest costs by $49 thousand for 2001 and would
result in an increase in the postretirement benefit obligation
by $720 thousand at December 30, 2001. A one percentage
point decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rates would
result in a decrease in the annual service and interest costs by
$44 thousand for 2001 and would result in a decrease in the
postretirement benefit obligation by $644 thousand at
December 30, 2001.

Note 14. Business Segments

Teledyne Technologies is a leading provider of
sophisticated electronic components, instruments and
communications products, systems engineering solutions and
information technology services, and aerospace engines and
components. Its customers include aerospace prime contractors,
general aviation companies, government agencies and major
communications and other commercial companies.

As noted in Note 1, in 2001 the Company
realigned and changed the reporting structure of some of its
business units. This realignment resulted in a new segment, the
Energy Systems segment, the results of which had previously been
reported under our Systems Engineering Solutions segment.
Accordingly, previously reported segment data has been restated
to reflect this realignment and structure. Teledyne Technologies
now operates in four business segments: Electronics and
Communications, Systems Engineering Solutions, Aerospace Engines
and Components and Energy Systems. The factors for determining
the reportable segments were based on the distinct nature of
their operations. They are managed as separate business units
because each requires and is responsible for executing a unique
business strategy. The Electronics and Communications segment,
sometimes referred to as Teledyne Electronic Technologies,
provides a wide range of specialized electronic systems,
instruments components and services that address niche market
applications in commercial aerospace, communications, defense,


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

industrial and medical markets. The Systems
Engineering Solutions segment, principally through Teledyne
Brown Engineering, Inc., offers a wide range of engineering
solutions and information services to government defense,
aerospace and commercial customers. The Aerospace Engines and
Components segment, principally through Teledyne Continental
Motors, Inc., focuses on the design, development and manufacture
of piston engines, turbine engines, electronic engine controls
and batteries. The Energy Systems segment, through Teledyne
Energy Systems, Inc., provides on-site gas and power generation
systems based on proprietary fuel cell, electrolysis and
thermoelectric technologies. It currently includes the
majority-owned entity that was formed in the third quarter of
2001.

Identifiable assets are those assets used in the
operations of the segments. Corporate assets primarily consist
of cash and cash equivalents, deferred tax assets, net pension
assets and other assets, including the net assets of
discontinued operations in 1999.


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Information on the Company’s business
segments was as follows (in millions):

The Company’s total backlog of confirmed
orders was approximately $300.8 million at
December 30, 2001, $339.2 million at December 31,
2000 and $348.0 million at January 2, 2000.


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Information on the Company’s sales to the
U.S. Government, including direct sales as a prime contractor
and indirect sales as a subcontractor, were as follows (in
millions):

Sales to the U.S. Government included sales to
the Department of Defense of $226.6 million in 2001,
$246.8 million in 2000 and $232.1 million in 1999.

Total international sales were
$126.2 million in 2001, $135.2 million in 2000 and
$136.9 million in 1999. Of these amounts, sales by
operations in the United States to customers in other countries
were $113.6 million in 2001, $119.2 million in 2000
and $119.9 million in 1999. There were no sales to
individual countries outside of the United States in excess of
10 percent of the Company’s net sales. Sales between
business segments, which were not material, generally were
priced at prevailing market prices.

Note 15. Commitments and
Contingencies

Rental expense, under operating leases, net of
sublease income, was $9.6 million in 2001,
$8.4 million in 2000 and $9.9 million in 1999. Future
minimum rental commitments under operating leases with
non-cancelable terms of more than one year as of
December 30, 2001, were as follows (in millions): $8.8 in
2002, $7.6 in 2003, $5.6 in 2004, $2.5 in 2005, $2.1 in 2006 and
$11.4 thereafter.

The Company is subject to federal, state and
local environmental laws and regulations which require that it
investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal
of materials at sites associated with past and present
operations, including sites at which the Company has been
identified as a potentially responsible party under the federal
Superfund laws and comparable state laws. The Company has been
identified as a potentially responsible party at approximately
17 such sites, excluding those at which the Company believes it
has no future liability.

In accordance with the Company’s accounting
policy disclosed in Note 2, environmental liabilities are
recorded when the Company’s liability is probable and the
costs are reasonably estimable. In many cases, however,
investigations are not yet at a stage where the Company has been
able to determine whether it is liable or, if liability is
probable, to reasonably estimate the loss or range of loss, or
certain components thereof. Estimates of the Company’s
liability are further subject to uncertainties regarding the
nature and extent of site contamination, the range of
remediation alternatives available, evolving remediation
standards, imprecise engineering evaluations and estimates of
appropriate cleanup technology, methodology and cost, the extent
of corrective actions that may be required, and the number and
financial condition of other potentially responsible parties, as
well as the extent of their responsibility for the remediation.
Accordingly, as investigation and remediation of these sites
proceeds, it is likely that adjustments in the Company’s
accruals will be necessary to reflect new information. The
amounts of any such adjustments could have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s results of operations in a given
period, but the amounts, and the possible range of loss in
excess of the amounts accrued, are not reasonably estimable.
Based on currently available information, however, management
does not believe that future environmental costs in excess of
those accrued with respect to sites with which the Company has
been identified are likely to have a material adverse effect on
the Company’s financial condition or liquidity. However,
there can be no assurance that additional future developments,
administrative actions or liabilities relating to


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

environmental matters will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or
results of operations.

At December 30, 2001, the Company’s
reserves for environmental remediation obligations totaled
approximately $2.4 million, of which approximately $0.7
million were included in other current liabilities. The Company
is evaluating whether it may be able to recover a portion of
future costs for environmental liabilities from its insurance
carriers and from third parties other than participating
potentially responsible parties.

The timing of expenditures depends on a number of
factors that vary by site, including the nature and extent of
contamination, the number of potentially responsible parties,
the timing of regulatory approvals, the complexity of the
investigation and remediation, and the standards for
remediation. The Company expects that it will expend present
accruals over many years, and will complete remediation of all
sites with which it has been identified in up to thirty years.

Various claims (whether based on U.S. Government
or Company audits and investigations or otherwise) have been or
may be asserted against the Company related to its U.S.
Government contract work, including claims based on business
practices and cost classifications and actions under the False
Claims Act. Although such claims are generally resolved by
detailed fact-finding and negotiation, on those occasions when
they are not so resolved, civil or criminal legal or
administrative proceedings may ensue. Depending on the
circumstances and the outcome, such proceedings could result in
fines, penalties, compensatory and treble damages or the
cancellation or suspension of payments under one or more U.S.
Government contracts. Under government regulations, a company,
or one or more of its operating divisions or units, can also be
suspended or debarred from government contracts based on the
results of investigations. However, although the outcome of
these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, management
does not believe there is any audit, review or investigation
currently pending against the Company of which management is
aware that is likely to result in suspension or debarment of the
Company, or that is otherwise likely to have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s financial condition or liquidity,
although the resolution in any reporting period of one or more
of these matters could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s results of operations for that period.

The Company learns from time to time that it has
been named as a defendant in civil actions filed under seal
pursuant to the False Claims Act. Generally, since such cases
are under seal, the Company does not in all cases possess
sufficient information to determine whether the Company could
sustain a material loss in connection with such cases, or to
reasonably estimate the amount of any loss attributable to such
cases.

In connection with the spin-off, ATI received a
tax ruling from the Internal Revenue Service stating in
principle that the spin-off will be tax free to ATI and
ATI’s stockholders. The continuing validity of the IRS tax
ruling is subject to the use of the proceeds from the public
offering for research and development and related capital
projects, for the further development of manufacturing
capabilities and for acquisitions and/or joint ventures. At
December 30, 2001 this requirement had been satisfied.

The Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement
between ATI and Teledyne Technologies provides that the Company
will indemnify ATI and its agents and representatives for taxes
imposed on, and other amounts paid by, them or ATI stockholders
if the Company takes actions or fails to take actions that
result in the spin-off not qualifying as a tax-free
distribution. If the Company were required to so indemnify ATI,
such an obligation could have a material adverse effect on its
financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and the
amount the Company could be required to pay could exceed its net
worth by a substantial amount.

A number of other lawsuits, claims and
proceedings have been or may be asserted against the Company
relating to the conduct of its business, including those
pertaining to product liability, patent infringement,
commercial, employment and employee benefits. While the outcome
of litigation cannot be


TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

predicted with certainty, and some of these
lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be determined adversely to
the Company, management does not believe that the disposition of
any such pending matters is likely to have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s financial condition or liquidity,
although the resolution in any reporting period of one or more
of these matters could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s results of operations for that period.

Note 16. Quarterly Financial Data
(Unaudited)

The following is Teledyne Technologies’
quarterly information (in millions, except per-share amounts):

(a)

The 2001 results include second quarter pretax
	charges of $26.4 million for asset impairments and
	restructuring and other charges, of which a pretax charge of
	$0.3 million is included in discontinued operations.

(b)

The 2000 results include second quarter pretax
	charges of $12 million for product recall reserves and
	pretax charges totaling $2.2 million in the fourth quarter
	of 2000 for receivables and cost adjustments.


Schedule II

TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

For the Fiscal Years Ended December 30,
2001, December 31, 2000 and January 2, 2000

(In millions)

(a)

Represents payments except the 2000 amount for
	allowance for doubtful accounts primarily represents the
	collection of an account previously reserved.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized as of March 18, 2002.

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated (Registrant)

By:

/s/ ROBERT MEHRABIAN

Robert Mehrabian

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.

EXHIBIT INDEX

*

Filed herewith.

†

Denotes management contract or compensatory plan
	or arrangement required to be filed as an Exhibit to this
	Form 10-K.