10-K


v96916e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

Teledyne Technologies Inc. Form 10-K


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR SECTION 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 28, 2003

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission file number:  1-15295

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Delaware

25-1843385

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification Number)

12333 West Olympic Boulevard

Los Angeles, California 90064-1021

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip
Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code: (310) 893-1600

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter period that
the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days.   Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this
Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is
an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).  Yes

þ

No

o

The aggregate market value of the
registrant’s Common Stock held by non-affiliates was $413.9
million, based on the closing price of a share of Common Stock
on June 27, 2003 ($13.69), which is the last business day
of the registrant’s most recently completed fiscal second
quarter. Shares of Common Stock known by the registrant to be
beneficially owned by the registrant’s directors and the
registrant’s executive officers subject to Section 16
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are not included in the
computation. The registrant, however, has made no determination
that such persons are “affiliates” within the meaning
of Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

At February 27, 2004, there were 32,450,566
shares of the registrant’s Common Stock issued and
outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Selected portions of the registrant’s proxy
statement for its 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the
“2004 Proxy Statement”) are incorporated by reference
in Part III of this Report. Information required by paragraphs
(a) and (b) of Item 306 of Regulations S-K and by
paragraphs (k) and (l) of Item 402 of
Regulation S-K is not incorporated by reference in this
Form 10-K or in any other filing of the registrant. Such
information shall not be deemed “soliciting material”
or to be filed with the Commission as permitted by paragraph
(c) of Item 306 and Instruction (9) to
Item 402 of Regulation S-K.



INDEX

Defined Terms

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Teledyne
Technologies Incorporated is sometimes referred to as the
“Company”, “Teledyne”, “Teledyne
Technologies” or “TDY”. References to
“ATI” mean Allegheny Technologies Incorporated,
formerly known as Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated, the company
from which we were spun-off on November 29, 1999.

i


PART I

Item 1. Business.

Who We Are

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is a leading
provider of sophisticated electronic components, instruments and
communications products, including defense electronics, data
acquisition and communications equipment for airlines and
business aircraft, monitoring and control instruments for
industrial and environmental applications and components, and
subsystems for wireless and satellite communications. We also
provide systems engineering solutions and information technology
services for space, defense and industrial applications, and
manufacture general aviation and missile engines and components,
as well as on-site gas and power generation systems.

We serve niche market segments where performance,
precision and reliability are critical. Our customers include
major industrial and communications companies, government
agencies, aerospace prime contractors and general aviation
companies.

Total sales in 2003 were $840.7 million,
compared with $772.7 million and $744.3 million in
2002 and 2001, respectively. Our aggregate segment operating
profits were $61.9 million, $57.3 million and
$24.2 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
Approximately 54% of our total sales in 2003 was to commercial
customers and the balance was to the U.S. Government, as a prime
contractor or subcontractor. Approximately 44% of these U.S.
Government sales was attributable to fixed price-type contracts
and the balance to cost plus fee-type contracts. International
sales accounted for approximately 16% of total sales in 2003.

Our four business segments and their respective
contributions to our total sales in 2003, 2002 and 2001 are
summarized in the following table:

Our principal executive offices are located at
12333 West Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California
90064-1021. Our telephone number is (310) 893-1600.

Strategy

Principally through focused acquisitions of
complementary product lines and businesses, we seek to build
growth platforms around three core markets: aerospace and
defense electronics; electronic instrumentation; and government
systems engineering. We also intend to continue to focus on
managing costs and operational excellence in every aspect of our
business, from finance to manufacturing, as well as with the
integration of our acquisitions. We continually evaluate our
product lines to ensure that they are aligned with our strategy.

Recent Acquisitions

After completing one acquisition in each of 2001
and 2002, we completed three acquisitions in calendar year 2003
and one in 2004.

On May 16, 2003, to expand further into the
    environmental instrumentation market, we acquired Mason,
    Ohio-based Tekmar Company from Emerson Electric Co. Tekmar
    Company, now known as


Our acquisitions of Monitor Labs Incorporated and
Advanced Pollution Instrumentation, Inc., completed in 2002 and
2001, respectively, greatly expanded our presence in the
air-quality monitoring segment of the environmental
instrumentation market.

Each of the acquired businesses is part of our
Electronics and Communications segment. Their results are
included in our consolidated financial statements since their
respective dates of acquisition. The Solid State and Leeman
Lab’s asset acquisitions occurred in our 2004 fiscal year.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, any Current Reports on
Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports, are
available on our Internet website as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or
furnish them to, the SEC. In addition, our Corporate Governance
Guidelines, our Corporate Objectives and Guidelines for Employee
Conduct and the charters of the standing committees of our Board
of Directors are available on our website. Our website address
is

www.teledyne.com

.

You will be responsible for any costs normally
associated with electronic access, such as usage and telephone
charges. Alternatively, if you would like a paper copy of any
such SEC report (without exhibits) or document, please write to
John T. Kuelbs, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary, Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, 12333 West
Olympic Blvd., Los Angeles, California 90064-1021, and a copy of
such requested document will be provided to you, free of charge.

Our Business Segments

Electronics and Communications

Our Electronics and Communications segment,
sometimes referred to as Teledyne Electronic Technologies,
provides a wide range of specialized electronic systems,
instruments, components and services that address niche market
applications in commercial aerospace, defense, communications,
industrial and medical markets.

Instrumentation
Products

During 2001, we formed Teledyne Instruments, a
group of business units drawn from our Electronics and
Communications segment and our Systems Engineering Solutions
segment, to focus on monitoring and



process control instrumentation. Since then,
through acquisitions, we have greatly expanded our presence in
the environmental instrumentation markets. In addition to
environmental monitoring, we are targeting higher growth markets
such as food and beverage quality control.

Environmental
Instruments.

As a result of our
acquisitions, we offer a wide range of products for
environmental monitoring. Teledyne Advanced Pollution
Instrumentation, Inc., manufactures a broad line of instruments
for monitoring low levels of gases such as sulfur dioxide,
carbon monoxide and ozone. Teledyne Monitor Labs, Inc., supplies
environmental monitoring systems for the detection, measurement
and reporting of air pollutants. Teledyne Tekmar Company
manufactures instruments that automate the preparation and
concentration of drinking water and wastewater samples for the
analysis of volatile organic compounds in gas chromatographs. It
also provides laboratory analytical systems for the detection of
total organic carbon.

Gas Analysis.

Teledyne Analytical Instruments was a pioneer in the development
of precision oxygen analyzers and now offers a broad range of
products with various sensitivities for petrochemical,
semiconductor manufacturing and other industrial applications.
We also manufacture analyzers for a variety of other gases for
such market applications. In 2003, we received orders for gas
analyzers from a leading supplier of carbon dioxide to the food
and beverage market.

Vacuum and Flow
Measurement.

Teledyne Hastings
Instruments manufactures a broad line of instruments for precise
measurement and control of vacuum and gas flows. Our instruments
are used in such varied applications as semiconductor
manufacturing, refrigeration, metallurgy and food processing.

Geophysical
Instruments.

We manufacture
geophysical streamer cables, hydrophones and specialty products
used in offshore hydrocarbon exploration (to locate oil and gas
reserves beneath the ocean floor). We have been adapting this
technology for the military market, where these products can be
used to detect submarines, surface ships and torpedoes.

Test Services.

We
manufacture torque sensors and provide technical services for
such critical applications as monitoring valves in nuclear power
plants.

Aerospace
and Defense Electronics

Aircraft Information Management.

Our aircraft information management
solutions are designed to increase the safety and efficiency of
airline transportation. Through Teledyne Controls, we are a
leading supplier of digital flight data acquisition and flight
safety systems to civil aviation customers. These systems
acquire data for use by the aircraft’s flight data
recorder, and record additional data for the airline’s
operation, such as performance and engine condition monitoring.
We have provided these systems to our airline customers for over
one-half of Boeing aircraft models in existing airline fleets.
We have been increasingly providing our systems to Airbus A320
and A330/340 family aircraft, and we estimate that our forward
fit market share was approximately 50% at the end of 2003. In
July 2003, we acquired the Aviation Information Solutions
(AIS) businesses of Spirent plc. AIS designs and
manufactures aerospace data acquisition devices, networking
products, and flight deck and cabin displays.

Although our data acquisition, recording and
communications products are primarily used on commercial
aircraft, we have been pursuing military applications. The U.S.
Air Force selected our Optical Quick Access Recorder for use on
its C-17 Globemaster III military transport aircraft. A
prototype Digital Data Acquisition System and a Wireless
GroundLink™ System have been flight certified on a U.S.
Navy P-3 aircraft. Teledyne Controls was also awarded a
subcontract under a U.S. Air Force program to embed its
communications software into aircraft flight management systems
for the C-130 Transport and B-767 Tanker aircraft.

Traveling Wave
Tubes.

Our helix traveling wave tubes
are used to provide broadband power amplification of microwave
signals. Military applications include radar, electronic warfare
and satellite communication. We were the first company to offer
multi-band tubes that permit a satellite communication earth
station to quickly switch from one satellite system to another
without the need for transmitter replacement. Sales of triband
traveling wave tubes have increased as the U.S. military adds



additional capacity for various satellite
communication systems. Commercial applications for traveling
wave tubes include electromagnetic compatibility test equipment
and satellite communication terminals for mobile newsgathering.

Microwave Components and
Subsystems.

We design, develop, and
manufacture microwave components used in aerospace and defense
applications. On December 31, 2003, we acquired certain U.S.
assets of Filtronic Solid State from Filtronic plc. The Solid
State business designs and manufactures customized microwave
subassemblies for electronic warfare, radar and other military
applications.

Microelectronic
Modules.

We develop and manufacture
custom microelectronic modules that provide both high
reliability and extremely dense packaging for military
applications, as well as implantable medical devices and
commercial communication products. Our microelectronic modules
are used for optical communications on the F-22 Raptor and we
have been selected to provide similar products for the F-35
Joint Strike Fighter. We also develop custom tamper-resistant
microcircuits designed to provide enhanced security in military
communication.

Rigid-Flex Printed Circuit
Boards.

Our patented rigid-flex
printed circuit boards permit our customers to assemble reliable
high-density electronic modules that are used in a variety of
military and commercial aerospace applications. Our new
VME-Flex™ products have been designed into two major
defense programs.

Sequencers.

Teledyne
Electronic Safety Products continues to provide
microprocessor-controlled aircraft ejection seat sequencers and
related support elements to military aircraft programs,
including the F/ A-18E/ F and F/ A-22. We are currently
developing a new sequencer in support of the F-35 Joint Strike
Fighter program.

Other
Electronic Components

Wireless Transceivers and
Amplifiers.

Our line of integrated
transceiver modules provides high data rate point-to-point
connectivity in cellular telephone infrastructure. We also
supply solid-state microwave power amplifiers used in satellite
uplink terminals for corporate networking and to provide two-way
internet access via satellite for both consumer and commercial
customers.

Relays and Switches.

Teledyne Relays supplies electromechanical relays, solid-state
power relays and coaxial switching devices to industrial,
commercial, aerospace and military markets. Applications include
microwave and wireless communication infrastructure, RF and
general broadband test equipment, test equipment used in
semiconductor manufacturing, general-purpose military
applications, satellite and aircraft, and industrial and
commercial machinery and control equipment.

Connectors.

We
manufacture custom surface mount connectors for applications in
computer disk drives and consumer medical electronic devices.
Teledyne Interconnect Devices also manufactures high-density
land grid array connectors for high-end microprocessors and
Digital Micromirror Device sockets.

Electronic
Manufacturing Services

Electronics Equipment and Printed Circuit Card
Assembly

. We serve the market for
high-mix, low-volume manufacturing of electronic products
principally through facilities in Tennessee and Mexico. The
products we manufacture include sophisticated military
electronics equipment. We also manufacture, principally for one
customer, key subsystems in medical equipment such as magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) and x-ray systems.

Optoelectronic
Modules.

We provide turnkey
manufacturing services for custom optoelectronic modules used in
high data rate communications. Our capabilities include
submicron alignment of single mode fiber, environmental and life
certification, and test of transmitter and receiver capabilities
at data rates up to 40 gigabits per second.



Systems Engineering Solutions

Our Systems Engineering Solutions segment,
principally through Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc., applies
the skills of its extensive staff of engineers and scientists to
provide innovative systems engineering, advanced technology, and
manufacturing solutions to defense, space, environmental, and
homeland security requirements.

Defense

Teledyne Brown Engineering is a well-recognized
full-service missile defense contractor with over 50 years
of experience in missile defense and related systems
integration. Our diverse customer base in this field includes
the U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command (“AMCOM”),
the U.S. Army’s Space and Missile Defense Command
(“SMDC”), the Missile Defense Agency (“MDA”)
and major prime defense contractors.

Our Technologies Group plays significant roles in
diverse national missile defense areas, which range from targets
and countermeasures, systems engineering, modeling and
simulation, to test and evaluation, as well as other related
areas. Our engineering and technological services include
systems design, development, integration and testing, with
specialization in real-time distributed systems. In 2003, the
Technologies Group, which possesses core competencies in
software-based test and evaluation, data analysis and modeling
and simulation, achieved the Software Engineering
Institute’s Capability Maturity Model (or “CMM”)
Level 4 rating.

During 2003, we continued our long-standing
support of the Ground-based Midcourse Defense (“GMD”)
Program. In December 2003, we also broadened our role in
ballistic missile defense by winning, as part of the Lockheed
Martin team, the Targets and Countermeasures program awarded by
the Missile Defense Agency. This program involves the test of
missile defense technologies and verification of ballistic
missile defense system performance on a large number of major
programs, including the Airborne Laser, the Kinetic Energy
Interceptor, the Ground-based Midcourse Defense, the Aegis
Ballistic Missile Defense, the Patriot Advanced Capability 3,
and the Theater High Altitude Area Defense (“THAAD”).

We have developed and maintain a variety of
world-class modeling and simulation tools, ranging from
architecture/force structure to components-requirement-focused
tools. In 2003, we expanded our Space Control activities for the
U.S. Strategic Command. Although we do not have a contract with
U.S. Strategic Command, it is our understanding that it
plans to replace one of its existing software models with our
Extended Air Defense Simulation (“EADSIM”). The EADSIM
software provides complex multi-force simulations of air,
missile and space warfare. It is used by almost 400 agencies in
10 foreign countries for defense analysis training and
operational planning.

Aerospace

We have been active in U.S. space programs for
almost 50 years and continue to be a significant
contributor to NASA programs. Our Systems Group plays a key role
in the International Space Station (“ISS”), one of the
most complex scientific endeavors ever undertaken, and has had
roles in the Space Shuttle program. We have provided
24-hour-per-day service for the payload operation cadre for the
ISS Payload Operations and Integration Center, located at
NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center. We have also
manufactured more than 50 flight-qualified hardware items for
use on cargo integration on the ISS. As a subcontractor to
Lockheed Martin, we were awarded the International Space Station
Cargo Mission Contract at the Johnson Space Center in 2003. This
six-year contract involves providing services related to
planning, preparation and execution of cargo missions to the ISS.

We have been the prime contractor for the
Propellants, Pressurants and Calibration Services Contract at
Marshall Space Flight Center since 1971. In 2003, our role was
extended for another five years. Under this contract, we furnish
management, personnel, equipment and materials to operate and
maintain the propellant and pressurant generating systems,
storage and distribution systems, including work on the Space
Shuttle and ISS, as well as management and operation of the
calibration facilities at the Marshall Space Flight Center.



Environmental
Systems

We support the U.S. Government’s efforts to
clean up dangerous materials and waste. Since 1996, we have
supported the U.S. Army’s Non-Stockpile Chemical Materiel
Program and we continue to operate the Rapid Response System, a
mobile chemical waste treatment system used to process chemical
agents for disposal. These chemical agents had been used in the
past to train military personnel in the detection, measurement
and decontamination of dangerous chemicals. In 2003, for
example, we won a $20.4 million U.S. Army contract to
support the destruction of binary chemical warfare materiel
stored at the Pine Bluff Arsenal in Arkansas. We also produce
canisters for the processing, stabilization and storage of
nuclear-waste products. In addition, we produce detonation
chambers for use in the disposal of both chemical weapons and
conventional munitions.

We operate a Department of Energy-certified
radiological analysis services laboratory in Knoxville,
Tennessee. This laboratory has received certification from the
National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program in 13
states, including Utah where the Department of Energy maintains
its primary waste depository. With its Nuclear Utilities
Procurement Issues Committee certification, the laboratory can
serve commercial utilities.

Homeland
Security

Since the 1950s, we have worked to defend the
nation from ballistic missiles, and we are now working to
leverage our environmental capabilities into the Homeland
Defense market, where expertise in the destruction of small lots
of hazardous material may be required. In the Homeland Security
arena, we offer to police departments and other first responders
our WaterSabre™ mobile disaster response system to
investigate and neutralize suspected explosive devices. This
system is a remotely operated, ultra-high-pressure waterjet
cutting system, mounted on a hazardous duty robot, and
integrated with an emergency response vehicle. Cameras mounted
on the robot provide a view of the cutting process and suspected
devices to the operator in the vehicle, which can be located up
to approximately 1,300 feet away.

Our support of the Federal Aviation
Administration also increased in 2003 with a proof of concept
for the Automated Airborne Flight Alert System. This effort is
to demonstrate a data system that will provide selected aircraft
flight data and situational awareness data to ground agencies
for homeland security purposes.

Teledyne
Solutions, Inc.

Through Teledyne Solutions, Inc., we are the
primary Ballistic Missile Defense (“BMD”) systems
engineering and technical assistance contractor for the U.S.
Army. Teledyne Solutions has responsibility for the Systems
Engineering and Technical Assistance Contract
(“SETAC”) in support of the U.S. Army Space and
Missile Defense Command. We also provide Systems Engineering and
Technical Assistance support to other major Department of
Defense customers including the Missile Defense Agency and the
Program Executive Office for Air, Space, and Missile Defense.

Aerospace Engines and Components

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment
focuses on the design, development and manufacture of piston
engines, turbine engines, electronic engine controls and
aviation batteries.

Piston
Engines

Principally through Teledyne Continental Motors,
Inc., we design, develop and manufacture piston engines and
ignition systems for major general aviation airframe
manufacturers and provide spare parts and engine rebuilding
services. We are one of two primary worldwide original equipment
producers of piston engines for the general aviation marketplace.

Our product lines include engines powering the
Raytheon Beech Bonanza and Baron aircraft, the Mooney Aircraft
line of advanced single engine aircraft, and the popular New
Piper Seneca V twin-engine



aircraft. In addition to these long-standing
products, our engines power new high-speed composite aircraft,
including the Cirrus SR-20 and SR-22, the Diamond C1, and the
Lancair Columbia 300 and Columbia 350. We are also continuing to
work with Honda Motor Company in evaluating a new aircraft
engine primarily targeted at segments of the piston engine
aviation market adjacent to our existing business.

In addition to the sales of new aircraft engines
to aircraft producers, we actively support the aircraft engine
aftermarket. Piston aircraft engines are produced with a finite
utilization life generally expressed as time between overhauls.
Our aftermarket support includes building and rebuilding of
complete engines, as well as providing a full complement of
spare parts such as cylinders, crankcases, fuel systems,
crankshafts, camshafts and ignition products. In addition,
through Teledyne Mattituck Services, Inc., located in Long
Island, New York, we serve as an aftermarket supplier and piston
engine overhauler to the general aviation marketplace.

Through Aerosance, Inc., we developed the first
production full authority digital electronic controls for piston
aircraft engines. These controls, known as PowerLink™ FADEC
(Full Authority Digital Electronic Control), are designed to
automate many functions that currently require manual control,
such as fuel flow and power management. This system also saves
fuel as a result of improved engine management. We continue the
development of FADEC-equipped engines targeted at the most
popular models of four and six cylinder piston aircraft engines
in use throughout the world. We believe that these control
systems will become standard equipment on selected new aircraft
and will be retrofitted on higher-end, piston engine general
aviation aircraft.

In addition, our Gill™ line of lead acid
batteries is widely recognized as the premier power source for
general aviation. We are also continuing to develop sealed
recombinant batteries for business jet and helicopter
applications. Teledyne Battery Products, in conjunction with
Teledyne Controls, jointly developed an onboard charging and
cockpit display kit that permits existing NiCad battery systems
to be replaced with Gill™ sealed lead acid batteries.

Turbine
Engines

We design, develop and manufacture small turbine
engines primarily used in tactical missiles for military markets.

Our J402 engine powers the HARPOON missile
system. Derivatives of this engine power the Standoff Land
Attack Missile and the Standoff Land Attack Missile-Expanded
Response. Lockheed Martin Corporation selected a derivative of
the J402 engine to power the Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff
Missile (“JASSM”). We are the sole source provider of
engines for the base JASSM system. The base JASSM production
requirement is currently estimated at approximately 2,900 units.

Our J700 engine provides the turbine power for
the Improved Tactical Air Launched Decoy (“ITALD”)
built for the U.S. Navy. The ITALD system enhances combat
aircraft survivability by both serving as a decoy and
identifying enemy radar sources.

Energy Systems

Our Energy Systems segment, through Teledyne
Energy Systems, Inc., provides hydrogen gas generators and
thermoelectric and fuel cell-based power sources. Teledyne
Energy Systems, Inc., a majority owned subsidiary of TDY, was
formed in 2001 by combining Teledyne Brown Engineering’s
Energy Systems business unit with assets and intellectual
properties of Florida-based Energy Partners, Inc.

Our energy systems activities include a 50-year
history of supplying high reliability energy conversion devices
and gas generation products based on thermoelectric and
electrochemical processes. We provided the thermoelectric power
systems for several successful deep-space missions such as the
Viking 1 and Viking 2 Mars Landers and the Pioneer 10 and 11
missions to Jupiter and Saturn. In 2003, in partnership with
Boeing, we were awarded a ten-year $57 million contract by the
U.S. Department of Energy to develop a new Multi-Mission
Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator (“MMRTG”)
capable of supporting



planetary landing and deep space probe missions.
If selected for flight, the first of two production units could
be used to power the Mars Science Lander scheduled to launch in
2009.

We also manufacture hydrogen/oxygen gas
generators that utilize the principle of electrolysis to convert
water into high purity hydrogen gas at useable pressures. Our
Teledyne Titan™ gas generators are used worldwide in
electrical power generation plants, semiconductor manufacture,
optical fiber production, chemical processing and other
industrial processes.

We have a line of fuel cell test stations
designed to provide a completely integrated system for fuel cell
testing for the PEM fuel cell development market. Our Medusa
line of fuel cell test systems provides high quality, simple to
use automated test stations for fuel cell and fuel cell stack
testing up to 10 kilowatts. In 2003, we also introduced Fuel
Cell Testing Services.

We continue to focus our PEM fuel cell
development efforts on high reliability, long endurance power
systems for the immediate needs of military and aerospace
customers. For example, we are currently working on a contract
to deliver a PEM fuel cell power system prototype for use in the
Second Generation Reusable Launch Vehicle.

Customers

We have hundreds of customers in the electronics,
communications, aerospace and defense industries. No commercial
customer accounted for more than 10% of our total sales during
2003, 2002 or 2001.

Approximately 46%, 46% and 45% of our total sales
for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, were derived from
contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S.
Government. Our principal U.S. Government customer is the U.S.
Department of Defense. In 2003, 2002 and 2001, our largest
program with the U.S. Government, The Boeing Company —
Ground-based Midcourse Defense contract, represented 5.8%, 7.5%
and 7.4% of total sales, respectively. Set forth below are sales
by our segments to agencies and prime contractors to the U.S.
Government for the periods presented:

U.S. Government Sales

Our total backlog of confirmed orders was
approximately $369.7 million at December 28, 2003,
$324.1 million at December 29, 2002 and
$300.8 million at December 30, 2001.

Sales and Marketing

Our sales and marketing approach varies by
segment and by products within our segments. A shared
fundamental tenet is the commitment to work closely with our
customers to understand their needs, with an aim to secure
preferred supplier and longer-term relationships.

Our business segments use a combination of
internal sales forces, distributors and commissioned sales
representatives to market and sell our products and services.
Products are also advertised in appropriate trade journals and
by means of various websites. To promote our products and other
capabilities, our personnel regularly participate in relevant
trade shows and professional associations. Many of our
government contracts are awarded after a competitive bidding
process in which we seek to emphasize our ability to provide
superior products and technical solutions in addition to
competitive pricing.



Principally through Teledyne Technologies
International Corp., the Company has established branch offices
in foreign countries to facilitate international sales for
various businesses.

Competition

We believe that technological capabilities and
innovation and the ability to invest in the development of new
and enhanced products are critical to obtaining and maintaining
leadership in our markets and the industries in which we compete
generally. Although we have certain advantages that we believe
help us compete in our markets effectively, each of our markets
is highly competitive. Our businesses vigorously compete on the
basis of quality, product performance and reliability, technical
expertise, price and service. Many of our competitors have, and
potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a
larger installed base of products, more extensive engineering,
manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and
greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we
do.

Research and Development

Our research and development efforts primarily
involve engineering and design related to improving product
lines and developing new products and technologies in the same
or similar fields. We spent a total of $218.1 million,
$196.8 million and $210.7 million on research and
development and bid and proposal costs for 2003, 2002 and 2001,
respectively. Customer-funded research and development, most of
which was attributable to work under contracts with the U.S.
Government, represented approximately 87%, 87% and 85% of total
research and development costs for 2003, 2002 and 2001,
respectively.

In 2003, approximately 63% of the
$27.9 million in Company-funded research and development
and bid and proposal costs were incurred in our electronics and
communications businesses. We expect the level of Company-funded
research and development and bid and proposal costs to be
approximately $31.8 million in 2004.

Intellectual Property

While we own and control various intellectual
property rights, including patents, trade secrets, confidential
information, trademarks, trade names, and copyrights, which, in
the aggregate, are of material importance to our business, our
management believes that our business as a whole is not
materially dependent upon any one intellectual property or
related group of such properties. We own several hundred active
patents and are licensed to use certain patents, technology and
other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by
others. Similarly, other companies are licensed to use certain
patents, technology and other intellectual property rights owned
and controlled by us.

Patents, patent applications and license
agreements will expire or terminate over time by operation of
law, in accordance with their terms or otherwise. We do not
expect the expiration or termination of these patents, patent
applications and license agreements to have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations or financial
condition.

In connection with our spin-off in 1999, an
affiliate of ATI granted us an exclusive license to use the
“Teledyne” name and related logos, symbols and marks
in connection with our operations. The annual fee is $100,000
for this license and on November 24, 2004, we have an
option to purchase all rights and interests in the Teledyne
marks for $412,000.

Employees

Our total current workforce consists of
approximately 5,300 employees. The International Union of United
Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of
America represents approximately 267 employees in Mobile,
Alabama under a collective bargaining agreement that expires by
its terms on February 21, 2007. This union also represents
approximately 24 of our employees in Toledo, Ohio under a
collective bargaining agreement that expires by its terms on
November 9, 2006. In addition, this union



represents approximately 40 employees in
Abbeville, Alabama under a collective bargaining agreement that
expires on October 15, 2004. We consider our relations with
our employees to be good.

Executive Management

TDY’s executive management includes:





*

Such officers are subject to the reporting and
    other requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934, as amended.

Dr. Mehrabian has an Amended and Restated
Employment Agreement with Teledyne Technologies, which provides
that we will employ him as the Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer. The agreement terminates on December 31
of each year, but will be extended annually unless either party
gives the other written notice prior to October 31 of the
year of such term that it will not be extended. Starting
September 1, 2003, Dr. Mehrabian’s annual base
salary was $610,000. The agreement provides that
Dr. Mehrabian is entitled to participate in TDY’s
annual incentive bonus plan and other executive compensation and
benefit programs. The agreement provides Dr. Mehrabian with
a non-qualified pension arrangement, under which Teledyne
Technologies will pay him following his retirement, as payments
supplemental to any accrued pension under our qualified pension
plan, an amount equal to 50% of his base compensation as in
effect at retirement. The number of years for which such annual
amount shall be paid will be equal to the number of years of his
service to TDY (including service to ATI), but not more than
10 years.

Fourteen current members of management have
entered into Change in Control Severance Agreements with
Teledyne Technologies. The agreements have a three-year,
automatically renewing term. Under the agreements, the executive
is entitled to severance benefits if (1) there is a change
in control of TDY and (2) within three months before or
24 months after the change in control, either we terminate
the executive’s employment for reasons other than for cause
or the executive terminates employment for good reason.
“Severance benefits” consist of:

•

A cash payment equal to three times (in the case
    of Dr. Mehrabian and Messrs. Kuelbs, Schnittjer and
    Link and one other executive) or two times (in the case of
    Mr. Pichelli and eight other executives) the sum of
    (i) the executive’s highest annual base salary within
    the year preceding the change in control and (ii) the
    Annual Incentive Plan (“AIP”) bonus target for the
    year in which the change in control occurs or the year
    immediately preceding the change in control, whichever is higher.



Risk Factors; Cautionary Statement as to
Forward-Looking Statements

The following text highlights various risks and
uncertainties associated with Teledyne Technologies. These
factors could materially affect “forward-looking
statements” (within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that we may from time to time
make, including forward-looking statements contained in
“Item 1. Business” and “Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K and in
TDY’s 2003 Annual Report to Stockholders.

Our dependence on revenue from government
contracts subjects us to many risks, including the risk that we
may not be successful in bidding for future contracts and the
risk that U.S. Government funding for our existing
contracts may be diverted to other uses or delayed.

We perform work on a number of contracts with the
Department of Defense and other agencies and departments of the
U.S. Government. Sales under contracts with the
U.S. Government as a whole, including sales under contracts
with the Department of Defense, as prime contractor or
subcontractor, represented approximately 46% of our total
revenue for 2003. Performance under government contracts has
certain inherent risks that could have a material effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

Government contracts are conditioned upon the
continuing availability of Congressional appropriations.
Congress typically appropriates funds for a given program on a
fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more
than one year. As a result, at the beginning of a major program,
a contract is typically only partially funded, and additional
monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring
agency only as Congress makes appropriations available for
future fiscal years.

The overall U.S. military budget declined in
real dollars from the mid-1980s through the early 1990. However,
as a result of the September 11th terrorist attacks and the
war in Iraq, U.S. defense spending has increased and is
expected to increase over the next few years. Increased defense
spending does not necessarily correlate to increased business
for the Company, because not all the programs in which TDY
participates or has current capabilities may be provided with
increased funding. The Middle East situation



could result in a diversion of funds from
programs in which TDY participates and redirection of those
funds to pay for costs associated with this situation or
programs more closely related to it.

Also, over time, programs can evolve and affect
the extent of our participation. For example, one of Teledyne
Brown Engineering’s programs was restructured in 2003 to
change the emphasis from a focus on test and evaluation to a
focus on deployment and sustainment, which resulted in a nearly
16% decline in revenues from this contract compared to 2002
(from $58 million to $49 million). Revenues from this
contract could continue to decline as this program continues to
evolve away from areas that Teledyne Brown Engineering
historically supported.

Furthermore, we obtain many U.S. Government
prime contracts and subcontracts through the process of
competitive bidding. We may not be successful in having our bids
accepted.

The Department of Defense has revised its small
business subcontracting goals for prime contractors to award 40%
of the value of its contract to small and/or disadvantaged
businesses, an increase from the prior target of 20%. This
reduces the available share that may be awarded to Teledyne
Brown Engineering, a large business, when teaming with other
contractors in a subcontractor capacity. When a company is
acting in the prime contractor capacity, this change has the
effect of reducing the overall profitability on the contract,
because the prime contractor’s profit on the subcontracted
portion of that contract is generally lower than on the portion
of the contract that is performed directly by the prime
contractor.

The Company, principally and traditionally
through its Systems Engineering Solutions segment, has been a
significant contributor to NASA programs. The centerpiece of our
current NASA activities is the International Space Station. As a
result of the Columbia Space Shuttle tragedy, NASA’s Space
Shuttle programs could be negatively impacted, depending on the
duration of the grounding of shuttle flights.

Most of our U.S. Government contracts are
subject to termination by the U.S. Government either at its
convenience or upon the default of the contractor.
Termination-for-convenience provisions provide only for the
recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses,
and profit on work completed prior to termination.
Termination-for-default clauses impose liability on the
contractor for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government
in reprocuring undelivered items from another source.

There is no guarantee that U.S. Government
contracts will be profitable. A number of our
U.S. Government prime contracts and subcontracts are fixed
price-type contracts (44% in 2003 as compared to 41% in 2002).
Under these types of contracts, we bear the inherent risk that
actual performance cost may exceed the fixed contract price.
This is particularly true where the contract was awarded and the
price finalized in advance of final completion of design. We
believe that the U.S. Government is increasingly requesting
proposals for fixed price-type contracts.

Certain fees under some of our
U.S. Government contracts are linked to meeting development
or testing deadlines. Fees may also be influenced or dependent
on the collective efforts and success of other defense
contractors over which we had no or limited control. In our
Systems Engineering Solutions segment, given the finalization of
actual fee negotiations for work performed on certain government
contracts in prior periods, the level of government award and
incentive fees received in 2003 will not continue in 2004.

We, like other government contractors, are
subject to various audits, reviews and investigations (including
private party “whistleblower” lawsuits) relating to
our compliance with federal and state laws. In addition, we have
a compliance program designed to surface issues that may lead to
voluntary disclosures to the U.S. Government. Generally,
claims arising out of these U.S. Government inquiries and
voluntary disclosures can be resolved without resorting to
litigation. However, should the business unit or division
involved be charged with wrongdoing, or should the
U.S. Government determine that the unit or division is not
a “presently responsible contractor,” that unit or
division, and conceivably our Company as a whole, could be
temporarily suspended or, in the event of a conviction, could be
debarred for up to three years from receiving new government
contracts or government-approved subcontracts. In addition, we
could expend substantial amounts in defending against such
charges and in damages, fines and penalties if such charges are
proven or result in negotiated settlements. In October 2002, the
Company was informed



that the U.S. Government had declined to
intervene in a lawsuit filed more than four years before under
seal pursuant to the False Claims Act. The Company intends to
vigorously defend this continuing civil action against its
Electronic Safety Products unit, which action continues
notwithstanding the U.S. Government’s non-intervention
and the court’s granting of the Company’s motion to
dismiss the civil action (which decision has been appealed).

A declining stock market and lower interests
rates negatively affect the value of our pension assets and
could have a material adverse financial effect on us.

We have a defined benefit pension plan covering
substantially all of our employees. At year-end 2003,
notwithstanding improved market conditions, because of
significant declines in the stock market over the last few years
and low interest rates, the value of the pension assets was less
than our accumulated pension benefit obligation. The accounting
rules applicable to our pension plan require that amounts
recognized in financial statements to be determined on an
actuarial basis, rather than as contributions are made to the
plan. Two significant elements in determining our pension income
or pension expense are the expected return on plan assets and
the discount rate used in projecting pension benefit
obligations. We have assumed, based on the type of securities in
which the plan assets are invested and the long-term historical
returns of these investments, that the long-term expected return
on pension assets will continue to be 8.5% in 2004 as it was in
2003, compared to 9.0% in 2002, and the assumed discount rate
will be 6.5% in 2004, compared to 7.0% in 2003 and 7.5% in 2002.

Since the spin-off through 2002, we recorded
pension income. Starting in 2003 and in the future, we expect to
incur pension expense. The decline in pension income and the
start of pension expense in 2003 is due to the completion, in
2001, of income amortization associated with the transition
assets recorded pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 87  —  “Employee’s
Accounting for Pensions”, as well as the decline in the
value of our pension assets, coupled with reductions in our
expected rate of return and discount rate assumptions used for
pension plan calculations as described above. We currently
expect pension expense of approximately $8.5 million in
2004, compared to pension expense of $6.9 million in 2003
and pension income of $2.3 million for 2002. Given our
pension plan’s current underfunded status, we will be
required to make cash contributions to our pension plan in 2004.
Declines in the stock market and lower rates of return could
increase future years required contribution. Also, under one of
our spin-off agreements, the earliest we will be able to charge
pension costs to the U.S. Government under our various
government contracts will be November 29, 2004. The
addition of such costs in a bid for U.S. Government
contracts, which is in essence an increase to the contract price
to be paid, may itself negatively affect an award decision being
made in favor of the Company.

Effective January 1, 2004, in an effort to
help alleviate additional pension expense in future years, new
non-union employee hires do not participate in the Pension Plan,
but participate in our Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 401(k)
Plan.

United States’ and global responses to
terrorism, the Middle East situation and perceived nuclear
threats increase uncertainties with respect to many of our
businesses and may adversely affect the Company’s business
and results of operations.

United States’ and global responses to
terrorism, the Middle East situation and perceived nuclear
threats increase uncertainties with respect to U.S. and other
business and financial markets. Several factors associated,
directly or indirectly, with terrorism, the Iraq situation and
perceived nuclear threats and responses, may adversely affect
the Company.

While some of our businesses that provide
products or services to the U.S. Government experienced
greater demand for their products and services as a result of
increased U.S. Government defense spending, various
responses could realign government programs and affect the
composition, funding or timing of our government programs.
Government spending could shift to defense programs, including
Homeland Security, in which we may not participate or may not
have current capabilities and curtail less pressing non-defense
programs in which we do participate, including Department of
Energy or NASA programs.



The effect of the decline in air travel on the
financial condition of many of our commercial airline and
aircraft manufacturer customers, resulting from terrorism, SARS
and other factors, could adversely affect our Electronics and
Communications segment. Deterioration of financial performance
of airlines could result in a further reduction of discretionary
spending for upgrades of avionics and in-flight communications
equipment, which would adversely affect our Electronics and
Communications segment.

As happened after the September 11th
terrorist attacks, reinstatement of flight restrictions would
negatively impact the market for general aviation aircraft
piston engines and components and would adversely affect our
Aerospace Engines and Components segment. Potential reductions
in the need for general aviation aircraft maintenance due to
declines in air travel could also adversely affect our Aerospace
Engines and Components segment.

Acquisitions involve inherent risks that may
adversely affect our operating results and financial
condition.

Our growth strategy includes acquisitions at an
increased pace over prior years. Acquisitions involve various
inherent risks, such as:

In May 2003, for example, we acquired Teledyne
Tekmar Company. While this company’s products and customer
base are complementary to TDY’s existing instrumentation
businesses, there is no assurance that we will achieve all
identified financial, operating and distribution synergies.

Similarly, in connection with acquisitions, we
may consolidate one or more acquired facilities with other TDY
facilities to obtain synergies and cost-savings. For example, we
have recently relocated the manufacturing operations of the
acquired AIS’ Wichita, Kansas facility to our Teledyne
Controls’ facility in Los Angeles, California. We are also
in the process of moving manufacturing operations of our
acquired Solid State business from Santa Clara, California to
Mountain View, California. Despite planning, relocation of
manufacturing operations has inherent risks, as it tends to
involve, among other things, change of personnel and learning or
adaptation of manufacturing processes and techniques. Production
delays at the new operating location could result.

We may not have sufficient resources to fund
all future research and development and capital expenditures or
possible acquisitions.

In order to remain competitive, we must make
substantial investments in research and development to develop
new and enhanced products and continuously upgrade our process
technology and manufacturing capabilities.

Although we believe that anticipated cash flows
from operations and available borrowings under our
$200 million credit facility will be sufficient to satisfy
our anticipated working capital, research and development and
capital investment needs, we may be unable to fund all of these
needs or possible acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional
capital will depend on a variety of factors, some of which will
not be within our control, including resurgence of the public
offering market, investor perceptions of us, our businesses and
the industries in which we operate, and general economic
conditions. We may be unable to successfully raise additional
capital, if needed. Failure to successfully raise needed capital
on a timely or cost-effective basis could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.



We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to
increase our participation in certain new markets.

We intend to both adapt our existing technology
and develop new products to expand into new market segments. For
example, we are developing new fuel cell related technologies.
The market for fuel cell technologies is not well established
and there are a number of companies that have announced
intentions to develop and market fuel cell products. Some of
these companies have greater financial and/or technological
resources than we do.

We are also developing new electronic products,
including high-density microprocessor connectors and microwave
modules for radios used in cellular communications
infrastructure, which are intended to access markets in which
Teledyne does not currently participate. We may be unsuccessful
in accessing these markets if our products do not meet our
customers’ requirements, due to either changes in
technology and industry standards or because of actions taken by
our competitors.

We may be unable to successfully introduce new
and enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective
manner.

Our operating results depend in part on our
ability to introduce new and enhanced products on a timely
basis. Successful product development and introduction depend on
numerous factors, including our ability to anticipate customer
and market requirements, changes in technology and industry
standards, our ability to differentiate our offerings from
offerings of our competitors, and market acceptance.

We may not be able to develop and introduce new
or enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner or to
develop and introduce products that satisfy customer
requirements. Our new products also may not achieve market
acceptance or correctly anticipate new industry standards and
technological changes.

Technological change could cause certain of
our products or services to become obsolete or
non-competitive.

The markets for a number of our products and
services are generally characterized by rapid technological
development, evolving industry standards, changes in customer
requirements and new product introductions and enhancements. A
faster than anticipated change in one or more of the
technologies related to our products or services or in market
demand for products or services based on a particular technology
could result in faster than anticipated obsolescence of certain
of our products or services and could have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operation and financial
condition. Currently accepted industry standards are also
subject to change, which may contribute to the obsolescence of
our products or services.

Product liability claims or recalls could have
a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results
of operations and financial condition.

As a manufacturer and distributor of various
products, our results of operations are susceptible to adverse
publicity regarding the quality or safety of our products. In
part, product liability claims challenging the safety of our
products may result in a decline in sales for a particular
product, which could adversely affect our results of operations.
This could be the case even if the claims themselves are proven
untrue or settled for immaterial amounts.

While we have general liability and other
insurance policies concerning product liabilities, we have
self-insured retentions or deductibles under such policies with
respect to a portion of these liabilities. For example, our
annual self-insured retention for general aviation aircraft
liabilities incurred in connection with products manufactured by
Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc., is $15 million. Since
our existing aircraft product liability insurance policy expires
in May 2004, the Company is currently evaluating options
relating to restructuring its aircraft product liability
insurance program, including a greater annual self-insured
retention and perhaps use of its captive insurance subsidiary.



Product recalls and field service actions could
also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition. For example, Teledyne
Continental Motors had been engaged in a product recall of
piston engine crankshafts whereby the Company recorded a
$12 million pretax charge in the second quarter of 2000.
Product recalls have the potential for tarnishing a
company’s reputation and could have a material adverse
effect on the sales of our products. In 2002, we reached a
monetary settlement related to the 2000 recall with two of three
companies that manufactured and processed allegedly defective
steel subsequently made into aircraft engine crankshafts. We
failed to win a jury verdict against a third company involved in
making the steel. The Company continues to pursue cost recovery
through litigation against one other materials supplier as a
result of the 2000 product recall program. There is no assurance
that the Company will recover any costs or the negative impact
on its reputation.

The Company has been joined, among a number of
defendants (often over 100), in lawsuits alleging injury or
death as a result of exposure to asbestos. We have not incurred
material liabilities in connection with these lawsuits. The
filings typically do not identify any of the Company’s
products as a source of asbestos exposure, and the Company has
been dismissed from cases for lack of product identification,
but only after some defense costs have been incurred. Also,
because of the prominent “Teledyne” name, we may be
mistakenly joined in lawsuits involving a company or business
that was not spun off or otherwise assumed by us as part of our
1999 spin-off. The Company’s historic insurance coverage,
including that of its predecessors, may not fully cover such
claims and defense of such matters, as coverage depends on the
year of purported exposure and other factors. Nonetheless, the
Company intends to defend these claims vigorously. Congress has
been considering tort reform to deal with the increasing number
of asbestos-related claims.

The gas generators manufactured by Teledyne
Energy Systems, Inc. currently contain a sealed, wetted asbestos
component. While the company is currently examining replacement
materials, has placed warning labels on its products and takes
care in handling of this material by employees, there is no
assurance that the Company will not face product liability
claims involving this component.

Our Teledyne Brown Engineering’s laboratory
in Knoxville, Tennessee performs radiological analyses. While
the laboratory is certified by the Department of Energy, has
other nuclear-related certifications, and has internal quality
controls in place, errors and omissions in analyses may occur.
We currently have errors and omissions insurance coverage and
nuclear liability insurance coverage that might apply depending
on the circumstances. We also have sought indemnities from some
of our customers. Our insurance coverage or indemnities,
however, may not be adequate to cover potential problems
associated with faulty radiological analyses.

While we have not sold any systems, our
WaterSabre Fluid Jet Cutting System™ is expected to be used
in anti-terrorism operations. A mishap involving the use of such
system could result in various damages which could exceed
available insurance coverages or customer-provided indemnities,
if obtained. Although we are seeking liability protections for
the WaterSabre under the Support Anti-Terrorism by Fostering
Effective Technologies Act of 2002, the process for obtaining
them is newly established and no anti-terrorism technologies
have yet been qualified by the Secretary of Homeland Security.

We cannot assure that we will not have additional
product liability claims or that we will not recall any
additional products.

We may have difficulty obtaining product
liability and other insurance coverages, or be subject to
increased costs for such coverage.

Insurance costs have increased greatly over the
last few years. As a manufacturer of a variety of products
including aircraft engines used in general aviation aircraft, we
have general liability and other insurance policies that provide
coverage beyond self-insured retentions or deductibles. We
cannot assure that, for 2004 and in future years, insurance
carriers will be willing to renew coverage or provide new
coverage for product liability, especially as it relates to
general aviation. If such insurance is available, we may be
required to pay substantially higher prices for coverage and/or
increase our levels of self-insured



retentions or reserves. The Company is currently
evaluating options with respect to its aircraft product
liability insurance policy, which expires in May 2004. In
connection with the last renewal, premium costs of such
insurance coverage nearly doubled and the annual self-insured
retention increased 50%. To alleviate aircraft product liability
insurance costs, the Company continues to try to reduce
manufacturing and other costs and also to pass on such insurance
costs through price increases on its aircraft engines and spare
parts. The Company cannot provide assurances that further cost
reduction efforts will prove successful or that customers will
accept additional price increases.

For certain electronic components for medical
applications that we manufacture, such as those that go into
cochlear implants, we have asked for indemnities from our
customers and/or to be included under their insurance policies.
We cannot, however, provide any assurance that such indemnities
or insurance will offset potential liabilities that we may incur
as a result of our manufacture of such components.

Aside from the uncertainties created by external
events, such as September 11th and subsequent activities, our
ability to obtain product liability insurance and the cost for
such insurance are affected by our historical claims experience.
We cannot assure that, for 2004 and in future years, our ability
to obtain insurance, or the cost for such insurance, or the
amount of self-insured retentions or reserves will not be
negatively impacted by our experience in prior years. Over the
last few years, our aircraft product liability claims experience
has worsened, due in part to an increasingly litigious
environment.

Increasing competition could reduce the demand
for our products and services.

Although we believe that we have certain
advantages that help us compete in our markets, each of our
markets is highly competitive. Many of our competitors have, and
potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a
larger installed base of products, more extensive engineering,
manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and
greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we
do. New or existing competitors may also develop new
technologies that could adversely affect the demand for our
products and services. Industry consolidation trends,
particularly among aerospace and defense contractors, could
adversely affect demand for our products and services if prime
contractors seek to control more aspects of vertically
integrated projects.

We sell products and services to customers in
industries that are cyclical and sensitive to changes in general
economic activity.

We derive significant revenues from the
commercial aerospace industry. Domestic and international
commercial aerospace markets are cyclical in nature. Historic
demand for new commercial aircraft has been related to the
stability and health of domestic and international economies.
Delays or changes in aircraft and component orders could impact
the future demand for our products and have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition. While the market for commercial aircraft has shown
some improvement since the downturn triggered by the tragic
events of September 11th and the Iraqi war, another such
event would increase the level of uncertainty regarding future
orders for aircraft.

In addition, we sell products and services to
customers in industries that are sensitive to the level of
general economic activity and in mature industries that are
sensitive to capacity. Adverse economic conditions affecting
these industries may reduce demand for our products and
services, which may reduce our profits, or our production
levels, or both.

We sell products to customers in industries
that may undergo rapid and unpredictable changes.

We develop and manufacture products for customers
in industries that have undergone rapid changes in the past. For
example, we manufacture products and provide manufacturing
services to companies that serve telecommunications markets.
During 2001, many segments of the telecommunications market
experienced a dramatic and rapid downturn that resulted in
cancellations or deferrals of orders for our products and
services. This market segment, or others that we serve, may
exhibit rapid changes in the future and may adversely affect our
operating results, or our production levels, or both.



We are subject to the risks associated with
international sales.

During 2003, international sales accounted for
approximately 16% of our total revenues. We anticipate that
future international sales will continue to account for a
significant percentage of our revenues. Risks associated with
these sales include:

Any of these factors could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition. Exchange rate fluctuations may negatively
affect the cost of our products to international customers and
therefore reduce our competitive position. Given the current
exchange rate between the U.S. Dollar and the British Pound
Sterling, European contracts for which we are paid in U.S.
Dollars could be negatively affected to the extent the
underlying costs to the Company to fulfill the contract are paid
in Pounds Sterling. In prior years, weak conditions in Asian
economies have affected our results of operations adversely. The
September 11th terrorist attacks, as well as fears of an
international arms race, have resulted in increased export
scrutiny of sales of some of our products to international
customers. Travel restrictions to Middle Eastern and other
countries may negatively affect continuing international sales
or service revenues from such regions.

Compliance with increasing environmental
regulations and the effects of potential environmental
liabilities could have a material adverse financial effect on
us.

We, like other industry participants, are subject
to various federal, state, local and international environmental
laws and regulations. We may be subject to increasingly
stringent environmental standards in the future. Future
developments, administrative actions or liabilities relating to
environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on
our business, results of operations or financial condition.

While the Company has an environmental management
system and compliance program applicable to its operating
facilities, including a “review and audit” program to
monitor compliance where each facility is reviewed and audited
by an internal environmental team every three years, such
internal control is designed to reduce environment risk, it does
not eliminate potential environmental liabilities. In addition,
as the Company pursues acquisitions, while it conducts
environmental-related due diligence and generally seeks some
form of protection, including indemnification from a seller,
such acquired companies may have environmental liabilities that
are not accurately assessed or brought to our attention at the
time of the acquisition.

Some of our businesses work with highly dangerous
substances that require heightened standards of care. For
example, as a systems contractor for the U.S. Army’s
Program Manager for Non-Stockpile Chemical Materiel, we conduct
research, development, manufacturing, test and evaluation and
site operations related to the safe and environmentally
protective disposal of small caches of chemical munitions and
materiel located in over 30 states and territories. The
destruction of chemical weapons is an inherently dangerous
activity. Except for a contained fire during a demonstration
testing of a process designed to access rockets in a former
program, we have not experienced any accidents or other adverse
consequences as a result of our participation in weapon
destruction programs. We cannot, however, assure that we will
not experience any problems in the future. Although the federal
government provides certain indemnities to contractors in these
programs, these indemnities may be insufficient to offset
liabilities that we may incur in connection with our
participation in these programs.



For additional discussion of environmental
matters, see the discussion under the caption “Other
Matters — Environmental” of “Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
Operations and Financial Condition” and Notes 2
and 15 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our inability to attract and retain key
personnel could have a material adverse effect on our future
success.

Our future success depends to a significant
extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and
other key management and technical personnel and on our ability
to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.
Recruiting and retaining skilled technical personnel is highly
competitive. The loss of the services of one or more of our key
employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate
qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

We may not be able to sell, or exit on
acceptable terms, product lines that we determine no longer meet
with our growth strategy.

Consistent with our growth strategy to focus on
markets to expand our profitable niche businesses, we
continually evaluate our product lines to ensure that they are
aligned with our strategy. Our ability to dispose of product
lines that may no longer be aligned with our strategy will
depend on many factors, including the terms and conditions of
any asset purchase and sale agreement, as well as industry,
business and economic conditions. We cannot provide any
assurance as to when, if or on what terms any non-strategic
product lines will be sold. Also, we cannot provide any
assurance as to the availability, timing, terms or conditions of
alternative courses of action, including closure, or the sale of
any non-strategic product line cannot be consummated.

Provisions of our governing documents,
applicable law, and our Change in Control Severance Agreements
could make an acquisition of Teledyne Technologies more
difficult.

Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation,
Amended and Restated Bylaws and Rights Agreement and the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware contain several
provisions that could make the acquisition of control of
Teledyne Technologies in a transaction not approved by our board
of directors more difficult. We have also entered into Change in
Control Severance Agreements with 14 members of our management,
which could have an anti-takeover effect.

The market price of our Common Stock has
fluctuated significantly since our spin-off from ATI, and could
continue to do so.

Since the spin-off on November 29, 1999, the
market price of our Common Stock has ranged from a low of
$7.6875 to a high of $30.5625 per share. At February 27,
2004, our closing stock price was $20.26. Fluctuations in our
stock price could continue. Among the factors that could affect
our stock price are:



•

general market conditions; and

•

general economic factors unrelated to our
    performance.

The stock markets in general, and the markets for
high technology companies in particular, have experienced a high
degree of volatility not necessarily related to the operating
performance of particular companies. We cannot provide
assurances as to our stock price.

While the Company believes its control systems
are effective, there are inherent limitations in all control
systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and
not be detected.

The Company continues to take action to assure
compliance with the internal controls, disclosure controls and
other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, cannot guarantee that our internal controls
and disclosure controls will prevent all possible errors or all
fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and
operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance
that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition,
the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there
are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be
relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in
all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute
assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if
any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent
limitations include the realities that judgments in
decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur
because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be
circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of
two or more persons, or by management override of the controls.
The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon
certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and
there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in
achieving its stated goals under all potential future
conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of
changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent
limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements
due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.



Item 2. Properties.

Our principal facilities as of December 28,
2003 are listed below. Although the facilities vary in terms of
age and condition, our management believes that these facilities
have generally been well maintained and are adequate for current
operations. In 2003, the Company spent approximately $6 million
to expand its Company-owned Rancho Cordova, California facility
principally due to an increased demand for military traveling
wave tubes.



We also own or lease facilities elsewhere in the
United States and outside the United States, including Tijuana,
Mexico, Gloucester and West Drayton, England, Cumbernauld,
Scotland and Ottawa, Canada. Our corporate executive offices are
located at 12333 West Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California
90064-1021.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

From time to time, we become involved in various
lawsuits, claims and proceedings related to the conduct of our
business, including those pertaining to product liability,
patent infringement, commercial, employment and employee
benefits. While we cannot predict the outcome of any lawsuit,
claim or proceeding, our management does not believe that the
disposition of any pending matters is likely to have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition or liquidity. The
resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these
matters, however, could have a material adverse effect on the
results of operations for that period.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote
of Security Holders.

No matters were submitted to a vote of TDY’s
stockholders during the fourth quarter of 2003.



PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s
Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters.

Price Range of Common Stock and Dividend
Policy

Our Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange and traded under the symbol “TDY.” The
following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high
and low sale prices for the Common Stock as reported by the New
York Stock Exchange.

On February 27, 2004, the closing sale price
of our Common Stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange
was $20.26 per share. As of February 27, 2004, there were
approximately 7,481 holders of record of the Common Stock.

We currently intend to retain any future earnings
to fund the development and growth of our business. Therefore,
we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the
foreseeable future. Provisions of our credit agreement limit our
ability to pay dividends to amounts exceeding 25% of cumulative
net income subsequent to the effective date of the credit
agreement. As of December 28, 2003, approximately
$24.9 million was available for the payment of dividends
under these provisions.

Item 6. Selected Financial
Data.

The following table presents our summary
consolidated financial data. Effective November 29, 1999,
Teledyne Technologies was spun off from ATI. Our fiscal year is
determined based on a 53/52-week convention and ends on or about
December 31. The historical financial information for 1999
is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations or
financial position that would have occurred if we had been a
separate, independent company during the entire year of 1999,
nor is it indicative of future performance. The historical
financial information for 1999 does not include pro forma
adjustments that reflect estimates of the expenses that we would
have incurred had we been operated as an independent company and
as capitalized at the time of its spin-off from ATI. The
historical financial information



should be read in conjunction with the discussion
under “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.”

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial
Data

(a)

Prior to the spin-off, the average outstanding
    shares used to compute earnings per share were based on a
    distribution ratio of one share of TDY Common Stock for every
    seven shares of ATI Common Stock. The treasury stock method is
    used to calculate diluted earnings per share.

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is a leading
provider of sophisticated electronic components, instruments and
communications products, including defense electronics, data
acquisition and communications equipment for airlines and
business aircraft, monitoring and control instruments for
industrial and environmental applications and components, and
subsystems for wireless and satellite communications. We also
provide systems engineering solutions and information technology
services for space, defense and industrial applications, and
manufacture general aviation and missile engines and components,
as well as on-site gas and power generation systems.

We serve niche market segments where performance,
precision and reliability are critical. Our customers include
major industrial and communications companies, government
agencies, aerospace prime contractors and general aviation
companies.

Strategy

Principally through focused acquisitions of
complementary product lines and businesses, we seek to build
growth platforms around three core markets: aerospace and
defense electronics; electronic instrumentation; and government
systems engineering. We also intend to continue to focus on
managing costs and operational excellence in every aspect of our
business, from finance to manufacturing, as well as with the
integration of our acquisitions. We continually evaluate our
product lines to ensure that they are aligned with our strategy.

Recent Acquisitions

After completing one acquisition in each of 2001
and 2002, we completed three acquisitions in calendar year 2003
and one in 2004.



On May 16, 2003, to expand further into the
environmental instrumentation market, we acquired Mason,
Ohio-based Tekmar Company from Emerson Electric Co. Tekmar
Company, now known as Teledyne Tekmar Company, is a premier
manufacturer of gas chromatography introduction systems and
automated total organic carbon analyzers.

On June 27, 2003, to enhance our aircraft
data acquisition and communications product lines, we acquired
from Spirent plc its Aviation Information Solution businesses
(collectively “AIS”), which included Spirent Systems
Wichita, Inc., Spirent Systems (Ottawa) Limited and assets of
United Kingdom-based The Flight Data Company Limited. These
businesses design and manufacture aerospace data acquisition
devices, networking products and flight deck and cabin displays.
By year-end 2003, we consolidated the Wichita, Kansas
manufacturing operations with those of our existing Los Angeles,
California facility.

On December 31, 2003, to broaden our
microwave product lines to our customers, we acquired certain
assets of the Filtronic Solid State business located in Santa
Clara, California. Solid State designs and manufactures
customized microwave assemblies for electronic warfare, radar
and other military applications. The business, which now
operates as “Teledyne Microwave”, is being relocated
and consolidated with our existing microwave subsystems
operations in Mountain View, California.

On February 27, 2004, we acquired assets of
Leeman Labs, Inc., located in Hudson, New Hampshire. Leeman
Lab’s inductively coupled plasma laboratory spectrometers
are used by environmental and quality control laboratories to
detect low levels of inorganic contaminants in water and other
environmental samples, and complement Teledyne Tekmar
Company’s organic analysis instrumentation.

Our acquisitions of Monitor Labs Incorporated and
Advanced Pollution Instrumentation, Inc., completed in 2002 and
2001, respectively, greatly expanded our presence in the
air-quality monitoring segment of the environmental
instrumentation market.

All of the acquisitions are part of our
Electronics and Communications segment. Their results are
included in our consolidated financial statements since their
respective dates of acquisition. Since the acquisition of
certain assets of the Filtronic Solid State and Leeman
Lab’s businesses occurred after Teledyne Technologies 2003
fiscal year, these acquisitions are not reflected in the balance
sheet or income statement at year-end 2003.



Our fiscal year is determined based on a
53/52-week convention and ends on or about December 31. The
following is our financial information for 2003, 2002 and 2001
(in millions, except per-share amounts):

We operate in four business segments: Electronics
and Communications; Systems Engineering Solutions; Aerospace
Engines and Components; and Energy Systems. The segments’
respective contributions, as a percentage of total sales for
2003, 2002 and 2001, are summarized in the following table:



Results of Operations

2003 Compared with 2002

We reported 2003 net sales of
$840.7 million, compared with net sales of
$772.7 million for 2002. Net income was $29.7 million
($0.91 per diluted share) for 2003, compared with
$25.4 million ($0.77 per diluted share) for 2002.

The increase in sales in 2003, compared with
2002, reflected improvement in all four reporting segments. The
largest sales growth was in the Electronic and Communications
segment notwithstanding a difficult environment in some of the
companies commercial markets. The higher sales in the
Electronics and Communications segment resulted from both
organic growth and strategic acquisitions, including Monitor
Labs, acquired in September 2002, Tekmar Company, acquired in
May 2003, and Spirent’s Aviation Information Solutions
businesses, acquired in June 2003.

Cost of sales in total dollars was higher in
2003, compared with 2002. The increase was in line with higher
sales and also reflected higher pension expense, partially
offset by product mix differences. Cost of sales as a percentage
of sales for 2003 was relatively flat compared with 2002. While
the percentages were comparable, the 2003 percentage
reflected the impact of pension expense compared with pension
income in 2002. The impact was offset, in part, by product mix
differences and a more favorable LIFO adjustment in 2003. Total
year 2003 also reflected an improvement in cost of sales as a
percentage of sales due to finalization of award and incentive
fee negotiations for work performed on certain contracts in
prior years in the Systems Engineering Solutions segment. At
December 29, 2002, Teledyne Technologies recorded income of
$0.1 million following the final resolution of the second
quarter 2001 charge.

Selling, general and administrative expenses,
including research and development and bid and proposal expense,
in total dollars were higher in 2003, compared with 2002. This
increase was in line with higher sales which resulted from
organic growth and acquisitions. The increased bid and proposal
expense was primarily driven by bidding opportunities in the
Systems Engineering Solutions segment. Selling, general and
administrative expenses for 2003, as a percentage of sales, were
relatively flat compared with 2002, reflecting the benefit of
higher sales and continued cost control.

Included in operating profit in 2003 was pension
expense of $6.9 million compared with pension income of
$2.3 million in 2002. The increase in pension expense in
2003 compared with 2002, reflects, in



part, a reduction in the discount rate assumption
for the Company’s defined benefit plan as well as the
decline in the market value of the Company’s pension assets
during 2002, 2001 and 2000.

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2003
was 33.3%, compared with 39.7% for 2002. Total year 2003
reflected an income tax benefit of $2.4 million due to the
reversal of an income tax contingency reserve which was
determined to be no longer needed during the third quarter of
2003. Excluding this benefit, the Company’s effective tax
rate for 2003 would have been 38.7%.

Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government
were approximately 46% of sales in 2003 and 2002. International
sales represented approximately 16% of sales in 2003 and 2002.

Total interest expense including facility fees
and other bank charges was $1.0 million in 2003 and
$0.9 million in 2002. Interest income was $0.2 million in
2003 and $0.3 million in 2002.

In 2003, we recorded a $2.3 million charge,
in other expense, for the write-off of the Company’s
remaining cost-based investment in a private company engaged in
manufacturing and development of micro optics and
microelectromechanical devices. In 2002, we recorded a
$0.5 million charge, in other expense, related to the
partial write-down of this investment. Fiscal years 2003 and
2002 also include sublease rental income and royalty income in
other income.

2002 Compared
with 2001

We reported 2002 net sales of
$772.7 million, compared with net sales of
$744.3 million for 2001. Net income was $25.4 million
($0.77 per diluted share) for 2002, compared with
$6.6 million ($0.20 per diluted share) for 2001. Net income
from continuing operations was $25.4 million ($0.77 per
diluted share) for 2002, compared with $6.8 million ($0.21
per diluted share) for 2001.

The increase in sales in 2002, compared with
2001, reflected improvement in all four reporting segments. The
largest sales growth was in the Electronic and Communications
segment which included the sales contributions from Monitor Labs
and API, which were acquired in September 2002 and November
2001, respectively.



In the second quarter of 2001, the Company
recorded a $26.4 million pretax charge which is more fully
described in the section below titled, “2001 Restructuring,
Asset Impairment and Other Charge Information”. This charge
included plans to exit manufacturing for the following non-core
product lines from its Electronics and Communications segment:
industrial solid state relays and certain microwave switches and
filters. The Company’s process control software and sodium
iodide crystals product lines within its Systems Engineering
Solutions segment were sold in the second quarter of 2001. We
also exited certain environmental programs within this same
segment. Annual sales for these non-core product lines were
approximately $10.0 million in 2000. At December 29,
2002, Teledyne Technologies recorded income of $0.1 million
following the final resolution of the second quarter 2001 charge.

Cost of sales as a percentage of sales for 2002
was lower, compared with 2001, due to the benefit of cost
reductions implemented in 2001 and 2002 and not having the
inventory write-down in 2002 that was experienced in 2001,
recorded in connection with the 2001 second quarter charge. This
was partially offset by product mix differences, a less
favorable LIFO adjustment and reduced pension income.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for
2002 were higher in total dollars than in 2001 but lower as a
percent of sales. The increase in expense was driven by higher
charges related to aircraft product liability reserves and
higher aircraft liability insurance premiums, additional
selling, general and administrative expenses for the API
acquisition and the Monitor Labs acquisition, partially offset
by cost reductions and lower research and development
expenditures.

Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government
were approximately 46% of sales for 2002 and 45% of sales for
2001. International sales represented approximately 16% of sales
for 2002 and 17% of sales in 2001.

Fiscal year 2001 included $26.4 million in
pretax charge noted above. Included in operating profit was
pension income of $2.3 million in 2002 and
$9.5 million in 2001. The reduction in net pension income
from 2001 to 2002, reflects the completion, in 2001, of income
amortization associated with the transition assets recorded
pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 87—“Employers’ Accounting
for Pensions,” as well as the decline in the market value
of the Company’s pension assets during 2002, 2001 and 2000.

Total interest expense was $0.9 million in
2002 and $2.1 million in 2001. The decrease in interest
expense in 2002, compared with 2001, primarily reflected lower
average outstanding debt levels in 2002 as well as lower average
interest rates. Interest income was $0.3 million in 2002
and $0.2 million in 2001.

In 2002, we recorded a $0.5 million charge,
in other expense, related to the partial write-down of the
Company’s cost-based investment in a private company
engaged in manufacturing and development of micro optics and
microelectromechanical devices. In 2001, other income reflects a
gain of $1.7 million related to sale of the Company’s
share of an optical components company. Fiscal years 2002 and
2001 also include sublease rental income and royalty income in
other income.

In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 142 — “Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets” (“SFAS No. 142”), which changed the
accounting for goodwill. In accordance with the provisions of
SFAS No. 142, goodwill is no longer amortized, but must be
reviewed for impairment. Had the goodwill non-amortization
provisions of SFAS No. 142 been in effect for 2001, net
income would have been $7.0 million for 2001. Basic
earnings per share and diluted earnings per share would have
been $0.22 for 2001.

The Company’s effective tax rate was 39.7%
for 2002 and 2001.

2001 Restructuring, Asset Impairment and Other
Charge Information

In the second quarter of 2001, the Company
recorded a $26.4 million pretax charge of which
$7.4 million was for asset impairments, $8.7 million
was for restructuring and other charges, $10.0 million was
for inventory write-downs and a $0.3 million pretax charge
for discontinued operations.



The second quarter 2001 charge also included:
restructuring charges for employee termination benefits; the
consolidation and downsizing of manufacturing operations;
non-cancelable lease expenses; and transaction costs associated
with the formation of Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc.
Teledyne Technologies reduced its total workforce by
approximately 14% during 2001. The Company recorded asset
impairment charges for equipment, net of expected sale proceeds,
goodwill related to product lines to be discontinued and losses
on the sale of non-core product lines. We exited manufacturing
for the following non-core product lines from our Electronics
and Communications segment: industrial solid state relays and
certain microwave switches and filters. The Company’s
process control software and sodium iodide crystals product
lines within its Systems Engineering Solutions segment were sold
in the second quarter of 2001. We also exited certain
environmental programs within this same segment. Annual sales
for these non-core product lines were approximately
$10.0 million in 2000. A charge was also recorded in cost
of sales for the write-off of inventory from discontinued
product lines and the write-down of excess inventory resulting
from reduced customer demand.

During 2002, the Company completed the efforts
related to the 2001 second quarter charge of $26.4 million,
recording actual charges of $26.3 million. At year-end
2002, the cumulative restructuring charges were
$8.1 million, $0.7 million lower than the
2001 year-end estimate. At year-end 2002, the cumulative
charges to cost of sales related to excess and obsolete
inventory were $10.4 million, $0.6 million higher than
the 2001 year-end-estimate, with no change to either the
asset impairment charge or the charge for discontinued
operations. This resulted in $0.2 million of income in the
Electronics and Communications segment in 2002 and an additional
cost impact of $0.1 million in the Systems Engineering
segment during 2002. In addition there were some changes in
income statement classification. Final charges by segment were
as follows: $15.4 million in the Electronics and
Communication segment; $5.6 million in the Energy Systems
segment; $4.5 million in the Systems Engineering Solutions
segment; and $0.3 million in the Aerospace Engines and
Components segment. The $26.3 million charge also included
a $0.2 million restructuring charge for the corporate
office and a charge of $0.3 million for discontinued
operations. The following table details the components of the
2001 second quarter charge and the final resolution of the
changes in estimate at December 29, 2002 and
December 30, 2001 (amounts in millions):



The following table details the original 2001
second quarter charge by segment and the final resolution of the
changes in estimate at December 29, 2002 and
December 30, 2001 (amounts in millions):

Segments

The following discussion of our four segments
should be read in conjunction with Note 14 to the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Electronics and Communications

Our Electronics and Communications segment
provides a wide range of specialized electronic systems,
instruments, components and services that address niche market
applications in commercial aerospace, communications, defense,
industrial and medical markets.

Compared with 2002

Our Electronics and Communications segment sales
were $446.9 million in 2003, compared with sales of
$388.0 million in 2002. Operating profit was
$33.0 million in 2003, compared with $35.9 million in
2002.

Sales in 2003, compared with 2002, reflected
revenue growth in defense electronic products, electronic
manufacturing services, avionics products, electronic
instruments, medical products and commercial lighting products.
The revenue growth in defense electronic products was driven by
traveling wave tubes and military microelectronics. The revenue
growth in electronic manufacturing services was driven by
increased sales to military customers. Revenue growth in
avionics products was driven by the acquisition of the Aviation
Information Solutions businesses in June 2003, partially offset
by continued weakness in the commercial aviation market.
Electronic instruments’ revenue was favorably impacted by
the acquisition of Monitor Labs Incorporated at the end of the
third quarter of 2002 and the acquisition of Tekmar-Dohrmann in
May 2003. This revenue growth in electronic instruments was
partially offset by reduced sales of geophysical sensors for the
petroleum exploration market. Operating profit was favorably
impacted by increased sales and a $1.8 million reduction in
LIFO reserve, which resulted from a reduced inventory level.
These operating profit improvements were more than offset by a
$0.9 million fourth quarter write-down on slow moving test
equipment inventory, contract settlements totaling
$0.8 million and higher pension expense. In 2002, the
Company recorded a $0.8 million write-down of certain



optoelectronics equipment due to lower than
expected utilization. Segment operating profit in 2003 included
$5.1 million of pension expense, compared with
$2.0 million of pension income in 2002.

Compared with 2001

Our Electronics and Communications segment sales
were $388.0 million in 2002, compared with sales of
$369.7 million in 2001. Operating profit was
$35.9 million in 2002, compared with $9.9 million in
2001. Operating profit for 2002 included $0.2 million of
income resulting from the final resolution of the previously
cited second quarter 2001 charges. Operating profit for 2001
included second quarter pretax charges of $15.6 million
described below.

Sales in 2002, compared with 2001, grew in
electronic manufacturing services, electronic instruments and
defense electronic products. The sales growth in electronic
manufacturing services was primarily driven by increased sales
from medical and military markets. The sales growth in
electronic instruments resulted from the acquisitions of Monitor
Labs in September 2002 and API in November 2001, as well as
stronger demand for geophysical sensors for the petroleum
exploration market. These sales increases were partially offset
by continued weakness in the commercial aviation market and the
continued weakness in the demand for relays used in
semiconductor test equipment and communications applications.
Operating profit reflects the impact of the sales differences, a
reduction in the segment’s commercial broadband
communications investments, savings from a reduced workforce and
decreased administrative expenses compared with 2001. These
operating profit improvements were partially offset by the
$0.8 million write-down of certain optoelectronic equipment
and reduced pension income of $4.9 million.

Systems Engineering Solutions

Our Systems Engineering Solutions segment,
principally through Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc., applies
the skills of its extensive staff of engineers and scientists to
provide innovative systems engineering, advanced technology, and
manufacturing solutions to defense, space, environmental, and
homeland security requirements.

Compared with 2002

Our Systems Engineering Solutions segment sales
were $212.5 million in 2003, compared with sales of
$206.7 million in 2002. Operating profit was
$23.2 million in 2003, compared with $20.6 million in
2002.

Sales in 2003, compared with 2002, reflected
increased work in environmental and core defense programs,
partially offset by lower sales in aerospace programs. Operating
profit in 2003, compared with 2002, was favorably impacted by
increased sales and $4.1 million related to both the
finalization of negotiation of prior year award and incentive
fees for work performed on certain contracts, primarily the
Ground-based Midcourse Defense and Pressurents, Propellants, and
Calibration contracts. Operating profit in 2003 also reflected
improved margins for environmental programs. Operating profit in
2003 was negatively impacted by the recognition of a
$1.0 million loss on an office sublease agreement. Segment
operating profit in 2003 included $0.3 million of pension
expense, compared with $0.2 million of pension income in
2002.



Compared with 2001

Our Systems Engineering Solutions segment sales
were $206.7 million in 2002, compared with sales of
$200.8 million in 2001. Operating profit was
$20.6 million in 2002, compared with $12.1 million in
2001. Operating profit in 2002 included $0.1 million of
expense resulting from the final resolution of the previously
cited second quarter 2001 charges. Operating profit in 2001
included pretax charges of $4.4 million described below.

Sales in 2002, compared with 2001, reflected
revenue growth in core defense and aerospace programs. This
growth was partially offset by reduced work for environmental
programs. Operating profit reflects the impact of the sales
differences, the receipt of government award and incentive fees
based upon collective performance achievements, improved
performance on environmental programs and reduced administrative
expenses. These operating profit improvements were partially
offset by reduced pension income of $0.7 million.

Aerospace Engines and Components

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment,
principally through Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc., focuses
on the design, development and manufacture of piston engines,
turbine engines, electronic engine controls and aviation
batteries.

Compared with 2002

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment
sales were $165.5 million in 2003, compared with sales of
$162.9 million in 2002. Operating profit was $6.4 million
in 2003, compared with $2.7 million in 2002.

Sales in 2003, compared with 2002, reflected
revenue growth in OEM piston engines, partially offset by
reduced sales of aftermarket products and services. Operating
profit in the piston engine business was positively impacted by
an improved cost structure, productivity improvements and a
$3.3 million reduction in LIFO reserve, which resulted from
a reduced inventory level, partially offset by an increase in
insurance costs. Sales from turbine engines were unfavorably
impacted by lower revenue from spare parts for Air Force
training aircraft and lower Harpoon Cruise Missile engine sales,
partially offset by higher revenue from Improved Tactical
Air-Launched Decoy (“ITALD”) engines and
favorable Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile
(“JASSM”) engine sales. Operating profit for turbine
engines was lower in 2003, compared with 2002, and resulted from
lower sales and a less favorable product mix. Segment operating
profit in 2003 included $1.3 million of pension expense,
compared with $0.5 million of pension income in 2002.

Compared with 2001

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment
sales were $162.9 million in 2002, compared with sales of
$159.2 million in 2001. Operating profit was
$2.7 million in 2002, compared with $8.2 million in
2001.

Sales in 2002, compared with 2001, reflected
revenue growth in OEM piston engines and aftermarket parts and
services, partially offset by reduced sales of military turbine
engines. Operating profit in 2002 was



negatively impacted by the requirement for higher
aircraft liability reserves, increased insurance premiums and
crankshaft litigation costs (net of settlement awards).
Operating profit was also negatively impacted by a less
favorable LIFO adjustment due to the fact that the 2002
inventory reduction was not as significant as the 2001 inventory
reduction. Furthermore, operating profit was negatively impacted
in 2002 by a $1.4 million reduction in pension income.
Operating profit in 2001 included restructuring charges of
$0.3 million.

In 2002, we reached a monetary settlement with
two of the three companies that manufactured and processed
allegedly defective steel, subsequently made into aircraft
engine crankshafts. We failed to win a jury verdict against the
third company involved in making the steel. The Company
continues to pursue cost recovery through litigation against
another materials supplier as a result of the 2000 product
recall program.

Energy Systems

Our Energy Systems segment, through Teledyne
Energy Systems, Inc., provides on-site gas and power generation
systems based on proprietary electrolysis, thermoelectric and
fuel cell technologies.

Compared with 2002

Our Energy Systems sales were $15.8 million
in 2003, compared with sales of $15.1 million in 2002. The
2003 operating loss was $0.7 million, compared with a 2002
operating loss of $1.9 million.

Sales in 2003 reflected revenue growth in
government programs related to multi-year contracts which were
won, in 2003, primarily for thermoelectric generator
development, partially offset by reduction in commercial
revenue, primarily hydrogen generator sales. The reduction in
operating loss for 2003, compared with 2002, resulted from
increased sales, an improved overhead cost structure, reduced
general and administrative and research and development expenses
and the absence of $0.3 million in program cost adjustments
that impacted 2002, partially offset by $0.4 million in
charges for contract claims and the recognition of a
$0.5 million loss on a facility sublease agreement.

Compared with 2001

Our Energy Systems sales were $15.1 million
in 2002, compared with sales of $14.6 million in 2001. The
2002 operating loss was $1.9 million, compared with a 2001
operating loss of $6.0 million. The 2001 results included
pretax charges of $5.6 million described below.

Sales in 2002, compared with 2001, grew in
government program sales. The 2002 higher operating loss,
excluding the 2001 pretax charges, was driven by higher research
and development expense, higher general and administrative
expense, and higher than anticipated costs for certain hydrogen
generator programs. Additionally, segment operating loss was
negatively impacted by a $0.2 million reduction in pension
income.



Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital
Resources

Principal
Capital Requirements

Our principal capital requirements are to fund
working capital needs, capital expenditures and debt service
requirements, as well as to fund acquisitions. It is anticipated
that operating cash flow, together with available borrowings
under the credit facility described below, will be sufficient to
meet these requirements and could be used to fund some
acquisitions in the year 2004. To support acquisitions, we may
need to raise additional capital. Our liquidity is not dependent
upon the use of off-balance sheet financial arrangements. We
have no off-balance sheet financing arrangements that
incorporate the use of special purpose entities or
unconsolidated entities.

Revolving
Credit Agreement

The Company’s current $200 million
revolving credit agreement terminates in November 2004. We are
currently in the process of replacing this agreement. We expect
to have a replacement revolving credit agreement in place before
November 2004. For a description of some terms of our existing
credit facility, see “Financing Activities” at
page 40.

Contractual
Obligations

Information on the Company’s known
contractual obligations to third parties at December 28,
2003 are as follows (in millions):

*

Purchase obligations generally include
    contractual obligations for the purchase of materials.

Operating
Activities

In 2003, cash provided from continuing operations
was $56.8 million, compared with $74.2 million in 2002
and $19.0 million in 2001. The lower net cash provided from
continuing operations for 2003, compared with 2002, reflected
timing differences related to accounts payable, differences in
the cash impact of income taxes, higher payments in 2003 for
aircraft product liability settlements and higher accounts
receivables balances. The higher accounts receivables balances
reflected the impact of higher sales in December 2003 compared
to December 2002. In 2003, cash was used to pay down accounts
payable, compared to an increase in accounts payable for 2002
resulting primarily from timing of inventory and capital
purchases. The deferred income tax and the accrued pension
obligation components of the cash flow statement in 2003 were
both affected by the deferred tax amount of $7.6 million
related to the minimum pension liability adjustment recorded in
2003. This adjustment had no impact on cash flows from
operations in 2003.

The improvement in cash flow in 2002, compared
with 2001, reflected higher net income from continuing
operations in 2002 and significantly lower cash payouts for
aircraft product liability settlements and product recall
payments by $19.0 million. The 2002 cash flow amount also
reflected improved working capital management. The improvement
in cash flow reflected the impact of $5.8 million for
income tax refunds, net of cash payments in 2002, compared with
net cash payments for income taxes of $4.6 million in 2001
which included the final required tax payment for the twelve
months of 2000. The deferred income tax and the accrued pension
obligation components of the cash flow statement in 2002 both
were affected by the deferred tax amount of $15.2 million
related to the minimum pension liability adjustment recorded in
2002 resulting in no impact on cash flow from operations in 2002.



The 2002 and 2001 cash used by discontinued
operations each reflected the payment of a purchase price
adjustment. Fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001 reflected
workers’ compensation insurance payments.

Working
Capital

Working capital increased to $129.5 million
at year-end 2003, compared with $102.6 million at year-end
2002. The increase in working capital was due to higher cash
balances and higher accounts receivable, driven by higher sales
in December 2003 compared to December 2002. These increases were
offset, in part, by higher accrued liabilities primarily driven
by acquisitions. We continue to emphasize improvements in
working capital management.

Balance
Sheet Changes

The changes in the following selected components
of Teledyne Technologies balance sheet are discussed below (in
millions):

The higher balance in cash and cash equivalents
at December 28, 2003, compared with December 29, 2002
reflected positive cash flow from operations reduced by capital
spending and cash used to acquire businesses. The higher balance
in accounts receivables reflected trade receivables for
businesses acquired in 2003 as well as the impact of higher
sales in December 2003 compared to December 2002. The decrease
in long-term deferred income taxes reflected the
$7.6 million reduction recorded in connection with an
$11.4 million non-cash adjustment to prior year accumulated
other comprehensive loss for the Company’s pension plan.
The adjustment to the accumulated other comprehensive loss
component of equity was required since the difference between
the value of the Company’s pension assets and the
accumulated pension benefit obligation was smaller as of
year-end 2003, compared to year-end 2002. The charge to equity
did not affect net income and was recorded net of deferred
taxes. Goodwill reflects the impact of acquisitions made in
2003. The change in other assets reflects $5.4 million of
intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisitions of Tekmar
Company and AIS, partially offset by the write-off of the
Company’s cost-based investment in a private company
engaged in manufacturing and development of micro optics and
microelectromechanical devices. In addition, the decrease in
other assets reflects a $1.9 million adjustment to the
long-term intangible pension asset recorded in connection with
the year-end adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive loss.
The increase in short-term accrued liabilities reflected
liabilities for businesses acquired in 2003 and higher customer
deposits. The accrued pension obligation decreased primarily as
a result of favorable returns on plan assets in 2003. The change
in the accumulated other comprehensive loss reflected the
$11.4 million non-cash adjustment for the Company’s
pension plan.



Investing
Activities

Net cash used in investing activities included
capital expenditures as presented below:

Capital Expenditures

During 2004, we plan to invest approximately
$21.0 million in capital principally to reduce
manufacturing costs, to introduce new products and to upgrade
capital equipment. Commitments at December 28, 2003 for
capital expenditures were approximately $2.4 million.

Investing activities in 2003 included the
acquisitions of AIS and Tekmar Company. On June 27, 2003,
Teledyne Technologies acquired AIS for $6.4 million in
cash, which is net of a $0.4 million purchase price
adjustment. AIS had sales of approximately $16.8 million
for the fiscal year ended December 2002. On May 16, 2003,
Teledyne Technologies acquired Tekmar Company for
$13.5 million in cash. Tekmar Company had sales of
$22.5 million for the fiscal year ended in September 2002.

Investing activities in 2002 included the
acquisition of Monitor Labs from Spirent plc on
September 27, 2002 for $24.0 million in cash. Monitor
Labs is a supplier of environmental monitoring instrumentation
for the detection, measurement, and reporting of air pollutants
with locations in Englewood, Colorado and Gibsonia,
Pennsylvania. Monitor Labs had sales of approximately
$25.6 million for the twelve months ended
September 29, 2002. Investing activities in 2002 also
included the receipt of a tax refund of $1.1 million
related to the API acquisition.

Investing activity in 2001 reflected the
acquisition of San Diego, California-based API for
$25.0 million. API is a designer and manufacturer of
advanced air quality monitoring instruments. API had sales of
approximately $16.3 million for the twelve months ended
September 30, 2001. In 2001, Teledyne Technologies also
invested $2.5 million in a manufacturer of micro lenses for
optical data recording and optical communications.

In all acquisitions, the results are included in
the Company’s consolidated financial statements from the
date of each respective acquisition. The Company accounts for
goodwill and purchased intangible assets under SFAS No. 141
“Business Combinations” and SFAS No. 142
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”. Business
acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase method by
assigning the purchase price to tangible and intangible assets
acquired and liabilities assumed. Assets acquired and
liabilities assumed are recorded at their fair values and the
excess of the purchase price over the amounts assigned is
recorded as goodwill. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed
are allocated to the Company’s “reporting units”
based on the Company’s integration plans and internal
reporting structure. Purchased intangible assets with finite
lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Goodwill
and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized,
but reviewed at least annually for impairment. The acquisitions
of Tekmar Company and AIS resulted in $5.4 million of
purchased intangible assets, primarily trade names, customer
relationships, software technology and patents. Of the
$5.4 million of intangible assets, $3.6 million is
subject to amortization over estimated useful lives ranging from
five to 20 years and a weighted average life of 8 years.
The Company recorded $0.2 million in amortization expense
in 2003 for these intangible assets. In 2003, Teledyne
Technologies completed the required impairment tests of goodwill
and indefinite lived intangible assets and has determined that
no impairment charge is required. The allocation of the purchase
price for the acquisition of Tekmar Company was completed as of
year-end



2003. The allocation of the purchase price for
the acquisition of AIS is preliminary and is expected to be
completed in the first quarter of 2004.

In July 2001, Teledyne Technologies combined its
Energy Systems business unit with assets of Florida-based Energy
Partners, Inc., to create majority-owned (86%) Teledyne Energy
Systems, Inc.

On December 31, 2003, Teledyne’s 2004
fiscal year, Teledyne acquired certain assets of the Filtronic
Solid State (“Solid State”) business from Filtronic
plc for $12.0 million in cash. Solid State designs and
manufactures customized microwave subassemblies for electronic
warfare, radar and other military applications. The business,
which will operate as Teledyne Wireless, Inc., will be relocated
from Santa Clara, California and consolidated with
Teledyne’s operations in Mountain View, California. Solid
State’s electronic warfare business had sales of
approximately $12.5 million for the fiscal year ended May
2003.

In February 2004, Teledyne announced that
Teledyne Tekmar Company has entered into an agreement to acquire
assets of Leeman Labs, Inc., for $8.0 million in cash. The
transaction is expected to close on or about February 27,
2004. The transaction is subject to customary closing
conditions. Leeman Labs’ product lines would augment
Teledyne’s existing laboratory and continuous monitoring
instruments used in environmental applications. Leeman
Lab’s inductively coupled plasma laboratory spectrometers
are used by environmental and quality control laboratories to
detect low levels of inorganic contaminants in water and other
environmental samples, and complement Teledyne Tekmar’s
organic analysis instrumentation. Leeman Labs, located in
Hudson, New Hampshire, had sales of approximately
$8.6 million for its fiscal year ended September 30,
2003.

Financing
Activities

Cash used in financing activities for fiscal
years 2003, 2002 and 2001 reflect proceeds from the exercise of
stock options. Cash used in financing activities for 2002 also
reflected the payment of long-term debt. Cash provided by
financing activities for 2001 also reflected borrowings under a
revolving credit agreement.

A $200 million five-year revolving credit
agreement that terminates in November 2004 was arranged with a
syndicate of banks in connection with the spin-off. ATI drew
$100 million under the facility prior to our assumption of
the facility. Teledyne Technologies assumed the repayment
obligation for the amount drawn by ATI. At December 28,
2003 and December 29, 2002 we had no long-term debt
outstanding. Excluding interest and fees, no payments are due
under the credit facility until the facility terminates.

At year-end 2003, we had $200 million of
available committed credit under the credit facility, which can
be utilized, as needed, for daily operating and periodic cash
needs, including acquisitions. Borrowings under the credit
facility bear interest, at our option, at a rate based on either
a defined base rate or the London Interbank Offered Rate
(LIBOR), plus applicable margins. The credit agreement also
provides for facility fees that vary between 0.35% and 0.20% of
the credit line, depending on our capitalization ratio as
calculated from time to time. This credit facility requires the
Company to comply with various financial covenants and
restrictions, including covenants and restrictions relating to
indebtedness, liens, investments, dividend payments,
consolidated net worth, interest coverage and the ratio of total
consolidated indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes and
depreciation and amortization. The credit agreement prohibits
stock repurchases, the declaration of dividends or making other
specified distributions in amounts exceeding 25% of cumulative
net income after the effective date of the credit agreement
($24.9 million at December 28, 2003). We also have
available $14.2 million under two uncommitted bank
facilities with no outstanding amounts at year-end 2003 or 2002.
These credit lines are utilized, as needed, for periodic cash
needs.

In March 2003, Teledyne Technologies announced
that its Board of Directors authorized the Company to purchase,
from time to time, up to one million shares of its Common Stock
in open market or privately negotiated transactions through
March 31, 2004. No repurchases have been made to date.



Pension
Plans

In connection with the spin-off, a defined
benefit pension plan was established and Teledyne Technologies
assumed the existing pension obligations for all of the
employees, both active and inactive, at the operations which
perform government contract work and for active employees at
operations which do not perform government contract work. ATI
transferred pension assets to fund the new defined benefit
pension plan. The Company has changed its retirement benefits
for non-union new hires. As of January 1, 2004, non-union
new hires will be eligible to participate in an enhanced defined
contribution plan as opposed to the Company’s existing
defined benefit plan. Currently, Teledyne Technologies
anticipates making an after-tax cash contribution of
approximately $4.0 million to its pension plan in 2004.
Also, under one of its spin-off agreements, after
November 29, 2004, the Company will be able to charge
pension costs to the U.S. Government under various government
contracts.

SFAS No. 87, “Employers’
Accounting for Pensions,” requires that a minimum pension
liability be recorded if the value of pension assets is less
than the accumulated pension benefit obligation. Since this
condition existed as of year-end 2002, the Company recorded a
$23.2 million non-cash charge to stockholders’ equity,
a long-term intangible asset of $10.4 million and an
additional long-term pension liability of $48.8 million. As
of year-end 2003, the difference between the value of the
Company’s pension assets and the accumulated pension
benefit obligation decreased from year-end 2002. This decrease
resulted in an $11.4 million reduction to the non-cash
charge to accumulated other comprehensive loss. As of year-end
2003, the non-cash charge to stockholders’ equity was
$11.8 million. The adjustments to equity in 2003 and 2002
did not affect net income and is recorded net of deferred taxes.
The charge will be reversed should the value of the pension
assets exceed the accumulated pension benefit obligation as of a
future measurement date. See Note 13 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional pension
disclosures.

Tax
Sharing and Indemnification Agreement

The Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement
between ATI and Teledyne Technologies provides that we will
indemnify ATI and its agents or representatives for taxes
imposed on, and other amounts paid by, them or ATI’s
stockholders if we take actions or fail to take actions that
result in the spin-off not qualifying as a tax-free
distribution. If any of the taxes or other amounts described
above were to become payable by Teledyne Technologies, the
payment could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations and cash flow and could exceed
our net worth by a substantial amount. The Company believes that
it has satisfied its principal spin-off requirements when it
completed its 2000 public offering and used the proceeds for
research and development and related capital projects, for the
further development of manufacturing capabilities and for
acquisitions and/or joint ventures.

Other Matters

Income
Taxes

As noted earlier, the Company’s effective
tax rate for 2003 was 33.3%, compared with 39.7% for 2002 and
2001. Total year 2003 reflected an income tax benefit of
$2.4 million due to the reversal of an income tax
contingency reserve which was determined to be no longer needed
during the third quarter of 2003. Excluding this benefit, the
Company’s effective tax rate for 2003 would have been
38.7%. Based on the Company’s history of operating
earnings, expectations of future operating earnings and
potential tax planning strategies, it is more likely than not
that the deferred income tax assets at December 28, 2003
will be realized.

Costs
and Pricing

Inflationary trends in recent years have been
moderate. We primarily use the last-in, first-out method of
inventory accounting that reflects current costs in the costs of
products sold. These costs, the increasing costs of equipment
and other costs are considered in establishing sales pricing
polices. The Company emphasizes cost containment in all aspects
of its business.



Hedging
Activities; Market Risk Disclosures

We have not utilized derivative financial
instruments such as futures contracts, options and swaps,
forward foreign exchange contracts or interest rate swaps and
futures during 2003 and 2002. We believe that adequate controls
are in place to monitor any hedging activities. Our primary
exposure to market risk relates to changes in interest rates and
foreign currency exchange rates. We periodically evaluate these
risks and have taken measures to mitigate these risks. We own
assets and operate facilities in countries that have been
politically stable. Also, our foreign risk management objectives
are geared towards stabilizing cash flow from the effects of
foreign currency fluctuations. Most of the Company’s sales
are denominated in U.S. dollars which mitigates the effect of
exchange rate changes. Any borrowings under the Company’s
revolving credit line are based on a fluctuating market interest
rate and, consequently, the fair value of any outstanding debt
should not be affected materially by changes in market interest
rates. Overall, we believe that our exposure to interest rate
risk and foreign currency exchange rate changes is not material
to our financial condition or results of operations.

Related
Party Transactions

In connection with the spin-off, Teledyne
Technologies and ATI entered into several agreements governing
the separation of our businesses and various employee benefits,
compensation, tax, indemnification and transition arrangements.
The Company’s principal spin-off requirements to ensure a
favorable tax treatment have been satisfied. We successfully
completed our required public offering in August 2000 and used
the offering proceeds in accordance with ATI’s tax ruling,
as amended. Since August 2002, the second anniversary of our
2000 public offering, we no longer need ATI’s consent to
make stock repurchases. The requirement that at least a majority
of our directors be members of the board of directors of ATI
expired at our 2002 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Four of our
nine directors continue to serve on ATI’s board. In
addition, under one of our spin-off agreements, the earliest the
Company will be able to charge pension costs to the U. S.
Government under various government contracts will be
November 29, 2004. We also license the “Teledyne”
name and related logos, symbols and marks from an affiliate of
ATI.

Our Chairman, President and Chief Executive
Officer is a director of Mellon Financial Corporation. Another
of our directors is a former chief executive officer and
director of Mellon Financial Corporation. All transactions with
Mellon Bank, N.A. and its affiliates are effected under normal
commercial terms, and we believe that our relationships with
Mellon Bank, N.A. and its affiliates are arms-length. Mellon
Bank, N.A. is one of nine lenders under our $200 million
credit facility, having committed up to $33,750,000 under the
facility. It also provides cash management services and an
uncommitted $5.0 million line of credit. Mellon Bank, N.A.
serves as trustee under our pension plan and provides asset
management services for the plan. Mellon Investor Services LLC
serves as our transfer agent and registrar, as well as agent
under our stockholders rights plan.

Environmental

We are subject to various federal, state, local
and international environmental laws and regulations which
require that we investigate and remediate the effects of the
release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past
and present operations. These include sites at which Teledyne
Technologies has been identified as a potentially responsible
party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and
comparable state laws. We are currently involved in the
investigation and remediation of a number of sites. Reserves for
environmental investigation and remediation totaled
approximately $2.0 million at December 28, 2003. As
investigation and remediation of these sites proceed and new
information is received, the Company expects that accruals will
be adjusted to reflect new information. Based on current
information, we do not believe that future environmental costs,
in excess of those already accrued, will materially and
adversely affect our financial condition or liquidity. However,
resolution of one or more of these environmental matters or
future accrual adjustments in any one reporting period could
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for
that period.



With respect to proceedings brought under the
federal Superfund laws, or similar state statutes, the Company
has been identified as a potentially responsible party at
approximately 17 such sites, excluding those sites at which
Teledyne Technologies believes it has no future liability. Our
involvement is very limited or de minimis at approximately nine
of these sites, and the potential loss exposure with respect to
any of the remaining eight sites is not considered to be
material.

For additional discussion of environmental
matters, see Notes 2 and 15 to the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Government
Contracts

We perform work on a number of contracts with the
Department of Defense and other agencies and departments of the
U.S. Government. Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government,
which included contracts with the Department of Defense, were
approximately 46% of total sales in 2003 and in 2002 and 45% of
total sales in 2001. For a summary of sales to the U.S.
Government by segment, see Note 14 to the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements. Sales to the Department of Defense
represented approximately 31%, 30% and 30% of total sales for
2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

Performance under government contracts has
certain inherent risks that could have a material adverse effect
on the Company’s business, results of operations and
financial condition. Government contracts are conditioned upon
the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations,
which usually occurs on a fiscal year basis even though contract
performance may take more than one year. While the overall U.S.
military budget declined in real dollars from the mid-1980s
through the early 1990s, U.S. defense spending has increased and
is expected to continue to increase over the next few years as a
result of global responses to terrorism and perceived nuclear
threats. Notwithstanding the potential for increased defense
spending, delays or declines in U.S. military expenditures in
the programs in which we participate could adversely affect our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

For information on accounts receivable from the
U.S. Government, see Note 6 to the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Estimates
and Reserves

Our discussion and analysis of financial
condition and results of operations are based upon our
consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States. The preparation of these financial statements
requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses,
and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing
basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to
product returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories,
investments, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty
obligations, pension and other postretirement benefits,
environmental and other contingencies and litigation. We base
our estimates on historical experience and on various other
assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the
circumstances at the time, the results of which form the basis
for making our judgments. Actual results may differ from these
estimates under different assumptions or conditions. In some
cases, such differences may be material. See “Other
Matters — Critical Accounting Policies”.



The following table reflects significant reserves
and valuation accounts, which are estimates and based on
judgments as described above, at December 28, 2003 and
December 29, 2002:

Reserves and Valuation Accounts(a)

(a)

This table should be read in conjunction with the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b)

Includes both long-term and short-term accrued
    liability reserves.

Critical
Accounting Policies

Our critical accounting policies are those that
are reflective of significant judgments and uncertainties, and
may potentially result in materially different results under
different assumptions and conditions. We have identified the
following as critical accounting policies: revenue recognition;
impairment of long-lived assets; income taxes; inventories and
related allowance for obsolete and excess inventory; aircraft
product liability reserve and accounting for pension plans. For
additional discussion of the application of these and other
accounting policies, see Note 2 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Revenue
Recognition

Commercial sales and revenue from U.S. Government
fixed-price-type contracts are generally recorded as shipments
are made or as services are rendered. Occasionally, for certain
fixed-price type contracts that require substantial performance
over a long time period (one or more years) before shipments
begin, in accordance with the requirements of Statement of
Position 81-1 “Accounting for Performance of
Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts”,
revenues may be recorded based upon attainment of scheduled
performance milestones which could be time, event or expense
driven. In these few instances, invoices are submitted to the
customer under a contractual agreement and payments are made by
the customer. Sales under cost-reimbursement contracts are
recorded as costs are incurred and fees are earned. Since
certain contracts extend over a long period of time, all
revisions in cost and funding estimates during the progress of
work have the effect of adjusting the current period earnings on
a cumulative catch-up basis. If the current contract estimate
indicates a loss, provision is made for the total anticipated
loss.

Some of the Company’s products are subject
to specified warranties. The Company maintains a reserve for the
estimated future costs of repair, replacement or customer
accommodation and periodically reviews this reserve for
adequacy. Such review would generally include a review of
historic warranty experience with respect to the applicable
business or products, as well as the length and actual terms of
the warranties. Changes in the Company’s product warranty
reserve during 2003 are as follows (in millions):



The Company follows the requirements of
Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin
No. 104 on revenue recognition.

Impairments
of Long-Lived Assets

We monitor the recoverability of the carrying
value of our long-lived assets. An impairment charge is
recognized when events and circumstances indicate that the
undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by an asset
(including any proceeds from dispositions) are less than the
carrying value of the asset and the asset’s carrying value
is less than its fair value. Our cash flow estimates are based
on historical results adjusted to reflect our best estimate of
future market and operating conditions. The net carrying value
of assets not recoverable is reduced to fair value. Our
estimates of fair value represent our best estimate based on
industry trends and reference to market rates and transactions.
As a result of a review in the second quarter of 2001, we
determined that the carrying amounts of certain of our
long-lived assets were no longer recoverable based on estimates
of future operating cash flows to be generated by these assets.
As a result, we recognized an impairment charge of approximately
$7.5 million in 2001. In 2002, we recorded a
$0.8 million write-down of certain optoelectronic equipment
and a $0.5 million charge related to the partial write-down
of the Company’s $2.8 million cost-based investment in
a private company engaged in manufacturing and development of
micro optics and microelectromechanical devices. In 2003, we
wrote-off the remaining $2.3 million of this investment.

Accounting
for Income Taxes

As part of the process of preparing our
consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate
our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we
operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax
exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting
from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting
purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and
liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance
sheet. We assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets
will be recovered from future taxable income, recognizing that
future taxable income may give rise to new deferred tax assets.
To the extent that we believe that future recovery is not
likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. To the extent
we establish or increase a valuation allowance, we must include
an expense within the tax provision in the income statement.

Significant management judgment is required in
determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax
assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded
against our net deferred tax assets. A valuation allowance of
$0.6 million was recorded as of December 28, 2003. In
the event that actual results differ from these estimates, or we
adjust these estimates in future periods, we may need to adjust
the valuation allowance, which could impact our financial
position and results of operations.

Provisions for income taxes for 2003, 2002 and
2001 are based on numerous factors that are subject to audit by
the Internal Revenue Service and the tax authorities in the
various jurisdictions in which we do business.

Inventories
and Related Allowance for Obsolete and Excess
Inventory

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost
(last-in, first-out; first-in, first-out; and average cost
methods) or market, less progress payments. We primarily use the
last-in, first-out method of inventory accounting that reflects
current costs in the costs of products sold. Costs include
direct material, direct labor, applicable manufacturing and
engineering overhead, and other direct costs. Inventories have
been reduced by an allowance for excess and obsolete
inventories. The estimated allowance is based on
management’s review of inventories on hand compared to
assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual
future demand or market conditions are more or less favorable
than those currently projected by management, adjustments may be
required. We recorded a charge of $9.8 million in 2001 for
the write-off of inventory from discontinued product lines and
the write-down of excess inventory resulting from reduced
customer demand. This charge was increased by $0.6 million
in 2002, following the final



resolution of the second quarter 2001 charge. In
2003, we recorded a $0.9 million fourth quarter write-down
on slow moving test equipment inventory in our Electronics and
Communication segment.

Aircraft
Product Liability Reserve

We are currently involved in certain legal
proceedings related to aircraft product liability claims. We
have accrued an estimate of the probable costs for the
resolution of these claims. This estimate has been developed in
consultation with our insurers, outside counsel handling our
defense in these matters and historical experience, and is based
upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of
litigation and settlement strategies. We do not believe these
proceedings will have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated financial position. It is possible, however, that
future results of operations for any particular quarterly or
annual period could be materially affected by specific events
occurring in the period, changes in our assumptions, or the
effectiveness of our strategies, related to these proceedings.
While we have aircraft and product liability insurance, our
annual self-insured retention for general aviation aircraft
liabilities incurred in connection with products manufactured by
Teledyne Continental Motors is $15.0 million. We cannot
assure that, for 2004 and in future years, our ability to obtain
insurance, or the premiums for such insurance, or the amount of
our self-insured retention or reserves will not be negatively
impacted by our experience in prior years or other factors. Our
current aircraft product liability insurance policy expires May
2004.

Accounting
for Pension Plans

Teledyne Technologies has a defined benefit
pension plan covering substantially all of its employees. The
Company accounts for its defined benefit pension plan in
accordance with SFAS No. 87 —
“Employers’ Accounting for Pensions,” which
requires that amounts recognized in financial statements be
determined on an actuarial basis, rather than as contributions
are made to the plan. A significant element in determining the
Company’s pension income or expense in accordance with SFAS
No. 87 is the expected return on plan assets. The Company
has assumed, based upon the types of securities the plan assets
are invested in and the long-term historical returns of these
investments, that the long-term expected return on pension
assets will be 8.5% in 2004, compared with 8.5% in 2003, and its
assumed discount rate will be 6.5% in 2004, compared with 7.0%
in 2003. The Company did not make a cash contribution to its
pension plan in 2003, but anticipates making an after-tax cash
contribution of approximately $4.0 million to its pension
plan in 2004. The assumed long-term rate of return on assets is
applied to the market-related value of plan assets at the end of
the previous year. This produces the expected return on plan
assets that is included in annual pension income or expense for
the current year. The cumulative difference between this
expected return and the actual return on plan assets is deferred
and amortized into pension income or expense over future
periods. As noted above, since the value of the Company’s
pension assets at year-end 2002 were less than the accumulated
pension benefit obligation, the Company recorded a
$23.2 million non-cash charge to stockholders’ equity,
a long-term intangible asset of $10.4 million and an
additional long-term pension liability of $48.8 million. As
of year-end 2003 the difference between the value of the
Company’s pension assets and the accumulated pension
benefit obligation decreased from year-end 2002. This decrease
resulted in an $11.4 million reduction to the non-cash
charge to accumulated other comprehensive loss. As of year-end
2003, the non-cash charge to stockholders’ equity was
$11.8 million. The adjustments to equity in 2003 and 2002
did not affect net income and were recorded net of deferred
taxes. The charge will be reversed should the value of the
pension assets exceed the accumulated pension benefit obligation
as of a future measurement date. See Note 13 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional pension
disclosures.

Recent
Accounting Pronouncements

SFAS
No. 132

In December 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No 132,
“Employers’ Disclosures about Pensions and Other
Postretirement Benefits” (“SFAS No. 132”).
SFAS No. 132 requires additional information regarding the
types of plan assets, investment strategy, measurement date,
plan obligations, cash flows and



components of net periodic benefit cost
recognized during interim periods as is effective immediately
upon issuance. The Company has included the required disclosures
in Note 13 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

SFAS
No. 150

In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150,
“Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with
Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity” (“SFAS
No. 150”). This Statement establishes standards for
classifying and measuring as liabilities certain financial
instruments that embody obligations of the issuer and have
characteristics of both liabilities and equity. It represents a
significant change in practice in the accounting for a number of
financial instruments, including mandatorily redeemable equity
instruments and certain equity derivatives that frequently are
used in connection with share repurchase programs. SFAS
No. 150 must be applied immediately to instruments entered
into or modified after May 31, 2003 and to all other
instruments that exist as of the beginning of the first interim
financial reporting period beginning after June 15, 2003,
except for noncontrolling interests of a limited-life subsidiary
which has been deferred indefinitely. As Teledyne Technologies
currently has no financial instruments that would be subject to
SFAS No. 150, the adoption had no impact on the Company.

SFAS
No. 149

In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 149,
“Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities” (“SFAS No. 149”).
SFAS No. 149 amends and clarifies accounting for derivative
instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded
in other contracts, and for hedging activities under SFAS
No. 133. SFAS No. 149 clarifies under what
circumstances a contract with an initial net investment meets
the characteristics of a derivative and when a derivative
contains a financing component that warrants special reporting
in the statement of cash flows. SFAS No. 149 is generally
effective for contracts entered into or modified after
June 30, 2003, and had no impact on Teledyne
Technologies’ financial position or results of operations.

FIN

In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation
No. 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities” (“FIN 46”). FIN 46 requires
companies to evaluate variable interest entities to determine
whether to apply the consolidation provisions of FIN 46 to
those entities. Companies must apply FIN 46 to entities created
after January 31, 2003, and to variable interest entities
in which a company obtains an interest after that date. In
October 2003, the FASB deferred the effective date to the first
fiscal year or interim period ending after December 15,
2003, to variable interest entities in which a company holds a
variable interest that is acquired before February 1, 2003.
Teledyne Technologies’ adoption of FIN 46 will have no
impact on the Company’s consolidated results of operations
or financial position.

SFAS
No. 143

In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143,
“Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,” which
addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations
associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and
the associated asset retirement costs (“SFAS
No. 143”). Teledyne Technologies’ initial
adoption of SFAS No. 143, effective January 1, 2003,
did not have a material effect on its financial position or
results of operations.

Outlook

Although 2004 earnings visibility is limited,
based on its current outlook, the Company’s management
believes that first quarter and full year 2004 earnings per
share will be in the range of approximately $0.15 to $0.17 and
$0.80 to $0.86, respectively.

The Company’s 2004 outlook reflects
anticipated growth in the Company’s defense electronics and
instrumentation businesses, a slight recovery in some of the
Company’s short cycle electronics and



commercial aviation markets and $0.16 per share
of pension expense for the full year 2004. Given the
finalization of actual fee negotiations for work performed on
certain contracts in prior periods, operating margin in the
Company’s Systems Engineering Solutions segment is expected
to be lower in 2004, compared with 2003. The Company’s
previous aircraft product liability policy expired in May 2003.
As of June 1, 2003, the total cost of the Company’s
aircraft product liability insurance increased approximately
$1.0 million per month or approximately 75%. The
Company’s current aircraft product liability policy will
expire in May 2004, and the Company is currently reviewing its
alternatives.

Full year 2003 earnings included
$6.9 million or $0.13 per share in pension expense. The
Company currently expects approximately $8.5 million or
$0.16 per share of pension expense in 2004. The increase in
pension expense reflects, in part, a reduction in the discount
rate assumption for the Company’s defined benefit plan and
a change in the Company’s retirement benefits for non-union
new hires. The Company’s assumed discount rate will be 6.5%
in 2004, compared to 7.0% in 2003. As of January 1, 2004,
non-union new hires will be eligible to participate in an
enhanced defined contribution plan as opposed to the
Company’s existing defined benefit plan. Currently,
Teledyne Technologies anticipates making an after-tax cash
contribution of approximately $4.0 million to its pension
plan in 2004. Also, under one of its spin-off agreements, after
November 29, 2004, the Company will be able to charge
pension costs to the U.S. Government under various government
contracts.

EARNINGS PER SHARE SUMMARY

(Diluted earnings per common share from
continuing operations)

Safe Harbor Cautionary Statement Regarding
Outlook and Other Forward Looking Data

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains
forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, relating to earnings, growth
opportunities, capital expenditures, pension matters and
strategic plans. Actual results could differ materially from
these forward-looking statements. Many factors, including
changes in demand for products sold to the semiconductor,
communications and commercial aviation markets, timely
development of acceptable and competitive fuel cell products and
systems, funding, continuation and award of government programs,
changes in insurance costs, customers’ acceptance of piston
engine insurance-related price increases, continued liquidity of
our customers (including commercial airline customers) and
economic and political conditions, could change the anticipated
results. In addition, stock market fluctuations affect the value
of the Company’s pension assets.

Global responses to terrorism and other perceived
threats increase uncertainties associated with forward-looking
statements about our businesses. Various responses could realign
government programs, and affect the composition, funding or
timing of our programs. Reinstatement of flight restrictions
would negatively impact the market for general aviation aircraft
piston engines and components.

The Company continues to take action to assure
compliance with the internal controls, disclosure controls and
other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While the
Company believes its control systems are effective, there are
inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements
due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.



While Teledyne Technologies’ growth strategy
includes possible acquisitions, the Company cannot provide any
assurance as to when, if, or on what terms, any acquisitions
will be made. Acquisitions, including the recent acquisition of
assets of the Filtronic Solid State business and Leeman Labs,
involve various inherent risks, such as, among others, our
ability to integrate acquired businesses and to achieve
identified financial and operating synergies.

Additional information concerning factors that
could cause actual results to differ materially from those
projected in the forward-looking statements is contained
beginning on page 13 of this Form 10-K under the
caption “Risk Factors; Cautionary Statements as to
Forward-Looking Statements.” Forward-looking statements are
generally accompanied by words such as “estimate”,
“project”, “predict”, “believes”
or “expect”, that convey the uncertainty of future
events or outcomes. We assume no obligation to publicly update
or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of
new information or otherwise.

Report of Management

The management of Teledyne Technologies is
responsible for the integrity of the financial data reported by
Teledyne Technologies. Fulfilling this responsibility requires
the preparation and presentation of consolidated financial
statements in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. Management uses internal
accounting controls, corporate-wide policies and procedures and
judgment so that such statements reflect fairly the consolidated
financial position, results of operations and cash flows of
Teledyne Technologies.

Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.

The information required by this item is included
in this Report at page 42 under the caption “Other
Matters — Hedging Activities; Market Risk
Disclosures” of “Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.”

Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.

The information required by this item is included
in this Report at pages 53 through 83. See the “Index
to Financial Statements and Related Information” at
page 53.

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
    on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.

Not applicable.

Item 9A. Controls and
Procedures.

Teledyne Technologies’ disclosure controls
and procedures are designed to ensure that information required
to be disclosed in reports that it files or submits, under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, was recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
Company’s management, with the participation of its
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the
effectiveness, as of December 28, 2003, of the
Company’s “disclosure controls and procedures,”
as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“the
Exchange Act”). Based upon that evaluation, our Chief
Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer concluded that
the disclosure controls and procedures as of December 28,
2003, were effective to provide a reasonable assurance that
information required to be disclosed by the Company in the
reports filed or submitted by it under the Exchange Act is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and to
provide reasonable assurance that information required to be
disclosed by the Company in such reports is accumulated and
communicated to the Company’s management, including its
principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as
appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure.



There was no change in the Company’s
“internal control over financial reporting” (as such
term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act)
that occurred during the quarter ended December 28, 2003,
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially effect, the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting.

The methods and processes utilized to evaluate
and certify the Company’s financial and other information
in this filing include, but are not limited to, the following:

In September 2002, the Company formally
constituted the Sarbanes-Oxley Disclosure Committee. Current
members include:

John T. Kuelbs, Senior Vice President, General
Counsel and Secretary

Dale A.
Schnittjer, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Ivars
R. Blukis, Chief Business Risk Assurance Officer (Internal Audit)

Robyn
E. Choi, Vice President, Administration and Human Resources and
Assistant Secretary

Melanie
S. Cibik, Vice President, Associate General Counsel and
Assistant Secretary

Shelley
D. Green, Treasurer

Brian
A. Levan, Assistant Controller

Jason
VanWees, Director of Corporate Development and Investor Relations

Among its tasks, the Sarbanes-Oxley Disclosure
Committee discusses and reviews disclosure issues to help the
Company fulfill its disclosure obligations on a timely basis in
accordance with SEC rules and regulations and is intended to be
used as an additional resource for employees to raise questions
regarding accounting, auditing, internal controls and disclosure
matters. Our toll-free Corporate Ethics Help Line
(1-877-666-6968) continues to be an alternative means to
communicate concerns to the Company’s management.

PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive
Officers of the Registrant.

In addition to the information set forth under
the caption “Executive Management” beginning at
page 10 in Part I of this Report, the information
concerning the directors of Teledyne Technologies required by
this item is set forth in the 2004 Proxy Statement under the
caption “Item 1 on Proxy Card — Election of
Directors” and is incorporated herein by reference. The
information set forth in the Proxy Statement under the captions
“Board Composition and Practices,” “Corporate
Governance,” “Committees of Our Board of
Directors — Audit Committee” and “Stock
Ownership — Sections 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance” is incorporated herein by reference.
Charles H. Noski resigned as a director effective February 27,
2004, due to demands of his position as Corporate Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer of Northrop Grumman Corporation, a
position that he assumed in December 2003.

Item 11. Executive
Compensation.

The information required by this item is set
forth in the 2004 Proxy Statement under the captions
“Directors Compensation”, “Executive
Compensation” and “Compensation Committee Interlocks
and Insider Participation” and is incorporated herein by
reference. TDY does not incorporate by reference in this
Form 10-K either the “2003 Report on Executive
Compensation” or the “Cumulative Total Stockholder
Return” section of the 2004 Proxy Statement.



Item 12. Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

The information required by this item is set
forth in the 2004 Proxy Statement under the captions “Stock
Ownership Information” and “Equity Compensation Plans
Information” and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions.

The information required by this item is set
forth in the 2004 Proxy Statement under the caption
“Certain Transactions” and is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees
and Services.

The information required by this item is set
forth in the 2004 Proxy Statement under the captions “Fees
Billed by Independent Auditors” and “Audit Committee
Pre-Approval Policy” under “Item 2 on the Proxy
Card — Ratification of the Appointment of Independent
Auditor” and is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial
Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.

(a) Exhibits and Financial Statement
Schedules:

(1) Financial Statements

See the “Index to Financial Statements and
    Related Information” at page 53 of this Report, which is
    incorporated herein by reference.

(2) Financial Statement Schedules

See Schedule II captioned “Valuation
    and Qualifying Accounts” at page 83 of this Report, which
    is incorporated herein by reference.

(3) Exhibits

A list of exhibits filed with this Form 10-K
    or incorporated by reference is found in the Exhibit Index
    immediately following the certifications of this Report and
    incorporated herein by reference.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K filed in the
fourth quarter of 2003:

During the quarter ended December 28, 2003
    Teledyne Technologies filed a Current Report on Form 8-K on
    October 23, 2003, for the purpose of reporting, under
    Item 9 and Item 12, Teledyne Technologies’
    results of operations for the third quarter ended
    September 28, 2003.

(c) Exhibits:

See Item 15(a)(3) above.

(d) Financial Schedules:

See Item 15(a)(2) above.



INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RELATED
INFORMATION



REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated as of
December 28, 2003 and December 29, 2002, and the
related consolidated statements of income, stockholders’
equity and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the
period ended December 28, 2003. Our audits also included
the financial statement schedule listed in the index at
Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
consolidated financial position of Teledyne Technologies
Incorporated at December 28, 2003 and December 29,
2002, and the consolidated results of its operations and its
cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period
ended December 28, 2003, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States. Also, in our
opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken
as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Los Angeles, California

January 27, 2004



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(In millions, except per-share
amounts)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these financial statements.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In millions, except share amounts)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these financial statements.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

(In millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these financial statements.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

(In millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these financial statements.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Note 1. Description of Business

Effective November 29, 1999 (the
“Distribution Date”), Teledyne Technologies
Incorporated (“Teledyne Technologies” or the
“Company”), became an independent, public company as a
result of the distribution by Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated,
now known as Allegheny Technologies Incorporated
(“ATI”), of the Company’s Common Stock, $.01 par
value per share, to holders of ATI Common Stock at a
distribution ratio of one for seven (the “spin-off”).
The spin-off has been treated as a tax-free distribution for
federal income tax purposes. The spin-off included the transfer
of certain of the businesses of ATI’s Aerospace and
Electronics segment to the new corporation, immediately prior to
the Distribution Date. ATI no longer has a financial investment
in Teledyne Technologies.

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is a leading
provider of sophisticated electronic components, instruments and
communications products, including defense electronics, data
acquisition and communications equipment for airlines and
business aircraft, monitoring and control instruments for
industrial and environmental applications and components, and
subsystems for wireless and satellite communications. We also
provide systems engineering solutions and information technology
services for space, defense and industrial applications, and
manufacture general aviation and missile engines and components,
as well as on-site gas and power generation systems.

We serve niche market segments where performance,
precision and reliability are critical. Our customers include
major industrial and communications companies, government
agencies, aerospace prime contractors and general aviation
companies.

Teledyne Technologies consists of the operations
of the Electronics and Communications segment with operations in
the United States, United Kingdom, Mexico and Canada; the
Systems Engineering Solutions segment with operations in the
United States; the Aerospace Engines and Components segment with
operations in the United States; and the Energy Systems segment
with operations in the United States. In 2001, the Company
realigned and changed the reporting structure of some of its
business units. The Test Services and Geophysical Instruments
business units that were previously part of our Systems
Engineering Solutions segment are now part of an expanded
instruments group under the Electronics and Communications
segment. This realignment also resulted in a new segment, the
Energy Systems segment, the results of which had previously been
reported under the Systems Engineering Solutions segment. The
Energy Systems segment, which provides on-site gas and power
generation systems based on proprietary fuel cell, electrolysis
and thermoelectric technologies, currently includes the
majority-owned entity that was formed in the third quarter of
2001.

A $200 million five-year revolving credit
agreement was arranged with a syndicate of banks in connection
with the spin-off. ATI drew $100 million under the facility
prior to the assumption of the facility by Teledyne
Technologies. Teledyne Technologies assumed the repayment
obligation for the amount drawn by ATI. Such amount has been
repaid in full. In addition, prior to and in connection with the
spin-off, Teledyne Technologies and ATI entered into agreements
providing for the separation of the companies and governing
various relationships for separating employee benefits and tax
obligations, indemnification and transition services. Teledyne
Technologies principal spin-off requirements to assure a
favorable tax treatment have been satisfied. Teledyne
Technologies completed its required public offering in August
2000 and used the proceeds in accordance with ATI’s tax
ruling, as amended.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies

Principles
of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements of Teledyne
Technologies include the accounts of the businesses as described
in Note 1. Significant intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated. Certain financial statements,
notes and supplementary data for prior years have been changed
to conform to the 2003 presentation.

Fiscal
Year

The Company is on a 53/52-week fiscal year
convention. Fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001 were 52-week years
and ended on December 28, 2003, December 29, 2002 and
December 30, 2001, respectively. References to the years
2003, 2002 and 2001 are intended to refer to the respective
fiscal year unless otherwise noted.

Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and
expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On
an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including
those related to product returns, allowance for doubtful
accounts, inventories, investments, intangible assets, income
taxes, warranty obligations, pension and other postretirement
benefits, long-term contracts, environmental and other
contingencies, and litigation. The Company bases its estimates
on historical experience and on various other assumptions that
are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances at the
time, the results of which form the basis for making its
judgments. Actual results may differ from these estimates under
different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that
the estimates are reasonable.

Revenue
Recognition

Commercial sales and revenue from U.S. Government
fixed-price-type contracts generally are recorded as shipments
are made or as services are rendered. Occasionally, for certain
fixed-price-type contracts that require substantial performance
over a long time period (one or more years) before shipments
begin, in accordance with the requirements of Statement of
Position 81-1 “Accounting for Performance of
Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts,”
revenues may be recorded based upon attainment of scheduled
performance milestones which could be time, event or expense
driven. In these few instances, invoices are submitted to the
customer under a contractual agreement and payments are made by
the customer. Sales under cost-reimbursement contracts are
recorded as costs are incurred and fees are earned. Since
certain contracts extend over a long period of time, all
revisions in cost and funding estimates during the progress of
work have the effect of adjusting the current period earnings on
a cumulative catch-up basis. If the current contract estimate
indicates a loss, provision is made for the total anticipated
loss.

Some of the Company’s products are subject
to specified warranties. The Company maintains a reserve for the
estimated future costs of repair, replacement or customer
accommodation and periodically reviews this reserve for
adequacy. Such review would generally include a review of
historic warranty experience with respect to the applicable
business or products, as well as the length and actual terms of
the warranties.

The Company follows the requirements of
Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin
No. 104 on revenue recognition.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Research
and Development

Selling, general and administrative expenses
include company-funded research and development and bid and
proposal costs which are expensed as incurred and were
$27.9 million in 2003, $26.2 million in 2002 and
$31.3 million in 2001. Costs related to customer-funded
research and development contracts were $190.1 million in
2003, $170.6 million in 2002 and $179.4 million in
2001 and are charged to costs and expenses as the related sales
are recorded. A portion of the costs incurred for company-funded
research and development is recoverable through overhead cost
allowances on government contracts.

Income
Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 109, “Accounting for
Income Taxes.” Under this method, deferred income tax
assets and liabilities are determined on the estimated future
tax effects of differences between the financial reporting and
tax basis of assets and liabilities given the application of
enacted tax laws. Deferred income tax provisions and benefits
are based on changes to the asset or liability from year to year.

Net
Income Per Common Share

The average number of shares of Teledyne
Technologies’ Common Stock used in the computation of basic
net income per common share were 32,208,201, 32,220,883 and
31,736,215 for the 2003, 2002 and 2001 fiscal years,
respectively. The weighted average number of common shares
outstanding during the period was used in the calculation of
basic earnings per share. This number of shares was increased by
contingent shares that could be issued under various
compensation plans as well as by the dilutive effect of stock
options based on the treasury stock method in the calculation of
diluted earnings per share. The average number of shares of
Teledyne Technologies’ Common Stock used in the computation
of diluted net income per common share were 32,720,988,
32,886,852 and 32,357,315 for the 2003, 2002 and 2001 fiscal
years, respectively.

Accounts
Receivable

Receivables are presented net of a reserve for
doubtful accounts of $2.4 million at December 28, 2003 and
$2.7 million at December 29, 2002. Expense recorded
for the reserve for doubtful accounts was $0.2 million,
$0.6 million and $0.7 million for 2003, 2002, and
2001, respectively. The Company markets its products and
services principally throughout the United States, Europe, Japan
and Canada to commercial customers and agencies of, and prime
contractors to, the U.S. Government. Trade credit is extended
based upon evaluations of each customer’s ability to
perform its obligations, which are updated periodically.

Cash
and Cash Equivalents

Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid
money-market mutual funds and bank deposits with initial
maturities of three months or less. Cash equivalents totaled
approximately $32.9 million and $15.4 million at
December 28, 2003 and December 29, 2002, respectively.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost
(last-in, first-out; first-in, first-out; and average cost
methods) or market, less progress payments. Costs include direct
material, direct labor, applicable manufacturing and engineering
overhead, and other direct costs.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Property,
Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment is capitalized at
cost. The method of depreciation adopted for all property, plant
and equipment placed into service after July 1, 1996 is the
straight-line method. For property, plant and equipment acquired
prior to July 1, 1996, depreciation is computed using a
combination of accelerated and straight-line methods. The
Company believes the straight-line method more appropriately
reflects its financial results by better allocating costs of new
property over the useful lives of these assets.

Goodwill
and Acquired Intangible Assets

Teledyne Technologies’ goodwill was
$56.2 million at December 28, 2003 and
$44.3 million at December 29, 2002. The increase in
goodwill in 2003 includes goodwill acquired as part of the
acquisitions of Tekmar Company and AIS in 2003. The Company
accounts for goodwill and purchased intangible assets under SFAS
No. 141, “Business Combinations” (“SFAS
No. 141”) and SFAS No. 142 “Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS No. 142”).
Business acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase
method by assigning the purchase price to tangible and
intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Assets
acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their fair
values and the excess of the purchase price over the amounts
assigned is recorded as goodwill. Assets acquired and
liabilities assumed are allocated to the Company’s
“reporting units” based on the Company’s
integration plans and internal reporting structure. Purchased
intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their
estimated useful lives. Goodwill and intangible assets with
indefinite lives are not amortized, but reviewed at least
annually for impairment. The acquisitions of Tekmar Company and
AIS resulted in $5.4 million of purchased intangible
assets, primarily trade names, customer relationships, software
technology and patents. Of the $5.4 million of intangible
assets, $3.6 million is subject to amortization over
estimated useful lives ranging from five to 20 years and a
weighted average life of 8 years. The Company recorded
$0.2 million in amortization expense in 2003 for these
intangible asset. In 2003, Teledyne Technologies completed the
required impairment tests of goodwill and indefinite lived
intangible assets and has determined that no impairment charge
is required. The allocation of the purchase price for the
acquisition of Tekmar Company was completed as of year-end 2003.
The allocation of the purchase price for the acquisition of AIS
is preliminary and is expected to be completed in the first
quarter of 2004.

Had the goodwill non-amortization provisions of
SFAS No. 142 been in effect for 2001, net income would have
been $7.0 million for 2001. Basic earnings per share and
diluted earnings per share would have been $0.22 for 2001.

Other
Long-Lived Assets

The carrying value of long-lived assets is
periodically evaluated in relation to the operating performance
and future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying businesses.
Adjustments are made if the sum of expected future net cash
flows is less than book value. In 2003, the acquisitions of
Tekmar Company and AIS, resulted in $5.4 million of
purchased intangible assets, primarily trade names, customer
relationships and patents. In 2003, Teledyne Technologies
recorded a $2.3 million charge for the write-down of the
Company’s remaining cost-based investment in a private
company engaged in manufacturing and development of micro optics
and microelectromechanical devices. In 2002, Teledyne
Technologies recorded a $0.5 million charge for the partial
write-down of this investment. In 2002, Teledyne Technologies
also recorded a $0.8 million write-down of certain
optoelectronic equipment.

Environmental

Costs that mitigate or prevent future
environmental contamination or extend the life, increase the
capacity or improve the safety or efficiency of property
utilized in current operations are capitalized. Other



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

costs that relate to current operations or an
existing condition caused by past operations are expensed.
Environmental liabilities are recorded when the Company’s
liability is probable and the costs are reasonably estimable,
but generally not later than the completion of the feasibility
study or the Company’s recommendation of a remedy or
commitment to an appropriate plan of action. The accruals are
reviewed periodically and, as investigations and remediations
proceed, adjustments are made as necessary. Accruals for losses
from environmental remediation obligations do not consider the
effects of inflation, and anticipated expenditures are not
discounted to their present value. The accruals are not reduced
by possible recoveries from insurance carriers or other third
parties, but do reflect anticipated allocations among
potentially responsible parties at federal Superfund sites or
similar state-managed sites and an assessment of the likelihood
that such parties will fulfill their obligations at such sites.
The measurement of environmental liabilities by the Company is
based on currently available facts, present laws and
regulations, and current technology. Such estimates take into
consideration the Company’s prior experience in site
investigation and remediation, the data concerning cleanup costs
available from other companies and regulatory authorities, and
the professional judgment of the Company’s environmental
experts in consultation with outside environmental specialists,
when necessary.

Foreign
Currency Translation

The Company’s foreign entities’
accounts are measured using local currency as the functional
currency. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange
rate in effect at year-end. Revenues and expenses are translated
at the rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Unrealized
translation gains and losses arising from differences in
exchange rates from period to period are included as a component
of accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders’
equity. Most of the Company’s sales are denominated in U.S.
dollars which mitigates the effect of exchange rate changes.

Recent
Accounting Pronouncements

SFAS No. 132.

In December 2003, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS
No. 132, “Employers’ Disclosures about Pensions
and Other Postretirement Benefits” (“SFAS
No. 132”). SFAS No. 132 requires additional
information regarding the types of plan assets, investment
strategy, measurement date, plan obligations, cash flows and
components of net periodic benefit cost recognized during
interim periods as is effective immediately upon issuance. The
Company has included the required disclosures in Note 13 to
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

SFAS No. 150.

In May
2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150, “Accounting for
Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both
Liabilities and Equity” (“SFAS No. 150”).
This Statement establishes standards for classifying and
measuring as liabilities certain financial instruments that
embody obligations of the issuer and have characteristics of
both liabilities and equity. It represents a significant change
in practice in the accounting for a number of financial
instruments, including mandatorily redeemable equity instruments
and certain equity derivatives that frequently are used in
connection with share repurchase programs. SFAS No. 150
must be applied immediately to instruments entered into or
modified after May 31, 2003 and to all other instruments
that exist as of the beginning of the first interim financial
reporting period beginning after June 15, 2003, except for
noncontrolling interests of a limited-life subsidiary which has
been deferred indefinitely. As Teledyne Technologies currently
has no financial instruments that would be subject to SFAS
No. 150, the adoption had no impact on the Company.

SFAS No. 149.

In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 149, “Amendment of Statement 133 on
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” (“SFAS
No. 149”). SFAS No. 149 amends and clarifies
accounting for derivative instruments, including certain
derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for
hedging activities under SFAS No. 133. SFAS No. 149
clarifies under what circumstances a contract with an initial
net investment meets the characteristics of a derivative and
when a derivative



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

contains a financing component that warrants
special reporting in the statement of cash flows. SFAS
No. 149 is generally effective for contracts entered into
or modified after June 30, 2003 and had no impact on
Teledyne Technologies’ financial position or results of
operations.

FIN 46.

In January
2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46,
“Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities”
(“FIN 46”). FIN 46 requires companies to evaluate
variable interest entities to determine whether to apply the
consolidation provisions of FIN 46 to those entities.
Companies must apply FIN 46 to entities created after
January 31, 2003, and to variable interest entities in
which a company obtains an interest after that date. In October
2003, the FASB deferred the effective date to the first fiscal
year or interim period ending after December 15, 2003, to
variable interest entities in which a company holds a variable
interest that is acquired before February 1, 2003. Teledyne
Technologies’ adoption of FIN 46 will have no impact
on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or
financial position.

SFAS No. 143.

In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 143 — “Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations,” which addresses financial accounting and
reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of
tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement
costs. Teledyne Technologies’ initial adoption of SFAS
No. 143, effective January 1, 2003, did not have a
material effect on its financial position or results of
operations.

Hedging
Activities

Teledyne Technologies has not utilized derivative
financial instruments such as futures contracts, options and
swaps, forward exchange contracts or interest rate swaps and
futures during 2003 and 2002. Teledyne Technologies believes
that adequate controls are in place to monitor any hedging
activities.

Supplemental
Cash Flow Information

Teledyne Technologies cash payments for federal,
foreign and state income taxes were $15.1 million for 2003
which is net of refunds of $2.2 million. Teledyne
Technologies cash payments for federal, foreign and state income
taxes were $13.5 million for 2002 which is net of refunds
of $7.4 million. Teledyne Technologies received a net cash
refund for federal, foreign and state income taxes of
$10.0 million in 2001. Cash payments for interest and
facility fees by Teledyne Technologies totaled approximately
$0.4 million, $0.7 million and $1.7 million for
2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

Comprehensive
Income

Teledyne Technologies’ comprehensive income
consists of net income, the minimum pension liability
adjustment, changes in the value of marketable equity securities
and foreign currency translation adjustments. The minimum
pension liability adjustment was recorded net of deferred taxes.
See Note 13 for a further discussion of the pension adjustment.
Teledyne Technologies’ comprehensive income was
$41.6 million, $2.0 million and $6.7 million for
the years 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

The year-end components of accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) are shown in the following table (in
millions):



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Note 3. Restructuring, Asset Impairment and
Other Charges

In the second quarter of 2001, the Company
recorded a $26.4 million pretax charge of which
$7.4 million was for asset impairment, $8.7 million
was for restructuring and other charges, $10.0 million was
for inventory write-downs and a $0.3 million pretax charge
for discontinued operations. The 2001 charge included plans to
exit manufacturing for the following non-core product lines from
its Electronics and Communications segment: industrial solid
state relays and certain microwave switches and filters. The
Company’s process control software and sodium iodide
crystals product lines within its Systems Engineering Solutions
segment were sold in the second quarter of 2001. Teledyne
Technologies also exited certain environmental programs within
this same segment. Annual sales for these non-core product lines
were approximately $10.0 million in 2000.

The charge also included: restructuring charges
for employee termination benefits; the consolidation and
downsizing of manufacturing operations; non-cancelable lease
expenses; and transaction costs associated with the formation of
Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc. Teledyne Technologies reduced its
total workforce by approximately 14% during 2001. The Company
recorded asset impairment charges for equipment, net of expected
sale proceeds, and goodwill related to product lines to be
discontinued and the loss on the sale of non-core product lines.
A charge was also recorded in cost of sales for the write-off of
inventory from discontinued product lines and the write-down of
excess inventory resulting from reduced customer demand. The
Company has exited the manufacturing of industrial solid state
relays and certain microwave switches and filters from its
Electronics and Communications segment.

At December 30, 2001, the estimate of the
second quarter charge remained at $26.4 million, but there
were some changes in income statement classification. At
year-end 2001, the cumulative restructuring charges were
$8.8 million, cumulative asset impairment charges were
$7.5 million, cumulative charges to cost of sales related
to excess and obsolete inventory were $9.8 million and the
pretax charge for discontinued operations remained at $0.3
million.

At December 29, 2002, Teledyne Technologies
recorded income of $0.1 million following the final resolution
of the 2001 second quarter charge. In addition there were some
changes in income statement classification. At year-end 2002,
the cumulative restructuring charges were $8.1 million and
the cumulative charges to cost of sales related to excess and
obsolete inventory were $10.4 million, with no change to
either the asset impairment charge or the pretax charge for
discontinued operations. This resulted in $0.2 million of
income in the Electronics and Communications segment in 2002 and
an additional cost impact of $0.1 million in the Systems
Engineering segment during 2002. Final charges by segment were
as follows: $15.4 million in the Electronics and
Communication segment; $5.6 million in the Energy Systems
segment; $4.5 million in the Systems Engineering Solutions
segment; and $0.3 million in the Aerospace Engines and
Components segment. The $26.3 million charge also included
a $0.2 million restructuring charge for the corporate office and
a pretax charge of $0.3 million was recorded for
discontinued operations. The following table details the
components of the 2001 second quarter charge and the final



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

resolution of the changes in estimate at
December 29, 2002 and December 30, 2001 (amounts in
millions):

The following table details the original 2001
second quarter charge by segment and the final resolution of the
changes in estimate at December 29, 2002 and
December 30, 2001 (amounts in millions):

Note 4. Business Combinations and Discontinued
Operation

On June 27, 2003, Teledyne Technologies
acquired from Spirent plc its Aviation Information Solutions
businesses (collectively “AIS”), which include Spirent
Systems Wichita, Inc., Spirent Systems — Aerospace
Solutions (Ottawa) Limited and assets of United Kingdom-based
The Flight Data Company Limited, for $6.4 million in cash,
which is net of a purchase price adjustment. AIS designs and
manufactures aerospace data acquisition devices, networking
products and flight deck and cabin displays. The acquisition of
AIS provides Teledyne Technologies with advanced airborne file
servers, data analysis software and information displays that
are synergistic with Teledyne Controls’ data acquisition
and communication systems that enhance flight safety and
maintenance efficiency for airline and airfreight customers.

On May 16, 2003, Teledyne Technologies
acquired Tekmar Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Emerson
Electric Co., for $13.5 million in cash. Tekmar Company,
also known as Tekmar-Dohrmann, is a premier manufacturer of gas
chromatography introduction systems and automated total organic
carbon analyzers. Tekmar Company, located in Mason, Ohio, became
a business unit of Teledyne Instruments, a group of electronic
instrumentation businesses within Teledyne Technologies’
Electronics and Communications business segment. Tekmar Company
manufactures instruments that automate the preparation and
concentration of drinking water and wastewater samples for the
analysis of volatile organic compounds in gas chromatographs. It
also provides laboratory analytical systems for the detection of
total organic carbon.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

On September 27, 2002, Teledyne Technologies
acquired Monitor Labs from Spirent plc for $24 million in
cash. Monitor Labs is a supplier of environmental monitoring
instrumentation for the detection, measurement and reporting of
air pollutants with locations in Englewood, Colorado and
Gibsonia, Pennsylvania. In November 2001, Teledyne Technologies
acquired API for $25 million in cash. API is a designer and
manufacturer of advanced air quality monitoring instruments,
based in San Diego, California. Monitor Labs and API’s
results are included in the consolidated financial statements
since the date of each respective acquisition. Both API and
Monitor Labs are components of Teledyne Instruments, a group of
electronic instrumentation businesses within Teledyne’s
Electronic and Communications business segment. In both
acquisitions, the excess of the purchase price over the fair
value of net assets acquired has been allocated to identifiable
intangible assets including goodwill in accordance with SFAS
No. 141.

In July 2001, Teledyne Technologies combined its
Energy Systems business unit with assets of Florida based Energy
Partners, Inc., to create majority-owned (86%) Teledyne Energy
Systems, Inc. This transaction was recorded as a transfer of net
assets between entities under common control in accordance with
SFAS No. 141. The company focuses on supplying hydrogen gas
generators and thermoelectric power systems as well as
commercialization of proton exchange membrane (PEM) fuel
cell stacks, test stands and systems.

In 2000, Teledyne Technologies sold the assets of
Teledyne Cast Parts, a provider of sand and investment castings
to the aerospace and defense industries which was previously
reported as part of the Aerospace Engines and Components segment
for a net after-tax gain of $0.7 million. Initial net
proceeds from the sale in 2000 were $17.0 million. In both
2002 and 2001, Teledyne Technologies made payments for purchase
price adjustments and workers’ compensation insurance. The
consolidated financial statements reflect Teledyne Cast Parts as
a discontinued operation. In 2001, Teledyne Technologies
recorded a pretax charge of $0.3 million for discontinued
operations.

Note 5. Financial Instruments

Teledyne Technologies values financial
instruments as required by SFAS No. 107 —
“Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial
Instruments,” as amended. The carrying amounts of cash and
cash equivalents approximate fair value because of the short
maturity of those instruments. Teledyne Technologies estimates
the fair value of its long-term debt based on the quoted market
prices for debt of similar rating and similar maturity. There
was no long-term debt outstanding at December 28, 2003 or
December 29, 2002.

The carrying value of other on-balance-sheet
financial instruments approximates fair value, and the cost, if
any, to terminate off-balance sheet financial instruments
(primarily letters of credit) is not significant.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Note 6. Accounts Receivable

Accounts receivable are summarized as follows (in
millions):

The billed contract receivables from the U.S.
Government and prime contractors contain $13.0 million and
$16.9 million at December 28, 2003 and
December 29, 2002, respectively, due to long-term
contracts. The unbilled contract receivables from the U.S.
Government and prime contractors contain $13.1 million and
$11.1 million at December 28, 2003 and
December 29, 2002, respectively, due to long-term contracts.

Unbilled contract receivables represent
accumulated costs and profits earned but not yet billed to
customers. The Company believes that substantially all such
amounts will be billed and collected within one year.

Note 7. Inventories

Inventories consisted of the following (in
millions):

Inventories, before progress payments, determined
on the last-in, first-out method were $58.4 million at
December 28, 2003 and $57.9 million at
December 29, 2002. The remainder of the inventory was
determined using the first-in, first-out and average cost
methods and does not differ materially from current cost.

During 2003, 2002 and 2001, inventory usage
resulted in liquidations of last-in, first-out inventory
quantities. These inventories were carried at the lower costs
prevailing in prior years as compared with the cost of current
purchases. The effect of these last-in, first-out liquidations
was to increase pre-tax income by $5.1 million in 2003,
$0.8 million in 2002 and $1.9 million in 2001.

Total inventories at cost were net of reserves
for excess, slow moving and obsolete inventory of
$14.2 million and $9.7 million at December 28,
2003 and December 29, 2002, respectively.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Inventories, before progress payments, related to
long-term contracts were $23.1 million and
$12.9 million at December 28, 2003 and
December 29, 2002, respectively. Progress payments related
to long-term contracts were $2.1 million and $0.5 million
at December 28, 2003 and December 29, 2002,
respectively.

Under the contractual arrangements by which
progress payments are received, the customer has a security
interest in the inventories associated with specific contracts.

Note 8. Supplemental Balance Sheet
Information

Property, plant and equipment were as follows (in
millions):

Other long-term assets included amounts related
to deferred compensation, investments, software and other
intangible assets. Accrued liabilities included salaries and
wages of $30.2 million and $27.8 million at
December 28, 2003 and December 29, 2002, respectively.
Other long-term liabilities included reserves for
self-insurance, deferred compensation liabilities, environmental
liabilities and the long-term portion of product recall reserves.

Note 9. Stockholders’ Equity

The following is an analysis of activity in
Teledyne Technologies common stock:

Shares issued in all three fiscal years include
stock options exercised as well as shares issued under certain
compensation plans.

Preferred
Stock

Authorized preferred stock may be issued with
designations, powers and preferences designated by the Board of
Directors. There were no shares of preferred stock issued or
outstanding.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Stockholder
Rights Plan

On November 12, 1999, the Company’s
Board of Directors unanimously adopted a stockholder rights plan
under which preferred share purchase rights were distributed as
a dividend on each share of Teledyne Technologies’ Common
Stock distributed to ATI’s stockholders in connection with
the spin-off and each share to become outstanding between the
effective date of the spin-off and the earliest of the
distribution date, redemption date and final expiration date.
The rights will be exercisable only if a person or group
acquires 15 percent or more of the Company’s Common
Stock or announces a tender offer, the consummation of which
would result in ownership by a person or group of
15 percent or more of the Common Stock. Each right will
entitle stockholders to then buy one-hundredth of a share of a
new series of junior participating preferred stock at an
exercise price of $60 per share. There are 1,250,000 shares of
Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock authorized
for issuance under the plan. The record date for the
distribution was the close of business of November 22,
1999. The rights will expire on November 12, 2009, subject
to earlier redemption or exchange by Teledyne Technologies as
described in the plan. The rights distribution is not taxable to
stockholders.

Stock
Incentive Plan

ATI sponsored an incentive plan that provided for
ATI stock option awards to officers and key employees. Teledyne
Technologies had officers and key employees that participated in
this plan prior to the spin-off. In connection with the
spin-off, outstanding stock options held by Teledyne
Technologies’ employees were converted into options to
purchase Teledyne Technologies’ Common Stock. The number of
shares and the exercise price of each ATI option that was
converted to a Teledyne Technologies’ option was converted
based upon a formula designed to preserve the inherent economic
value, vesting and term provisions of such ATI options as of the
Distribution Date. The exchange ratio and fair market value of
the Teledyne Technologies’ Common Stock, upon active
trading, also impacted the number of options issued to Teledyne
Technologies’ employees.

Teledyne Technologies has established its own
long-term incentive plans which provide its Board of Directors
the flexibility to grant restricted stock, performance shares,
non-qualified stock options, incentive stock options and stock
appreciation rights to officers and employees of Teledyne
Technologies.

The following disclosures are based on stock
options held by Teledyne Technologies’ employees and
include the stock options that have been converted from ATI
options to Teledyne Technologies’ options as noted above.
Teledyne Technologies accounts for its stock option plans in
accordance with APB Opinion
No. 25 — “Accounting for Stock Issued
to Employees,” (“APB Opinion No. 25”) and
related Interpretations. Under APB Opinion No. 25, no
compensation expense is recognized because the exercise price of
the Company’s employee stock options equals the market
price of the underlying stock at the date of the grant. In
December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation-Transition and
Disclosure.” SFAS No. 148 amends SFAS No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock-based Compensation,” (“SFAS
No. 123”) and is effective immediately upon issuance.
SFAS No. 148 provides alternative methods of transition for
a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting
for stock-based employee compensation as well as amending the
disclosure requirements of Statement No. 123 to require
interim and annual disclosures about the method of accounting
for stock based compensation and the effect of the method used
on reported results. The Company follows the requirements of APB
Opinion No. 25 and the disclosure only provision of SFAS
No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148.

As noted in the preceding paragraph, Teledyne
Technologies accounts for its stock options under APB Opinion
No. 25. If compensation cost for these options had been
determined under the SFAS No. 123



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

fair-value method using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model, the impact on net income and earnings per
share is presented in the following table (amounts in millions,
except per-share data):

The following assumptions were used in this
valuation:

Stock option transactions for Teledyne
Technologies’ employees are summarized as follows:



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

The following table provides certain information
with respect to stock options outstanding and stock options
exercisable at year-end 2003:

Non-Employee
Director Stock Compensation Plan

Teledyne Technologies also sponsors a stock plan
for non-employee directors pursuant to which non-employee
directors receive annual stock options and may receive stock or
stock options in lieu of their respective retainer and meeting
fees. The options become exercisable one year after issuance and
none have been exercised. The following table provides certain
information with respect to the non-employee director stock
options outstanding:

Note 10.     Related
Party Transactions

Prior to and in connection with the spin-off,
Teledyne Technologies and ATI entered into agreements providing
for the separation of the companies and governing various
relationships for separating employee benefits and tax
obligations, indemnification and transition services.

The Company’s Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer is a director of Mellon Financial Corporation.
Another of its directors is a former chief executive officer and
director of Mellon Financial Corporation. All transactions with
Mellon Bank, N.A. and its affiliates are effected under normal
commercial terms, and the Company believes that its
relationships with Mellon Bank, N.A. and its affiliates are
arms-length. Mellon Bank, N.A. is one of nine lenders under the
Company’s $200 million credit facility, having
committed up to $33,750,000 under the facility. It provides cash
management services and an uncommitted $5.0 million line of
credit. Mellon Bank, N.A. serves as trustee under our pension
plan and provides asset management services for the plan. Mellon
Investor Services LLC serves as our transfer agent and
registrar, as well as agent under our stockholders’ rights
plan.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Note 11.     Long-Term
Debt

At December 28, 2003 and December 29,
2002, Teledyne Technologies had no long-term debt outstanding.
Teledyne Technologies has a five-year revolving credit agreement
that terminates in November 2004. Any borrowings under this
agreement are on a revolving basis under commitments available
until November 2004. The Company had $200 million available
under this credit facility at December 28, 2003. Teledyne
Technologies also has available $14.2 million under two
uncommitted bank facilities with no outstanding amounts at
year-end 2003 or 2002. These credit lines are utilized, as
needed, for periodic cash needs.

Borrowings under the revolving credit facility
bear interest, at Teledyne Technologies option, at a rate based
on either a defined base rate or the London Interbank Offered
Rate (LIBOR), plus applicable margins. The agreement also
provides for facility fees which will vary between .35% and .20%
of the credit line, depending on Teledyne Technologies’
capitalization ratio as calculated from time to time. Total
interest expense including facility fees and other bank charges
was $1.0 million in 2003, $0.9 million in 2002 and
$2.1 million in 2001.

The financial covenants of the revolving credit
agreement require the Company to maintain specified minimum
consolidated net worth and ratios of consolidated debt and
interest expense to certain measures of income. Under the most
restrictive of these covenants, approximately $24.9 million
($17.5 million at December 29, 2002) of stockholders’
equity was available for dividends, stock repurchases or making
other specified distributions as of December 28, 2003.

Note 12.     Income
Taxes

Provision for income taxes from continuing
operations was as follows (in millions):

Income before income taxes included income from
domestic operations of $43.8 million for 2003,
$40.1 million for 2002 and $11.7 million for 2001. In
2003, Teledyne Technologies recorded an income tax benefit of
$2.4 million due to the reversal of an income tax
contingency reserve which was determined to



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

be no longer needed during the third quarter of
2003. The following is a reconciliation of the statutory federal
income tax rate to the actual effective income tax rate:

Deferred income taxes result from temporary
differences in the recognition of income and expense for
financial and income tax reporting purposes, and differences
between the fair value of assets acquired in business
combinations accounted for as purchases for financial reporting
purposes and their corresponding tax bases. Deferred income
taxes represent future tax benefits or costs to be recognized
when those temporary differences reverse. A valuation allowance
of $0.6 million has been recorded against deferred tax
assets for 2003. No valuation allowance was recorded for 2002.
The categories of assets and liabilities that have resulted in
differences in the timing of the recognition of income and
expense were as follows (in millions):

Note 13.     Pension
Plans and Postretirement Benefits

Prior to the spin-off, certain Teledyne
Technologies’ employees participated in the noncontributory
defined benefit plan sponsored by ATI. Benefits under the
defined benefit plan are generally based on years of service
and/or final average pay. ATI funded the pension plan in
accordance with the requirements of the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the Internal
Revenue Code.

As of the spin-off date, Teledyne Technologies
assumed the existing defined benefit plan obligations for all of
Teledyne Technologies’ employees, both active and inactive,
at its companies that perform government contract work and for
Teledyne Technologies’ active employees at its companies
that do not perform government contract work. ATI transferred
pension assets to fund the new Teledyne Technologies’
defined benefit pension plan.

Teledyne Technologies’ net periodic pension
expense was $6.9 million in 2003, compared with pension
income of $2.3 million and $9.5 million in 2002 and
2001, respectively.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

As of the spin-off date, Teledyne Technologies
also participated in a 401(k) plan that was open to all full
time U.S. employees and was sponsored by ATI. Teledyne
Technologies established its own 401(k) plan effective
April 1, 2000. The costs associated with these plans were
$2.9 million, $2.8 million, and $3.1 million, for
2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

As of January 1, 2004, non-union new hires
will be eligible to participate in an enhanced defined
contribution plan as opposed to the Company’s existing
defined benefit plan.

The Company sponsors several postretirement
defined benefit plans covering certain salaried and hourly
employees. The plans provide health care and life insurance
benefits for certain eligible retirees.

The following table sets forth the components of
net period pension benefit (income) expense for Teledyne
Technologies’ defined benefit pension plans and
postretirement benefit plans for 2003, 2002 and 2001 (in
millions):

The following table sets forth the reconciliation
of the beginning and ending balances of the benefit obligation
of the defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans
(in millions):

The measurement date for the Company’s
pension and postretirement plan is December 31.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

The following tables sets forth the
reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the fair
value of plan assets for Teledyne Technologies’ defined
benefit pension plans and the percentage of year-end market
value by asset class (in millions):

In 2003, the Company commenced an active
management policy for a portion of its pension assets. The
investment policy includes a target allocation percentage of 65%
in equity instruments and 35% in domestic fixed income
instruments. The balance in equity instruments can range from
60% to 70% before rebalancing is required under our policy. The
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is reviewed
annually, taking into consideration our asset allocation,
historical returns on the types of assets held, and the current
economic environment.

The following assumptions were used to determine
the benefit obligation and the net benefit cost:

The Company is projecting a long-term rate of
return on plan assets of 8.5% in 2004. The expected discount
rate used in determining the benefit obligations is expected to
be 6.5% in 2004. Currently the Company anticipates making an
after-tax cash contribution of approximately $4.0 million
to its pension plan in 2004.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

The following table sets forth the funded status
and amounts recognized in Teledyne Technologies’
consolidated balance sheets for the defined benefit pension plan
and the postretirement benefit plan at year-end 2003 and 2002
(in millions):

SFAS No. 87, “Employers’
Accounting for Pensions,” requires that a minimum pension
liability be recorded if the value of pension assets is less
than the accumulated pension benefit obligation. Since this
condition existed as of December 29, 2002, the Company
recorded a $23.2 million non-cash charge to
stockholders’ equity, a long-term intangible asset of
$10.4 million and an additional long-term pension liability
of $48.8 million. The accrued pension obligation includes
the additional long-term pension liability and is net of prepaid
pension costs. The $23.2 million non-cash charge to equity
did not affect net income and was recorded net of deferred taxes
of $15.2 million. As of year-end 2003, the difference
between the value of the Company’s pension assets and the
accumulated pension benefit obligation decreased from year-end
2002. This decrease resulted in an $11.4 million reduction
to the prior year non-cash charge to accumulated other
comprehensive income. The $11.4 million reduction did not
affect net income and was recorded net of deferred taxes of
$7.6 million. As of year-end 2003, the non-cash charge
taken to stockholders’ equity was $11.8 million. The
remaining $11.8 million charge will be reversed should the
value of the pension assets exceed the accumulated pension
benefit obligation as of a future measurement date.

The annual assumed rate of increase in the per
capita cost of covered benefits (the health care cost trend
rate) for health care plans was 9% in 2003 and was assumed to
decrease to 5% by the year 2009 and remain at that level
thereafter. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a
significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care
plans. A one percentage point increase in the assumed health
care cost trend rates would result in an increase in the annual
service and interest costs by $54 thousand for 2003 and would
result in an increase in the postretirement benefit obligation
by $1.0 million at December 28, 2003. A one percentage
point decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rates would
result in a decrease in the annual service and interest costs by
$49 thousand for 2003 and would result in a decrease in the
postretirement benefit obligation by $888 thousand at
December 28, 2003.

In December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug,
Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (“the Act”)
was signed into law. The Act expanded Medicare to include, for
the first time, coverage for prescription drugs. The Company
sponsors retiree medical programs for certain of its locations
and the Company expects that this legislation will eventually
reduce the Company’s cost for some of these programs. At
present, no analysis of the potential reduction in the
Company’s costs or obligations has been performed. Under
the Company’s accounting policy, the financial effect of
this legislation will be reflected during fiscal 2004.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Note 14.     Business
Segments

Teledyne Technologies is a leading provider of
sophisticated electronic components, instruments and
communications products, systems engineering solutions and
information technology services, and aerospace engines and
components as well as on-site gas and power generation systems.
Its customers include aerospace prime contractors, general
aviation companies, government agencies and major communications
and other commercial companies.

Teledyne Technologies operates in four business
segments: Electronics and Communications, Systems Engineering
Solutions, Aerospace Engines and Components and Energy Systems.
The factors for determining the reportable segments were based
on the distinct nature of their operations. They are managed as
separate business units because each requires and is responsible
for executing a unique business strategy. The Electronics and
Communications segment, sometimes referred to as Teledyne
Electronic Technologies, provides a wide range of specialized
electronic systems, instruments components and services that
address niche market applications in commercial aerospace,
communications, defense, industrial and medical markets. The
Systems Engineering Solutions segment, principally through
Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc., applies the skills of its
extensive staff of engineers and scientists to provide
innovative systems engineering, advanced technology, and
manufacturing solutions to defense, space, environmental, and
homeland security requirements. The Aerospace Engines and
Components segment, principally through Teledyne Continental
Motors, Inc., focuses on the design, development and manufacture
of piston engines, turbine engines, electronic engine controls
and aviation batteries. The Energy Systems segment, through
Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc., provides on-site gas and power
generation systems based on proprietary electrolysis,
thermoelectric and fuel cell technologies. It currently includes
the majority-owned entity that was formed in the third quarter
of 2001.

Identifiable assets are those assets used in the
operations of the segments. Corporate assets primarily consist
of cash and cash equivalents, deferred tax assets, net pension
assets/ liabilities and other assets.

Information on the Company’s business
segments was as follows (in millions):



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Information on the Company’s sales to the
U.S. Government, including direct sales as a prime contractor
and indirect sales as a subcontractor, were as follows (in
millions):

Sales to the U.S. Government included sales to
the Department of Defense of $257.9 million in 2003,
$233.5 million in 2002 and $226.6 million in 2001.

Total international sales were
$138.3 million in 2003, $126.6 million in 2002 and
$126.2 million in 2001. Of these amounts, sales by
operations in the United States to customers in other countries
were $133.3 million in 2003, $118.3 million in 2002
and $113.6 million in 2001.

There were no sales to individual countries
outside of the United States in excess of 10 percent of the
Company’s net sales. Sales between business segments, which
were not material, generally were priced at prevailing market
prices.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Note 15.     Commitments
and Contingencies

Rental expense, under operating leases, net of
sublease income, was $11.9 million in 2003,
$10.4 million in 2002 and $9.6 million in 2001.
Operating lease agreements, which include leases for
manufacturing facilities and office space frequently include
renewal options and require the Company to pay for utilities,
taxes, insurance and maintenance expense. Future minimum rental
commitments under operating leases with non-cancelable terms of
more than one year as of December 28, 2003, were as follows
(in millions): $9.9 in 2004, $8.4 in 2005, $6.4 in 2006, $3.5 in
2007, $3.6 in 2008 and $11.9 thereafter.

The Company is subject to federal, state and
local environmental laws and regulations which require that it
investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal
of materials at sites associated with past and present
operations, including sites at which the Company has been
identified as a potentially responsible party under the federal
Superfund laws and comparable state laws. The Company has been
identified as a potentially responsible party at approximately
17 such sites, excluding those at which the Company believes it
has no future liability.

In accordance with the Company’s accounting
policy disclosed in Note 2, environmental liabilities are
recorded when the Company’s liability is probable and the
costs are reasonably estimable. In many cases, however,
investigations are not yet at a stage where the Company has been
able to determine whether it is liable or, if liability is
probable, to reasonably estimate the loss or range of loss, or
certain components thereof. Estimates of the Company’s
liability are further subject to uncertainties regarding the
nature and extent of site contamination, the range of
remediation alternatives available, evolving remediation
standards, imprecise engineering evaluations and estimates of
appropriate cleanup technology, methodology and cost, the extent
of corrective actions that may be required, and the number and
financial condition of other potentially responsible parties, as
well as the extent of their responsibility for the remediation.
Accordingly, as investigation and remediation of these sites
proceeds, it is likely that adjustments in the Company’s
accruals will be necessary to reflect new information. The
amounts of any such adjustments could have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s results of operations in a given
period, but the amounts, and the possible range of loss in
excess of the amounts accrued, are not reasonably estimable.
Based on currently available information, however, management
does not believe that future environmental costs in excess of
those accrued with respect to sites with which the Company has
been identified are likely to have a material adverse effect on
the Company’s financial condition or liquidity. However,
there can be no assurance that additional future developments,
administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental
matters will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial condition or results of operations.

At December 28, 2003, the Company’s
reserves for environmental remediation obligations totaled
approximately $2.0 million, of which approximately $0.3
million were included in other current liabilities. The Company
is evaluating whether it may be able to recover a portion of
future costs for environmental liabilities from its insurance
carriers and from third parties other than participating
potentially responsible parties.

The timing of expenditures depends on a number of
factors that vary by site, including the nature and extent of
contamination, the number of potentially responsible parties,
the timing of regulatory approvals, the complexity of the
investigation and remediation, and the standards for
remediation. The Company expects that it will expend present
accruals over many years, and will complete remediation of all
sites with which it has been identified in up to thirty years.

Various claims (whether based on U.S. Government
or Company audits and investigations or otherwise) have been or
may be asserted against the Company related to its U.S.
Government contract work, including claims based on business
practices and cost classifications and actions under the False



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Claims Act. Although such claims are generally
resolved by detailed fact-finding and negotiation, on those
occasions when they are not so resolved, civil or criminal legal
or administrative proceedings may ensue. Depending on the
circumstances and the outcome, such proceedings could result in
fines, penalties, compensatory and treble damages or the
cancellation or suspension of payments under one or more U.S.
Government contracts. Under government regulations, a company,
or one or more of its operating divisions or units, can also be
suspended or debarred from government contracts based on the
results of investigations. However, although the outcome of
these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, management
does not believe there is any audit, review or investigation
currently pending against the Company of which management is
aware that is likely to result in suspension or debarment of the
Company, or that is otherwise likely to have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s financial condition or liquidity,
although the resolution in any reporting period of one or more
of these matters could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s results of operations for that period.

The Company learns from time to time that it has
been named as a defendant in civil actions filed under seal
pursuant to the False Claims Act. Generally, since such cases
are under seal, the Company does not in all cases possess
sufficient information to determine whether the Company could
sustain a material loss in connection with such cases, or to
reasonably estimate the amount of any loss attributable to such
cases. In October 2002, the Company was informed that the
U.S. Government had declined to intervene in a lawsuit
filed more than four years before under seal pursuant to the
False Claims Act. The Company intends to vigorously defend this
continuing civil action against its Electronic Safety Products
unit, which action continues notwithstanding the U.S.
Government’s non-intervention and the court’s granting
of the Company’s motion to dismiss the civil action (which
decision has been appealed).

In connection with the spin-off, ATI received a
tax ruling from the Internal Revenue Service stating in
principle that the spin-off will be tax free to ATI and
ATI’s stockholders. The continuing validity of the IRS tax
ruling is subject to the use of the proceeds from the public
offering for research and development and related capital
projects, for the further development of manufacturing
capabilities and for acquisitions and/or joint ventures. This
requirement had been satisfied as of December 30, 2001.

The Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement
between ATI and Teledyne Technologies provides that the Company
will indemnify ATI and its agents and representatives for taxes
imposed on, and other amounts paid by, them or ATI stockholders
if the Company takes actions or fails to take actions that
result in the spin-off not qualifying as a tax-free
distribution. If the Company were required to satisfy the
indemnity to ATI, such an obligation could have a material
adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations
and cash flow and the amount the Company could be required to
pay could exceed its net worth by a substantial amount. The
Company believes that it has satisfied all principal spin-off
requirements to assure such tax treatment.

A number of other lawsuits, claims and
proceedings have been or may be asserted against the Company
relating to the conduct of its business, including those
pertaining to product liability, patent infringement,
commercial, employment and employee benefits. While the outcome
of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and some of
these lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be determined
adversely to the Company, management does not believe that the
disposition of any such pending matters is likely to have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial
condition or liquidity, although the resolution in any reporting
period of one or more of these matters could have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations for
that period. Teledyne Technologies has aircraft and product
liability insurance with an annual self-insured retention for
general aviation aircraft liabilities incurred in connection
with products manufactured by Teledyne Continental Motors of
$15.0 million. The Company’s current aircraft product
liability insurance policy expires May 2004.



TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Note 16.     Quarterly
Financial Data (Unaudited)

The following is Teledyne Technologies’
quarterly information (in millions, except per-share amounts):

Note 17.     Subsequent
Events (Unaudited)

On December 31, 2003, Teledyne’s 2004
fiscal year, Teledyne acquired certain assets of the Filtronic
Solid State business from Filtronic plc for $12.0 million
in cash. The business, which will operate as Teledyne Wireless,
Inc., will be relocated from Santa Clara, California and
consolidated with Teledyne’s operations in Mountain View,
California.

On February 27, 2004, Teledyne Tekmar
Company acquired assets of Leeman Labs, Inc., for $8.0 million
in cash. Leeman Labs’ product lines would augment
Teledyne’s existing laboratory and continuous monitoring
instruments used in environmental applications.



Schedule II

TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

For the Fiscal Years Ended December 28,
2003, December 29, 2002 and December 30,

(In millions)

(a)

Represents payments except the 2003 and 2002
    amount for allowance for doubtful accounts primarily represents
    the write-off of uncollectible accounts.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized as of March 4, 2004.

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated (Registrant)

By:

/s/ ROBERT MEHRABIAN

Robert Mehrabian

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.


EXHIBIT INDEX



*

Submitted electronically herewith.

†

Denotes management contract or compensatory plan
    or arrangement required to be filed as an Exhibit to this
    Form 10-K.