10-K


v27705e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR SECTION 15(d)
    OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2006

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission file number: 1-15295

Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated

(Exact name of
    registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

25-1843385

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification Number)

1049 Camino Dos Rios

Thousand Oaks, California 91360

(Address of principal executive
    offices) (Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:

(805) 373-4545

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, par value
    $.01 per share

New York Stock Exchange

Preferred Share Purchase Rights

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or such shorter period that the registrant was
    required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
    such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of

Regulation S-K

is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this

Form 10-K

or any amendment to this

Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
    filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large
    accelerated filer” in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large
    accelerated filer

þ

Accelerated
    filer

o

Non-accelerated
    filer

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes

o

No

þ

The aggregate market value of the registrant’s Common Stock
    held by non-affiliates was $1,075.8 million, based on the
    closing price of a share of Common Stock on June 30, 2006
    ($32.76), which is the last business day of the
    registrant’s most recently completed fiscal second quarter.
    Shares of Common Stock known by the registrant to be
    beneficially owned by the registrant’s directors and the
    registrant’s executive officers subject to Section 16
    of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are not included in the
    computation. The registrant, however, has made no determination
    that such persons are “affiliates” within the meaning
    of

Rule 12b-2

under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

At February 27, 2007, there were 34,847,339 shares of the
    registrant’s Common Stock issued and outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Selected portions of the registrant’s proxy statement for
    its 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the “2007 Proxy
    Statement”) are incorporated by reference in Part III
    of this Report. Information required by
    paragraphs (d)(1)-(3) and (e)(5) of Item 407 of

Regulation S-K

is not incorporated by reference in this

Form 10-K

or in any other filing of the registrant. Such information shall
    not be deemed “soliciting material” or to be filed
    with the Commission as permitted by Item 407 of

Regulation S-K.

INDEX

Explanatory
    Notes

In this Annual Report on

Form 10-K,

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is sometimes referred to as
    the “Company” or “Teledyne”. References to
    “ATI” mean Allegheny Technologies Incorporated,
    formerly known as Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated, the company
    from which we were spun-off on November 29, 1999.

For a discussion of risk factors and uncertainties associated
    with Teledyne and any forward looking statements made by us, see
    the discussion beginning at page 13 of this Annual Report
    on

Form 10-K.

i


PART I

Item 1.

Business.

Who We
    Are

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is a leading provider of
    sophisticated electronic components, instruments and
    communications products, including defense electronics,
    monitoring and control instrumentation for marine, environmental
    and industrial applications, data acquisition and communications
    equipment for airlines and business aircraft and components, and
    subsystems for wireless and satellite communications. We also
    provide systems engineering solutions and information technology
    services for defense, space and environmental applications, and
    manufacture general aviation and missile engines and components,
    as well as

on-site

gas
    and power generation systems.

We serve niche market segments where performance, precision and
    reliability are critical. Our customers include government
    agencies, aerospace prime contractors, major industrial and
    communications companies and general aviation companies.

Total sales in 2006 were $1,433.2 million, compared with
    $1,206.5 million and $1,016.6 million in 2005 and
    2004, respectively. Our aggregate segment operating profit and
    other segment income were $155.3 million,
    $126.6 million and $89.2 million in 2006, 2005 and
    2004, respectively. Approximately 60% of our total sales in 2006
    were to commercial customers and the balance was to the
    U.S. Government, as a prime contractor or subcontractor.
    Approximately 47% of these U.S. Government sales were
    attributable to fixed price-type contracts and the balance to
    cost plus fee-type contracts. International sales accounted for
    approximately 21% of total sales in 2006.

Our four business segments and their respective contributions to
    our total sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004 are summarized in the
    following table:

Segment




Electronics and Communications


%


%


%

Systems Engineering Solutions


%


%


%

Aerospace Engines and Components


%


%


%

Energy Systems


%


%


%


%


%


%

We are a Delaware corporation that was spun off from ATI as an
    independent company on November 29, 1999. In February 2007,
    our principal executive offices relocated to 1049 Camino Dos
    Rios, Thousand Oaks, California 91360. Our telephone number is

(805) 373-4545.

Strategy

Our strategy continues to emphasize growth in our core markets
    of defense electronics, instrumentation and government systems
    engineering. We intend to strengthen and expand our core
    businesses with targeted acquisitions. We intend to aggressively
    pursue operational excellence to continually improve our margins
    and earnings. At Teledyne, operational excellence includes the
    rapid integration of the businesses we acquire. Over time, our
    goal is to create a set of businesses that are truly superior in
    their niches. We intend to continue to evaluate our product
    lines to ensure that they are aligned with our strategy.



Our
    Recent Acquisitions

During 2006, we engaged in a number of acquisitions intended to
    expand and strengthen our product and service offerings in our
    core instrumentation and defense markets.

Marine
    Instrumentation

•

On January 27, 2006, we acquired Benthos, Inc.
    (“Benthos”), a manufacturer of oceanographic products
    and package inspection systems located in North Falmouth,
    Massachusetts. This acquisition complements and expands our
    underwater acoustic product lines, including the cable streamer
    arrays of hydrophones manufactured by Teledyne Geophysical
    Instruments for offshore oil and gas exploration and the
    acoustic Doppler products of Teledyne RD Instruments, Inc. that
    measure the speed of ocean and river currents as well as surface
    and underwater vehicles. The aggregate consideration for the
    outstanding Benthos shares was approximately $40.6 million
    (including payments for the settlement of outstanding stock
    options) or $32.2 million taking into consideration
    $8.4 million of cash acquired.

•

On August 16, 2006, we acquired an initial majority
    interest in Ocean Design, Inc. (“ODI”), a leading
    manufacturer of subsea, wet-mateable electrical and fiber-optic
    interconnect systems used in offshore oil and gas production,
    oceanographic research, and military applications, headquartered
    in Daytona Beach, Florida. ODI’s products are closely
    related to both our expanding line of undersea acoustic
    instrumentation and to our military high-voltage connectors and
    cables. In the offshore oil and gas market, ODI’s position
    in production complements our existing exploration and offshore
    drilling products. At December 31, 2006, total cash paid,
    including the initial investment and subsequent share purchase,
    net of cash acquired was $34.4 million.

Defense

•

On April 28, 2006, Teledyne Wireless, Inc. acquired assets
    of KW Microwave Corporation (“KW Microwave”), a
    manufacturer of defense microwave components and subsystems
    located in Southern California. The addition of specialized
    filters bolsters Teledyne Microwave’s multiple function
    product capabilities. Total cash paid, including the receipt of
    a $0.2 million purchase price adjustment, was
    $10.3 million.

•

On August 16, 2006, we acquired Colorado Springs,
    Colorado-based CollaborX, Inc. (“CollaborX”), a
    provider of government engineering services primarily to the
    U.S. Air Force and also to select joint military commands,
    such as the Missile Defense Agency, the United States Joint
    Forces Command and the United States Northern Command. We made
    this acquisition in order to increase our capability of
    providing systems engineering services throughout a
    system’s acquisition lifecycle, from concept development to
    sustainment and support. At December 31, 2006, total cash
    paid, including other fees, net of cash acquired was
    $14.9 million.

•

On September 15, 2006, we acquired Southern
    California-based Rockwell Scientific Company LLC.
    (“Scientific Company”), a leading provider of research
    and development services to the Department of Defense, NASA and
    major defense and aerospace companies, as well as a leader in
    developing and manufacturing infrared and visible light imaging
    sensors for surveillance applications. The company’s
    extensive R&D capabilities for microwave and millimeter-wave
    semiconductors, RF MEMS and very high speed mixed signal
    circuits are complementary to several of our business units that
    manufacture microwave components and subsystems for military
    radar, electronic warfare and communications systems. We believe
    that the combination of our existing defense electronics
    manufacturing capabilities with the acquired advanced imaging
    technology should accelerate development and production of next
    generation tactical infrared sensors and subsystems. At
    December 31, 2006, total cash paid, including other fees,
    net of $9.5 million of cash acquired was
    $158.6 million.

Teledyne spent $250.4 million, net of cash acquired, on
    these acquisitions in 2006.

Each of the acquisitions, except for CollaborX, is part of the
    Electronics and Communications segment. CollaborX, now Teledyne
    Brown CollaborX, Inc., is part of the Systems Engineering and
    Solutions segment.



The results of all of our acquisitions are included in our
    consolidated financial statements since the respective
    acquisition dates of the acquired businesses.

Available
    Information

Our Annual Report on

Form 10-K,

our Quarterly Reports on

Form 10-Q,

any Current Reports on

Form 8-K,

and any amendments to these reports, are available on our
    Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we
    electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the
    SEC. In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our
    Corporate Objectives and Guidelines for Employee Conduct, our
    codes of ethics for financial executives and service providers
    and the charters of the standing committees of our Board of
    Directors are available on our website. Our website address is

www.teledyne.com

.

You will be responsible for any costs normally associated with
    electronic access, such as usage and telephone charges.
    Alternatively, if you would like a paper copy of any such
    Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) report
    (without exhibits) or document, please write to John T. Kuelbs,
    Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary,
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, 1049 Camino Dos Rios,
    Thousand Oaks, California 91360, and a copy of such requested
    document will be provided to you, free of charge.

In April 2006, we submitted to the New York Stock Exchange the
    CEO certification required by Section 303A.12(a) of the New
    York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual. The certification was
    not qualified in any respect. Additionally, we filed with the
    SEC as exhibits to this

Form 10-K

the CEO and CFO certifications required under Section 302
    of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Our
    Business Segments

Financial information about our business segments can be found
    in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements
    appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

Electronics
    and Communications

Our Electronics and Communications segment provides a wide range
    of specialized electronic systems, instruments, components and
    services that address niche market applications in defense,
    industrial, commercial aerospace, communications, scientific and
    medical markets.

Defense Electronics, Products and Services

Traveling Wave Tubes.

Our helix traveling wave
    tubes are used to provide broadband power amplification of
    microwave signals. Military applications include radar,
    electronic warfare and satellite communication. Commercial
    applications for traveling wave tubes include electromagnetic
    compatibility test equipment and satellite communication
    terminals for mobile newsgathering.

Microwave Components and Subsystems.

We
    design, develop, and manufacture RF and microwave components and
    subassemblies used in aerospace and defense applications,
    including electronic warfare and radar. With the 2005
    acquisition of Cougar Components Corporation
    (“Cougar”), our products include cascadable
    amplifiers, voltage-controlled oscillators and microwave mixers.
    The 2006 acquisition of assets of KW Microwave added RF
    filters, multiplexers and diplexers.

High Voltage Connectors and
    Subassemblies.

Through Teledyne Reynolds, Inc.,
    we supply specialized high voltage connectors and subassemblies
    for defense, aerospace and industrial applications. We also
    produce pilot helmet mounted display components and subsystems
    for the Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing System used in the F-15,
    F-16 and F-18 aircrafts. This system is designed to give
    military pilots the ability to designate a target just by
    looking at it.

Microelectronic Modules.

We develop and
    manufacture custom microelectronic modules that provide both
    high reliability and extremely dense packaging for military
    applications. We also develop custom tamper-resistant
    microcircuits designed to provide enhanced security in military
    communication.



Imaging Sensors.

Through Teledyne Imaging
    Sensors, we design and produce advanced focal plane arrays,
    sensors, and subsystems covering a broad spectrum of light from
    below 0.3 micron ultra-violet to 18 micron long-wave infrared.
    We provide large focal plane array sensors for both military and
    space-science markets. We are one of two companies selected by
    the U.S. Army to develop manufacturing processes to support
    production of third generation dual band infrared imagers
    designed to allow members of the armed forces to identify
    threats on the battlefield before the enemy can detect their
    presence. Our customers rely on us for solutions ranging from
    standard imaging products to custom products integrated with
    electronics and optical systems. Teledyne Imaging Sensors also
    designs and manufactures advanced military laser protection
    eyewear.

Sequencers.

Teledyne Electronic Safety
    Products continues to provide microprocessor-controlled aircraft
    ejection seat sequencers and related support elements to
    military aircraft programs, including the

F/A-18E/F

and

F/A-22.

We have commenced production under a five-year contract, which
    began during the fourth quarter of 2006, of the Digital Recovery
    Sequencer to support the F-15, F-16, F22, F-117,

A-10,

B-1
    and B-2 aircrafts. We also have developed a new sequencer in
    support of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program for which low
    rate initial production is expected to begin in 2007.

Relays and Switches.

Teledyne Relays supplies
    electromechanical relays, solid-state power relays and coaxial
    switching devices to military and aerospace markets.

Research and Development Services.

Through
    Teledyne Scientific Company, we provide research and engineering
    services primarily in the areas of electronics, information
    sciences and materials technology. Our scientific team delivers
    research and development services and specialty products to
    military, aerospace and industrial customers.

Electronic Manufacturing Services.

We serve
    the market for high-mix, low-volume manufacturing of
    sophisticated military electronics equipment principally from
    our facility in Tennessee.

Teledyne
    Instruments

During 2001, we formed Teledyne Instruments, a group of business
    units drawn from our Electronics and Communications segment and
    our Systems Engineering Solutions segment, to focus on
    monitoring and process control instrumentation. Since then,
    through acquisitions, we have greatly expanded our presence in
    the marine and environmental instrumentation markets.

Marine Instrumentation.

Historically, we have
    manufactured geophysical streamer cables, hydrophones and
    specialty products used in offshore hydrocarbon exploration to
    locate oil and gas reserves beneath the ocean floor. We continue
    to adapt this technology for the military market, where these
    products can be used to detect submarines, surface ships and
    torpedoes.

With the acquisitions of RD Instruments, Inc., Benthos and most
    recently our majority interest in ODI, we have expanded our
    underwater acoustic and marine instrumentation capabilities.
    Teledyne RD Instruments, Inc.’s acoustic Doppler current
    profilers perform precise measurement of currents at varying
    depths in oceans and rivers, and its Doppler Velocity Logs are
    used for navigation of civilian and military surface ships and
    unmanned underwater vehicles and by U.S. Navy divers.
    Teledyne Benthos manufactures oceanographic products used by the
    U.S. Navy, energy exploration, oceanographic research and
    port and harbor security services. Its products include acoustic
    modems for networked underwater communication, a
    three-dimensional sidescan sonar system and remotely operated
    underwater vehicles. ODI manufactures subsea, wet-mateable
    electrical and fiber-optic interconnect systems used in offshore
    oil and gas production, oceanographic research and military
    applications.

Environmental Instrumentation.

As a result of
    our acquisitions, we offer a wide range of products for
    environmental monitoring. Teledyne Advanced Pollution
    Instrumentation, Inc. manufactures a broad line of
    instrumentation for monitoring low levels of gases such as
    sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide and ozone in the air we breathe.
    Teledyne Monitor Labs, Inc. supplies environmental monitoring
    systems for the detection, measurement and reporting of air
    pollutants from industrial stack emissions. Teledyne Tekmar
    Company manufactures instruments that automate the preparation
    and concentration of drinking water and wastewater



samples for the analysis of volatile organic compounds in gas
    chromatographs. It also provides laboratory analytical systems
    for the detection of total organic carbon. Through Teledyne
    Leeman Labs, we provide inductively coupled plasma laboratory
    spectrometers that are used by environmental and quality control
    laboratories to detect low levels of inorganic contaminants in
    water and other environmental samples.

Teledyne Isco, Inc. (“Teledyne Isco”) produces water
    quality monitoring products such as wastewater samplers and open
    channel flow meters. Flow meters detect leaks in sewer systems
    and monitor run off in storm drains. Teledyne Isco also
    manufactures chromatography instruments and accessories for
    purification of organic compounds. Its liquid chromatography
    customers include pharmaceutical laboratories involved in drug
    discovery and development. Additionally, Teledyne Isco
    manufactures chemical separation instrumentation for industrial
    and research use.

Industrial Gas Analysis.

Teledyne Analytical
    Instruments was a pioneer in the development of precision oxygen
    analyzers and now offers a broad range of products with various
    sensitivities for petrochemical, semiconductor manufacturing and
    other industrial applications. We also manufacture analyzers for
    a variety of other gases for such market applications. In
    addition, we sell gas analyzers to a leading supplier of carbon
    dioxide to the food and beverage market.

Vacuum and Flow Measurement.

Teledyne Hastings
    Instruments manufactures a broad line of instruments for precise
    measurement and control of vacuum and gas flows. Our instruments
    are used in varied applications such as semiconductor
    manufacturing, refrigeration, metallurgy and food processing.

Package Inspection Systems.

Since the
    acquisition of Benthos, under the
    Taptone

®

brand, we develop quality control equipment for flexible
    plastic, glass and other packaging used in the beverage, food
    and pharmaceutical markets.

Test Services.

We manufacture torque sensors
    and provide technical services for critical applications such as
    monitoring valves in nuclear power plants.

Other
    Commercial Electronics

Aircraft Information Management.

Our aircraft
    information management solutions are designed to increase the
    reliability and efficiency of airline transportation. Through
    Teledyne Controls, we are a leading supplier of digital flight
    data acquisition and flight safety systems to the civil aviation
    market. These systems acquire data for use by the
    aircraft’s flight data recorder as well as record
    additional data for the airline’s operation, such as
    aircraft and engine condition monitoring. We also provide the
    means to transfer this data, using Teledyne’s patented
    wireless technology, from the aircraft to the airline operation
    center. Additionally, we provide flight data monitoring services
    to analyze the acquired data and to drive our flight data
    visualization and animation products. Our data acquisition
    systems are certified on the Airbus A320 and A330/340 and Boeing
    737-NG and

747-400

aircraft. We estimate that our forward fit market share for such
    systems was approximately 50% at the end of 2006. In addition,
    our Aviation Information Solutions (“AIS”) business
    designs and manufactures aerospace Electronic Flight Bag
    equipment, networking products, and flight deck and cabin
    displays.

Microelectronic Modules.

In addition to
    military microelectronic modules, we develop and manufacture
    custom microelectronic modules that provide both high
    reliability and extremely dense packaging for implantable
    medical devices, such as pacemakers and defibrillators, and
    commercial communication products.

Relays and Switches.

In addition to military
    and aerospace markets, Teledyne Relays supplies
    electromechanical relays, solid-state power relays and coaxial
    switching devices to industrial and commercial markets.
    Applications include microwave and wireless communication
    infrastructure, RF and general broadband test equipment, test
    equipment used in semiconductor manufacturing, and industrial
    and commercial machinery and control equipment.

Wireless Transceivers and Amplifiers.

Our line
    of integrated transceiver modules provides high data rate

point-to-point

connectivity in cellular telephone infrastructure. We also
    supply microwave devices used in satellite uplink applications.



Connectors.

We manufacture custom surface
    mount connectors for applications in computer disk drives and
    consumer medical electronic devices.

Electronics Equipment and Printed Circuit Card
    Assembly.

We serve the market for high-mix,
    low-volume manufacturing of electronic products.

Systems
    Engineering Solutions

Our Systems Engineering Solutions segment, principally through
    Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc., (“TBE”) applies the
    skills of its extensive staff of engineers and scientists to
    provide innovative systems engineering and integration, advanced
    technology application, software development, and manufacturing
    solutions to space, military, environmental and missile defense
    requirements.

Defense

Teledyne Brown Engineering is a well-recognized full-service
    missile defense contractor with over 50 years of experience
    in missile defense and related systems integration. Our diverse
    customer base in this field includes the U.S. Army Aviation
    and Missile Command (“AMCOM”), the
    U.S. Army’s Space and Missile Defense Command
    (“SMDC”), the Missile Defense Agency (“MDA”)
    and Defense Department major prime contractors.

We play significant roles in diverse missile defense areas,
    which include targets and countermeasures, systems engineering,
    modeling and simulation, test and evaluation, and complex

hardware-in-the-loop

integration. Our engineering and technological services include
    systems design, development, integration and testing, with
    specialization in real-time distributed systems.

During 2006, we continued our long-standing support of several
    missile defense programs, including the Ground-based Midcourse
    Defense (“GMD”) Program, Missile Defense Systems
    Exerciser and, as part of the Lockheed Martin team, the Targets
    and Countermeasures Program. These programs involve the test and
    verification of ballistic missile defense system performance on
    a large number of major programs, including the Airborne Laser,
    the Kinetic Energy Interceptor, the Ground-based Midcourse
    Defense, Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense, the Patriot Advanced
    Capability 3, and the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense
    (“THAAD”). Additionally, we continue to work on an
    enhanced test program to support an integrated test lab for the
    GMD system.

In addition to our missile defense activities, we are supporting
    several other U.S. Army programs. Supported programs
    include the Army’s Future Combat System Multifunctional
    Utility/Logistics and Equipment and Patriot Missile development
    for the Lower Tier Project Office. Tasking spans complex
    hardware integration and software testing, verification and
    validation.

With the 2006 acquisition of CollaborX, we extended our
    capabilities to include full system acquisition lifecycle
    support from concept development to sustainment. CollaborX
    provides engineering services to the U.S. Air Force,
    U.S. Army, Office of Secretary of Defense, Missile Defense
    Agency and select military combatant commands such as the
    U.S. Joint Forces Command, U.S. Strategic Command, and
    U.S. Northern Command. CollaborX provides the Air Force
    with operational and systems expertise in the development, test,
    integration, and fielding of new Command and Control and
    Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance capabilities for
    major Air Force weapons systems. CollaborX’s services
    complement TBE’s support to the Army and NASA.

Aerospace

We have been active in U.S. space programs for almost
    50 years and continue to be a significant contributor to
    NASA programs. TBE was awarded NASA’s 2006 George M. Low
    Award in the Large Business Service Category. This award is
    NASA’s highest honor recognizing contractor quality and
    technical performance.



We have played a key role in the International Space Station
    (“ISS”), and have had various roles in the Space
    Shuttle program. We supply

24-hour-per-day

service for the payload operation cadre for the ISS Payload
    Operations and Integration Center, located at NASA’s
    Marshall Space Flight Center. As a subcontractor to Lockheed
    Martin, we also work on the ISS Cargo Mission Contract at the
    Johnson Space Center. This six-year contract, which began in
    2003, involves providing services related to planning,
    preparation and execution of cargo missions to the ISS.

We are the prime contractor on the Marshall Space Flight Center
    Systems Development and Operations Support Contract, which
    provides engineering services and hardware development support
    for a variety of space activities. We have been the prime
    contractor for the Propellants, Pressurants and Calibration
    Services Contract at Marshall Space Flight Center since 1971.
    Under that contract we furnish management, personnel, equipment
    and materials to operate and maintain the propellant and
    pressurant generating systems, storage and distribution systems,
    as well as management and operation of the calibration
    facilities at the Marshall Space Flight Center.

Environmental
    Systems

We support the U.S. Government’s efforts to clean up
    dangerous materials and waste. Since 1996, we have supported the
    U.S. Army’s Non-Stockpile Chemical Materiel Program
    and we continue to operate the U.S. Army’s Rapid
    Response System, a mobile chemical waste treatment system used
    to process chemical agents for disposal. These chemical agents
    had been used in the past to train military personnel in the
    detection, measurement and decontamination of dangerous
    chemicals. We also began applying sophisticated computer aided
    engineering, design, modeling and manufacturing skills to
    support the U.S. Army’s Edgewood Chemical and
    Biological Center. In addition, we produce canisters for the
    processing, stabilization and storage of nuclear-waste products.

We operate a Department of Energy-certified radiological
    analysis services laboratory in Knoxville, Tennessee. This
    laboratory has received certification from the National
    Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program in
    12 states, including Utah where the largest commercial
    radiological waste disposal site resides. With its Nuclear
    Utilities Procurement Issues Committee certification, the
    laboratory also serves one-third of the nuclear power plants in
    United States.

Teledyne
    Solutions, Inc.

Through Teledyne Solutions, Inc., we are a primary Missile
    Defense systems engineering contractor for the U.S. Army.
    Teledyne Solutions is a principal prime contractor for the
    Systems Engineering and Technical Assistance Contract in support
    of the U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command. We also
    provide engineering and services support to other major
    Department of Defense customers including the Missile Defense
    Agency, the Program Executive Office for Missiles and Space, the
    Defense Threat Reduction Agency, and the U.S. Army Aviation
    and Missile Command.

Aerospace
    Engines and Components

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment focuses on the
    design, development and manufacture of piston engines, turbine
    engines, electronic engine controls and aviation batteries.

Piston
    Engines

Principally through Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc., we
    design, develop and manufacture piston engines, ignition
    systems, and aftermarket engines and spare parts for general
    aviation airframe manufacturers and the aftermarket. We are one
    of two primary worldwide original equipment producers of piston
    aircraft engines for the general aviation marketplace.

Our current OEM product lines include engines for the Cirrus
    SR-20 and SR-22, the Diamond C1, Lancair Columbia 350 and 400
    series, the Liberty XL2, twin-engine Adam A500, Beech Bonanza
    and Baron aircraft, Mooney Ovation and Acclaim lines, and the
    Piper Seneca V twin-engine aircraft.



In addition to the sales of OEM engines, we actively support the
    replacement aircraft engine aftermarket. Piston aircraft engines
    have a FAA authorized time between overhauls. Our aftermarket
    support includes building and rebuilding of complete engines, as
    well as providing a full complement of spare parts such as
    cylinders, crankcases, fuel systems, crankshafts, camshafts and
    ignition products. In addition, through Teledyne Mattituck
    Services, Inc., located in Long Island, New York, and our
    Fairhope, Alabama service center, we serve as an aftermarket
    supplier of overhauled piston engines and engine installations
    to the general aviation marketplace for both Teledyne
    Continental Motors and Textron Lycoming aircraft engines.

Through Aerosance, Inc., we developed the first production full
    authority digital electronic controls for piston aircraft
    engines. These controls, known as
    PowerLink

tm

FADEC (Full Authority Digital Electronic Control), are designed
    to automate many functions that currently require manual
    control, such as fuel flow and power management. This system
    also saves fuel as a result of improved engine management and
    facilitates electronic-centered maintenance of our engines We
    have developed and are certifying FADEC-equipped engines
    targeted at the most popular OEM and aftermarket models of four
    and six cylinder piston aircraft engines of the general aviation
    fleet. We continue to believe that these control systems will
    become standard equipment on selected new aircraft and will be
    retrofitted on higher-end piston engine general aviation
    aircraft.

In addition, our
    Gill

®

line of lead acid batteries is widely recognized as the premier
    power source for general aviation. We have developed sealed
    recombinant batteries for business and light jet applications.
    Teledyne Battery Products, in conjunction with Teledyne
    Controls, jointly developed an onboard charging and cockpit
    display kit that permits existing NiCad battery systems to be
    replaced with
    Gill

®

sealed lead acid batteries.

Turbine
    Engines

We design, develop and manufacture small turbine engines
    primarily used in tactical missiles for military markets.

Our J402 engine powers the Harpoon missile system. Derivatives
    of this engine power the Standoff Land Attack Missile and the
    Standoff Land Attack Missile-Expanded Response. Lockheed Martin
    Corporation selected a derivative of the J402 engine to power
    the Joint

Air-to-Surface

Standoff Missile (“JASSM”). We are the sole source
    provider of engines for the baseline JASSM system.

Our J700 engine provides the turbine power for the Improved
    Tactical Air Launched Decoy (“ITALD”) built for the
    U.S. Navy. The ITALD system enhances combat aircraft
    survivability by both serving as a decoy and identifying enemy
    radar sources.

In 2006, we continued to work under a contract related to the
    U.S. Army’s Future Combat System for the development
    of new and derivative turbine engines for unmanned air vehicles,
    commonly called UAVs, and other future aircraft.

Energy
    Systems

Our Energy Systems segment, through Teledyne Energy Systems,
    Inc., provides hydrogen gas generators and thermoelectric and
    fuel cell-based power sources. Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc., a
    majority owned subsidiary of Teledyne, was formed in 2001 by
    combining Teledyne Brown Engineering’s Energy Systems
    business unit with assets and intellectual properties of then
    Florida-based Energy Partners, Inc.

We manufacture hydrogen/oxygen gas generators that utilize the
    principle of electrolysis to convert water into high purity
    hydrogen gas at useable pressures. Our Teledyne
    Titan

tm

gas generators are used worldwide in electrical power generation
    plants, semiconductor manufacturing, optical fiber production,
    chemical processing, specialty metals, float glass and other
    industrial processes. Historically, our sales of hydrogen
    generators have been largely to developing countries. Over the
    last few years, the combination of rising hydrogen prices and
    weather-induced supply disruptions has increased our sales and
    sales opportunities in the North American market.

For over 50 years, we have supplied high reliability energy
    conversion devices and gas generation products based on
    thermoelectric and electrochemical processes. We provided the
    thermoelectric power



systems for the Pioneer 10 and 11 deep-space missions to Jupiter
    and Saturn and for the Viking 1 and Viking 2 Mars Landers.
    In 2006, in partnership with Boeing and under a ten-year
    $57 million contract signed in 2003 with the
    U.S. Department of Energy, we completed all of the testing
    of the Multi-Mission Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator
    capable of supporting planetary landing and deep space probe
    missions. Based on the success of the test phase, we received
    approval to begin production in 2007 of this generator for
    potential use to power the Mars Science Laboratory scheduled to
    launch in 2009.

In conjunction with its thermoelectric power systems for space,
    we also have ongoing development and prototyping work with NASA
    on PEM fuel cell stacks and systems. These systems are being
    developed in support of potential manned and robotic missions to
    the moon and Mars.

We have a line of fuel cell test stations designed to provide a
    completely integrated system for fuel cell testing for the PEM
    fuel cell development market. Our Medusa line of fuel cell test
    systems provides high quality, simple to use automated test
    stations for fuel cell and fuel cell stack testing up to 12
    kilowatts.

Customers

We have hundreds of customers in the electronics,
    communications, aerospace and defense industries. No commercial
    customer accounted for more than 10% of our total sales during
    2006, 2005 or 2004.

Approximately 40%, 42%, and 43% of our total sales for 2006,
    2005 and 2004, respectively, were derived from contracts with
    agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government.
    Our principal U.S. Government customer is the
    U.S. Department of Defense. These sales represented 30%,
    32% and 33% of our total sales for 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively. In 2006 and 2005, our largest program with the
    U.S. Government was the Systems Engineering and Technical
    Assistance contract with the Space and Missile Defense Command,
    and it represented 4.9% and 5.5% of total sales, respectively.
    In 2004, our largest program with the U.S. Government was
    The Boeing Company — Ground-based Midcourse Defense
    contract, representing 5.4% of total sales. Set forth below are
    sales by our segments to agencies and prime contractors to the
    U.S. Government for the periods presented:

U.S. Government
    Sales




(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

249.1

$

198.5

$

147.3

Systems Engineering Solutions

278.9

260.0

240.4

Aerospace Engines and Components

24.9

32.3

26.0

Energy Systems

16.5

19.8

19.4

Total U.S. Government sales

$

569.4

$

510.6

$

433.1

Our total backlog of confirmed orders was approximately
    $582.4 million at December 31, 2006,
    $521.9 million at January 1, 2006 and
    $471.3 million at January 2, 2005. We expect to
    fulfill 98% of such backlog of confirmed orders during 2007.

International sales accounted for approximately 21% of total
    sales in 2006, as compared to 18% in 2005 and 19% in 2004. In
    2006 we sold products to customers in over 100 foreign
    countries. Ninety percent of our sales to foreign customers were
    made to customers in 25 foreign countries.

Sales and
    Marketing

Our sales and marketing approach varies by segment and by
    products within our segments. A shared fundamental tenet is the
    commitment to work closely with our customers to understand
    their needs, with an aim to secure preferred supplier and
    longer-term relationships.

Our business segments use a combination of internal sales
    forces, distributors and commissioned sales representatives to
    market and sell our products and services. As part of on-going
    acquisition integration efforts, some of our Teledyne
    Instruments companies continue to consolidate internal sales and
    servicing efforts.



Products are also advertised in appropriate trade journals and
    by means of various websites. To promote our products and other
    capabilities, our personnel regularly participate in relevant
    trade shows and professional associations.

Many of our government contracts are awarded after a competitive
    bidding process in which we seek to emphasize our ability to
    provide superior products and technical solutions in addition to
    competitive pricing.

Through Teledyne Technologies International Corp. and other
    subsidiaries, the Company has established offices in foreign
    countries to facilitate international sales for various
    businesses.

Competition

We believe that technological capabilities and innovation and
    the ability to invest in the development of new and enhanced
    products are critical to obtaining and maintaining leadership in
    our markets and the industries in which we compete. Although we
    have certain advantages that we believe help us compete
    effectively in our markets, each of our markets is highly
    competitive. Our businesses vigorously compete on the basis of
    quality, product performance and reliability, technical
    expertise, price and service. Many of our competitors have, and
    potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a
    larger installed base of products, more extensive engineering,
    manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and
    greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we
    do.

Research
    and Development

Our research and development efforts primarily involve
    engineering and design related to improving product lines and
    developing new products and technologies in the same or similar
    fields. We spent a total of $307.0 million,
    $291.5 million, and $263.3 million on research and
    development and bid and proposal costs for 2006, 2005, and 2004,
    respectively. Customer-funded research and development, most of
    which was attributable to work under contracts with the
    U.S. Government, represented approximately 83%, 85%, and
    88% of total research and development costs for 2006, 2005, and
    2004, respectively.

In 2006, approximately 80.2% of the $55.5 million in
    Company-funded research and development and bid and proposal
    costs were incurred in our electronics and communications
    businesses. We expect the level of Company-funded research and
    development and bid and proposal costs to be approximately
    $60.7 million in 2007.

Intellectual
    Property

While we own and control various intellectual property rights,
    including patents, trade secrets, confidential information,
    trademarks, trade names, and copyrights, which, in the
    aggregate, are of material importance to our business, our
    management believes that our business as a whole is not
    materially dependent upon any one intellectual property or
    related group of such properties. We own several hundred active
    patents and are licensed to use certain patents, technology and
    other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by
    others. Similarly, other companies are licensed to use certain
    patents, technology and other intellectual property rights owned
    and controlled by us. As part of our acquisition of Scientific
    Company in September 2006, we licensed certain intellectual
    property of the acquired company to Rockwell Automation and
    Rockwell Collins.

Patents, patent applications and license agreements will expire
    or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with
    their terms or otherwise. We do not expect the expiration or
    termination of these patents, patent applications and license
    agreements to have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations or financial condition.

Employees

Our total current workforce consists of approximately 7,700
    employees. The International Union of United Automobile,
    Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America
    represents approximately 290 active employees in Mobile, Alabama
    under a collective bargaining agreement that expired by its
    terms on



February 20, 2007. This union also represents approximately
    35 of our active employees in Toledo, Ohio under a collective
    bargaining agreement that expires by its terms on
    November 10, 2009. We consider our relations with our
    employees to be good.

Executive
    Management

Teledyne’s executive management includes:

Name and Title

Age

Principal Occupations Last 5 Years

Executive Officers:

Robert Mehrabian

*

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Director


Dr. Mehrabian has served as
    Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Teledyne for
    more than five years. He is a director of Teledyne, Mellon
    Financial Corporation and PPG Industries, Inc.

John T. Kuelbs

*

Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary


Mr. Kuelbs has been Executive Vice
    President, General Counsel and Secretary of Teledyne since
    September 1, 2005. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice
    President, General Counsel and Secretary of Teledyne.

Dale A. Schnittjer

*

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Mr. Schnittjer has been Senior
    Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since
    September 1, 2005. From January 27, 2004 to
    September 1, 2005, he was Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer of Teledyne. He had served as interim Chief
    Financial Officer since July 7, 2003. Mr. Schnittjer
    first became a Vice President on December 19, 2001, and had
    been the Controller of Teledyne from November 29, 1999 to
    January 27, 2004. Mr. Schnittjer also served as Acting
    Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Teledyne from
    June 1, 2000 to October 3, 2000.

Susan L. Main*

Vice President and Controller


Ms. Main has been Vice President
    and Controller of the Company since March 2004. Prior to joining
    the Company, Ms. Main served as Vice President Controller
    of Water Pik Technologies, Inc. from November 29, 1999 to
    March 2004.

Segment Management:

James M. Link*

President, Teledyne Brown

Engineering, Inc.


Retired Lieutenant General Link
    has been the President of Teledyne Brown Engineering since July
    2001. Prior to that, Mr. Link served as Senior Vice
    President of Science Applications International Corporation
    (SAIC) Applied Technology Group in Huntsville, Alabama.
    Mr. Link is a director of Dewey Electronics Corporation and
    Superior Bancorp.

Aldo Pichelli*

Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Electronics
    and Communications Segment


Mr. Pichelli has been Senior Vice
    President and Chief Operating Officer of Teledyne’s
    Electronics and Communications segment since July 22, 2003.
    Prior to that, he served as Vice President and General Manager
    of Teledyne Instruments since its formation in 2001. Prior to
    that, Mr. Pichelli was the Vice President and General
    Manager of Teledyne Analytical Instruments.

Bryan L. Lewis

President, Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc.


Mr. Lewis has been the President
    of Teledyne Continental Motors for more than five years.

Rhett Ross

President, Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc.


Mr. Ross has been President of
    Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc. since its formation in June 2001
    for the purposes of the transaction with Energy Partners, Inc.
    Prior to that, he was General Manager of the Teledyne Energy
    Systems business unit.



Name and Title

Age

Principal Occupations Last 5 Years

Other Officers:

Ivars R. Blukis

Chief Business Risk Assurance Officer


Mr. Blukis has been Chief Business
    Risk Assurance Officer since January 22, 2002 and is
    responsible for the internal audit function. Prior to that,
    Mr. Blukis was the Vice President, Finance and
    Administration, for Teledyne Electronics Technologies.

Melanie S. Cibik

Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary


Miss Cibik has been Vice
    President, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of
    the Company for more than five years.

Shelley D. Green

Treasurer


Ms. Green has been the Treasurer
    of Teledyne for more than five years.

Robyn E. McGowan

Vice President, Administration and Human Resources and Assistant

Secretary


Ms. McGowan has been Vice
    President — Administration and Human Resources of the
    Company since April 2003 and Vice President —
    Administration since December 2000. Prior to becoming a Vice
    President, she served as Director of Administration. She has
    been an Assistant Secretary of Teledyne since November 29,
    1999.

Robert L. Schaefer

Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary, General
    Counsel of the Electronics and Communications Segment


Mr. Schaefer has been an Associate
    General Counsel and an Assistant Secretary of Teledyne and the
    General Counsel of Teledyne’s Electronics and
    Communications segment for more than five years.

Robert W. Steenberge

Vice President and Chief Technology Officer


Mr. Steenberge became a Vice
    President of the Company on February 21, 2006, and has been
    Teledyne’s Chief Technology Officer for more than five
    years.

Jason VanWees, Vice President,

Corporate Development and Investor Relations


Mr. VanWees has been the Vice
    President, Corporate Development and Investor Relations since
    February 21, 2006. Prior to that, he was Director of
    Corporate Development and Investor Relations of Teledyne for
    more than five years.

*

Such officers are subject to the reporting and other
    requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act
    of 1934, as amended.

Dr. Mehrabian and Teledyne have entered into a Second
    Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of
    January 24, 2006. The agreement provides that we will
    employ him as the Chairman, President and Chief Executive
    Officer. The agreement terminates on December 31, 2007, but
    will automatically be extended annually unless either party
    gives the other written notice prior to October 31 of the
    year of such term that it will not be extended. Under the
    agreement, Dr. Mehrabian’s annual base salary is
    $750,000. The agreement provides that Dr. Mehrabian is
    entitled to participate in Teledyne’s annual incentive
    bonus plan and other executive compensation and benefit
    programs. The agreement provides Dr. Mehrabian with a
    non-qualified pension arrangement, under which Teledyne will pay
    him starting six months following his retirement, as payments
    supplemental to any accrued pension under our qualified pension
    plan, an amount equal to 50% of his base compensation as in
    effect at retirement. The number of years for which such annual
    amount shall be paid will be equal to the number of years of his
    service to Teledyne (including service to ATI), but not more
    than 10 years. On January 23, 2007, without amending
    the Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement,
    Teledyne’s Board of Directors asked Dr. Mehrabian to
    continue to serve as its Chairman, President and Chief Executive
    Officer through at least December 31, 2009.

Fifteen current members of management have entered into Change
    in Control Severance Agreements with Teledyne. The agreements
    have a three-year, automatically renewing term. Under the
    agreements, the executive is entitled to severance benefits if
    (1) there is a change in control of Teledyne and
    (2) within three months



before or 24 months after the change in control, either we
    terminate the executive’s employment for reasons other than
    for cause or the executive terminates employment for good
    reason. “Severance benefits” consist of:

•

A cash payment equal to three times (in the case of
    Dr. Mehrabian, Messrs. Kuelbs, Schnittjer and Link and
    one other executive) or two times (in the case of Mr. Pichelli
    and nine other executives) the sum of (i) the
    executive’s highest annual base salary within the year
    preceding the change in control and (ii) the AIP bonus
    target for the year in which the change in control occurs or the
    actual bonus payout for the year immediately preceding the
    change in control, whichever is higher.

•

A cash payment for the current AIP bonus cycle based on the
    fraction of the year worked times the AIP target objectives at
    120% (with payment of the prior year bonus if not yet paid).

•

Payment in cash for unpaid Performance Share Program awards,
    assuming applicable goals are met at 120% of performance.

•

Continued equivalent health and welfare (e.g., medical, dental,
    vision, life insurance and disability) benefits at
    Teledyne’s expense for a period of up to 36 months
    (24 months in some agreements) after termination (with the
    executive bearing any portion of the cost the executive bore
    prior to the change in control); provided, however, such
    benefits would be discontinued to the extent the executive
    receives similar benefits from a subsequent employer.

•

Immediate vesting of all stock options, with options being
    exercisable for the full remaining term.

•

Removal of restrictions on restricted stock issued by the
    Company under our Restricted Stock Award Programs.

•

Full vesting under the Company’s pension plans (within
    legal parameters) such that the executive shall be entitled to
    receive the full accrued benefit under all such plans in effect
    as of the date of the change in control, without any actuarial
    reduction for early payment.

•

Up to $25,000 ($15,000 in some agreements) reimbursement for
    actual professional outplacement services.

•

A

“gross-up-payment”

to hold the executive harmless against the impact, if any, of
    federal excise taxes imposed on the executive as a result of the
    payments constituting an “excess parachute” as defined
    in Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code.

Item 1A.  Risk
    Factors.

Risk
    Factors; Cautionary Statement as to Forward-Looking
    Statements

The following text highlights various risks and uncertainties
    associated with Teledyne. These factors could materially affect
    “forward-looking statements” (within the meaning of
    the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that
    we may from time to time make, including forward-looking
    statements contained in “Item 1. Business” and
    “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this

Form 10-K

and in Teledyne’s 2006 Annual Report to Stockholders. It is
    not possible for management to predict all of such factors, and
    new factors may emerge. Additionally, management cannot assess
    the impact of each such factor on Teledyne or the extent to
    which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual
    results to differ materially from those contained in any
    forward-looking statements.

Our
    dependence on revenue from government contracts subjects us to
    many risks:

Our
    revenue from government contracts depends on the continued
    availability of funding from the U.S. Government, and
    accordingly, we have the risk that funding for our existing
    contracts may be diverted to other uses or delayed.

We perform work on a number of contracts with the Department of
    Defense and other agencies and departments of the
    U.S. Government including

sub-contracts

with government prime contractors. Sales under contracts with
    the U.S. Government as a whole, including sales under
    contracts with the Department of



Defense, as prime contractor or subcontractor, represented
    approximately 40% of our total revenue for 2006, as compared to
    42% and 43% of our total revenue for 2005 and 2004,
    respectively. Performance under government contracts has certain
    inherent risks that could have a material effect on our
    business, results of operations, and financial condition.

Government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing
    availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress typically
    appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis
    even though contract performance may take more than one year. As
    a result, at the beginning of a major program, a contract is
    typically only partially funded, and additional monies are
    normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only
    as Congress makes appropriations available for future fiscal
    years.

While U.S. defense spending increased as a result of the
    September 11th terrorist attacks and the war in Iraq,
    it is currently expected to continue to moderate over the next
    few years. The continued war on terrorism and the Iraqi
    situation could result in a diversion of funds from programs in
    which Teledyne participates. Also, continued defense spending
    does not necessarily correlate to continued business for us,
    because not all the programs in which we participate or have
    current capabilities may be provided with continued funding.
    Further, the recent changes in the leadership of the
    U.S. Congress could result over time in reductions in
    defense spending and further changes in programs in which we
    participate.

Our Electronics and Communications segment provides a variety of
    products for newer military platforms such as the

F/A-22

and
    F-35 aircraft. Development and production of these aircraft are
    very expensive, and there is no guarantee that the Department of
    Defense, as it balances budget priorities, will continue to
    provide funding to manufacture and support these platforms.
    Reallocation of funding priorities within the Department of
    Defense could also affect repair and spares sales for older
    military platforms, including, by way of example, sales of our
    traveling wave tubes for F-15, F-16, F-18, EA-6B, B-52, B-1,
    C-130 and U-2 aircraft.

Our
    participation in government programs may decrease or be subject
    to renegotiation as those programs evolve over time.

Over time and for a variety of reasons, programs can evolve and
    affect the extent of our participation. For example, Teledyne
    Brown Engineering’s Ground-based Midcourse Defense program
    was restructured in 2003 to change the emphasis from a focus on
    test and evaluation to a focus on deployment and sustainment.
    This resulted in a nearly 16% decline in revenues from this
    contract in 2003 compared to 2002 (from $58 million to
    $49 million). Then, in 2004 and 2005, revenues related to
    this program totaled approximately $54 million and
    $51 million, respectively, with the increases over 2003
    resulting from unanticipated ground tests. In 2006, revenues
    related to this program declined to $48 million and are
    expected to decline further in 2007.

The relocation to Huntsville, Alabama of the Missile Defense
    Agency or MDA has resulted in the transfer to the MDA of certain
    missions and functions from the U.S. Army Space and Missile
    Defense Command or SMDC. We understand that work currently
    performed under one or more existing SMDC contracts may be
    transferred to one or more existing or new MDA contracts. Such
    transfers may require us to recompete for some work currently
    performed by us, and there is no guarantee that we would
    maintain historic levels of revenue or profitability if we
    successfully recompeted. Such changes could affect our Systems
    Engineering Solutions segment, but it is too early to tell the
    impact of such changes.

We have been a significant participant in NASA programs,
    traditionally through our Systems Engineering Solutions segment
    and more recently through Teledyne Scientific Company. The
    centerpiece of our current NASA activities is the International
    Space Station. While we anticipate participating in NASA’s
    lunar and interplanetary exploration activities, funding for
    these activities has been reduced as NASA focuses on the
    completion of the International Space Station and on keeping the
    Space Shuttle fleet in continuous service, each of which is also
    facing a tightened budget. These changes could adversely impact
    us. For example, we have been advised that funding for Teledyne
    Scientific Company’s anticipated participation in the
    Microlensed Planet Finder has been cancelled.



We may
    not be successful in bidding for future contracts.

We obtain many U.S. Government prime contracts and
    subcontracts through the process of competitive bidding. We may
    not be successful in having our bids accepted. In addition, we
    may spend substantial amounts of time, money and effort,
    including design, development and marketing activities, required
    to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be
    awarded to us.

Our
    contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to
    termination rights that could adversely affect us.

Most of our U.S. Government contracts are subject to
    termination by the U.S. Government either at its
    convenience or upon the default of the contractor.

Termination-for-convenience

provisions provide only for the recovery of costs incurred or
    committed, settlement expenses, and profit on work completed
    prior to termination.

Termination-for-default

clauses impose liability on the contractor for excess costs
    incurred by the U.S. Government in reprocuring undelivered
    items from another source. During 2006, Teledyne Microwave had
    two U.S. Government contracts terminated for convenience.
    We did not have any of our U.S. Government contracts
    terminated for default during 2006.

We may
    lose money or generate less than expected profits on our
    fixed-price government contracts and we may lose money if we
    fail to meet certain pre-specified targets in government
    contracts.

There is no guarantee that U.S. Government contracts will
    be profitable. A number of our U.S. Government prime
    contracts and subcontracts are fixed-price type contracts (47%
    in 2006 and 2005, as compared to 43% in 2004). Under these types
    of contracts, we bear the inherent risk that actual performance
    cost may exceed the fixed contract price. This is particularly
    true where the contract was awarded and the price finalized in
    advance of final completion of design. Under such contracts, we
    must absorb cost overruns, notwithstanding the difficulty of
    estimating all of the costs we will incur in performing these
    contracts. Our failure to anticipate technical problems,
    estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance of
    a fixed-price contract may reduce the profitability of a
    fixed-price contract or cause a loss. We cannot assure that our
    contract loss provisions in our financial statements will be
    adequate to cover all actual future losses. We may lose money if
    we fail to meet these targets.

Our
    business is subject to government contracting regulations, and
    our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm
    our operating results and prospects.

Certain fees under some of our U.S. Government contracts
    are linked to meeting specified technical, cost

and/or

schedule targets, including development or testing deadlines.
    Fees may also be influenced or dependent on the collective
    efforts and success of other defense contractors over which we
    had no or limited control.

We, like other government contractors, are subject to various
    audits, reviews and investigations (including private party
    “whistleblower” lawsuits) relating to our compliance
    with federal and state laws. We have a compliance program
    designed to surface issues that may lead to voluntary
    disclosures of contracting irregularities to the
    U.S. Government. Generally, claims arising out of these
    U.S. Government inquiries and voluntary disclosures can be
    resolved without resorting to litigation. However, should the
    business unit or division involved be charged with wrongdoing,
    or should the U.S. Government determine that the unit or
    division is not a “presently responsible contractor,”
    that unit or division, and conceivably our Company as a whole,
    could be temporarily suspended or, in the event of a conviction,
    could be debarred for up to three years from receiving new
    government contracts or government-approved subcontracts. In
    addition, we could expend substantial amounts in defending
    against such charges and in damages, fines and penalties if such
    charges are proven or result in negotiated settlements. In
    October 2002, we were informed that the U.S. Government had
    declined to intervene in a lawsuit filed under seal pursuant to
    the False Claims Act more than five years before. Our Electronic
    Safety Products unit’s involvement in this civil action is
    over as a result of favorable court decisions.



Our
    pension expenses and the value of our pension assets are
    affected by factors outside of our control, including the
    performance of plan assets, the stock market, interest rates and
    actuarial data.

We have a defined benefit pension plan covering most of our
    employees. At year-end 2006, the value of the combined pension
    assets was less than our accumulated pension benefit obligation,
    notwithstanding favorable market conditions and the merger into
    our pension plan of the overfunded Scientific Company pension
    plan, which was part of our September 2006 acquisition of
    Scientific Company. Given our pension plan’s underfunded
    status, in 2004 we began making required cash contributions to
    our pension plan. For 2006 and 2005, cash contributions totaled
    $20.9 million and $15.5 million, respectively, and we
    currently expect such contributions to be approximately
    $6.6 million for 2007. The lower contribution level in 2007
    is due primarily to the merger into our pension plan of the
    overfunded Scientific Company pension plan. The accounting rules
    applicable to our pension plan require that amounts recognized
    in financial statements be determined on an actuarial basis,
    rather than as contributions are made to the plan. Two
    significant elements in determining our pension income or
    pension expense are the expected return on plan assets and the
    discount rate used in projecting pension benefit obligations.
    Declines in the stock market and lower rates of return could
    increase required contributions to our pension plan. Any
    decreases in interest rates, if and to the extent not offset by
    contributions and asset returns, could also increase our
    obligations under such plans. For additional discussion of
    pension matters, see the discussion under “Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
    Operations and Financial Condition” and Notes 2 and 12
    to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

United
    States’ and global responses to terrorism, the Iraq
    situation and nuclear proliferation concerns increase
    uncertainties with respect to many of our businesses and may
    adversely affect our business and results of
    operations.

United States’ and global responses to terrorism, the Iraq
    situation and nuclear proliferation concerns increase
    uncertainties with respect to U.S. and other business and
    financial markets. Several factors associated, directly or
    indirectly, with terrorism, the Iraq situation and perceived
    nuclear threats and responses may adversely affect us. The
    reaction to Iran’s continuing desire to explore nuclear
    capabilities could affect adversely oil prices and some of our
    businesses.

While some of our businesses that provide products or services
    to the U.S. Government experienced greater demand for their
    products and services as a result of increased
    U.S. Government defense spending, various responses could
    realign government programs and affect the composition, funding
    or timing of our government programs. The recent changes in the
    leadership of the U.S. Congress could also further affect
    responses and government programs. Government spending could
    shift to the Department of Defense or Homeland Security programs
    in which we may not participate or may not have current
    capabilities and curtail less pressing non-defense programs in
    which we do participate, including Department of Energy or NASA
    programs. Government spending could also shift towards
    non-defense programs in which we do not currently participate,
    such as medical research programs of the National Institutes of
    Health.

Air travel declines have occurred after terrorist attacks and
    heightened security alerts, as well as after the SARS and bird
    flu scares. Additional declines in air travel resulting from
    such factors and other factors could adversely affect the
    financial condition of many of our commercial airline and
    aircraft manufacturer customers and in turn could adversely
    affect our Electronics and Communications segment.

Deterioration of financial performance of airlines could result
    in a reduction of discretionary spending for upgrades of
    avionics and in-flight communications equipment, which would
    adversely affect our Electronics and Communications segment.

The government continues to evaluate potential security issues
    associated with general aviation. Increased government
    regulations, including but not limited to increased airspace
    regulations (including user fees), could lead to an overall
    decline in air travel and have an adverse affect on our
    Aerospace Engines and Components segment. As happened after the
    September 11th terrorist attacks, reinstatement of
    flight restrictions would negatively impact the market for
    general aviation aircraft piston engines and components and our
    Aerospace



Engines and Components segment. Potential reductions in the need
    for general aviation aircraft maintenance due to declines in air
    travel could also adversely affect our Aerospace Engines and
    Components segment.

Higher oil prices could reduce general aviation air travel,
    negatively affecting our Aerospace Engines and Components
    segment. Higher oil prices could also adversely affect
    commercial airline-related customers of our Electronics and
    Communications segment. Conversely, higher oil prices could
    increase oil exploration activities and bolster our marine
    instrumentation businesses, including Teledyne Geophysical
    Instruments, Teledyne Benthos. and majority-owned ODI.

Acquisitions
    involve inherent risks that may adversely affect our operating
    results and financial condition.

Our growth strategy includes acquisitions. Acquisitions involve
    various inherent risks, such as:

•

our ability to assess accurately the value, strengths,
    weaknesses, internal controls, contingent and other liabilities
    and potential profitability of acquisition candidates;

•

the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business;

•

our ability to integrate acquired businesses and to achieve
    identified financial, operating and other synergies anticipated
    to result from an acquisition;

•

our ability to assess, integrate and implement internal controls
    of acquired businesses in accordance with Section 404 of
    the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002;

•

the distraction of management resulting from the need to
    integrate acquired businesses;

•

increased competition for acquisition targets, which may
    increase acquisition costs; and

•

unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions
    affecting an acquired business.

While we conduct financial and other due diligence in connection
    with its acquisitions and generally seeks some form of
    protection, including indemnification from a seller and
    sometimes an escrow of a portion of the purchase price to cover
    potential issues, such acquired companies may have weaknesses or
    liabilities that are not accurately assessed or brought to our
    attention at the time of the acquisition. Further, indemnities
    or escrows may not fully cover such matters, particularly
    matters identified after a closing.

We also have acquired several private companies, such as
    Reynolds Industries, Incorporated (“Reynolds”),
    Cougar, RD Instruments, Inc. and CollaborX. Private companies
    generally may not have as formal or comprehensive internal
    controls and compliance systems in place as public companies.
    While we have required various sellers to take certain
    compliance actions prior to the closing of an acquisition,
    including with respect to export controls, and have sought
    protections in the purchase agreement for such matters, there is
    no assurance that we have identified all issues or will be fully
    protected from historic liabilities.

With regard to our five 2006 acquisitions, while these
    companies’ products and customer base are complementary to
    some of Teledyne’s existing businesses, there is no
    assurance that we will achieve all identified financial,
    operating and marketing synergies. We may also experience
    problems that arise in entering new markets through acquisitions
    in which we may have little or no experience.

In connection with acquisitions, we may consolidate one or more
    acquired facilities with other Teledyne facilities to obtain
    synergies and cost-savings. For example, in 2006, we relocated,
    with minimal disruption, the operations of the microwave
    technical solutions assets acquired from Avnet Inc. to a
    Teledyne Cougar facility in Sunnyvale, California. On a larger
    scale, in 2006, we successfully consolidated into a newly leased
    facility in Poway, California the operations of

2005-acquired

Teledyne RD Instruments, Inc.,

2005-acquired

MGD Technologies, Inc. (now part of Teledyne Isco) and Teledyne
    Interconnect Devices. We are in the process of adding

2006-acquired

Teledyne KW Microwave to such facility. Nonetheless, despite
    planning, relocation and consolidation of manufacturing
    operations has inherent risks, as it tends to involve, among
    other things, change of personnel, application of a new business
    system software and learning or adaptation of manufacturing
    processes and techniques. Production delays at a new operating
    location could result.



As permitted by SEC rules, our current management’s report
    as to our assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls
    over financial reporting includes in its scope and coverage our
    January 2006 acquisition of Benthos, but excludes our other 2006
    acquisitions from its scope and coverage. We plan to evaluate
    more fully the internal controls of these acquired companies in
    2007, and implement a formal and rigorous system of internal
    controls at these acquired companies. We can provide no
    assurance that we will be able to provide a report that contains
    no significant deficiencies or material weaknesses with respect
    to these acquired companies or other acquisitions.

Our
    future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset
    impairment charges.

Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
    Intangible Assets”, we are required to test both acquired
    goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for
    impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach,
    rather than amortizing them over time. We have chosen to perform
    our annual impairment reviews of goodwill and other
    indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of
    each fiscal year. We also are required to test goodwill for
    impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances
    change that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise
    fair value below its book value. These events or circumstances
    could include a significant change in the business climate,
    including a significant sustained decline in an entity’s
    market value, legal factors, operating performance indicators,
    competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of the
    business, or other factors. If the fair market value is less
    than the book value of goodwill, we could be required to record
    an impairment charge. The valuation of reporting units requires
    judgment in estimating future cash flows, discount rates and
    estimated product life cycles. In making these judgments, we
    evaluate the financial health of the business, including such
    factors as industry performance, changes in technology and
    operating cash flows. As we have grown through acquisitions, we
    have accumulated $313.6 million of goodwill, and have
    $69.3 million of acquired intangible assets, which includes
    $11.3 of indefinite-lived intangible assets, out of total assets
    of $1,060.2 million at December 31, 2006. As a result,
    the amount of any annual or interim impairment could be
    significant and could have a material adverse effect on our
    reported financial results for the period in which the charge is
    taken. We also may be required to record an earnings charge or
    incur unanticipated expenses if, due to a change in strategy or
    other reason, we determined the value of other assets has been
    impaired.

We account for the impairment of long-lived assets to be held
    and used in accordance with SFAS No. 144,
    “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived
    Assets” (“SFAS No. 144”).
    SFAS No. 144 requires that a long-lived asset to be
    disposed of be reported at the lower of its carrying amount or
    fair value less cost to sell. An asset (other than goodwill and
    indefinite-lived intangible assets) is considered impaired when
    estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying amount of
    the asset. In the event the carrying amount of such asset is not
    deemed recoverable, the asset is adjusted to its estimated fair
    value. Fair value is generally determined based upon estimated
    discounted future cash flows.

We may
    not have sufficient resources to fund all future research and
    development and capital expenditures or possible
    acquisitions.

In order to remain competitive, we must make substantial
    investments in research and development of new or enhanced
    products and continuously upgrade our process technology and
    manufacturing capabilities. Although we believe that anticipated
    cash flows from operations and available borrowings under our
    $400.0 million credit facility will be sufficient to
    satisfy our anticipated working capital, research and
    development and capital investment needs, we may be unable to
    fund all of these needs or possible acquisitions. Our ability to
    raise additional capital will depend on a variety of factors,
    some of which will not be within our control, including the
    existence of a public offering market, investor perceptions of
    us, our businesses and the industries in which we operate, and
    general economic conditions. We may be unable to successfully
    raise additional capital, if needed. Failure to successfully
    raise needed capital on a timely or cost-effective basis could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations and financial condition.



Our
    indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our
    business.

As of December 31, 2006, we had $231.9 million in
    total outstanding indebtedness, including $216.9 million
    under our $400 million credit facility. Our indebtedness
    could harm our business by, among other things, reducing the
    funds available to make new strategic acquisitions. Our
    indebtedness could also have a material adverse effect on our
    business by increasing our vulnerability to general adverse
    economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business.
    General adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn
    in our business could result in our inability to repay this
    indebtedness in a timely manner.

We may be
    unsuccessful in our efforts to increase our participation in
    certain new markets.

We intend to both adapt our existing technology and develop new
    products to expand into new market segments. For example, we
    have been developing new fuel cell related technologies. The
    market for fuel cell technologies is not well established and
    there are a number of companies that have announced intentions
    to develop and market fuel cell products. Some of these
    companies have greater financial

and/or

technological resources than we do.

We have also been developing new electronic products, including
    electronic flight bags, high-power millimeter traveling wave
    tubes and imaging sonar systems, which are intended to access
    markets in which Teledyne does not currently participate or has
    limited participation. We may be unsuccessful in accessing these
    and other new markets if our products do not meet our
    customers’ requirements, due to changes in either
    technology and industry standards or because of actions taken by
    our competitors.

We may be
    unable to successfully introduce new and enhanced products in a
    timely and cost-effective manner.

Our operating results depend in part on our ability to introduce
    new and enhanced products on a timely basis. Successful product
    development and introduction depend on numerous factors,
    including our ability to anticipate customer and market
    requirements, changes in technology and industry standards, our
    ability to differentiate our offerings from offerings of our
    competitors, and market acceptance. We may not be able to
    develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely and
    cost-effective manner or to develop and introduce products that
    satisfy customer requirements. Our new products also may not
    achieve market acceptance or correctly anticipate new industry
    standards and technological changes. As an example, we have been
    working to develop high power solid state power amplifiers,
    which could replace our traveling wave tubes in some
    applications, and in this area, there is a larger base of
    potential competitors than for tube amplifiers. As a result, it
    may be more difficult for our solid state power amplifier
    products to gain market acceptance.

Additionally, new products may trigger increased warranty costs
    as such products are tested further by actual usage. Accelerated
    entry of new products to meet heightened market demand and
    competitive pressures may cause additional warranty costs as
    development and testing time periods might be condensed. In
    2007, for example, Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc. currently
    believes it will incur additional warranty costs as it continues
    to roll out two new hydrogen generation product lines.

Technological
    change and evolving industry standards could cause certain of
    our products or services to become obsolete or
    non-competitive.

The markets for a number of our products and services are
    generally characterized by rapid technological development,
    evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements
    and new product introductions and enhancements. A faster than
    anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to
    our products or services, or in market demand for products or
    services based on a particular technology, could result in
    faster than anticipated obsolescence of certain of our products
    or services and could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition. For
    example, Teledyne Reynolds’ high voltage connector business
    could be negatively impacted by marketplace shifts to lower
    voltage requirements where the number of competitors is larger.
    Most lighting displays in legacy aircraft use tubes that require
    high



voltage connectors. LED backlights, which are increasingly being
    used for aircraft lighting displays, have substantially lower
    voltage requirements.

Currently accepted industry and regulatory standards are also
    subject to change, which may contribute to the obsolescence of
    our products or services. For example, a European directive that
    certain electronic products must not contain impermissible
    levels of lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium,
    polybrominated biphenyls or polybrominated diphenyl ethers,
    recently took effect on July 1, 2006. As a result, we must
    make sure that certain of our electronic products sold into
    European member states comply with this new directive. Although
    many of our products are exempt from the European directive, we
    expect that, over time, component manufacturers may discontinue
    selling components that have the restricted substances. This
    will, in turn, require us to accommodate changes in parameters,
    such as the way parts are soldered, and may, in some cases,
    require redesign of certain products. This could lead to
    increased costs, which we may not be able to recover from our
    customers, delays in product shipments and loss of market share
    to competitors.

The
    airline industry is heavily regulated and if we fail to comply
    with applicable requirements, our results of operations could
    suffer.

Governmental agencies throughout the world, including the
    U.S. Federal Aviation Administration, or the FAA, prescribe
    standards and qualification requirements for aircraft
    components, including virtually all commercial airline and
    general aviation products, as well as regulations regarding the
    repair and overhaul of aircraft engines. Specific regulations
    vary from country to country, although compliance with FAA
    requirements generally satisfies regulatory requirements in
    other countries. We include, with the products and replacement
    parts that we sell to our aircraft manufacturing industry
    customers, documentation certifying that each part complies with
    applicable regulatory requirements and meets applicable
    standards of airworthiness established by the FAA or the
    equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. In order to
    sell our products, we and the products we manufacture must also
    be certified by our individual OEM customers. If any of the
    material authorizations or approvals qualifying us to supply our
    products is revoked or suspended, then the sale of the subject
    product would be prohibited by law, which would have an adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.

From time to time, the FAA or equivalent regulatory agencies in
    other countries propose new regulations or changes to existing
    regulations, which are usually more stringent than existing
    regulations. If these proposed regulations are adopted and
    enacted, we may incur significant additional costs to achieve
    compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.

Product
    liability claims, product recalls and field service actions
    could have a material adverse effect on our reputation,
    business, results of operations and financial
    condition.

As a manufacturer and distributor of a wide variety of products,
    including aircraft engines and medical devices, our results of
    operations are susceptible to adverse publicity regarding the
    quality or safety of our products. In part, product liability
    claims challenging the safety of our products may result in a
    decline in sales for a particular product, which could adversely
    affect our results of operations. This could be the case even if
    the claims themselves are proven untrue or settled for
    immaterial amounts.

While we have general liability and other insurance policies
    concerning product liabilities, we have self-insured retentions
    or deductibles under such policies with respect to a portion of
    these liabilities. For example, our current annual self-insured
    retention for general aviation aircraft liabilities incurred in
    connection with products manufactured by Teledyne Continental
    Motors, Inc., is approximately $22.9 million, a decrease
    from $25.0 million for the prior annual period. Our
    existing aircraft product liability insurance policy expires on
    May 31, 2007. Additionally, based on facts and
    circumstances of claims, we have not always accrued amounts up
    to the applicable annual self-insured retentions. Additionally,
    awarded damages could be more than our accruals.

Product recalls can be expensive and tarnish our reputation and
    have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products. For
    example, Teledyne Continental Motors had been engaged in a
    product recall of piston engine crankshafts as a result of which
    we recorded a $12.0 million pretax charge in the second
    quarter



of 2000. In 2002, we reached a monetary settlement related to
    the 2000 recall with two of three companies that manufactured
    and processed allegedly defective steel subsequently made into
    aircraft engine crankshafts. We failed to win a jury verdict
    against a third company involved in making the steel. We
    continue to pursue cost recovery through litigation against one
    other materials supplier as a result of the 2000 product recall
    program. There is no assurance that we will recover any costs.

Through Aerosance, Inc., we have developed electronic controls,
    known as PowerLink FADEC, for piston aircraft engines that
    automate many functions requiring manual control, such as fuel
    flow and power management. While such control systems should
    improve engine management and facilitate maintenance of engines,
    we could face additional claims as they become standard
    equipment on selected new piston engine aircraft or are
    retrofitted on some piston engine aircraft. New products can
    trigger additional product liability claims as such products are
    further tested by actual usage. Additionally, general aviation
    aircraft crash lawsuits tend to name as defendants manufacturers
    of a multitude of aircraft-related products as discovery and
    recoveries are pursued.

We have been joined, among a number of defendants (often over
    100), in lawsuits alleging injury or death as a result of
    exposure to asbestos. We have not incurred material liabilities
    in connection with these lawsuits. The filings typically do not
    identify any of our products as a source of asbestos exposure,
    and we have been dismissed from cases for lack of product
    identification, but only after some defense costs have been
    incurred. Also, because of the prominent “Teledyne”
    name, we may be mistakenly joined in lawsuits involving a
    company or business that was not assumed by us as part of our
    1999 spin-off. Our historic insurance coverage, including that
    of its predecessors, may not fully cover such claims and defense
    of such matters, as coverage depends on the year of purported
    exposure and other factors. Nonetheless, we intend to defend
    these claims vigorously. Congress from time to time has
    considered tort reform to deal with asbestos-related claims, but
    to date nothing has materialized.

Certain gas generators manufactured by Teledyne Energy Systems,
    Inc. contain a sealed, wetted asbestos component. While the
    company has been transitioning to a replacement material, has
    placed warning labels on its products and takes care in handling
    of this material by employees, there is no assurance that the
    Company will not face product liability claims involving this
    component.

Our Teledyne Brown Engineering’s laboratory in Knoxville,
    Tennessee performs radiological analyses. While the laboratory
    is certified by the Department of Energy and has other
    nuclear-related certifications and internal quality controls in
    place, errors and omissions in analyses may occur. We currently
    have errors and omissions insurance coverage and nuclear
    liability insurance coverage that might apply depending on the
    circumstances. We also have sought indemnities from some of our
    customers. Our insurance coverage or indemnities, however, may
    not be adequate to cover potential problems associated with
    faulty radiological analyses.

We cannot assure that we will not have additional product
    liability claims or that we will not recall any additional
    products.

We may
    have difficulty obtaining product liability and other insurance
    coverages, or be subject to increased costs for such
    coverage.

As a manufacturer of a variety of products including aircraft
    engines used in general aviation aircraft, we have general
    liability and other insurance policies that provide coverage
    beyond self-insured retentions or deductibles. We cannot assure
    that, for 2007 and in future years, insurance carriers will be
    willing to renew coverage or provide new coverage for product
    liability, especially as it relates to general aviation. Over
    the last several years, the number of insurance companies
    providing general aviation product liability insurance coverage
    has decreased. If such insurance is available, we may be
    required to pay substantially higher prices for coverage

and/or

increase our levels of self-insured retentions or reserves. Our
    current aircraft product liability insurance policy expires in
    May 2007 and has an annual self-insured retention of
    approximately $22.9 million.



To offset aircraft product liability insurance costs, we
    continue to try to reduce manufacturing and other costs and also
    to pass on such insurance costs through price increases on its
    aircraft engines and spare parts. We cannot provide assurances
    that further cost reduction efforts will prove successful or
    that customers will accept additional price increases. Aircraft
    engines and spare part cost increases, coupled with increased
    costs of insurance for general aviation aircraft owners, tend to
    result in decreasing aftermarket sales of our piston engines.
    This, in turn, leaves our Aerospace Engines and Components
    segment more dependent on sales to original equipment
    manufacturers or OEMs, which is more dependent on general
    economic conditions.

For certain electronic components for medical applications that
    we manufacture, such as those that go into cochlear implants, we
    have asked for indemnities from our customers

and/or

to be
    included under their insurance policies. We cannot, however,
    provide any assurance that such indemnities or insurance will
    offset potential liabilities that we may incur as a result of
    our manufacture of such components.

Aside from the uncertainties created by external events that can
    affect insurance coverages, such as the devastating 2005
    hurricane season, our ability to obtain product liability
    insurance and the cost for such insurance are affected by our
    historical claims experience. While we have taken steps to
    improve our claims management process over the last few years,
    we cannot assure that, for 2007 and in future years, our ability
    to obtain insurance, or the cost for such insurance, or the
    amount of self-insured retentions or reserves will not be
    negatively impacted by our experience in prior years.

Increasing
    competition could reduce the demand for our products and
    services.

Although we believe that we have certain advantages that help us
    compete in our markets, each of our markets is highly
    competitive. Many of our competitors have, and potential
    competitors could have, greater name recognition, a larger
    installed base of products, more extensive engineering,
    manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and
    greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we
    do. New or existing competitors may also develop new
    technologies that could adversely affect the demand for our
    products and services. Industry consolidation trends,
    particularly among aerospace and defense contractors, could
    adversely affect demand for our products and services if prime
    contractors seek to control more aspects of vertically
    integrated projects. For example, the pending combination of the
    network activities of Nokia and Siemens could negatively impact
    our wireless transceivers business. Our general aviation piston
    engines business could face increasing competition from
    German-based Thielert Aircraft Engines GmbH as it continues to
    enter the U.S. market with retrofits and attracts OEMs.

We sell
    products and services to customers in industries that are
    cyclical and sensitive to changes in general economic
    activity.

We develop and manufacture products for customers in the energy
    exploration market, which has been cyclical and suffered from
    over capacity in prior years. Strong demand and increased prices
    for oil and natural gas contributed to substantial revenue
    growth at Teledyne Geophysical Instruments and ODI since 2003. A
    cyclical downturn in this market may affect future operating
    results, particularly given our broader range of marine
    instrumentation businesses since 2003.

We derive significant revenues from the commercial aerospace
    industry. Domestic and international commercial aerospace
    markets are cyclical in nature. Historic demand for new
    commercial aircraft has been related to the stability and health
    of domestic and international economies. Delays or changes in
    aircraft and component orders could impact the future demand for
    our products and have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition. While the market
    for commercial aircraft has improved since the downturn
    triggered by the events of September 11th and the war
    in Iraq, another such event could increase the level of
    uncertainty regarding future orders for aircraft.

In addition, we sell products and services to customers in
    industries that are sensitive to the level of general economic
    activity and in mature industries that are sensitive to
    capacity. Adverse economic conditions affecting these industries
    may reduce demand for our products and services, which may
    reduce our profits, or our production levels, or both.



We sell
    products to customers in industries that may undergo rapid and
    unpredictable changes.

We develop and manufacture products for customers in industries
    that have undergone rapid changes in the past. For example, we
    manufacture products and provide manufacturing services to
    companies that serve telecommunications markets. During 2001,
    many segments of the telecommunications market experienced a
    dramatic and rapid downturn that resulted in cancellations or
    deferrals of orders for our products and services. This market,
    or others that we serve, may exhibit rapid changes in the future
    and may adversely affect our operating results, or our
    production levels, or both.

We are
    subject to the risks associated with international
    sales.

During 2006, international sales accounted for approximately 21%
    of our total revenues, as compared to 18% in 2005 and 19% in
    2004. We anticipate that future international sales will
    continue to account for a significant percentage of our
    revenues. Risks associated with these sales include:

•

political and economic instability;

•

international terrorism;

•

export controls;

•

changes in legal and regulatory requirements;

•

U.S. and foreign government policy changes affecting the markets
    for our products;

•

changes in tax laws and tariffs; and

•

exchange rate fluctuations.

Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition.
    Exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect the cost of our
    products to international customers and therefore reduce our
    competitive position. That is, if the U.S. Dollar
    strengthens against the British Pound Sterling or Eurodollar,
    our European customers may no longer find our product prices
    more attractive than European competitors.

Concerns over theft of technology for military uses, nuclear
    proliferation concerns, terrorism and other factors have
    resulted in increased export scrutiny of international sales,
    including some of our products to international customers. There
    has also been increasing export oversight and regulation of
    sales to China. Travel restrictions to Middle Eastern and other
    countries may negatively affect continuing international sales
    or service revenues from such regions.

Among other things, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits
    U.S. companies and their intermediaries from bribing
    foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping
    business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. In
    particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our
    strategic or local partners even though our partners are not
    subject to the FCPA. Any determination that we have violated the
    FCPA could result in sanctions that could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations

Compliance
    with increasing environmental regulations and the effects of
    potential environmental liabilities could have a material
    adverse financial effect on us.

We, like other industry participants, are subject to various
    federal, state, local and international environmental laws and
    regulations. We may be subject to increasingly stringent
    environmental standards in the future. Future developments,
    administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental
    matters could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations or financial condition.

While we have, as part of its overall risk management program,
    an environmental management and compliance program applicable to
    its operating facilities, including a “review and
    audit” program to monitor compliance where each facility is
    reviewed and audited by an internal environmental team every
    three years, such program does not eliminate potential
    environmental liabilities. In addition, as the Company continues
    to



pursue acquisitions, while it conducts environmental-related due
    diligence and generally seeks some form of protection, including
    indemnification from a seller, such acquired companies may have
    environmental liabilities that are not accurately assessed or
    brought to our attention at the time of the acquisition.

For additional discussion of environmental matters, see the
    discussion under the caption “Other Matters —
    Environmental” of “Item 7. Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition” and Note 15 to Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Increased environmental regulatory monitoring requirements of
    the air we breathe and water we drink could have a favorable
    effect on the results of operations or financial condition of
    our instrumentation businesses, including the sulfur dioxide,
    carbon monoxide and ozone gas monitoring business of Teledyne
    Advanced Pollution Instrumentation, Inc. and the water quality
    monitoring business of Teledyne Isco.

Our
    inability to attract and retain key personnel could have a
    material adverse effect on our future success.

Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the
    continued service of our executive officers and other key
    management and technical personnel and on our ability to
    continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.
    Recruiting and retaining skilled technical and engineering
    personnel has become even more competitive as the domestic
    economy has improved in recent years. Also, our Systems
    Engineering Solutions segment has already begun to face
    increasing competition for qualified engineering personnel as a
    result of the Department of Defense 2005 Base Realignment and
    Closure (also known as BRAC) decisions, particularly as
    positions are moved to Huntsville, Alabama over the next several
    years. While we have engaged in succession planning, the loss of
    the services of one or more of our key employees or our failure
    to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.

We may
    not be able to sell, or exit on acceptable terms, product lines
    that we determine no longer meet with our growth
    strategy.

Consistent with our growth strategy to focus on markets to
    expand our profitable niche businesses, we continually evaluate
    our product lines to ensure that they are aligned with our
    strategy. For example, after the June 2004 acquisition of Isco,
    Inc., we determined that the on-line process control
    instrumentation business of its German subsidiary was not
    aligned with our strategy, and in March 2005, we sold this
    non-strategic business. In 2006, principally because of the
    decision of a customer to manufacture certain medical products
    at its facilities in India, we decided to close our contract
    manufacturing operations in El Rubi, Mexico and are in the
    process of transferring the remaining operations to our
    La Mesa, Mexico facility and our Lewisburg, Tennessee
    facility.

Our ability to dispose of or exit product lines that may no
    longer be aligned with our growth strategy will depend on many
    factors, including the terms and conditions of any asset
    purchase and sale agreement, as well as industry, business and
    economic conditions. We cannot provide any assurance that we
    will be able to sell non-strategic product lines on terms that
    are acceptable to us, or at all. Also, if the sale of any
    non-strategic product line cannot be consummated or is not
    practical, alternative courses of action, including closure, may
    not be available to us or may be more costly than anticipated.

Provisions
    of our governing documents, applicable law, and our Change in
    Control Severance Agreements could make an acquisition of
    Teledyne Technologies more difficult.

Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and Restated
    Bylaws and Rights Agreement and the General Corporation Law of
    the State of Delaware contain several provisions that could make
    the acquisition of control of Teledyne Technologies in a
    transaction not approved by our board of directors more
    difficult. We have also entered into Change in Control Severance
    Agreements with 15 members of our management, which could
    have an anti-takeover effect.



The
    market price of our Common Stock has fluctuated significantly
    since our spin-off from ATI, and could continue to do
    so.

Since the spin-off on November 29, 1999, the market price
    of our Common Stock has ranged from a low of $7.6875 to a high
    of $44.59 per share. At February 27, 2007, our closing
    stock price was $37.77. Fluctuations in our stock price could
    continue. Among the factors that could affect our stock price
    are:

•

quarterly variations in our operating results;

•

strategic actions by us or our competitors;

•

acquisitions;

•

adverse business developments;

•

war in the Middle East or elsewhere;

•

additional terrorist activities;

•

increased military or homeland defense activities; changes to
    the Federal budget;

•

changes in the semiconductor, telecommunications, commercial
    aviation, energy exploration and electronic manufacturing
    services markets;

•

general market conditions; and

•

general economic factors unrelated to our performance.

The stock markets in general, and the markets for high
    technology companies in particular, have experienced a high
    degree of volatility not necessarily related to the operating
    performance of these companies. We cannot provide assurances as
    to our stock price.

Our
    financial statements are based on estimates required by GAAP,
    and actual results may differ materially from those estimated
    under different assumptions or conditions.

Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with
    generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
    These principles require our management to make estimates and
    assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
    liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
    reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting
    period. For example, estimates are used when accounting for
    items such as asset valuations, allowances for doubtful
    accounts, depreciation and amortization, impairment assessments,
    employee benefits, taxes, aircraft product and general liability
    and contingencies. While we base our estimates on historical
    experience and on various assumptions that we believe to be
    reasonable under the circumstances at the time made, actual
    results may differ materially from those estimated.

While we
    believe our control systems are effective, there are inherent
    limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to
    error or fraud may occur and not be detected.

We continue to take action to assure compliance with the
    internal controls, disclosure controls and other requirements of
    the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management, including our
    Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot
    guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls
    will prevent all possible errors or all fraud. A control system,
    no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only
    reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the
    control system are met. In addition, the design of a control
    system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints
    and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs.
    Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no
    system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all
    control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the
    Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include
    the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty
    and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or
    mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual
    acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by
    management override of the controls. The design of any system of
    controls also is based, in part, upon certain assumptions about
    the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance
    that any design will succeed in achieving its stated



goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a
    control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions or
    the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
    deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective
    control system, misstatements resulting from error or fraud may
    occur and may not be detected.

Natural
    disasters, such as a serious earthquake in California or a major
    hurricane in Alabama or Florida, could adversely affect our
    business, results of operations and financial
    condition.

Several of our facilities, as a result of their locations could
    be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by an earthquake, a
    hurricane or a tornado. Many of our production facilities and
    our headquarters are located in California and thus are in areas
    with above average seismic activity. In addition, we have
    manufacturing facilities in the Southeastern United States and
    Texas that have been threatened and struck by major hurricanes.
    Our facilities in Alabama, Florida, Kansas, Nebraska and
    Tennessee have also been threatened by tornados. While Teledyne
    Continental Motors’ piston-engines manufacturing facility,
    located in Mobile, Alabama, Teledyne Geophysical
    Instruments’ facility in Houston, Texas, and ODI’s
    facility in Daytona Beach, Florida were relatively fortunate
    with respect to the building damage and business interruption
    they suffered during the severe 2005 hurricane season, there can
    be no assurance that any one of them will be as fortunate in the
    future. If any of our California facilities, including our
    California headquarters, were to experience a catastrophic
    earthquake loss or if any of our Alabama, Florida, Nebraska,
    Tennessee or Texas facilities were to experience a catastrophic
    hurricane, storm or tornado, such event could disrupt our
    operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result
    in large expenses to repair or replace the facility or
    facilities. While Teledyne has property insurance to partially
    reimburse it for losses caused by windstorm and earth movement,
    such insurance would not cover all possible losses. In addition,
    our existing disaster recovery plans (including those relating
    to our information technology systems) may not be fully
    responsive to, or minimize losses associated with, catastrophic
    events.

Item 1B.

Unresolved
    Staff Comments.

None.



Item 2.

Properties.

Our principal facilities as of February 27, 2007 are listed
    below. Although the facilities vary in terms of age and
    condition, our management believes that these facilities have
    generally been well maintained and are adequate for current
    operations.

Facility Location

Principal Use

Owned/Leased

Electronics and Communications
    Segment

Defense Electronics, Products
    and Services

Camarillo, California

Production of focal plane arrays
    and imaging sensors and subsystems

Leased

Los Angeles, California

Development and production of
    electronic components and subsystems

Owned and Leased

Los Angeles, California

Development and production of high
    voltage connectors and subassemblies and pilot helmet mounted
    display components and subsystems

Leased

Mountain View, California

Production of microwave integrated
    circuits and systems

Owned

Northridge, California

Development of electronic seat
    ejection sequencers

Leased

Rancho Cordova, California

Development and production of
    traveling wave tubes

Owned

Santa Maria, California

Development and production of high
    voltage capacitor products

Leased

Sunnyvale, California

Development and production of RD
    and microwave amplifiers and components

Owned and Leased

Thousand Oaks, California

Provision of research and
    development services

Owned

Tracy, California

Development and production of
    precision secondary explosive components including initiators
    and detonators

Leased

Hudson, New Hampshire

Production of printed circuit boards

Owned

Instrumentation
    Products

City of Industry, California

Development and production of
    precision oxygen analyzers

Owned

San Diego, California

Development and production of
    environmental monitoring instrumentation

Leased

Poway, California

Development and production of
    underwater acoustic instrumentation

Leased

Englewood, Colorado

Development and production of
    environmental monitoring systems

Leased

Daytona Beach, Florida

Development of subsea, wet-mateable
    electrical and fiber-optic interconnect systems

Leased

North Falmouth, Massachusetts

Development and production of
    underwater acoustic instrumentation and package inspection
    systems

Owned

Lincoln, Nebraska

Development and production of water
    quality monitoring products, chemical separation instruments and
    flash chromatography instruments and consumables

Owned

Hudson, New Hampshire

Development and production of
    elemental analysis instruments

Leased

Mason, Ohio

Development and production of
    chemical analysis instruments

Leased

Houston, Texas

Development and production of
    geophysical streamer cables and hydrophones for seismic
    monitoring

Owned

Hampton, Virginia

Development and production of
    vacuum and flow measurement instruments

Owned

Other Commercial
    Electronics

Hawthorne, California

Production of electromechanical
    relays

Owned

Los Angeles, California

Development and production of
    digital data acquisition systems for monitoring commercial
    aircraft and engines

Leased

Poway, California

Development and production of
    connectors

Leased

Lewisburg, Tennessee

Development and manufacturing of
    electronic components and subsystems

Owned



Facility Location

Principal Use

Owned/Leased

Systems Engineering Solutions
    Segment

Huntsville, Alabama

Provision of engineering services
    and products, including systems engineering, optical
    engineering, software and hardware engineering, and
    instrumentation technology

Owned and Leased

Colorado Springs, Colorado

Provision of engineering services

Leased

Knoxville, Tennessee

Laboratories and offices in support
    of environmental services

Leased

Arlington, Virginia

Defense program offices supporting
    governmental customers

Leased

Aerospace Engines and Components
    Segment

Mobile, Alabama

Design, development and production
    of new and rebuilt piston engines, ignition systems and spare
    parts for the general aviation market

Leased

Redlands, California

Manufacturing of batteries for the
    general aviation market

Owned

Mattituck, New York

Supply of aftermarket parts,
    services and engine overhauls for the general aviation market

Leased

Toledo, Ohio

Design, development and production
    of small turbine engines for aerospace and military markets

Leased

Energy Systems Segment

Hunt Valley, Maryland

Manufacturing, assembling and
    maintenance of hydrogen gas generators, power generating systems
    and fuel cell test stations

Leased

We also own or lease facilities and offices elsewhere in the
    United States and outside the United States, including
    facilities in: Tijuana, Mexico; Gloucester, Newbury and West
    Drayton, England; Cumbernauld, Scotland; Singapore; Cwmbran,
    Wales; Kreuztal, Germany; La Gaude, France; Shanghai,
    China; and Ottawa, Canada. Our corporate executive offices are
    located at 1049 Camino Dos Rios, Thousand Oaks, California 91360.

Item 3.

Legal
    Proceedings.

From time to time, we become involved in various lawsuits,
    claims and proceedings related to the conduct of our business,
    including those pertaining to product liability, patent
    infringement, commercial, employment and employee benefits.
    While we cannot predict the outcome of any lawsuit, claim or
    proceeding, our management does not believe that the disposition
    of any pending matters is likely to have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition or liquidity. The resolution
    in any reporting period of one or more of these matters,
    however, could have a material adverse effect on the results of
    operations for that period.

Item 4.

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

No matters were submitted to a vote of Teledyne’s
    stockholders during the fourth quarter of 2006.



PART II

Item 5.  Market
    for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder
    Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

Price
    Range of Common Stock and Dividend Policy

Our Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and
    traded under the symbol “TDY.” The following table
    sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sale
    prices for the Common Stock as reported by the New York Stock
    Exchange.

High

Low


1st Quarter

$

33.50

$

26.00

2nd Quarter

$

35.00

$

25.42

3rd Quarter

$

39.54

$

32.07

4th Quarter

$

37.90

$

27.85


1st Quarter

$

35.92

$

28.88

2nd Quarter

$

38.99

$

31.02

3rd Quarter

$

42.28

$

29.10

4th Quarter

$

44.59

$

38.39


1st Quarter (through
    February 27, 2007)

$

40.73

$

36.66

On February 27, 2007, the closing sale price of our Common
    Stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange was $37.77 per
    share. As of February 20, 2007, there were 6,198 holders of
    record of the Common Stock.

We currently intend to retain any future earnings to fund the
    development and growth of our business. Therefore, we do not
    anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.



Item 6.  Selected
    Financial Data.

The following table presents our summary consolidated financial
    data. We derived the following historical selected financial
    data from our audited consolidated financial statements. We have
    reclassified some amounts reported in previous years to conform
    to our 2006 presentation. These reclassifications did not affect
    our reported results of operations or stockholders’ equity.
    Our fiscal year is determined based on a 52 or

53-week

convention ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. The
    five-year summary of selected financial data should be read in
    conjunction with the discussion under
    “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.”

Five-Year
    Summary of Selected Financial Data






(In millions, except per-share amounts)

Sales

$

1,433.2

$

1,206.5

$

1,016.6

$

840.7

$

772.7

Net income

$

80.3

$

64.2

$

41.7

$

29.7

$

25.4

Working capital

$

216.4

$

154.0

$

124.4

$

129.5

$

102.6

Total assets

$

1,061.4

$

728.2

$

624.8

$

433.6

$

398.9

Long-term debt and capital lease
    obligations

$

230.7

$

47.0

$

74.4

$

—

$

—

Stockholders’ equity

$

431.8

$

326.0

$

262.1

$

221.0

$

176.8

Basic earnings per common share

$

2.34

$

1.93

$

1.29

$

0.92

$

0.79

Diluted earnings per common share

$

2.26

$

1.85

$

1.24

$

0.91

$

0.77



Item 7.  Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operation.

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is a leading provider of
    sophisticated electronic components, instruments and
    communications products, including defense electronics,
    monitoring and control instrumentation for marine, environmental
    and industrial applications, data acquisition and communications
    equipment for airlines and business aircraft and components, and
    subsystems for wireless and satellite communications. We also
    provide systems engineering solutions and information technology
    services for defense, space and environmental applications, and
    manufacture general aviation and missile engines and components,
    as well as

on-site

gas
    and power generation systems.

We serve niche market segments where performance, precision and
    reliability are critical. Our customers include government
    agencies, aerospace prime contractors, major industrial and
    communications companies and general aviation companies.

Strategy

Our strategy continues to emphasize growth in our core markets
    of defense electronics, instrumentation and government systems
    engineering. We intend to strengthen and expand our core
    businesses with targeted acquisitions. We intend to aggressively
    pursue operational excellence to continually improve our margins
    and earnings. At Teledyne, operational excellence includes the
    rapid integration of the businesses we acquire. Over time, our
    goal is to create a set of businesses that are truly superior in
    their niches. We intend to continue to evaluate our product
    lines to ensure that they are aligned with our strategy.

Recent
    Acquisitions

During 2006, we engaged in a number of acquisitions intended to
    expand and strengthen our product and service offerings in our
    core instruments and defense markets.

Marine
    Instrumentation

•

On January 27, 2006, we acquired Benthos, Inc.
    (“Benthos”), a manufacturer of oceanographic products
    and package inspection systems located in North Falmouth,
    Massachusetts. The aggregate consideration for the outstanding
    Benthos shares was approximately $40.6 million (including
    payments for the settlement of outstanding stock options) or
    $32.2 million taking into consideration $8.4 million
    of cash acquired.

•

On August 16, 2006, we acquired a majority interest in
    Ocean Design, Inc. (“ODI”), a leading manufacturer of
    subsea, wet-mateable electrical and fiber-optic interconnect
    systems used in offshore oil and gas production, oceanographic
    research, and military applications, headquartered in Daytona
    Beach, Florida. In September 2006, we acquired an additional
    9.9% of ownership in ODI. At December 31, 2006, total cash
    paid, including the initial investment and subsequent share
    purchase, net of cash acquired was $34.4 million.

Defense

•

On April 28, 2006, Teledyne Wireless, Inc. acquired assets
    of KW Microwave Corporation (“KW Microwave”), a
    manufacturer of defense microwave components and subsystems
    located in Southern California. Total cash paid, including the
    receipt of a $0.2 million purchase price adjustment, was
    $10.3 million.

•

On August 16, 2006, we acquired Colorado Springs,
    Colorado-based CollaborX, Inc. (“CollaborX”), a
    provider of government engineering services primarily to the
    U.S. Air Force and also to select joint military commands,
    such as the Missile Defense Agency, the United States Joint
    Forces Command and the United States Northern Command. At
    December 31, 2006, total cash paid, including other fees,
    net of cash acquired was $14.9 million.



•

On September 15, 2006, we acquired Southern
    California-based Rockwell Scientific Company LLC
    (“Scientific Company”), a leading provider of research
    and development services to the Department of Defense, NASA and
    major defense and aerospace companies, as well as a leader in
    developing and manufacturing infrared and visible light imaging
    sensors for surveillance applications. At December 31,
    2006, total cash paid, including other fees, net of
    $9.5 million of cash acquired was $158.6 million.

Teledyne spent $250.4 million, net of cash acquired, on
    these acquisitions in 2006.

Each of the acquisitions, except for CollaborX, is part of the
    Electronics and Communications segment. CollaborX, now Teledyne
    Brown CollaborX, Inc., is part of the Systems Engineering and
    Solutions segment. In all acquisitions, the results are included
    in our consolidated financial statements since their respective
    dates of acquisition.

Financial
    Highlights

Our fiscal year is determined based on a 52 or

53-week

convention ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. The
    following is our financial information for 2006, 2005 and 2004
    (in millions, except per-share amounts):

2006(a)



Sales

$

1,433.2

$

1,206.5

$

1,016.6

Costs and Expenses

Cost of sales

1,020.2

869.6

746.3

Selling, general and
    administrative expenses

287.9

236.2

203.4

Total costs and expenses

1,308.1

1,105.8

949.7

Income before other income and
    expense and income taxes

125.1

100.7

66.9

Interest and debt expense, net

(7.4

)

(3.5

)

(1.9

)

Other income (expense), net(b)

4.0

5.8

3.0

Income before income
    taxes

121.7

103.0

68.0

Provision for income taxes(c)

41.4

38.8

26.3

Net income

$

80.3

$

64.2

$

41.7

Basic earnings per common
    share

$

2.34

$

1.93

$

1.29

Diluted earnings per common
    share

$

2.26

$

1.85

$

1.24



We operate in four business segments: Electronics and
    Communications; Systems Engineering Solutions; Aerospace Engines
    and Components; and Energy Systems. The segments’
    respective contributions as a percentage of total sales for
    2006, 2005 and 2004 are summarized in the following table:

Percentage of Sales

Segment




Electronics and Communications


%


%


%

Systems Engineering Solutions


%


%


%

Aerospace Engines and Components


%


%


%

Energy Systems


%


%


%


%


%


%

Results
    of Operations

    Compared with 2005

%

Sales



Change

(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

899.4

$

717.8

25.3

%

Systems Engineering Solutions

283.0

263.7

7.3

%

Aerospace Engines and Components

223.9

196.6

13.9

%

Energy Systems

26.9

28.4

(5.3

)%

Total sales

$

1,433.2

$

1,206.5

18.8

%

%

Net Income

2006(a)


Change

(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

109.3

$

84.0

30.1

%

Systems Engineering Solutions

24.5

27.5

(10.9

)%

Aerospace Engines and Components(b)

20.5

13.5

51.9

%

Energy Systems

1.0

1.6

(37.5

)%

Segment operating profit and other
    segment income

155.3

126.6

22.7

%

Corporate expense

(27.7

)

(20.9

)

32.5

%

Interest and debt expense, net

(7.4

)

(3.5

)

111.4

%

Other income, net

1.5

0.8

87.5

%

Income before taxes(c)

121.7

103.0

18.2

%

Provision for income taxes

41.4

38.8

6.7

%

Net income

$

80.3

$

64.2

25.1

%



We reported 2006 sales of $1,433.2 million, compared with
    sales of $1,206.5 million for 2005, an increase of 18.8%.
    Net income was $80.3 million ($2.26 per diluted share)
    for 2006, compared with $64.2 million ($1.85 per
    diluted share) for 2005, an increase of 25.1%.

The increase in sales in 2006, compared with 2005, reflected
    improvement in our three largest reporting segments. The largest
    increase in sales was in the Electronic and Communications
    segment which grew, both organically and through strategic
    acquisitions made in 2006 and in 2005 including: Cougar
    Components Corporation (“Cougar”), acquired in June
    2005; RD Instruments, Inc. (“RDI”), acquired in August
    2005; the assets of the microwave technical solutions business
    of Avnet, Inc., acquired in October 2005; Benthos, acquired in
    January 2006; certain assets of KW Microwave acquired in April
    2006; the initial majority interest (51%) in ODI, acquired in
    August 2006; and Scientific Company, acquired in September 2006.
    The increase in sales for the System Engineering Solutions
    segment included the acquisition of CollaborX, in August 2006.
    The incremental increase in revenue in 2006 from businesses
    acquired since 2004 was $124.8 million.

The increase in segment operating profit and other segment
    income for 2006, compared with 2005, reflected the impact of
    higher sales. Operating profit and other segment income was
    higher in the Electronics and Communications and the Aerospace
    Engines and Components segments and lower in the System
    Engineering Solutions and Energy Systems segments. Operating
    profit in 2006 was negatively impacted by $1.5 million in
    higher net pension expense compared with 2005. In fiscal year
    2006 we also began recording stock option compensation expense
    compared with no stock option compensation expense recorded in
    2005, as noted below. Fiscal year 2006 also included the receipt
    of $2.5 million pursuant to an agreement with Honda Motor
    Co., Ltd. compared with $5.0 million received in 2005
    pursuant to the agreement. The $25.3 million increase in
    operating profit in the Electronics and Communications segment,
    included incremental operating profit from acquisitions and
    related synergies of $12.4 million.

Effective January 2, 2006, we adopted the provisions of
    Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”)
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”)
    No. 123(R), “Share Based Payment”
    (“SFAS No. 123(R)”) using the modified
    prospective method and began recording stock option compensation
    expense in the consolidated statements of income, but did not
    restate prior year financial statements. Stock option
    compensation expense is recorded on a straight line basis over
    the appropriate vesting period, generally three years. For
    fiscal year 2006, we recorded a total of $5.9 million in
    stock option expense related to stock options awarded after the
    adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and for stock options
    which were not vested by the date of adoption of
    SFAS No. 123(R). Of this amount $2.2 million was
    recorded as corporate expense and $3.7 million was recorded
    in the operating segment results. No stock option compensation
    expense was recorded in 2005.

Cost of sales in total dollars was higher in 2006, compared with
    2005, primarily due to higher sales which resulted from organic
    growth and acquisitions. Fiscal year 2006 included
    $0.7 million in LIFO expense, compared with
    $2.1 million in LIFO expense in 2005. Cost of sales as a
    percentage of sales for 2006 was lower compared with 2005. The
    lower cost of sales percentage in 2006, primarily reflected a
    lower cost of sales percentage for recent acquisitions which due
    to the nature of their business, carry a lower cost of sales
    percentage than most of Teledyne’s other businesses.

Selling, general and administrative expenses, including research
    and development and bid and proposal expense, in total dollars
    were higher in 2006, compared with 2005. This increase was
    primarily due to higher sales, which resulted from organic
    growth and acquisitions and also included $5.9 million in
    stock option compensation expense in 2006 compared with no stock
    option compensation expense in 2005. The increase also reflected
    higher corporate expense including the impact of stock option
    compensation expense and higher professional fees expense.
    Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2006, as a
    percentage of sales, were higher compared with 2005, and
    reflected a higher general and administrative expense percentage
    reflecting the impact of stock option compensation expense and a
    higher selling expense percentage, partially offset by a
    slightly lower research and development and bid and proposal
    expense percentage. The higher selling expense percentage was
    due to recent acquisitions which, due to the nature of their
    business, carry a higher selling expense percentage than most of
    Teledyne’s existing businesses.



Included in operating profit in 2006 was pension expense of
    $15.4 million, of which $10.5 million was recoverable
    in accordance with U.S. Government Cost Accounting
    Standards (“CAS”) from certain government contracts.
    Included in operating profit in 2005 was pension expense of
    $12.7 million, of which $9.3 million was recoverable
    in accordance with U.S. Government CAS. The increase in
    pension expense in 2006 compared with 2005 reflects, in part, a
    reduction in the discount rate assumption for the Company’s
    defined benefit plan to 6.00% in 2006 from 6.25% in 2005.
    Pension expense determined under CAS can generally be recovered
    through the pricing of products and services sold to the
    U.S. Government.

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2006 was 34.0%,
    compared with 37.6% for 2005. The lower effective tax rate for
    2006, compared with 2005 reflects the impact of the reversal of
    income tax contingency reserves of $3.3 million during the
    third quarter. These reserves were determined to be no longer
    needed due to the expiration of applicable statutes of
    limitations.

Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government were
    approximately 40% of sales in 2006 and 42% of sales in 2005.
    International sales represented approximately 21% in 2006,
    compared with 18% of sales in 2005.

Total interest expense including credit facility fees and other
    bank charges was $7.7 million in 2006 and $3.8 million
    in 2005. Interest income was $0.3 million in both 2006 and
    2005. The higher interest expense in 2006 primarily reflected
    higher outstanding debt levels due to acquisitions and higher
    average interest rates in 2006 compared with 2005.

Other income for 2006 and 2005 included the receipt of
    $2.5 million and $5.0 million, respectively, pursuant
    to an agreement with Honda Motor Co., Ltd. which is included as
    part of the Aerospace Engines and Components segment operating
    profit and other segment income for segment reporting purposes.
    The $2.5 million received in January 2006 was the final
    receipt pursuant to the agreement. Fiscal years 2006 and 2005,
    also include sublease rental income and royalty income in other
    income.

    Compared with 2004

%

Sales



Change

(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

717.8

$

567.9

26.4

%

Systems Engineering Solutions

263.7

242.2

8.9

%

Aerospace Engines and Components

196.6

181.8

8.1

%

Energy Systems

28.4

24.7

15.0

%

Total sales

$

1,206.5

$

1,016.6

18.7

%

%

Net Income



Change

(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

84.0

$

54.4

54.4

%

Systems Engineering Solutions

27.5

27.1

1.5

%

Aerospace Engines and Components(a)

13.5

6.1

121.3

%

Energy Systems

1.6

1.6

—

%

Segment operating profit and other
    segment income

126.6

89.2

41.9

%

Corporate expense

(20.9

)

(19.8

)

5.6

%

Interest and debt expense, net

(3.5

)

(1.9

)

84.2

%

Other income, net

0.8

0.5

60.0

%

Income before taxes

103.0

68.0

51.5

%

Provision for income taxes

38.8

26.3

47.5

%

Net income

$

64.2

$

41.7

54.0

%

(a)

Total year 2005 and 2004 includes the receipt of
    $5.0 million and $2.5 million, respectively, pursuant
    to an agreement with Honda Motor Co., Ltd. related to the piston
    engine business.



We reported 2005 sales of $1,206.5 million, compared with
    sales of $1,016.6 million for 2004, an increase of 18.7%.
    Net income was $64.2 million ($1.85 per diluted share)
    for 2005, compared with $41.7 million ($1.24 per
    diluted share) for 2004, an increase of 54.0%.

The increase in sales in 2005, compared with 2004, reflected
    improvement in all four reporting segments. The largest increase
    in sales was in the Electronic and Communications segment which
    grew both organically and through strategic acquisitions made in
    2005 and in 2004 including: Cougar, acquired in June 2005; RDI,
    acquired in August 2005; Leeman Labs’ (“Leeman”)
    assets acquired in February 2004; Isco Inc. (“Isco”),
    acquired in June 2004; Reynolds Industries, Inc.
    (“Reynolds”), acquired in July 2004; and
    Celeritek’s defense assets, acquired in October 2004. The
    incremental increase in revenue from acquisitions in 2005,
    compared with 2004, was $100.8 million.

The increase in segment operating profit and other segment
    income for 2005, compared with 2004, reflected the impact of
    higher sales and continued cost reduction initiatives. The
    increase also reflected lower net pension expense of
    $4.8 million in 2005, compared with 2004, and the receipt
    in 2005 of $5.0 million pursuant to an agreement with Honda
    Motor Co., Ltd. compared with the receipt of $2.5 million
    in 2004. Operating profit and other segment income was higher in
    the Electronics and Communications, System Engineering Solutions
    and the Aerospace Engines and Components segments. The largest
    increase was in the Electronics and Communications segment,
    which included incremental operating profit from acquisitions
    and related synergies of $15.1 million.

Cost of sales in total dollars was higher in 2005, compared with
    2004. The increase was primarily due to higher sales which
    resulted from organic growth and acquisitions. Fiscal year 2005
    included $2.1 million in LIFO expense, compared with
    $0.5 million in LIFO expense in 2004. Cost of sales as a
    percentage of sales for 2005 was lower compared with 2004. The
    lower cost of sales percentage in 2005, reflected a lower cost
    of sales percentage for recent acquisitions which due to the
    nature of their business, carry a lower cost of sales percentage
    than most of Teledyne’s other businesses. The cost of sales
    percentage for 2005, for Teledyne’s existing businesses,
    was slightly lower compared with 2004.

Selling, general and administrative expenses, including research
    and development and bid and proposal expense, in total dollars
    were higher in 2005, compared with 2004. This increase was
    primarily due to higher sales, which resulted from organic
    growth and acquisitions. Selling, general and administrative
    expenses for 2005, as a percentage of sales, were slightly lower
    compared with 2004, and reflected a lower general and
    administrative expense percentage, partially offset by a higher
    selling expense percentage, and a higher research and
    development and bid and proposal expense percentage. The higher
    research and development percentage reflected increased spending
    in the Electronics and Communications segment in the avionics
    area. The higher selling expense percentage was due to recent
    acquisitions which due to the nature of their business, carry a
    higher selling expense percentage than most of Teledyne’s
    existing businesses.

Included in operating profit in 2005 was pension expense of
    $12.7 million, of which $9.3 million was recoverable
    in accordance with CAS from certain government contracts.
    Included in operating profit in 2004 was pension expense of
    $8.7 million, of which $0.5 million was recoverable in
    accordance with CAS. The increase in pension expense in 2005
    compared with 2004, reflects, in part, a reduction in the
    discount rate assumption for the Company’s defined benefit
    plan to 6.25% in 2005 from 6.50% in 2004, as well as the decline
    in the market value of the Company’s pension assets during
    2002, 2001 and 2000. Under one of its spin-off agreements, after
    November 29, 2004, the Company is able to charge pension
    costs to the U.S. Government under certain government
    contracts. Pension expense determined under CAS can generally be
    recovered through the pricing of products and services sold to
    the U.S. Government.

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2005 was 37.6%,
    compared with 38.7% for 2004. The lower effective tax rate for
    2005, compared with 2004, primarily reflected the revaluation of
    deferred tax assets in 2004 due to the impact of state income
    tax rates.

Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government were
    approximately 42% of sales in 2005 and 43% of sales in 2004.
    International sales represented approximately 18% of sales in
    2005 and 19% of sales in 2004.



Total interest expense including credit facility fees and other
    bank charges was $3.8 million in 2005 and $2.2 million
    in 2004. Interest income was $0.3 million in both 2005 and
    2004. The higher interest expense in 2005 reflected interest on
    debt incurred for acquisitions.

Other income for 2005 and 2004 included the receipt of
    $5.0 million and $2.5 million, respectively, pursuant
    to an agreement with Honda Motor Co., Ltd. which is included as
    part of the Aerospace Engines and Components segment operating
    profit and other segment income for segment reporting purposes.
    Fiscal years 2005 and 2004, also include sublease rental income
    and royalty income in other income.

Segments

The following discussion of our four segments should be read in
    conjunction with Note 13 to the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Electronics
    and Communications




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

899.4

$

717.8

$

567.9

Operating profit

$

109.3

$

84.0

$

54.4

Operating profit % of sales

12.2

%

11.7

%

9.6

%

International sales % of sales

29.1

%

24.8

%

27.6

%

Governmental sales % of sales

27.7

%

27.7

%

25.9

%

Capital expenditures

$

17.9

$

12.5

$

12.8

Our Electronics and Communications segment provides a wide range
    of specialized electronic systems, instruments, components and
    services that address niche market applications in defense,
    commercial aerospace, communications, industrial, scientific and
    medical markets.

    compared with 2005

Our Electronics and Communications segment sales were
    $899.4 million in 2006, compared with sales of
    $717.8 million in 2005, an increase of 25.3%. Operating
    profit was $109.3 million in 2006, compared with
    $84.0 million in 2005, an increase of 30.1%.

The 2006 sales improvement resulted primarily from revenue
    growth in defense electronics and electronic instruments. The
    revenue growth of $80.0 million in defense electronics was
    driven by increased sales of traveling wave tubes, connectors
    and the acquisitions of Scientific Company in September 2006,
    the assets of KW Microwave in April 2006, the assets of the
    microwave technical solutions business of Avnet, Inc. in October
    2005 and Cougar in June 2005. The increase in revenue from
    acquisitions in defense electronics products for 2006, compared
    with 2005, was $51.6 million. The revenue growth of
    $108.3 million in electronic instruments was primarily
    driven by recent acquisitions as well as organic growth. Revenue
    growth included the acquisitions of the majority interest in ODI
    in August 2006, Benthos in January 2006 and RDI in August 2005
    and also reflected increased sales of geophysical sensors for
    the energy exploration market. The increase in revenue from
    acquisitions in electronic instruments for 2006, compared with
    2005, was $67.3 million. Revenue in avionics and other
    commercial electronics decreased by $6.7 million and
    reflected revenue growth in electronic relay products which was
    more than offset by lower commercial contract manufacturing
    services. The increase in revenue from all acquisitions for
    2006, compared with 2005, was $118.9 million. Incremental
    operating profit from all acquisitions including synergies for
    2006, compared with 2005, was $12.4 million. Segment
    operating profit was favorably impacted by revenue from
    acquisitions, as well as organic sales growth. Segment operating
    profit was negatively impacted by $2.4 million of stock
    option compensation expense in 2006. No stock option
    compensation expense was recorded in 2005. Fiscal year 2006 also
    reflected lower LIFO expense of $0.8 million, compared with
    fiscal year 2005. We also recorded $0.7 million in charges
    in our commercial electronics business for warranty reserves and
    inventory obsolescence related to the termination of a product
    line. Pension expense, in accordance with the pension accounting
    requirements of



SFAS No. 87, was $3.8 million in 2006, compared
    with $3.3 million in 2005. Pension expense allocated to
    contracts pursuant to CAS was $1.6 million in 2006,
    compared with $1.0 million for 2005.

    compared with 2004

Our Electronics and Communications segment sales were
    $717.8 million in 2005, compared with sales of
    $567.9 million in 2004, an increase of 26.4%. Operating
    profit was $84.0 million in 2005, compared with
    $54.4 million in 2004, an increase of 54.4%.

Sales in 2005, compared with 2004, reflected revenue growth in
    defense electronic products, electronic instruments and avionics
    and other commercial electronics. The revenue growth of
    $79.6 million in defense electronic products was driven by
    sales of traveling wave tubes, printed circuit card assemblies,
    the acquisition of Reynolds in July 2004, the acquisition of the
    defense electronics business of Celeritek, Inc. in October 2004
    and the acquisition of Cougar in June 2005. The increase in
    revenue from acquisitions in defense electronic products for
    2005, compared with 2004, was $52.6 million. The revenue
    growth of $53.0 million in electronic instruments reflected
    the impact of the acquisition of Isco in June 2004, the
    acquisition of RDI in August 2005, the acquisition of
    Leeman’s assets in February 2004 and increased sales of
    geophysical sensors for the energy exploration market. The
    increase in revenue from acquisitions in electronic instruments
    for 2005, compared with 2004, was $48.2 million. The
    revenue growth of $17.3 million in avionics and other
    commercial electronics reflected revenue growth in relay
    products which was driven by sales to the aviation and test and
    measurement equipment markets and from commercial electronic
    manufacturing services which had increases in medical sales. The
    increase in revenue from all acquisitions for 2005, compared
    with 2004, was $100.8 million. Incremental operating profit
    from all acquisitions including synergies for 2005, compared
    with 2004, was $15.1 million. Segment operating profit was
    favorably impacted by acquisitions and organic sales growth and
    lower pension expense. Pension expense, in accordance with the
    pension accounting requirements of SFAS No. 87 was
    $3.3 million for 2005, compared with $6.0 million for
    2004. Pension expense allocated to contracts pursuant to CAS was
    $1.6 million for 2005, compared with no allocations for
    2004. Operating profit in 2005 was negatively impacted by a
    $1.0 million increase in LIFO reserve compared with a $46
    thousand increase in 2004.

Systems
    Engineering Solutions




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

283.0

$

263.7

$

242.2

Operating profit

$

24.5

$

27.5

$

27.1

Operating profit % of sales

8.7

%

10.4

%

11.2

%

International sales % of sales

0.6

%

0.7

%

0.1

%

Governmental sales % of sales

98.6

%

98.6

%

99.3

%

Capital expenditures

$

1.4

$

1.3

$

1.7

Our Systems Engineering Solutions segment, principally through
    Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc., applies the skills of its
    extensive staff of engineers and scientists to provide
    innovative systems engineering, advanced technology, and
    manufacturing solutions to defense, space, environmental, and
    homeland security requirements.

    compared with 2005

Our Systems Engineering Solutions segment sales were
    $283.0 million in 2006, compared with sales of
    $263.7 million in 2005, an increase of 7.3%. Operating
    profit was $24.5 million in 2006, compared with
    $27.5 million in 2005, a decrease of 10.9%.

Sales for 2006, compared with 2005, reflected revenue growth in
    aerospace and environmental programs and included
    $5.9 million in revenue from the acquisition of CollaborX
    in August 2006. The revenue growth of $8.7 million in
    aerospace was primarily due to increased support for NASA. The
    revenue growth of



$4.7 million in environmental programs was primarily due to
    increased support of the U.S. Army at the Pine Bluff
    Arsenal. Operating profit for 2006, compared with 2005,
    reflected higher segment revenue and a favorable overhead claim
    settlement of $1.3 million in 2006, compared with a
    favorable overhead claim settlement of $0.8 million in
    2005, more than offset by lower margins in aerospace programs
    due to higher sales on certain contracts which carry lower
    profit margins, increased subcontract work which carries lower
    margins, lower margins on an environmental contract and
    amortization expenses associated with the acquisition of
    CollaborX. Segment operating profit was negatively impacted by
    $0.7 million of stock option compensation expense in 2006
    compared with no stock option compensation expense in 2005.
    Segment operating profit also included pension expense under
    SFAS No. 87 of $9.5 million in 2006, compared
    with $7.7 million of pension expense in 2005. Pension
    expense allocated to contracts pursuant to CAS was
    $8.6 million in 2006 compared with $8.0 million in
    2005.

    compared with 2004

Our Systems Engineering Solutions segment sales were
    $263.7 million in 2005, compared with sales of
    $242.2 million in 2004, an increase of 8.9%. Operating
    profit was $27.5 million in 2005, compared with
    $27.1 million in 2004, an increase of 1.5%.

Sales for 2005, compared with 2004, reflected revenue growth in
    core defense, environmental and aerospace programs. Core defense
    revenue grew by $18.8 million, primarily due to increased
    Systems Engineering and Technical Assistance (“SETA”)
    work. The higher operating profit in the 2005, compared with
    2004, was primarily the result of higher sales, partially offset
    by sales mix and rate differences and increased lower profit
    margin subcontract work in our SETA contracts. Segment operating
    profit in 2005 included $7.7 million of pension expense, of
    which $8.0 million was recoverable in accordance with CAS
    from certain government contracts, compared with
    $0.8 million of pension expense in 2004, of which
    $0.5 million was recoverable in accordance with CAS.

Aerospace
    Engines and Components




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

223.9

$

196.6

$

181.8

Operating profit

$

20.5

$

13.5

$

6.1

Operating profit % of sales

9.2

%

6.9

%

3.4

%

International sales % of sales

13.2

%

18.5

%

20.2

%

Governmental sales % of sales

11.1

%

16.4

%

14.3

%

Capital expenditures

$

6.5

$

5.5

$

3.2

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment, principally
    through Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc., focuses on the
    design, development and manufacture of piston engines, turbine
    engines, electronic engine controls and aviation batteries.

    compared with 2005

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment sales were
    $223.9 million in 2006, compared with sales of
    $196.6 million in 2005, an increase of 13.9%. Operating
    profit was $20.5 million in 2006, compared with
    $13.5 million in 2005, an increase of 51.9%.

The higher sales for 2006, compared with 2005, primarily
    resulted from higher OEM piston engine and spare part sales of
    $31.8 million, partially offset by $4.7 million in
    lower turbine engine sales. Segment operating profit for 2006,
    compared with 2005, reflected the impact of higher sales,
    improved operating performance, $0.7 million in lower LIFO
    expense and $1.8 million in lower warranty costs. Turbine
    engine sales and operating profit for 2006 were unfavorable,
    compared with 2005, due to lower Harpoon and ITALD engine sales
    and lower J69 spare sales, partially offset by higher research
    and development sales. Segment operating profit for 2006 and
    2005, included the receipt of $2.5 million and
    $5.0 million, respectively,



pursuant to an agreement with Honda Motor Co., Ltd. related to
    the piston engine business. The $2.5 million receipt in the
    first quarter of 2006 was the final payment under the agreement.
    Segment operating profit was negatively impacted by
    $0.5 million of stock option compensation expense in 2006
    compared with no stock option compensation expense in 2005.
    Segment operating profit also included pension expense, under
    SFAS No. 87 of $1.2 million in 2006, compared
    with $0.9 million for 2005.

    compared with 2004

Our Aerospace Engines and Components segment sales were
    $196.6 million in 2005, compared with sales of
    $181.8 million in 2004, an increase of 8.1%. Operating
    profit was $13.5 million in 2005, compared with
    $6.1 million in 2004, an increase of 121.3%.

Sales for 2005, compared with 2004, reflected revenue growth in
    OEM piston engine and turbine engine sales of $11.0 million
    and $4.8 million respectively. The higher turbine engine
    sales for 2005, compared with 2004, reflected higher Harpoon and
    JASSM engine sales partially offset by lower spare parts sales.
    Segment operating profit for 2005 included receipt of
    $5.0 million pursuant to the agreement with Honda Motor
    Co., Ltd., compared with receipt of $2.5 million for 2004.
    Segment operating profit for 2005, compared with 2004, was
    favorably impacted by higher sales, partially offset by higher
    warranty expense of $2.6 million and higher LIFO reserve.
    Operating profit in 2005 was negatively impacted by a
    $1.0 million increase in LIFO reserve in 2005, compared
    with a $0.5 increase in LIFO reserve in 2004. Segment operating
    profit in 2005 included $0.9 million of pension expense,
    compared with $1.5 million of pension expense in 2004.

Energy
    Systems




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

26.9

$

28.4

$

24.7

Operating profit

$

1.0

$

1.6

$

1.6

Operating profit % of sales

3.7

%

5.6

%

6.5

%

International sales % of sales

31.2

%

20.8

%


%

Governmental sales % of sales

61.6

%

69.7

%

78.5

%

Capital expenditures

$

0.5

$

0.3

$

1.1

Our Energy Systems segment, through Teledyne Energy Systems,
    Inc., provides hydrogen gas generators and thermoelectric and
    fuel cell-based power sources.

    compared with 2005

Our Energy Systems segment sales were $26.9 million in
    2006, compared with sales of $28.4 million in 2005, a
    decrease of 5.3%. Operating income was $1.0 million in
    2006, compared with $1.6 million in 2005, a decrease of
    37.5%.

The decrease in sales for 2006, compared with 2005, primarily
    resulted from reduced work on the Multi-Mission Radioisotope
    Thermoelectric Generator (MMRTG) contract due to moving from the
    engineering development phase to the product qualification
    phase. Segment operating profit was impacted by the lower
    government sales and differences in contract fees. Segment
    operating profit also included pension expense, under
    SFAS No. 87 of $0.5 million for 2006 compared
    with $0.4 million for 2005. Pension expense allocated to
    contracts pursuant to CAS was $0.3 for both 2006 and 2005.

    compared with 2004

Our Energy Systems segment sales were $28.4 million in
    2005, compared with sales of $24.7 million in 2004, an
    increase of 15.0%. Operating income was $1.6 million in
    both 2005 and 2004.

The increase in sales for 2005, compared with 2004, resulted
    from the timing of multi-year government contracts, which were
    awarded in 2003 for fuel cell and thermoelectric power generator
    work and an increase



in commercial hydrogen generator sales. Operating profit for
    2005, compared with 2004, was favorably impacted by higher
    sales, offset by differences in contract fees, employee
    termination costs and pension expense. Pension expense under
    SFAS No. 87 was $0.4 million for 2005, compared
    with $0.1 million for 2004. Pension expense allocated to
    contracts pursuant to CAS was $0.3 million for 2005,
    compared with no allocation in 2004.

Financial
    Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources

Principal
    Capital Requirements

Our principal capital requirements are to fund working capital
    needs, capital expenditures and debt service requirements, as
    well as to fund acquisitions. It is anticipated that operating
    cash flow, together with available borrowings under the credit
    facility described below, will be sufficient to meet these
    requirements and could be used to fund some acquisitions in the
    year 2007. To support acquisitions, we may need to raise
    additional capital. Our liquidity is not dependent upon the use
    of off-balance sheet financial arrangements. We have no
    off-balance sheet financing arrangements that incorporate the
    use of special purpose entities or unconsolidated entities.

Revolving
    Credit Agreement

Effective July 14, 2006, the Company amended and restated
    its $280.0 million credit facility. The amended and
    restated credit facility has lender commitments totaling
    $400.0 million and expires on July 14, 2011. Excluding
    interest and fees, no payments are due under the amended and
    restated credit facility until it matures. The credit agreement
    requires the Company to comply with various financial and
    operating covenants, including maintaining certain consolidated
    leverage and interest coverage ratios, as well as minimum net
    worth levels and limits on acquired debt. At December 31,
    2006, the Company was in compliance with these covenants.
    Available borrowing capacity under the $400.0 million
    credit facility, which is reduced by borrowings, outstanding
    letters of credit and certain guarantees was $174.7 million
    at December 31, 2006. For a description of some terms of
    our credit facility, see “Financing Activities” on
    page 46.

Contractual
    Obligations

The following table summarizes our expected cash outflows
    resulting from financial contracts and commitments at
    December 31, 2006. We have not included information on our
    normal recurring purchases of materials for use in our
    operations. These amounts are generally consistent from year to
    year, closely reflect our levels of production, and are not
    long-term in nature (in millions):

2012 and






beyond

Total

Operating lease obligations

$

14.5

$

12.8

$

11.4

$

9.8

$

7.5

$

32.9

$

88.9

Long-term debt obligations(a)

1.2

—

—

—

226.9

—

228.1

Capital lease obligations(b)

0.4

0.4

0.4

0.4

0.4

5.0

7.0

Purchase obligations(c)

31.8

2.9

0.8

0.8

—

—

36.3

Total

$

47.9

$

16.1

$

12.6

$

11.0

$

234.8

$

37.9

$

360.3

The amounts above exclude our minimum pension plan funding
    requirements, including those set forth by ERISA, which are
    $6.6 million in 2007 and $9.8 million in 2008. Our
    minimum funding requirements after 2006 are dependent on several
    factors as discussed under “Accounting for Pension
    Plans” in the Critical



Accounting Policy section of this Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.
    Estimates beyond 2008 have not been provided due to the
    significant uncertainty of these amounts, which are subject to
    change until the Company’s SFAS No. 87
    assumptions can be updated at the appropriate times. In
    addition, certain pension contributions are eligible for future
    recovery through the pricing of products and services to the
    U.S. government under certain government contracts,
    therefore, the amounts noted are not necessarily indicative of
    the impact these contributions may have on the Company’s
    liquidity. We also have payments due under our other
    postretirement benefits plans. These plans are not required to
    be funded in advance, but are pay as you go. See further
    discussion in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Pursuant to agreements in connection with our acquisition of a
    majority interest in ODI, the ODI minority stockholders have the
    contractual option to sell their shares to Teledyne Instruments
    following the end of each quarter through the quarter ended
    March 31, 2009, at a formula-determined price based
    principally on ODI’s EBITDA for the twelve months preceding
    each applicable quarter end. All shares not sold to Teledyne
    Instruments following the quarter ended March 31, 2009, are
    required to be purchased by Teledyne Instruments following the
    quarter ended June 30, 2009, at a same formula-determined
    price, at which time Teledyne Instruments will own all of the
    ODI shares held by the participating stockholders. At
    December 31, 2006, total cash paid for Teledyne’s
    interest in ODI, net of cash acquired, was $34.4 million.
    Based on the formula-determined purchase price as of the quarter
    ended December 31, 2006, the aggregate amount of funds
    required to repurchase all the shares held by the remaining
    minority ODI stockholders would be approximately
    $22.5 million. However, the actual aggregate amount of
    funds that we will spend to repurchase the shares held by
    minority stockholders through June 30, 2009, could be
    significantly higher or lower than this amount, as that amount
    will depend on when individual stockholders elect to exercise
    their put options and on the financial performance of ODI.
    Teledyne Technologies has guaranteed the payment obligation of
    its subsidiary, Teledyne Instruments.

Operating
    Activities

In 2006, net cash provided from operations was
    $78.4 million, compared with $92.3 million in 2005 and
    $84.9 million in 2004.

The lower net cash provided for 2006, compared with 2005,
    reflected $14.6 million in higher income tax payments and
    $3.9 million in higher pension contributions, partially
    offset by higher net income, cash flow from companies acquired
    since 2005 and $3.1 million in insurance receipts.
    Additionally, in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R),
    $8.6 million of excess tax benefits in 2006 for stock
    option compensation have been classified as a financing cash
    flow instead of an operating cash flow as in prior years. In
    2005 cash flow from operations included $5.2 million in
    excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation.

The higher net cash provided from operations for 2005, compared
    with 2004, reflected higher net income as well as operating cash
    flow from acquisitions, partially offset by increased working
    capital requirements, $11.8 million in higher pension
    contributions and higher compensation payments made in the first
    quarter of 2005.

Working
    Capital

Working capital was $216.4 million at year-end 2006,
    compared with $154.0 million at year-end 2005. The increase
    in working capital was primarily due to working capital from
    recent acquisitions as well as the impact of organic growth. We
    continue to emphasize improvements in working capital management.



Balance
    Sheet Changes

The changes in the following selected components of Teledyne
    balance sheet are discussed below (in millions):



Accounts receivables, net

$

226.1

$

167.6

Inventories, net

$

155.8

$

117.3

Property, plant and equipment, net

$

164.8

$

96.7

Goodwill, net

$

313.6

$

197.0

Acquired intangible assets, net

$

69.4

$

33.6

Accounts payable

$

94.1

$

76.2

Accrued liabilities —
    short term

$

135.1

$

101.1

Long-term debt and capital lease
    obligations, net of current portion

$

230.7

$

47.0

Accrued pension obligation

$

38.4

$

68.2

Other long-term liabilities

$

105.7

$

87.0

The higher balances in accounts receivables, inventory,
    property, plant and equipment and accounts payable reflected the
    impact of businesses acquired in 2006, as well as organic sales
    growth. Goodwill and acquired intangible assets reflect the
    impact of acquisitions. The increase in short-term accrued
    liabilities reflected the impact of businesses acquired in 2006
    and also includes a note payable that is now current. The
    increase in long-term debt and capital lease obligations
    resulted from debt incurred to acquire businesses in 2006,
    offset, in part, by available cash flow. The accrued pension
    obligation decreased primarily as a result of the changes to the
    company’s pension assets and liabilities resulting from the
    merger of the Scientific Company pension plan with the Teledyne
    Technologies pension plan following the acquisition of
    Scientific Company, as well as pension contributions made in
    2006. The increase in other long-term liabilities reflected an
    increase in the aircraft product liability reserve, higher
    compensation reserves including deferred compensation, higher
    interest payable on debt, the impact of businesses acquired in
    2006, including the minority interest in ODI, partially offset
    by notes payable that are now classified as short-term.

Investing
    Activities

Net cash used in investing activities included capital
    expenditures as presented below:

Capital
    Expenditures




(In millions)

Electronics and Communications

$

17.9

$

12.5

$

12.8

Systems Engineering Solutions

1.4

1.3

1.7

Aerospace Engines and Components

6.5

5.5

3.2

Energy Systems

0.5

0.3

1.1

Corporate

0.1

0.2

—

$

26.4

$

19.8

$

18.8

During 2007, we plan to invest approximately $35.0 million
    in capital principally to relocate a manufacturing facility,
    reduce manufacturing costs, introduce new products and upgrade
    capital equipment. Commitments at December 31, 2006 for
    capital expenditures were approximately $14.0 million.

Investing activities in 2006 included acquisitions. On
    September 15, 2006, Teledyne Technologies through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc., acquired
    Scientific Company for $167.5 million in cash, with the
    sellers retaining certain liabilities. At December 31,
    2006, total cash paid, including other fees, net of
    $9.5 million in cash acquired was $158.6 million. The
    Company now operates as Teledyne Scientific & Imaging,
    LLC. Headquartered in Thousand Oaks, California, Scientific
    Company is a leading provider of



research and development services, as well as a leader in
    developing and manufacturing infrared and visible light imaging
    sensors for surveillance applications. Prior to the acquisition,
    Scientific Company was 50 percent owned by each of Rockwell
    Automation, Inc. and Rockwell Collins, Inc. For its fiscal year
    ended September 30, 2005, Scientific Company had revenue of
    $114 million.

As part of the acquisition, Rockwell Automation and Rockwell
    Collins have entered into service agreements to continue funding
    research performed by Scientific Company. In addition, Teledyne
    has agreed to license certain intellectual property of
    Scientific Company to Rockwell Automation and Rockwell Collins.

On August 16, 2006, Teledyne Technologies through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Instruments, Inc., acquired a majority
    interest (51%) in ODI for approximately $30 million in
    cash. ODI, headquartered in Daytona Beach, Florida, is a leading
    manufacturer of subsea, wet-mateable electrical and fiber-optic
    interconnect systems used in offshore oil and gas production,
    oceanographic research, and military applications.

In September 2006, we acquired an additional 9.9% of ownership
    in ODI for $5.8 million. At December 31, 2006, total
    cash paid, including the initial investment and subsequent share
    purchase, net of cash acquired was $34.4 million. The ODI
    stockholders will also have the option to sell their shares to
    Teledyne Instruments following the end of each quarter through
    the quarter ended March 31, 2009, at a formula-determined
    price. All shares not sold to Teledyne Instruments following the
    quarter ended March 31, 2009, will be purchased by Teledyne
    Instruments following the quarter ended June 30, 2009, at
    the same formula-determined price, at which time Teledyne
    Instruments will own all of the ODI shares held by the
    participating stockholders. For its fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2005, ODI had revenue of $31.6 million.

On August 16, 2006, Teledyne Technologies, through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc., acquired CollaborX
    for cash consideration of $17.5 million, less certain
    transaction-related expenses. At December 31, 2006, total
    cash paid, including other fees, net of cash acquired was
    $14.9 million. CollaborX, based in Colorado Springs,
    Colorado, provides government engineering services primarily to
    the U.S. Air Force and select joint military commands, such
    as the Missile Defense Agency, the United States Joint Forces
    Command and the United States Northern Command. CollaborX had
    revenue of $13.6 million for its fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2005.

On April 28, 2006, Teledyne Wireless, Inc. completed the
    acquisition of certain assets of KW Microwave, a manufacturer of
    defense microwave components and subsystems, for
    $10.5 million in cash. Total cash paid, including the
    receipt of a $0.2 million purchase price adjustment, was
    $10.3 million. Principally located in Carlsbad, California,
    the business will operate as Teledyne KW Microwave. KW Microwave
    designs and manufactures high performance microwave filters and
    integrated filter assemblies that are used in military
    electronic warfare, communication and navigation systems. KW
    Microwave reported revenue of approximately $6.7 million
    for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2005.

On January 27, 2006, we acquired all of the outstanding
    shares of Benthos for $17.50 per share in cash. The
    aggregate consideration for the outstanding Benthos shares was
    approximately $40.6 million (including payments for the
    settlement of outstanding stock options) or $32.2 million
    taking into consideration $8.4 million in cash acquired.
    Benthos, located in North Falmouth, Massachusetts, is a provider
    of oceanographic products used in port and harbor security
    services, military applications, energy exploration and
    oceanographic research. Benthos had revenue of
    $24.0 million for its fiscal year ended September 30,
    2005.

Teledyne funded the acquisitions primarily from borrowings under
    its credit facility and cash on hand.

Our net cash used by investing activities for 2006 also included
    $0.8 million for the purchase of assets and liabilities of
    a cable repair facility and a contingent payment of
    $0.8 million in connection with the Cougar acquisition. We
    expect to make a final payment of $0.8 million in June 2007
    in connection with the Cougar acquisition. We received
    $0.7 million from the sale of assets in 2006.

Investing activities in 2005 included acquisitions. In August
    2005, we completed the acquisition of RDI for
    $36.0 million. Total cash paid, net of $0.4 million of
    cash acquired, was $32.0 million. In connection with the
    acquisition, we assumed debt obligations of $2.0 million.
    In addition, we recorded a $3.6 million liability to be
    paid in August 2007. RDI had sales of approximately
    $29.0 million for its fiscal year ended



December 31, 2004. In the fourth quarter of 2005, we
    purchased the minority interest of a subsidiary owned by RDI for
    a cash payment of $1.7 million.

In June 2005, we completed the acquisition of the stock of
    Cougar for a purchase price of $26.5 million. In the third
    quarter we made a $0.6 million purchase price adjustment
    payment in connection with the acquisition. Total cash paid,
    including other fees and the purchase price adjustment, net of
    cash acquired was $22.5 million. In connection with the
    acquisition, we assumed debt obligations of $3.8 million
    and acquired cash and cash equivalents of $3.3 million. In
    addition, we recorded contingent payments of $1.6 million
    to be paid in specified increments as certain conditions are
    satisfied through June 2007. Cougar had sales of approximately
    $18.1 million for its fiscal year ended August 31,
    2004. We also purchased certain assets of the microwave
    technical solutions business of Avnet, Inc. for
    $2.2 million in cash and consolidated these assets with the
    operations of Cougar.

Net cash used by investing activities in 2005 included the
    receipt of $5.6 million from the sale of the assets of

STIP-Isco,

a
    German subsidiary and $2.9 million from the sale of
    SWIFT

tm

assets. An additional $0.4 million is held in escrow in
    connection with the

STIP-Isco

asset sale which should be released to Teledyne Technologies in
    specified increments as certain conditions are satisfied through
    February 2007. The assets of

STIP-Isco

and
    SWIFT

tm

were acquired as part of the Isco acquisition made in June 2004.
    No gain was recorded on the sales and goodwill was reduced by
    $5.1 million. Investing activities in 2005 reflected
    $1.1 million from the sale of fixed assets.

Investing activities in 2004 included five acquisitions. On
    December 31, 2003, we acquired the electronic warfare
    business of Filtronic Solid State for $12.0 million in
    cash. Solid State’s electronic warfare business had sales
    of approximately $12.5 million for the fiscal year ended
    May 2003. In February 2004, we acquired Leeman’s assets for
    $8.1 million in cash which includes a purchase price
    adjustment. Leeman had sales of approximately $8.6 million
    for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2003. In June 2004,
    we completed the acquisition of the stock of Isco for
    $16.00 per share in cash or $93.8 million net of cash
    acquired. We sold $17.3 million of marketable securities
    acquired as part of the Isco acquisition and applied the
    proceeds against debt. We assumed $2.9 million in long-term
    debt as part of the Isco acquisition. Isco had sales of
    approximately $60.8 million for the fiscal year ended
    July 25, 2003. On July 2, 2004, we acquired Reynolds
    for $41.2 million in cash which includes a purchase price
    adjustment and is net of cash acquired. We assumed a
    $3.9 million capital lease as part of the Reynolds
    acquisition. Reynolds had sales of approximately
    $35.0 million for the fiscal year ended April 30,
    2004. On October 22, 2004, we acquired the defense
    electronics business of Celeritek, Inc. for $32.7 million
    in cash, which includes the receipt of a purchase price
    adjustment. The defense electronics business of Celeritek, Inc.
    had sales of approximately $19.7 million for the fiscal
    year ended March 31, 2004.

In all acquisitions, the results are included in the
    Company’s consolidated financial statements from the date
    of each respective acquisition. Each of the companies acquired,
    except for CollaborX, is part of the Electronics and
    Communications segment. CollaborX is part of the Systems
    Engineering and Solutions segment. The Company has completed the
    process of specifically identifying the amount to be assigned to
    intangible assets for the Benthos and KW Microwave acquisitions.
    The amount of goodwill and acquired intangible assets recorded
    for the Benthos acquisition was $19.0 million and
    $6.5 million, respectively. The amount of goodwill and
    acquired intangible assets recorded for the KW Microwave
    acquisition was $7.0 million and $2.1 million,
    respectively. The Company is in the process of specifically
    identifying the amount to be assigned to intangible assets, as
    well as, certain assets and liabilities for the CollaborX, ODI
    and Scientific Company acquisitions made in 2006. The Company
    made preliminary estimates as of December 31, 2006, since
    there was insufficient time between the acquisition date and the
    end of the year to finalize the valuations. The preliminary
    amount of goodwill and acquired intangible assets recorded as of
    December 31, 2006 for the ODI acquisition was
    $15.9 million and $13.8 million, respectively. The
    preliminary amount of goodwill and acquired intangible assets
    recorded as of December 31, 2006 for the CollaborX
    acquisition was $14.2 million and $2.1 million,
    respectively. The preliminary amount of goodwill and acquired
    intangible assets recorded as of December 31, 2006 for the
    Scientific Company acquisition was $60.1 million and
    $19.0 million, respectively. These amounts were based on
    estimates that are subject to change pending the completion of
    the Company’s internal review and the receipt of third
    party valuations and appraisals. Goodwill



resulting from the KW Microwave, CollaborX and Scientific
    Company acquisitions will be deductible for tax purposes.

The following is a summary at the acquisition date of the
    estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed for the acquisitions made in 2006 (in millions):

Current assets, excluding cash
    acquired

$

61.2

Property, plant and equipment

66.0

Goodwill

116.4

Intangible assets

43.5

Other assets

21.5

Total assets acquired

308.6

Current liabilities, including
    short-term debt

37.1

Long-term debt

1.9

Other long-term liabilities

17.6

Total liabilities
    assumed

56.6

Purchase price, net of cash
    acquired

$

252.0

Financing
    Activities

Cash provided by financing activities for 2006 reflected net
    borrowings, primarily under our revolving credit agreement, to
    acquire businesses. Cash used in financing activities for 2005
    reflected the payment of long-term debt. Cash provided by
    financing activities for 2004 reflected net borrowings under the
    revolving credit agreement. Fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 all
    reflect proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Fiscal year
    2006 included $8.6 million in excess tax benefits related
    to stock-based compensation. In 2005 and 2004, excess tax
    benefits of $5.2 million and $2.5 million,
    respectively, related to stock-based compensation were
    classified as an operating cash flow.

Effective July 14, 2006, the Company amended and restated
    its $280.0 million credit facility. The amended and
    restated credit facility has lender commitments of
    $400.0 million and expires in July 2011. At year-end 2006,
    we had $174.7 million of available committed credit under
    the credit facility, which can be utilized, as needed, for daily
    operating and periodic cash needs, including acquisitions.
    Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest, at our
    option, at a rate based on either a defined base rate or the
    London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), plus
    applicable margins. The credit agreement also provides for
    facility fees that vary between 0.10% and 0.25% of the credit
    line, depending on our consolidated leverage ratio as calculated
    from time to time. The credit agreement requires the Company to
    comply with various financial and operating covenants, including
    maintaining certain consolidated leverage and interest coverage
    ratios, as well as minimum net worth levels and limits on
    acquired debt. We also have two $5.0 million uncommitted
    credit lines available. These credit lines are utilized, as
    needed, for periodic cash needs. Total debt at year-end 2006
    includes $216.9 million outstanding under the
    $400.0 million credit facility, $10.0 million
    outstanding under the two $5.0 million uncommitted bank
    facilities and $1.2 million in other debt. The amounts
    outstanding under the two uncommitted bank facilities are
    classified as long term on the balance sheet as the Company has
    the ability and the intent to repay these using its
    $400.0 million credit facility, if necessary. The Company
    also has a $3.9 million capital lease, of which
    $0.1 million is current. At year-end 2006, Teledyne had
    $8.4 million in outstanding letters of credit.

Pension
    and Postretirement Plans

In connection with our November 29, 1999 spin-off from
    Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated, now known as Allegheny
    Technologies Incorporated, a defined benefit pension plan was
    established and Teledyne assumed the existing pension
    obligations for all of the employees, both active and inactive,
    at the operations which perform government contract work and for
    active employees at operations which do not perform government
    contract work. ATI transferred pension assets to fund the new
    defined benefit pension plan. As of January 1,



2004, non-union new hires participate in an enhanced defined
    contribution plan as opposed to the company’s existing
    defined benefit plan. Currently, Teledyne anticipates making an
    after-tax cash contribution of approximately $4.0 million
    to its pension plans in 2007 before recovery from the
    U.S. Government. Net after tax pension cash generation,
    after taking into consideration recovery of pension costs under
    certain government contracts in accordance with CAS from the
    U.S. Government is expected to be approximately
    $2.1 million in 2007.

Effective for year-end 2006, SFAS No. 158,
    “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
    Other Postretirement Plans — An Amendment of FASB
    Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R),” requires
    companies to recognize as a component of other comprehensive
    income, net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs
    or credits that arise during the period but are not recognized
    as components of net periodic benefit cost pursuant to SFAS
    No. 87, or SFAS No. 106, Employers’ Accounting
    for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. In accordance
    with the requirements of SFAS No. 158, the Company has
    a $43.4 million non-cash reduction to stockholders’
    equity and a long-term additional liability of
    $71.3 million at year-end 2006. Prior to 2006, SFAS
    No. 87, requires that a minimum pension liability be
    recorded if the value of pension assets is less than the
    accumulated pension benefit obligation. In accordance with the
    requirements of SFAS No. 87, the Company had a
    $38.9 million non-cash reduction to stockholders’
    equity, a long-term intangible asset of $5.3 million and a
    long-term additional pension liability of $69.0 million at
    year-end 2005. The adjustments to equity did not affect net
    income and are recorded net of deferred taxes. See Note 12
    of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
    pension disclosures.

Other
    Matters

Income
    Taxes

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2006 was 34.0%,
    compared with 37.6% for 2005 and 38.7% for 2004. The lower
    effective tax rate for 2006, compared with 2005, primarily
    reflected the impact of the reversal of income tax contingency
    reserves of $3.3 million in the third quarter. These
    reserves were determined to be no longer needed due to the
    expiration of applicable statutes of limitations. The lower
    effective tax rate for 2005, compared with 2004, primarily
    reflected the revaluation of deferred tax assets in 2004 due to
    the impact state income taxes rates. Based on the Company’s
    history of operating earnings, expectations of future operating
    earnings and potential tax planning strategies, it is more
    likely than not that the deferred income tax assets at
    December 31, 2006 will be realized.

Costs and
    Pricing

Inflationary trends in recent years have been moderate. We
    primarily use the

last-in,

first-out method of inventory accounting that reflects current
    costs in the costs of goods sold. These costs, the increasing
    costs of equipment and other costs are considered in
    establishing sales pricing polices. The Company emphasizes cost
    containment in all aspects of its business.

Hedging
    Activities; Market Risk Disclosures

We have not utilized derivative financial instruments such as
    futures contracts, options and swaps, forward foreign exchange
    contracts or interest rate swaps and futures during 2006 or
    2005. We believe that adequate controls are in place to monitor
    any hedging activities. Our primary exposure to market risk
    relates to changes in interest rates and foreign currency
    exchange rates. We periodically evaluate these risks and have
    taken measures to mitigate these risks. We own assets and
    operate facilities in countries that have been politically
    stable. Also, our foreign risk management objectives are geared
    towards stabilizing cash flow from the effects of foreign
    currency fluctuations. Most of the Company’s sales are
    denominated in U.S. dollars which mitigates the effect of
    exchange rate changes. Borrowings under our credit facility are
    at fixed rates that vary with the term and timing of each loan
    under the facility. Loans under the facility typically have
    terms of one, three or six months and the interest rate for each
    such loan is subject to change if the loan is continued or
    converted following the applicable maturity date. Interest rates
    are also subject to change based on our debt to earnings before
    interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) ratio.
    As of December 31, 2006, we had



$216.9 million in outstanding indebtedness under our
    amended and restated credit facility. A 100 basis point
    change in interest rates would result in an increase in annual
    interest expense of approximately $2.2 million, assuming
    the $216.9 million in debt was outstanding for the full
    year. Any borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit
    line are based on a fluctuating market interest rate and,
    consequently, the fair value of any outstanding debt should not
    be affected materially by changes in market interest rates.
    Overall, we believe that our exposure to interest rate risk and
    foreign currency exchange rate changes is not material to our
    financial condition or results of operations.

Related
    Party Transactions

In connection with the spin-off, Teledyne and ATI entered into
    several agreements governing the separation of our businesses
    and various employee benefits, compensation, tax,
    indemnification and transition arrangements. The Company’s
    principal spin-off requirements, including the requirement to
    ensure a favorable tax treatment, have been satisfied. One of
    our directors continues to serve on ATI’s board.

Our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer is a
    director of Mellon Financial Corporation, as is one of our other
    directors. Another of our directors is a former chief executive
    officer and director of Mellon Financial Corporation. All
    transactions with Mellon Bank, N.A. and its affiliates are
    effected under normal commercial terms, and we believe that our
    relationships with Mellon Bank, N.A. and its affiliates are
    arms-length. Mellon Bank, N.A. is one of ten lenders under our
    $400.0 million credit facility, having committed up to
    $45.0 million under the facility. It also provides cash
    management services and an uncommitted $5.0 million line of
    credit. Mellon Bank, N.A. serves as trustee under our pension
    plan and through its affiliates and subsidiaries provides asset
    management and transition management services for the plan.
    Mellon Investor Services LLC serves as our transfer agent and
    registrar, as well as agent under our stockholders rights plan.

Environmental

We are subject to various federal, state, local and
    international environmental laws and regulations which require
    that we investigate and remediate the effects of the release or
    disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present
    operations. These include sites at which Teledyne has been
    identified as a potentially responsible party under the
    Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
    Act, commonly known as Superfund, and comparable state laws. We
    are currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a
    number of sites. Reserves for environmental investigation and
    remediation totaled approximately $5.1 million at
    December 31, 2006 and $3.5 million at January 1,
    2006. The increase was primarily due to acquisitions. As
    investigation and remediation of these sites proceed and new
    information is received, the Company expects that accruals will
    be adjusted to reflect new information. Based on current
    information, we do not believe that future environmental costs,
    in excess of those already accrued, will materially and
    adversely affect our financial condition or liquidity. However,
    resolution of one or more of these environmental matters or
    future accrual adjustments in any one reporting period could
    have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for
    that period.

For additional discussion of environmental matters, see
    Notes 2 and 15 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Government
    Contracts

We perform work on a number of contracts with the Department of
    Defense and other agencies and departments of the
    U.S. Government including

sub-contracts

with government prime contractors. Sales under these contracts
    with the U.S. Government, which included contracts with the
    Department of Defense, were approximately 40% of total sales in
    2006, 42% of total sales in 2005 and 43% of total sales in 2004.
    For a summary of sales to the U.S. Government by segment,
    see Note 13 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements. Sales to the Department of Defense represented
    approximately 30%, 32% and 33% of total sales for 2006, 2005 and
    2004, respectively.

Performance under government contracts has certain inherent
    risks that could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s business, results of operations and financial
    condition. Government contracts are



conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional
    appropriations, which usually occurs on a fiscal year basis even
    though contract performance may take more than one year. While
    U.S. defense spending increased as a result of the
    September 11th terrorist attacks and the war in Iraq, it is
    currently expected to moderate over the next few years.
    Notwithstanding the recent increase in U.S. defense
    spending, delays or declines in U.S. military expenditures
    in the programs in which we participate could adversely affect
    our business, results of operations and financial condition.

For information on accounts receivable from the
    U.S. Government, see Note 5 to the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Estimates
    and Reserves

Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results
    of operations are based upon our consolidated financial
    statements, which have been prepared in accordance with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
    The preparation of these financial statements requires us to
    make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of
    assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
    disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we
    evaluate our estimates, including those related to product
    returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories,
    intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, pension
    and other postretirement benefits, long-term contracts,
    environmental, workers’ compensation and general liability,
    aircraft product liability, employee dental and medical benefits
    and other contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on
    historical experience and on various other assumptions that are
    believed to be reasonable under the circumstances at the time,
    the results of which form the basis for making our judgments.
    Actual results may differ materially from these estimates under
    different assumptions or conditions. In some cases, such
    differences may be material. See “Other Matters —
    Critical Accounting Policies”.

The following table reflects significant reserves and valuation
    accounts, which are estimates and based on judgments as
    described above, at December 31, 2006 and January 1,
    2006:

Reserves
    and Valuation Accounts(a)



(In millions)

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

2.7

$

2.1

LIFO reserves

$

24.4

$

23.7

Other inventory reserves

$

22.8

$

18.7

Aircraft product liability
    reserves(b)

$

46.9

$

37.1

Workers’ compensation and
    general liability reserves(b)

$

10.6

$

7.6

Warranty reserves

$

11.4

$

10.3

Environmental reserves(b)

$

5.1

$

3.5

Other accrued liability reserves(b)

$

3.8

$

4.8

(a)

This table should be read in conjunction with the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b)

Includes both long-term and short-term reserves.

Some of the Company’s products are subject to specified
    warranties and the company provides for the estimated cost of
    product warranties. We regularly assess the adequacy of our
    pre-existing warranty liabilities and adjust amounts as
    necessary based on a review of historic warranty experience with
    respect to the applicable business or products, as well as the
    length and actual terms of the warranties, which are typically



one year. The product warranty reserve is included in current
    accrued liabilities on the balance sheet. Changes in the
    Company’s product warranty reserve are as follows (in
    millions):




Balance at beginning of year

$

10.3

$

6.9

$

6.0

Accruals for product warranties
    charged to expense

9.7

9.6

3.5

Cost of product warranty claims

(9.1

)

(6.8

)

(3.4

)

Acquisitions

0.5

0.6

0.8

Balance at year-end

$

11.4

$

10.3

$

6.9

Critical
    Accounting Policies

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with United States generally accepted accounting
    principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions
    that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
    the notes to the financial statements. Some of those judgments
    can be subjective and complex, and therefore, actual results
    could differ materially from those estimates under different
    assumptions or conditions. Our critical accounting policies are
    those that are reflective of significant judgment, complexity
    and uncertainty, and may potentially result in materially
    different results under different assumptions and conditions. We
    have identified the following as critical accounting policies:
    contract revenue recognition and contract estimates; aircraft
    product liability reserve; accounting for pension plans; and
    accounting for business combinations, goodwill and long-lived
    assets. For additional discussion of the application of these
    and other accounting policies, see Note 2 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Contract
    Revenue Recognition and Contract Estimates

Commercial sales and sales from U.S. Government fixed-price
    type contracts are generally recorded as shipments are made or
    as services are rendered. Occasionally, for certain
    U.S. Government fixed-price type contracts that require
    substantial performance over a long time period (one or more
    years) before shipments begin, in accordance with the
    requirements of American Institute of Certified Public
    Accountants Statement of Position

81-1

“Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and
    Certain Production-Type Contracts,” revenues may be
    recorded based upon attainment of scheduled performance
    milestones which could be time, event or expense driven. In
    these few instances, invoices are submitted to the customer
    under a contractual agreement and payments are made by the
    customer. Sales under cost-reimbursement contracts, usually from
    the U.S. Government, are recorded as allowable costs are
    incurred and fees are earned.

The development of cost of sales percentages used to record
    costs under certain fixed-price type contracts and fees under
    certain cost-reimbursement type contracts requires that the
    Company make reasonably dependable cost estimates for the
    design, manufacture and delivery of products and services,
    sometimes over a long time period. Since certain fixed-price and
    cost-reimbursement type contracts extend over a long period of
    time, the impact of revisions in cost and funding estimates
    during the progress of work may adjust the current period
    earnings on a cumulative

catch-up

basis. If the current contract estimate indicates a loss, a
    provision is made for the total anticipated loss in the period
    that it becomes evident. These types of contracts and estimates
    are most frequently related to our sales to the
    U.S. Government. For our sales to the U.S. Government
    in 2006, 2005 and 2004, operating income as a percent of sales
    did not vary by more than 0.3%. If operating income as a percent
    of sales to the U.S. Government had been higher or lower by
    0.3% in 2006, the Company’s operating income would have
    changed by approximately $1.9 million.

Aircraft
    Product Liability Reserve

We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings related
    to aircraft product liability claims. We have accrued an
    estimate for the probable costs for the resolution of these
    claims. This estimate has been developed in consultation with
    our insurers, outside counsel handling our defense in these
    matters and historical experience, and is based upon an analysis
    of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and



settlement strategies. We do not believe these proceedings will
    have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
    position. It is possible, however, that future results of
    operations for any particular quarterly or annual period could
    be materially affected by specific events occurring in the
    period, changes in our assumptions, or the effectiveness of our
    strategies, related to these proceedings. The Company has
    aircraft and product liability insurance. However, based on a
    review of claims experience, changes to the claims management
    process and an analysis of available options, in 2004 the
    Company increased its annual self-insurance retention for
    general aviation aircraft liabilities incurred in connection
    with products manufactured by Teledyne Continental Motors to
    $25.8 million from $15.0 million, and as a result
    lowered its annual insurance premium. The current annual
    self-insurance retention is $22.9 million. If a significant
    liability claim or combination of claims were identified, even
    taking into account insurance coverage, operating profit in a
    given period could be reduced significantly. Accruals could be
    made in a given period for amounts up to our annual
    self-insurance retention. Based on the facts and circumstances
    of the claims, we have not always accrued amounts up to our
    annual self-insurance retention. Also, we cannot assure that,
    for 2007 and in future years, our ability to obtain insurance,
    or the premiums for such insurance, or the amount of our
    self-insured retention or reserves will not be negatively
    impacted by our experience in prior years or other factors. Our
    current aircraft product liability insurance policy expires in
    May 2007.

Accounting
    for Pension Plans

Teledyne has a defined benefit pension plan covering most of its
    employees. The Company accounts for its defined benefit pension
    plan in accordance with SFAS No. 87,
    “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions,” and
    SFAS No. 158 “Employers’ Accounting for
    Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
    Plans — An Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87,
    88, 106, and 132(R),” which requires that amounts
    recognized in financial statements be determined on an actuarial
    basis, rather than as contributions are made to the plan. A
    significant element in determining the Company’s pension
    income or expense in accordance with SFAS No. 87 is
    the expected return on plan assets. The Company has assumed,
    based upon the types of securities the plan assets are invested
    in and the long-term historical returns of these investments,
    that the long-term expected return on pension assets will be
    8.5% in 2007, compared with 8.5% in 2006, and its assumed
    discount rate will be 6.00% in 2007, compared with 6.00% in
    2006. The actual rate of return on pension assets was 15.1% in
    2006 and 5.1% in 2005. If the actual rate of return on pension
    assets is above the projection, the Company may be able to
    reduce its contributions to the pension trust. If the actual
    rate of return on pension assets is below the projection, the
    Company may be required to make additional contributions to the
    pension trust. The Company made an after-tax contribution of
    $12.7 million to its pension benefit plans in 2006 and
    currently anticipates making an after-tax cash contribution of
    approximately $4.0 million to its pension benefit plans in
    2007, before recovery from the U.S. Government. The assumed
    long-term rate of return on assets is applied to the
    market-related value of plan assets at the end of the previous
    year. This produces the expected return on plan assets that is
    included in the annual pension income or expense calculation for
    the current year. The cumulative difference between this
    expected return and the actual return on plan assets is deferred
    and amortized into pension income or expense over future
    periods. In accordance with the requirements of
    SFAS No. 158, the Company has a $43.4 million
    non-cash reduction to stockholders’ equity and a long-term
    additional liability of $71.3 million at year-end 2006.
    Prior to 2006, SFAS No. 87, requires that a minimum pension
    liability be recorded if the value of pension assets is less
    than the accumulated pension benefit obligation. In accordance
    with the requirements of SFAS No. 87, the Company had
    a $38.9 million non-cash reduction to stockholders’
    equity, a long-term intangible asset of $5.3 million and a
    long-term additional pension liability of $69.0 million at
    year-end 2005. The adjustments to equity did not affect net
    income and are recorded net of deferred taxes. See Note 12
    of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
    pension disclosures.



Differences in the discount rate and expected long-term rate of
    return on assets within the indicated range would have had the
    following impact on 2006 results:

0.25 Percentage

0.25 Percentage

Point Increase

Point Decrease

$ in millions

Increase (decrease) to pension
    expense resulting from:

Change in discount rate

$

(2.1

)

$

1.9

Change in long-term rate of return
    on plan assets

$

(1.1

)

$

1.1

See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for additional pension disclosures.

Accounting
    for Business Combinations, Goodwill and Other Long-Lived
    Assets

The Company accounts for goodwill and purchased intangible
    assets under SFAS No. 141 “Business
    Combinations” and SFAS No. 142 “Goodwill and
    Other Intangible Assets”. In all acquisitions, the results
    are included in the Company’s consolidated financial
    statements from the date of each respective acquisition.
    Business acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase
    method by assigning the purchase price to tangible and
    intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Assets
    acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their fair
    values and the excess of the purchase price over the amounts
    assigned is recorded as goodwill. Purchased intangible assets
    with finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful
    lives.

Goodwill and acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives
    are not amortized. We review goodwill and acquired
    indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever
    events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
    amount of these assets may not be recoverable. The Company also
    performs an annual impairment test in the fourth quarter of each
    year. Based on the annual impairment test completed in the
    fourth quarter of 2006, no impairment of goodwill or intangible
    assets with indefinite lives was indicated. The Company
    estimates the fair value of the reporting units, which are our
    four business segments, using a discounted cash flow model based
    on our best estimate of amounts and timing of future revenues
    and cash flows and our most recent business and strategic plans,
    and compares the estimated fair value to the net book value of
    the reporting unit, including goodwill. The development of
    future revenues and cash flows projections for our business and
    strategic plan, and the annual impairment test involve
    significant judgments. Changes in these projections could affect
    the estimated fair value of certain of the Company’s
    reporting units and could result in a goodwill impairment charge
    in a future period. However, a 10 percent decrease in the
    current fair value estimate of each of the Company’s
    reporting units would not result in a goodwill impairment charge.

We monitor the recoverability of the carrying value of our
    long-lived assets. An impairment charge is recognized when
    events and circumstances indicate that the undiscounted cash
    flows expected to be generated by an asset (including any
    proceeds from dispositions) are less than the carrying value of
    the asset and the asset’s carrying value is less than its
    fair value. Our cash flow estimates are based on historical
    results adjusted to reflect our best estimate of future market
    and operating conditions. The net carrying value of assets not
    recoverable is reduced to fair value. Our estimates of fair
    value represent our best estimate based on industry trends and
    reference to market rates and transactions. Our determination of
    what constitutes an indication of possible impairment, the
    estimation of future cash flows and the determination of
    estimated fair value are all significant judgments.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements

SFAS No. 158

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,
    “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
    Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements
    No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)” (“SFAS
    No. 158”), which provides guidance for recognition of
    a net liability or asset to report the funded status of company
    defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans
    (collectively referred to herein as “benefit plans”)
    on company balance sheets. The pronouncement clarifies
    (1) recognition of the funded status of a benefit plan in
    its statement of financial position; (2) recognition as a
    component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, the gains
    or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during
    the



period but are not recognized as components of net periodic
    benefit cost pursuant to FASB Statement No. 87,
    “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions”, or
    No. 106, “Employers’ Accounting for
    Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions”,
    (3) measurement of defined benefit plan assets and
    obligations as of the date of the employer’s fiscal
    year-end statement of financial position (with limited
    exceptions); and (4) disclosure requirements in the notes
    to financial statements with additional information about
    certain effects on net periodic benefit cost for the next fiscal
    year that arise from delayed recognition of the gains or losses,
    prior service costs or credits, and transition asset or
    obligation. SFAS No. 158 is effective as of the end of the
    fiscal year ending after December 15, 2006. The impact of
    the adoption of SFAS No. 158 increased the minimum
    benefit plan liability component of stockholders’ equity by
    $41.1 million at December 31, 2006. This increase was
    mostly offset by the impact of the changes to Teledyne’s
    pension assets and liabilities resulting from the merger of the
    Scientific Company pension plan with Teledyne’s pension
    plan following the acquisition of Scientific Company. The total
    increase from 2005 in the minimum pension liability component of
    stockholders’ equity was $4.5 million. The adoption of
    SFAS No. 158 is not expected to have a material impact to
    pension expense over the next 5 years.

FIN 48

In July 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48,
    “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes”
    (“FIN 48”). This interpretation, among other
    things, creates a two step approach for evaluating uncertain tax
    positions. Recognition (step one) occurs when an enterprise
    concludes that a tax position, based solely on its technical
    merits, is more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon
    examination. Measurement (step two) determines the amount of
    benefit that more-likely-than-not will be realized upon
    settlement. Derecognition of a tax position that was previously
    recognized would occur when a company subsequently determines
    that a tax position no longer meets the more-likely-than-not
    threshold of being sustained. FIN 48 specifically prohibits
    the use of a valuation allowance as a substitute for
    derecognition of tax positions, and it has expanded disclosure
    requirements. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years
    beginning after December 15, 2006, in which the impact of
    adoption should be accounted for as a cumulative-effect
    adjustment to the beginning balance of retained earnings. The
    Company is currently evaluating FIN 48 and has not yet
    determined the impact the adoption may have on the consolidated
    financial statements.

SFAS No. 154

On January 2, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 154,
    “Accounting Changes and Error Corrections Disclosure,”
    (“SFAS No. 154”). SFAS No. 154
    replaces APB Opinion No. 20, “Accounting Changes”
    and SFAS No. 3, “Reporting Accounting Changes in
    Interim Financial Statements.” SFAS No. 154
    requires retrospective application to prior periods’
    financial statements of changes in accounting principle unless
    it is impracticable. SFAS No. 154 applies to all
    voluntary changes in accounting principle. It also applies to
    changes required by a new accounting pronouncement in the
    unusual instance that the pronouncement does not include
    explicit transition provisions. The adoption of
    SFAS No. 154 did not have a material impact on the
    consolidated financial statements of the Company.

SFAS No. 123(R)

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R) that
    requires compensation costs related to share-based payment
    transactions to be recognized in the financial statements. With
    limited exceptions, the amount of compensation costs will be
    measured based on the grant date fair value of the equity or
    liability instrument issued. Compensation cost will be
    recognized over the period that an employee provides service in
    exchange for the award. SFAS No. 123(R) replaces
    SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
    Compensation” and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25,
    “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.” The
    Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) effective
    January 2, 2006, using the modified prospective method, and
    accordingly did not restate prior year financial statements. No
    modifications to outstanding stock options were made prior to
    the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). The valuation
    methodologies and assumptions in estimating the fair value of
    stock options granted in 2006 were similar to those used in
    estimating the fair value of stock options granted in 2005.
    Stock option compensation expense is recorded on a straight line
    basis over the appropriate vesting



period, generally three years. For the fiscal year 2006, the
    Company recorded a total of $5.9 million in its
    consolidated statements of income for stock option expense
    related to stock options awarded after the adoption of
    SFAS No. 123(R) and for stock options which were not
    vested by the date of adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). No
    compensation expense related to stock options was recorded in
    the consolidated statements of income for 2005 or in prior years
    since it was not required. During the fiscal year 2006, the
    total intrinsic value of stock options exercised was
    $22.1 million. As of December 31, 2006, there was
    $6.1 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to
    nonvested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over
    a weighted-average period of approximately 1.3 years. The
    Company issues shares of common stock upon the exercise of stock
    options.

We used a combination of the historical volatility of
    Teledyne’s stock price and the implied volatility based on
    the price of traded options on Teledyne’s stock to
    calculate the expected volatility assumption to value stock
    options. We used our actual stock trading history since January
    2001 in the volatility calculation. The expected dividend yield
    is based on Teledyne’s practice of not paying dividends.
    The risk-free rate of return is based on the yield of
    U.S. Treasury Strips with terms equal to the expected life
    of the option as of the grant date. The expected life in years
    is based on historical actual stock option exercise experience.

SFAS No. 151

On January 2, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 151,
    “Inventory Costs — an amendment of ARB
    No. 43 Chapter 4”
    (“SFAS No. 151”). SFAS No. 151
    amends the guidance in ARB No. 43, Chapter 4,
    “Inventory Pricing,” to clarify the accounting for
    abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling
    costs, and wasted material (spoilage). SFAS No. 151
    requires that those items be recognized as current-period
    charges. The adoption of SFAS No. 151 did not have a
    material impact on the consolidated financial statements of the
    Company.

Outlook

Based on its current outlook, the Company’s management
    believes that first quarter 2007 earnings per share will be in
    the range of approximately $0.47 to $0.51. The full year 2007
    earnings per share outlook is expected to be in the range of
    approximately $2.33 to $2.38. Our estimated effective income tax
    rate for 2007 is expected to be 35.6%, and reflects the
    anticipated receipt of tax credits ranging from
    $2.8 million to $3.8 million (or $0.08 to
    $0.10 per diluted share) in the third quarter of 2007.
    Excluding the receipt of the tax credits our estimated effective
    income tax rate for 2007 would be 37.6%.

Our 2007 outlook reflects anticipated sales growth in our
    defense electronics and instrumentation businesses, due
    primarily to the contribution of the acquisitions completed in
    2006. Our first quarter and full year 2007 earnings per diluted
    share outlook reflects an anticipated increase in expenses, such
    as intangible asset amortization, as a result of the
    acquisitions completed in 2006. In addition, sales of
    geophysical sensors are currently expected to decline in 2007,
    compared with 2006, especially in the first half of the year.

The full year 2007 earnings outlook includes approximately
    $12.2 million in pension expense under
    SFAS No. 87 and No. 158, or $2.0 million in
    net pension expense after recovery of allowable pension costs
    from our CAS covered government contracts. Full year 2006
    earnings included $15.4 million in pension expense under
    SFAS No. 87 and No. 158, or $4.9 million in
    net pension expense after recovery of allowable pension costs
    from our CAS covered government contracts. The decrease in full
    year 2007 pension expense reflects pension contributions made in
    2006, the impact of favorable market returns on plan assets and
    changes to the company’s pension assets and liabilities
    resulting from the merger of the Scientific Company pension plan
    with the Teledyne Technologies pension plan following the
    acquisition of Scientific Company.

Our 2007 earnings outlook also reflects $6.7 million
    ($0.12 per diluted share) in stock option compensation
    expense based on the fair value of stock options granted after
    the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and stock options
    which were not vested by the date of adoption of
    SFAS No. 123(R), as well as current assumptions
    regarding the estimated fair value of expected stock option
    grants during the year. The company’s 2006 earnings
    included $5.9 million ($0.10 per diluted share) in
    stock option compensation expense.



EARNINGS
    PER SHARE SUMMARY(a)

(Diluted earnings per common share from continuing
    operations)

2007 Full Year Outlook



Low

High

Actual

Actual

Earnings per share (excluding net
    pension expense, stock option expense and income tax benefit)

$

2.41

$

2.44

$

2.36

$

1.91

Pension expense — SFAS
    No. 87 and No. 158

(0.22

)

(0.22

)

(0.27

)

(0.23

)

Pension expense — CAS(b)

0.18

0.18

0.18

0.17

Earnings per share (excluding
    stock option expense and income tax benefit)

2.37

2.40

2.27

1.85

Stock option expense(c)

(0.12

)

(0.12

)

(0.10

)

—

Income tax benefit(d)

0.08

0.10

0.09

—

Earnings per share — GAAP

$

2.33

$

2.38

$

2.26

$

1.85

Safe
    Harbor Cautionary Statement Regarding Outlook and Other
    Forward-Looking Data

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operation contains forward-looking
    statements, as defined in the Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995, relating to earnings, growth opportunities,
    pension matters, stock option compensation expense and strategic
    plans. All statements made in this Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation
    that are not historical in nature should be considered
    forward-looking. Actual results could differ materially from
    these forward-looking statements. Many factors, including
    changes in demand for products sold to the defense electronics,
    instrumentation and energy exploration and production,
    commercial aviation, semiconductor and communications markets,
    funding, continuation and award of government programs,
    continued liquidity of our customers (including commercial
    aviation customers) and economic and political conditions, could
    change the anticipated results. In addition, financial market
    fluctuations affect the value of our pension assets.

Global responses to terrorism and other perceived threats
    increase uncertainties associated with forward-looking
    statements about our businesses. Various responses to terrorism
    and perceived threats could realign government programs, and
    affect the composition, funding or timing of our programs.
    Flight restrictions would negatively impact the market for
    general aviation aircraft piston engines and components. Recent
    changes in the leadership of the U.S. Congress could
    result, over time, in reductions in defense spending and further
    changes in programs in which the Company participates.

The Company continues to take action to assure compliance with
    the internal controls, disclosure controls and other
    requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we believe
    our control systems are effective,



there are inherent limitations in all control systems, and
    misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be
    detected.

While Teledyne Technologies’ growth strategy includes
    possible acquisitions, we cannot provide any assurance as to
    when, if or on what terms any acquisitions will be made.
    Acquisitions involve various inherent risks, such as, among
    others, our ability to integrate acquired businesses and to
    achieve identified financial and operating synergies.

Additional information concerning factors that could cause
    actual results to differ materially from those projected in the
    forward-looking statements is contained beginning on
    page 13 of this

Form 10-K

under the caption “Risk Factors; Cautionary Statements as
    to Forward-Looking Statements.” Forward-looking statements
    are generally accompanied by words such as “estimate”,
    “project”, “predict”, “believes”
    or “expect”, that convey the uncertainty of future
    events or outcomes. We assume no obligation to publicly update
    or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of
    new information or otherwise.

Item 7A.

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

The information required by this item is included in this Report
    at page 47 under the caption “Other
    Matters — Hedging Activities; Market Risk
    Disclosures” of “Item 7. Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operation.”

Item 8.

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data.

The information required by this item is included in this Report
    at pages 61 through 102. See the “Index to
    Financial Statements and Related Information” at
    page 60.

Item 9.

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure.

None.

Item 9A.

Controls
    and Procedures.

Disclosure
    Controls

Teledyne’s disclosure controls and procedures are designed
    to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports
    that it files or submits, under the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, was recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
    the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the
    Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company’s
    management, with the participation of its Chairman, President
    and Chief Executive Officer and Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness, as of
    December 31, 2006, of the Company’s “disclosure
    controls and procedures,” as that term is defined in

Rule 13a-15(e)

under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
    (“the Exchange Act”). Based upon that evaluation, our
    Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer
    concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures as of
    December 31, 2006, were effective to provide a reasonable
    assurance that information required to be disclosed by the
    Company in the reports filed or submitted by it under the
    Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported
    within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and
    forms, and to provide reasonable assurance that information
    required to be disclosed by us in such reports is accumulated
    and communicated to the Company’s management, including its
    principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as
    appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
    disclosure.

Internal
    Controls

See Management Statement on page 61 for management’s
    annual report on internal control over financial reporting. See
    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
    page 62 for Ernst & Young LLP’s attestation
    report on management’s assessment of internal control over
    financial reporting.

There was no change in the Company’s “internal control
    over financial reporting” (as such term is defined in

Rule 13a-15(f)

under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the quarter ended
    December 31, 2006, that



has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
    effect, the Company’s internal control over financial
    reporting.

Sarbanes-Oxley
    Disclosure Committee

In September 2002, the Company formally constituted the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Disclosure Committee. Current members include:

Ivars R. Blukis, Chief Business Risk Assurance Officer (Internal
    Audit)

Melanie S. Cibik, Vice President, Associate General Counsel and
    Assistant Secretary

Shelley D. Green, Treasurer

John T. Kuelbs, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
    Secretary

Brian A. Levan, Director of External Financial Reporting and
    Assistant Controller

Susan L. Main, Vice President and Controller

Robyn E. McGowan, Vice President, Administration and Human
    Resources and Assistant Secretary

Dale A. Schnittjer, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
    Officer

Jason VanWees, Vice President, Corporate Development and
    Investor Relations

Among its tasks, the Sarbanes-Oxley Disclosure Committee
    discusses and reviews disclosure issues to help us fulfill our
    disclosure obligations on a timely basis in accordance with SEC
    rules and regulations and is intended to be used as an
    additional resource for employees to raise questions regarding
    accounting, auditing, internal controls and disclosure matters.
    Our toll-free Corporate Ethics Help Line

(1-877-666-6968)

continues to be an alternative means to communicate concerns to
    the Company’s management.

Item 9B.

Other
    Information.

None.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.

In addition to the information set forth under the caption
    “Executive Management” beginning at page 11 in
    Part I of this Report, the information required by this
    item is set forth in the 2007 Proxy Statement under the captions
    “Item 1 on Proxy Card — Election of
    Directors,” “Board Composition and Practices,”
    “Corporate Governance,” “Committees of Our Board
    of Directors — Audit Committee” and “Report
    of the Audit Committee” and “Stock
    Ownership — Sections 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
    Reporting Compliance.” Other than the “Report of the
    Audit Committee,” this information is incorporated herein
    by reference.

Item 11.

Executive
    Compensation.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2007
    Proxy Statement under the captions “Executive and Director
    Compensation” “Compensation Committee Interlocks and
    Insider Participation” and “2006 Personnel and
    Compensation Committee Report.” Other than the “2006
    Personnel and Compensation Committee Report,” this
    information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2007
    Proxy Statement under the caption “Stock
    Ownership Information” and is incorporated herein by
    reference.



Equity
    Compensation Plans Information

The following table summarizes information with respect to
    equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2006:

Number of Securities

Remaining Available

for Future Issuance

Number of Securities

under Equity

to be Issued upon

Compensation Plans

Exercise of

Weighted-Average

[excluding securities

Outstanding Options,

Exercise Price of Options,

reflected in

Warrants and Rights

Warrants or Rights

column (a)]

Plan Category

(a)

(b)

(c)

Equity compensation plans approved
    by security holders:

1999 Incentive Plan (1)

1,001,975

(2)

$

16.14

748,926

(2)

2002 Stock Incentive Plan

1,535,584

(3)

24.12

424,678

(3)

Non-Employee Director Stock
    Compensation Plan

301,186

19.32

28,409

Employee Stock Purchase
    Plan (4)

—

—

1,000,000

Equity compensation plans not
    approved by security holders

—

—

—

Total

2,838,745

$

20.80

2,202,013

Item 13.

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2007
    Proxy Statement under the caption “Certain
    Transactions” and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2007
    Proxy Statement under the captions “Fees Billed by
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” and
    “Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policies” under
    “Item 2 on the Proxy Card — Ratification of
    Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm” and is incorporated herein by reference.



PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules.

(a) Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules:

(1) Financial Statements

See the “Index to Financial Statements and Related
    Information” at page 60 of this Report, which is
    incorporated herein by reference.

(2) Financial Statement Schedules

See Schedule II captioned “Valuation and Qualifying
    Accounts” at page 102 of this Report, which is
    incorporated herein by reference.

(3) Exhibits

A list of exhibits filed with this

Form 10-K

or incorporated by reference is found in the Exhibit Index
    immediately following the certifications of this Report and
    incorporated herein by reference.

(b) Exhibits:

See Item 15(a)(3) above.

(c) Financial Schedules:

See Item 15(a)(2) above.



INDEX TO
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RELATED INFORMATION

Page

Financial Statements and Related
    Information:

Management
    Statement


Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal
    Control Over Financial Reporting


Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Consolidated
    Statements of Income


Consolidated
    Balance Sheets


Consolidated
    Statements of Stockholders’ Equity


Consolidated
    Statements of Cash Flows


Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements


Financial Statement Schedule:

Schedule II —
    Valuation and Qualifying Accounts




MANAGEMENT
    STATEMENT

RESPONSIBILITY FOR PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
    ESTABLISHING AND MAINTAINING ADEQUATE INTERNAL CONTROL OVER
    FINANCIAL REPORTING

We are responsible for the preparation of the financial
    statements included in this Annual Report. The financial
    statements were prepared in accordance with accounting
    principles generally accepted in the United States of America
    and include amounts that are based on the best estimates and
    judgments of management. The other financial information
    contained in this Annual Report is consistent with the financial
    statements.

Our internal control system is designed to provide reasonable
    assurance concerning the reliability of the financial data used
    in the preparation of Teledyne Technologies’ financial
    statements, as well as to safeguard the Company’s assets
    from unauthorized use or disposition.

All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have
    inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined
    to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with
    respect to financial statement presentation.

REPORT OF MANAGEMENT ON TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES
    INCORPORATED’S INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

We are also responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting. We conducted
    an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2006. In making this evaluation, we used the
    criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
    of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”) in Internal
    Control — Integrated Framework. Our evaluation
    included reviewing the documentation of our controls, evaluating
    the design effectiveness of our controls and testing their
    operating effectiveness. Our evaluation did not include
    assessing the effectiveness of internal control over financial
    reporting for the 2006 acquisitions of CollaborX, KW Microwave,
    ODI and Scientific Company which are included in the 2006
    consolidated financial statements of the Company and
    constituted: $243.8 million and $200.3 million of
    total and net assets, respectively, as of December 31, 2006
    and: $64.8 million and $4.2 million of total revenues
    and net income, respectively, for the year then ended. We did
    not assess the effectiveness of internal control over financial
    reporting at these newly acquired entities due to the
    insufficient time between the dates acquired and year-end and
    the complexity associated with assessing internal controls
    during integration efforts making the process impractical. Based
    on this evaluation we believe that, as of December 31,
    2006, the Company’s internal controls over financial
    reporting were effective.

Ernst and Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting
    firm, has issued their report on our evaluation of Teledyne
    Technologies’ internal control over financial reporting.
    Their report appears on page 62 of this Annual Report.

Date: February 20, 2007

/s/

Robert
    Mehrabian

Robert Mehrabian

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Date: February 20, 2007

/s/

Dale
    A. Schnittjer

Dale A. Schnittjer

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer



REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

We have audited management’s assessment, included in the
    accompanying Report of Management on Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated’s Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,
    that Teledyne Technologies Incorporated maintained effective
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in
    Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    (the COSO criteria). Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s
    management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
    control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
    effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s
    assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the
    company’s internal control over financial reporting based
    on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
    management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design
    and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
    such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
    circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
    basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

As indicated in the accompanying Report of Management on
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting, management’s assessment of and
    conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting did not include the internal controls of the
    recent acquisitions of CollaborX, KW Microwave, ODI and
    Scientific Company which are included in the 2006 consolidated
    financial statements of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated and
    constituted: $243.8 million and $200.3 million of
    total and net assets, respectively, as of December 31, 2006
    and: $64.8 million and $4.3 million of revenues and
    net income, respectively, for the year then ended. Our audit of
    internal control over financial reporting of Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated also did not include an evaluation of
    the internal control over financial reporting of CollaborX, KW
    Microwave, ODI and Scientific Company.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated maintained effective internal control
    over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, is fairly
    stated, in all material respects,



based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated maintained, in all material respects,
    effective internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2006, based on the COSO criteria.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated balance sheets of Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated as of December 31, 2006 and January 1,
    2006, and the related consolidated statements of income,
    stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended December 31, 2006 of Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated and our report dated February 20,
    2007 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. Our audits also
    included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at
    Item 15(a) and our report dated February 20, 2007
    expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Los Angeles, California

February 20, 2007



REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the
    Stockholders and Board of Directors

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated as of December 31, 2006
    and January 1, 2006, and the related consolidated
    statements of income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows
    for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2006. Our audits also included the financial
    statement schedule listed in the index at Item 15(a). These
    financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
    Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
    opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our
    audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated at
    December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006, and the
    consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for
    each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
    2006, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial
    statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
    financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
    material respects the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial
    statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for
    Share-Based Payments in accordance with Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) on
    January 2, 2006. As discussed in Note 2 to the
    consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its
    method of accounting for its defined-benefit pension and other
    postretirement plans in accordance with Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 158 on December 31, 2006.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    effectiveness of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in
    Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    and our report dated February 20, 2007 expressed an
    unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Los Angeles, California

February 20, 2007



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(In millions, except per-share amounts)




Sales

$

1,433.2

$

1,206.5

$

1,016.6

Costs and
    Expenses

Cost of sales

1,020.2

869.6

746.3

Selling, general and
    administrative expenses

287.9

236.2

203.4

Total costs and expenses

1,308.1

1,105.8

949.7

Income before other income and
    expense and income taxes

125.1

100.7

66.9

Interest and debt expense, net

(7.4

)

(3.5

)

(1.9

)

Other income (expense), net

4.0

5.8

3.0

Income before income
    taxes

121.7

103.0

68.0

Provision for income taxes

41.4

38.8

26.3

Net income

$

80.3

$

64.2

$

41.7

Basic earnings per common
    share

$

2.34

$

1.93

$

1.29

Diluted earnings per common
    share

$

2.26

$

1.85

$

1.24

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
    statements.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In millions, except share amounts)



Assets

Cash and cash equivalents

$

13.0

$

9.3

Accounts receivables, net

226.1

167.6

Inventories, net

155.8

117.3

Deferred income taxes, net

34.4

25.4

Prepaid expenses and other current
    assets

17.5

11.9

Total current assets

446.8

331.5

Property, plant and equipment, net

164.8

96.7

Deferred income taxes, net

38.6

42.9

Goodwill, net

313.6

197.0

Acquired intangibles, net

69.4

33.6

Other assets, net

28.2

26.5

Total Assets

$

1,061.4

$

728.2

Liabilities and
    Stockholders’ Equity

Accounts payable

$

94.1

$

76.2

Accrued liabilities

135.1

101.1

Current portion of long-term debt
    and capital lease

1.2

0.2

Total current
    liabilities

230.4

177.5

Long-term debt and capital lease
    obligations

230.7

47.0

Accrued pension obligation

38.4

68.2

Accrued postretirement benefits

24.4

22.5

Other long-term liabilities

105.7

87.0

Total Liabilities

629.6

402.2

Commitments and
    Contingencies

Stockholders’
    equity

Preferred stock, $0.01 par
    value; outstanding shares — none

—

—

Common stock, $0.01 par
    value; authorized 125 million shares; Outstanding shares:
    2006 — 34,719,700 and 2005 — 33,683,671

0.3

0.3

Additional paid-in capital

188.0

159.4

Retained earnings

285.8

205.5

Accumulated other comprehensive
    loss

(42.3

)

(39.2

)

Total Stockholders’
    Equity

431.8

326.0

Total Liabilities and
    Stockholders’ Equity

$

1,061.4

$

728.2

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
    statements.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(In millions)

Accumulated

Other

Additional

Comprehensive

Total

Common

Paid-in

Retained

Income

Stockholders’

Stock

Capital

Earnings

(Loss)

Equity

Balance, December 29,

$

0.3

132.4

99.6

(11.3

)

221.0

Net income

—

—

41.7

—

41.7

Other comprehensive loss, net of
    tax:

Foreign currency translation losses

—

—

—

(0.1

)

(0.1

)

Minimum pension liability
    adjustment

—

—

—

(10.9

)

(10.9

)

Comprehensive income

—

—

41.7

(11.0

)

30.7

Exercise of stock options and
    other, net

—

10.4

—

—

10.4

Balance, January 2,

0.3

142.8

141.3

(22.3

)

262.1

Net income

—

—

64.2

—

64.2

Other comprehensive loss, net of
    tax:

Foreign currency translation losses

—

—

—

(0.7

)

(0.7

)

Minimum pension liability
    adjustment

—

—

—

(16.2

)

(16.2

)

Comprehensive income

—

—

64.2

(16.9

)

47.3

Exercise of stock options and
    other, net

—

16.6

—

—

16.6

Balance, January 1,

0.3

159.4

205.5

(39.2

)

326.0

Net income

—

—

80.3

—

80.3

Other comprehensive loss, net of
    tax:

Foreign currency translation gains

—

—

—

1.4

1.4

Minimum benefit plan liability
    adjustment, including the impact of SFAS No. 158

—

—

—

(4.5

)

(4.5

)

Comprehensive income

—

—

80.3

(3.1

)

77.2

Exercise of stock options and
    other, net

—

28.6

—

—

28.6

Balance, December 31,

0.3

$

188.0

$

285.8

$

(42.3

)

$

431.8

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
    statements.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In millions)




Operating activities

Net income

$

80.3

$

64.2

$

41.7

Adjustments to reconcile net
    income to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization of
    assets

32.0

25.6

24.8

Deferred income taxes

(12.1

)

(10.2

)

(10.2

)

(Gains) loss on sale of property,
    plant and equipment

—

(0.4

)

0.9

Stock option expense

5.9

—

—

Excess income tax benefits from
    stock options

(8.6

)

(5.2

)

(2.5

)

Changes in operating assets and
    liabilities, excluding the effect of businesses acquired:

Increase in accounts receivables

(17.5

)

(17.1

)

(1.2

)

Increase in inventories

(23.2

)

(11.6

)

(11.9

)

Decrease (increase) in prepaid
    expenses and other assets

1.7

(3.4

)

(1.8

)

Increase in long-term assets

(3.2

)

(2.8

)

(3.5

)

Increase in accounts payable

8.7

11.0

8.6

Increase in accrued liabilities

8.3

0.6

10.0

Increase in current income taxes
    payable, net

3.8

10.0

3.5

Increase in other long-term
    liabilities

7.4

26.9

16.4

Decrease in accrued postretirement
    benefits

(3.7

)

(1.7

)

(1.4

)

Increase (decrease) in accrued
    pension obligation

(1.6

)

6.4

11.4

Other operating, net

0.2

—

0.1

Net cash provided by operating
    activities

78.4

92.3

84.9

Investing activities

Purchases of property, plant and
    equipment

(26.4

)

(19.8

)

(18.8

)

Purchase of businesses and other
    investments, net of cash acquired

(252.0

)

(58.4

)

(187.8

)

Proceeds from sale of businesses
    and other assets

0.7

9.6

—

Proceeds from sale of marketable
    securities

—

—

17.3

Other investing, net

—

—

0.2

Net cash used by investing
    activities

(277.7

)

(68.6

)

(189.1

)

Financing activities

Net proceeds from (repayments of)
    long-term debt

182.1

(35.8

)

70.5

Tax benefit from stock options
    exercised

8.6

—

—

Proceeds from exercise of stock
    options and other, net

12.3

10.0

7.3

Net cash provided (used) by
    financing activities

203.0

(25.8

)

77.8

Increase (decrease) in cash and
    cash equivalents

3.7

(2.1

)

(26.4

)

Cash and cash
    equivalents — beginning of year

9.3

11.4

37.8

Cash and cash
    equivalents — end of year

$

13.0

$

9.3

$

11.4

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
    statements.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES
    TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1.

Description
    of Business

Effective November 29, 1999 (the “Distribution
    Date”), Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    (“Teledyne” or the “Company”), became an
    independent, public company as a result of the distribution by
    Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated, now known as Allegheny
    Technologies Incorporated (“ATI”), of the
    Company’s Common Stock, $.01 par value per share, to
    holders of ATI Common Stock at a distribution ratio of one for
    seven (the “spin-off”). The spin-off has been treated
    as a tax-free distribution for federal income tax purposes. The
    spin-off included the transfer of certain of the businesses of
    ATI’s Aerospace and Electronics segment to the new
    corporation, immediately prior to the Distribution Date. ATI no
    longer has a financial investment in Teledyne.

Teledyne is a leading provider of sophisticated electronic
    components, instruments and communications products, including
    defense electronics, monitoring and control instrumentation for
    marine, environmental and industrial applications, data
    acquisition and communications equipment for airlines and
    business aircraft and components, and subsystems for wireless
    and satellite communications. We also provide systems
    engineering solutions and information technology services for
    defense, space and environmental applications, and manufacture
    general aviation and missile engines and components, as well as

on-site

gas
    and power generation systems.

Teledyne serves niche market segments where performance,
    precision and reliability are critical. Teledyne’s
    customers include government agencies, aerospace prime
    contractors, major industrial and communications companies and
    general aviation companies.

Teledyne consists of the operations of the Electronics and
    Communications segment with operations in the United States,
    United Kingdom, Mexico, Canada, France and China; the Systems
    Engineering Solutions segment with operations in the United
    States; the Aerospace Engines and Components segment with
    operations in the United States; and the Energy Systems segment
    with operations in the United States.

Note 2. Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles
    of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    Teledyne and all wholly-owned and majority-owned domestic and
    foreign subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts and transactions
    have been eliminated. Certain financial statements, notes and
    supplementary data for prior years have been revised to conform
    to the 2006 presentation. The changes did not affect our
    reported results of operations or stockholders’ equity.

Fiscal
    Year

The Company operates on a 52 or

53-week

fiscal year convention ending on the Sunday nearest to
    December 31. Fiscal year 2006 was a

52-week

fiscal year and ended on December 31, 2006. Fiscal year
    2005 was a

52-week

fiscal year and ended on January 1, 2006. Fiscal year 2004
    was a

53-week

fiscal year and ended on January 2, 2005. References to the
    years 2006, 2005 and 2004 are intended to refer to the
    respective fiscal year unless otherwise noted.

Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
    make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of
    assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
    disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, the
    Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to
    product returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories,
    intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, pension
    and other postretirement benefits, long-term contracts,
    environmental, workers’ compensation and general liability,
    aircraft product liability, employee



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

dental and medical benefits and other contingencies, and
    litigation. The Company bases its estimates on historical
    experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to
    be reasonable under the circumstances at the time, the results
    of which form the basis for making its judgments. Actual results
    may differ materially from these estimates under different
    assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the
    estimates are reasonable.

Revenue
    Recognition

Commercial sales and revenue from U.S. Government
    fixed-price-type contracts generally are recorded as shipments
    are made or as services are rendered. Occasionally, for certain
    fixed-price type contracts that require substantial performance
    over a long time period (one or more years) before shipments
    begin, in accordance with the requirements of Statement of
    Position

81-1

“Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and
    Certain Production-Type Contracts,” revenues may be
    recorded based upon attainment of scheduled performance
    milestones which could be time, event or expense driven. In
    these few instances, invoices are submitted to the customer
    under a contractual agreement and payments are made by the
    customer. Since certain contracts extend over a long period of
    time, all revisions in cost and funding estimates during the
    progress of work have the effect of adjusting the current period
    earnings on a cumulative

catch-up

basis. Sales under cost-reimbursement contracts are recorded as
    costs are incurred and fees are earned. If the current contract
    estimate indicates a loss, provision is made for the total
    anticipated loss.

The Company follows the requirements of Securities and Exchange
    Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104 on
    revenue recognition.

Shipping
    and Handling

Shipping and handling fees charged to customers are classified
    as revenue while shipping and handling costs retained by
    Teledyne are classified as cost of sales in the accompanying
    consolidated statements of income.

Warranty
    Costs

Some of the Company’s products are subject to specified
    warranties and the Company provides for the estimated cost of
    product warranties. The adequacy of the pre-existing warranty
    liabilities is assessed regularly and the reserve is adjusted as
    necessary based on a review of historic warranty experience with
    respect to the applicable business or products, as well as the
    length and actual terms of the warranties, which are typically
    one year. The product warranty reserve is included in current
    accrued liabilities on the balance sheet. Changes in the
    Company’s product warranty reserve are as follows (in
    millions):




Balance at beginning of year

$

10.3

$

6.9

$

6.0

Accruals for product warranties
    charged to expense

9.7

9.6

3.5

Cost of product warranty claims

(9.1

)

(6.8

)

(3.4

)

Acquisitions

0.5

0.6

0.8

Balance at year-end

$

11.4

$

10.3

$

6.9

Research
    and Development

Selling, general and administrative expenses include
    company-funded research and development and bid and proposal
    costs which are expensed as incurred and were $52.5 million
    in 2006, $44.9 million in 2005, and $32.6 million in
    2004. Costs related to customer-funded research and development
    contracts were $254.5 million in 2006, $246.6 million
    in 2005, and $230.7 million in 2004 and are charged to
    costs and



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

expenses as the related sales are recorded. A portion of the
    costs incurred for company-funded research and development is
    recoverable through overhead cost allocations on government
    contracts.

Income
    Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”)
    No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.” Under
    this method, deferred income tax assets and liabilities are
    determined on the estimated future tax effects of differences
    between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and
    liabilities given the application of enacted tax laws. Deferred
    income tax provisions and benefits are based on changes to the
    asset or liability from year to year.

Net
    Income Per Common Share

Basic and diluted earnings per share were computed based on net
    earnings. The weighted average number of common shares
    outstanding during the period was used in the calculation of
    basic earnings per share. This number of shares was increased by
    contingent shares that could be issued under various
    compensation plans as well as by the dilutive effect of stock
    options based on the treasury stock method in the calculation of
    diluted earnings per share.

The following table sets forth the computations of basic and
    diluted earnings per share (amounts in millions, except per
    share data):




Basic earnings per
    share

Net income

$

80.3

$

64.2

$

41.7

Weighted average common shares
    outstanding

34.3

33.2

32.4

Basic earnings per common share

$

2.34

$

1.93

$

1.29

Diluted earnings per
    share

Net income

$

80.3

$

64.2

$

41.7

Weighted average common shares
    outstanding

34.3

33.2

32.4

Dilutive effect of contingently
    issuable shares

1.2

1.5

1.3

Weighted average diluted common
    shares outstanding

35.5

34.7

33.7

Diluted earnings per common share

$

2.26

$

1.85

$

1.24

For 2006 and 2005, no stock options were excluded in the
    computation of diluted EPS. Stock options to purchase
    38,917 shares of common stock at fiscal year end 2004 did
    not affect the computation of diluted EPS since the exercise
    prices for these options were greater than the average market
    price of the Company’s common stock during the year.

Stock options to purchase 2.8 million, 3.3 million and
    3.4 million shares of common stock at fiscal year end 2006,
    2005, and 2004, respectively, had exercise prices that were less
    than the average market price of the Company’s common stock
    during the respective periods and are included in the
    computation of diluted EPS.

In addition 85,608, 46,999 and 55,937 contingent shares of the
    Company’s common stock under two compensation plans were
    excluded from fully diluted shares outstanding for 2006, 2005
    and 2004, respectively, since performance and other conditions
    for issuance have not yet been met.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Stock
    Incentive Plan

ATI sponsored an incentive plan that provided for ATI stock
    option awards to officers and key employees. In connection with
    the spin-off, outstanding stock options held by Teledyne’s
    employees that participated in the plan prior to the spin-off
    were converted into options to purchase Teledyne’s Common
    Stock.

The following disclosures are based on stock options held by
    Teledyne’s employees and include the stock options that
    have been converted from ATI options to Teledyne’s options
    as noted above. The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R)
    effective January 2, 2006, using the modified prospective
    method, and accordingly did not restate prior year financial
    statements. No modifications to outstanding stock options were
    made prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). The
    valuation methodologies and assumptions in estimating the fair
    value of stock options granted in 2006 were similar to those
    used in estimating the fair value of stock options granted in
    2005. Stock option compensation expense is recorded on a
    straight line basis over the appropriate vesting period,
    generally three years. For the fiscal year 2006, the Company
    recorded a total of $5.9 million ($3.7 million after
    tax) in its consolidated statements of income for stock option
    expense related to stock options awarded after the adoption of
    SFAS No. 123(R) and for stock options which were not
    vested by the date of adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). No
    compensation expense related to stock options was recorded in
    the consolidated statements of income for 2005 or in prior years
    since it was not required.

As noted in the preceding paragraph, Teledyne Technologies
    accounts for its stock options under SFAS No. 123(R).
    If compensation cost for these options had been determined under
    the SFAS No. 123

fair-value

method using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model for stock
    options granted prior to 2005 and the lattice based binomial
    model for stock options granted in 2005, the impact on net
    income and earnings per share is presented in the following
    table (amounts in millions, except per share data):

Fiscal Year



Net income as
    reported

$

64.2

$

41.7

Stock-based compensation under
    SFAS No. 123 fair-value method, net of tax

(3.4

)

(3.7

)

Adjusted net income

$

60.8

$

38.0

Basic earnings per
    share

As reported

$

1.93

$

1.29

As adjusted

$

1.83

$

1.17

Diluted earnings per
    share

As reported

$

1.85

$

1.24

As adjusted

$

1.75

$

1.13



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Prior to 2005, the Company used its entire stock trading history
    since its November 29, 1999 spin-off to compute the
    expected volatility assumption to value stock options. During
    2000, Teledyne Technologies’ stock price was extremely
    volatile while the subsequent years had only moderate
    volatility. In accordance with SFAS No. 123, if an
    entity’s stock was extraordinarily volatile for reasons
    which expected future volatility may differ from the past, the
    identifiable period may be disregarded in computing historical
    average volatility. Beginning with stock options issued in 2005,
    the Company excluded the year 2000 from the expected volatility
    calculation resulting in a volatility that is more indicative of
    expected future volatility. The following assumptions were used
    in the valuation of stock options granted in 2006, 2005 and 2004:

For the year




Expected dividend yield

—

—

—

Expected volatility

36.0

%

33.0

%

60.7

%

Risk-free interest rate

4.7

%

3.9

%

4.0

%

Expected lives

5.5

6.3

8.0

Weighted-average fair value of
    options granted during the year

$

13.30

$

10.24

$

12.89

Accounts
    Receivable

Receivables are presented net of a reserve for doubtful accounts
    of $2.7 million at December 31, 2006 and
    $2.1 million at January 1, 2006. Expense recorded for
    the reserve for doubtful accounts was $1.3 million,
    $0.4 million, and $0.6 million for 2006, 2005, and
    2004, respectively. An allowance for doubtful accounts is
    established for losses expected to be incurred on accounts
    receivable balances. Judgment is required in the estimation of
    the allowance and is based upon specific identification,
    collection history and creditworthiness of the debtor. The
    Company markets its products and services principally throughout
    the United States, Europe, Japan and Canada to commercial
    customers and agencies of, and prime contractors to, the
    U.S. Government. Trade credit is extended based upon
    evaluations of each customer’s ability to perform its
    obligations, which are updated periodically.

Cash
    Equivalents

Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid money-market mutual
    funds and bank deposits with initial maturities of three months
    or less. Cash equivalents totaled $6.0 million at
    December 31, 2006. There were no cash equivalents at
    January 1, 2006.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost

(last-in,

first-out and

first-in,

first-out methods) or market, less progress payments. Costs
    include direct material, direct labor, applicable manufacturing
    and engineering overhead, and other direct costs.

Property,
    Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment is capitalized at cost. Property,
    plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated
    depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are
    determined using a combination of accelerated and straight-line
    methods over the estimated useful lives of the various asset
    classes. Buildings are depreciated over periods not exceeding
    45 years, equipment over 5 to 18 years, computer
    hardware and software over 3 to 5 years and leasehold
    improvements over the shorter of their estimated remaining lives
    or lease terms. Significant improvements are capitalized while
    maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred.
    Depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment, including
    assets under capital leases, was $24.3 million in 2006,
    $22.1 million in 2005 and $23.4 million in 2004.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Goodwill
    and Acquired Intangible Assets

The Company accounts for goodwill and purchased intangible
    assets under SFAS No. 141 “Business
    Combinations” and SFAS No. 142 “Goodwill and
    Other Intangible Assets”. Using the two-step goodwill
    impairment model approach outlined in SFAS No. 142,
    the Company performs an annual impairment test in the fourth
    quarter of each year, or more often as circumstances require.
    The two-step impairment test is used to first identify potential
    goodwill impairment and then measure the amount of goodwill
    impairment loss, if any. When it is determined that an
    impairment has occurred, an appropriate charge to operations is
    recorded. Based on the annual impairment test completed in the
    fourth quarter of 2006, no impairment of goodwill or intangible
    assets was indicated.

Business acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase
    method by assigning the purchase price to tangible and
    intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Assets
    acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their fair
    values and the excess of the purchase price over the amounts
    assigned is recorded as goodwill. Purchased intangible assets
    with finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful
    lives. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are
    not amortized, but tested at least annually for impairment.

Teledyne’s goodwill was $313.6 million at
    December 31, 2006 and $197.0 million at
    January 1, 2006. Teledyne’s acquired intangible assets
    were $69.4 million at December 31, 2006 and
    $33.6 million at January 1, 2006. The increase in both
    goodwill and acquired intangibles in 2006 resulted from
    acquisitions. In all acquisitions, the results are included in
    the Company’s consolidated financial statements from the
    date of each respective acquisition. Each of the companies
    acquired, except for CollaborX, Inc., is part of the Electronics
    and Communications segment. CollaborX, Inc. is part of the
    Systems Engineering and Solutions segment. The Company has
    completed the process of specifically identifying the amount to
    be assigned to intangible assets for the Benthos, Inc. and KW
    Microwave Corporation acquisitions. The amount of goodwill and
    acquired intangible assets recorded for the Benthos, Inc.
    acquisition was $19.0 million and $6.5 million,
    respectively. The amount of goodwill and acquired intangible
    assets recorded for the KW Microwave Corporation acquisition was
    $7.0 million and $2.1 million, respectively. The
    Company is in the process of specifically identifying the amount
    to be assigned to intangible assets, as well as, certain assets
    and liabilities for the CollaborX, Inc., Ocean Design, Inc. and
    Rockwell Scientific acquisitions made in 2006. The Company made
    preliminary estimates as of December 31, 2006, since there
    was insufficient time between the acquisition date and the end
    of the year to finalize the valuations. The preliminary amount
    of goodwill and acquired intangible assets recorded as of
    December 31, 2006 for the Ocean Design, Inc. acquisition
    was $15.9 million and $13.8 million, respectively. The
    preliminary amount of goodwill and acquired intangible assets
    recorded as of December 31, 2006 for the CollaborX, Inc.
    acquisition was $14.2 million and $2.1 million,
    respectively. The preliminary amount of goodwill and acquired
    intangible assets recorded as of December 31, 2006 for the
    Rockwell Scientific acquisition was $60.1 million and
    $19.0 million, respectively. These amounts were based on
    estimates that are subject to change pending the completion of
    the Company’s internal review and the receipt of third
    party valuations and appraisals. Goodwill resulting from the
    KW Microwave Corporation, CollaborX, Inc. and Rockwell
    Scientific acquisitions will be deductible for tax purposes.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following table summarized the changes in the carrying value
    of goodwill (in millions):

Systems

Aerospace

Electronics and

Engineering

Engines and

Energy

Communications

Solutions

Components

Systems

Total

Balance at January 2, 2005

$

163.7

$

1.6

$

0.7

$

—

$

166.0

Current year acquisitions

38.5

—

—

—

38.5

Adjustment for gains on sales of
    assets

sold(a)

(5.1

)

—

—

—

(5.1

)

Adjustment to prior year
    acquisitions(b)

(2.4

)

—

—

—

(2.4

)

Balance at January 1, 2006

194.7

1.6

0.7

—

197.0

Current year acquisitions

102.2

14.2

—

—

116.4

Adjustment to prior year
    acquisitions(c)

0.2

—

—

—

0.2

Balance at December 31, 2006

$

297.1

$

15.8

$

0.7

$

—

$

313.6

The following table summarizes the carrying value of other
    acquired intangible assets (in millions):



Gross

Gross

carrying

Accumulated

Net carrying

carrying

Accumulated

Net carrying

amount

Amortization

amount

amount

Amortization

amount

Other acquired intangible assets:

Proprietary technology

$

41.2

$

5.5

$

35.7

$

17.2

$

2.3

$

14.9

Customer list/relationships

20.5

2.9

17.6

7.0

1.4

5.6

Patents

0.3

0.1

0.2

0.3

0.1

0.2

Non-compete agreements

0.8

0.1

0.7

0.2

0.1

0.1

Trademarks

3.1

0.1

3.0

—

—

—

Backlog

5.0

4.1

0.9

2.7

1.2

1.5

Other acquired intangibles assets
    subject to amortization

$

70.9

$

12.8

$

58.1

$

27.4

$

5.1

$

22.3

Other intangible assets not
    subject to amortization:

Trademarks

11.3

—

11.3

11.3

—

11.3

Total other acquired intangible
    assets

$

82.2

$

12.8

$

69.4

$

38.7

$

5.1

$

33.6



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Amortizable other intangible assets are amortized on a
    straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives ranging
    from one to 20 years. The Company recorded
    $7.7 million and $3.5 million in amortization expense
    in 2006 and 2005, respectively, for other acquired intangible
    assets. The expected future amortization expense for the next
    five years is as follows (in millions): 2007-$9.0; 2008-$7.8;
    2009-$7.6; 2010-$6.9; 2011-$6.0.

The estimated remaining useful lives by asset category are as
    follows:

Weighted

average

remaining

useful

life in

years

Intangibles subject to
    amortization:

Proprietary technology

7.7

Customer list/relationships

6.8

Patents

11.3

Non-compete agreements

4.0

Trademarks

15.1

Backlog

0.4

Total intangibles subject to
    amortization

5.8

The following is a summary at the acquisition date of the
    estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed for the acquisitions made in 2006 (in millions):

Current assets, excluding cash
    acquired

$

61.2

Property, plant and equipment

66.0

Goodwill

116.4

Intangible assets

43.5

Other assets

21.5

Total assets acquired

308.6

Current liabilities, including
    short-term debt

37.1

Long-term debt

1.9

Other long-term liabilities

17.6

Total liabilities
    assumed

56.6

Purchase price, net of cash
    acquired

$

252.0



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following table summarizes the intangible assets acquired as
    part of the acquisitions made in 2006 (dollars in millions):

Weighted

average

useful

life in

years

Intangibles not subject to
    amortization:

Goodwill

$

116.4

n/a

Intangibles subject to
    amortization:

Proprietary Technology

$

24.0

8.4

Customer List/Relationships

13.5

7.1

Backlog

2.3

0.5

Trademarks

3.1

15.1

Non-compete agreements

0.6

5.0

Total subject to
    amortization

$

43.5

4.6

Other
    Long-Lived Assets

The carrying value of long-lived assets is periodically
    evaluated in relation to the operating performance and sum of
    undiscounted future cash flows of the underlying businesses. An
    impairment loss is recognized when the sum of expected
    undiscounted future net cash flows is less than book value.

Environmental

Costs that mitigate or prevent future environmental
    contamination or extend the life, increase the capacity or
    improve the safety or efficiency of property utilized in current
    operations are capitalized. Other costs that relate to current
    operations or an existing condition caused by past operations
    are expensed. Environmental liabilities are recorded when the
    Company’s liability is probable and the costs are
    reasonably estimable, but generally not later than the
    completion of the feasibility study or the Company’s
    recommendation of a remedy or commitment to an appropriate plan
    of action. The accruals are reviewed periodically and, as
    investigations and remediations proceed, adjustments are made as
    necessary. Accruals for losses from environmental remediation
    obligations do not consider the effects of inflation, and
    anticipated expenditures are not discounted to their present
    value. The accruals are not reduced by possible recoveries from
    insurance carriers or other third parties, but do reflect
    anticipated allocations among potentially responsible parties at
    federal Superfund sites or similar state-managed sites and an
    assessment of the likelihood that such parties will fulfill
    their obligations at such sites. The measurement of
    environmental liabilities by the Company is based on currently
    available facts, present laws and regulations, and current
    technology. Such estimates take into consideration the
    Company’s prior experience in site investigation and
    remediation, the data concerning cleanup costs available from
    other companies and regulatory authorities, and the professional
    judgment of the Company’s environmental personnel in
    consultation with outside environmental specialists, when
    necessary.

Foreign
    Currency Translation

The Company’s foreign entities’ accounts are measured
    using local currency as the functional currency. Assets and
    liabilities of these entities are translated at the exchange
    rate in effect at year-end. Revenues and expenses are translated
    at average month end rates of exchange prevailing during the
    year. Unrealized translation gains and losses arising from
    differences in exchange rates from period to period are included
    as a



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

component of accumulated other comprehensive income in
    stockholders’ equity. Most of the Company’s sales are
    denominated in U.S. dollars which mitigates the effect of
    exchange rate changes.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements

SFAS No. 158

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,
    “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
    Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements
    No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)” (“SFAS
    No. 158”), which provides guidance for recognition of
    a net liability or asset to report the funded status of company
    defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans
    (collectively referred to herein as “benefit plans”)
    on company balance sheets. The pronouncement clarifies
    (1) recognition of the funded status of a benefit plan in
    its statement of financial position; (2) recognition as a
    component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, the gains
    or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during
    the period but are not recognized as components of net periodic
    benefit cost pursuant to FASB Statement No. 87,
    “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions”, or
    No. 106, “Employers’ Accounting for
    Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions”,
    (3) measurement of defined benefit plan assets and
    obligations as of the date of the employer’s fiscal
    year-end statement of financial position (with limited
    exceptions); and (4) disclosure requirements in the notes
    to financial statements with additional information about
    certain effects on net periodic benefit cost for the next fiscal
    year that arise from delayed recognition of the gains or losses,
    prior service costs or credits, and transition asset or
    obligation. SFAS No. 158 is effective as of the end of the
    fiscal year ending after December 15, 2006. The impact of
    the adoption of SFAS No. 158 increased the minimum
    benefit plan liability component of stockholders’ equity by
    $41.1 million at December 31, 2006. This increase was
    mostly offset by the impact of the changes to Teledyne’s
    pension assets and liabilities resulting from the merger of the
    Scientific Company pension plan with Teledyne’s pension
    plan following the acquisition of Scientific Company. The total
    increase from 2005 in the minimum benefit plan liability
    component of stockholders’ equity was $4.5 million.
    The adoption of SFAS No. 158 is not expected to have a
    material impact to pension expense over the next 5 years.

FIN 48

In July 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48,
    “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes”
    (FIN 48). This interpretation, among other things, creates
    a two step approach for evaluating uncertain tax positions.
    Recognition (step one) occurs when an enterprise concludes that
    a tax position, based solely on its technical merits, is
    more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination.
    Measurement (step two) determines the amount of benefit that
    more-likely-than-not will be realized upon settlement.
    Derecognition of a tax position that was previously recognized
    would occur when a company subsequently determines that a tax
    position no longer meets the more-likely-than-not threshold of
    being sustained. FIN 48 specifically prohibits the use of a
    valuation allowance as a substitute for derecognition of tax
    positions, and it has expanded disclosure requirements.
    FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2006, in which the impact of adoption should
    be accounted for as a cumulative-effect adjustment to the
    beginning balance of retained earnings. The Company is currently
    evaluating FIN 48 and has not yet determined the impact the
    adoption may have on the consolidated financial statements.

SFAS No. 154

On January 2, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 154,
    “Accounting Changes and Error Corrections Disclosure,”
    (SFAS No. 154). SFAS No. 154 replaces APB
    Opinion No. 20, “Accounting Changes” and
    SFAS No. 3, “Reporting Accounting Changes in
    Interim Financial Statements.” SFAS No. 154
    requires retrospective application to prior periods’
    financial statements of changes in accounting principle unless
    it is impracticable.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

SFAS No. 154 applies to all voluntary changes in
    accounting principle. It also applies to changes required by a
    new accounting pronouncement in the unusual instance that the
    pronouncement does not include explicit transition provisions.
    The adoption of SFAS No. 154 did not have a material
    impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Company.

SFAS No. 123(R)

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R) that
    requires compensation costs related to share-based payment
    transactions to be recognized in the financial statements. With
    limited exceptions, the amount of compensation costs will be
    measured based on the grant date fair value of the equity
    instrument issued. Compensation cost will be recognized over the
    period that an employee provides service in exchange for the
    award. SFAS No. 123(R) replaces
    SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
    Compensation” and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25,
    “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.” The
    Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) effective
    January 2, 2006, using the modified prospective method, and
    accordingly did not restate prior year financial statements. No
    modifications to outstanding stock options were made prior to
    the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). The valuation
    methodologies and assumptions in estimating the fair value of
    stock options granted in 2006 were similar to those used in
    estimating the fair value of stock options granted in 2005.
    Stock option compensation expense is recorded on a straight line
    basis over the appropriate vesting period, generally three
    years. For the fiscal year 2006, the Company recorded a total of
    $5.9 million ($3.7 million after tax) in its
    consolidated statements of income for stock option expense
    related to stock options awarded after the adoption of
    SFAS No. 123(R) and for stock options which were not
    vested by the date of adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). No
    compensation expense related to stock options was recorded in
    the consolidated statements of income for 2005 or in prior years
    since it was not required. During the fiscal year 2006, the
    total intrinsic value of stock options exercised was
    $22.1 million. As of December 31, 2006, there was
    $6.1 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to
    nonvested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over
    a weighted-average period of approximately 1.3 years. At
    December 31, 2006, the intrinsic value of stock options
    outstanding was $54.9 million and the intrinsic value of
    stock options exercisable was $44.2 million. The Company
    received $12.3 million, $10.0 million and
    $7.3 million from the exercise of stock options in 2006,
    2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company issues shares of common
    stock upon the exercise of stock options.

We used a combination of the historical volatility of
    Teledyne’s stock price and the implied volatility based on
    the price of traded options on Teledyne’s stock to
    calculate the expected volatility assumption to value stock
    options. We used our actual stock trading history since January
    2001 in the volatility calculation. The expected dividend yield
    is based on Teledyne’s practice of not paying dividends.
    The risk-free rate of return is based on the yield of
    U.S. Treasury Strips with terms equal to the expected life
    of the option as of the grant date. The expected life in years
    is based on historical actual stock option exercise experience.

SFAS No. 151

On January 2, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 151,
    “Inventory Costs — an amendment of ARB
    No. 43 Chapter 4” (SFAS No. 151).
    SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in ARB No. 43,
    Chapter 4, “Inventory Pricing,” to clarify the
    accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense,
    freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage).
    SFAS No. 151 requires that those items be recognized
    as current-period charges. The adoption of
    SFAS No. 151 did not have a material impact on the
    consolidated financial statements of the Company.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Hedging
    Activities

Teledyne has not utilized derivative financial instruments such
    as futures contracts, options and swaps, forward exchange
    contracts or interest rate swaps and futures during 2006 or 2005.

Supplemental
    Cash Flow Information

Teledyne’s cash payments for federal, foreign and state
    income taxes were $49.5 million for 2006 which is net of
    refunds of $0.1 million. Teledyne’s cash payments for
    federal, foreign and state income taxes were $34.9 million
    for 2005 which is net of refunds of $0.1 million.
    Teledyne’s cash payments for federal, foreign and state
    income taxes were $30.2 million for 2004 which is net of
    refunds of $40 thousand. Cash payments for interest and credit
    facility fees by Teledyne totaled approximately
    $6.2 million, $2.9 million and $1.2 million for
    2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Comprehensive
    Income

Teledyne’s comprehensive income consists of net income, the
    minimum pension liability adjustment, changes in the value of
    marketable equity securities and foreign currency translation
    adjustments. See Note 12 for a further discussion of the
    pension adjustment. Teledyne’s comprehensive income was
    $77.2 million, $47.3 million, and $30.7 million
    for the years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

The year-end components of accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss) are shown in the following table (in millions):

Balance at year-end




Foreign currency translation gains
    (losses)

$

1.1

$

(0.3

)

$

0.4

Minimum pension liability
    adjustment(a)

(43.4

)

(38.9

)

(22.7

)

Accumulated other comprehensive
    loss

$

(42.3

)

$

(39.2

)

$

(22.3

)

(a)

Net of deferred taxes of $27.9 million in 2006,
    $24.8 million in 2005 and $14.4 million in 2004.

Note 3.
    Business Combinations

On September 15, 2006, Teledyne Technologies through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc. acquired Rockwell
    Scientific for $167.5 million in cash, with the sellers
    retaining certain liabilities. At December 31, 2006, total
    cash paid, including other fees, net of $9.5 million in
    cash acquired was $158.6 million. The Company now operates
    as Teledyne Scientific & Imaging, LLC (“Scientific
    Company”). Headquartered in Thousand Oaks, California,
    Scientific Company is a leading provider of research and
    development services, as well as a leader in developing and
    manufacturing infrared and visible light imaging sensors for
    surveillance applications. Prior to the acquisition, Scientific
    Company was 50 percent owned by each of Rockwell
    Automation, Inc. and Rockwell Collins, Inc.

As part of the acquisition, Rockwell Automation and Rockwell
    Collins have entered into service agreements to continue funding
    research performed by Scientific Company. In addition, Teledyne
    has agreed to license certain intellectual property of
    Scientific Company to Rockwell Automation and Rockwell Collins.

Scientific Company’s results have been included since the
    date of the acquisition. The unaudited pro forma information
    below assumes that Teledyne Scientific Company had been acquired
    at the beginning of each fiscal year and includes the effect of
    estimated amortization of acquired identifiable intangible
    assets, increased depreciation expense for fixed assets, as well
    as increased interest expense on acquisition debt. This



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

pro forma financial information is presented for informational
    purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results
    of operations that actually would have resulted had the
    acquisition been in effect at the beginning of the respective
    periods. In addition, the pro forma results are not intended to
    be a projection of future results and do not reflect any
    operating efficiencies or cost savings that might be achievable.



(Unaudited in millions, except per share amounts)

Sales

$

1,519.2

$

1,322.6

Net income

$

77.1

$

59.8

Basic earnings per common share

$

2.23

$

1.80

Diluted earnings per common share

$

2.17

$

1.72

On August 16, 2006, Teledyne Technologies through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Instruments, Inc., acquired a majority
    interest (51%) in Ocean Design, Inc. (“ODI”) for
    approximately $30 million in cash. ODI, headquartered in
    Daytona Beach, Florida, is a leading manufacturer of subsea,
    wet-mateable electrical and fiber-optic interconnect systems
    used in offshore oil and gas production, oceanographic research,
    and military applications.

In September 2006, Teledyne Instruments acquired an additional
    9.9% of ownership in ODI for $5.8 million. At
    December 31, 2006, total cash paid, including the initial
    investment and subsequent share purchase, net of cash acquired
    was $34.4 million. The ODI stockholders will also have the
    option to sell their shares to Teledyne Instruments following
    the end of each quarter through the quarter ended March 31,
    2009, at a formula-determined price. All shares not sold to
    Teledyne Instruments following the quarter ended March 31,
    2009, will be purchased by Teledyne Instruments following the
    quarter ended June 30, 2009, at the same formula-determined
    price, at which time Teledyne Instruments will own all of the
    ODI shares held by the participating stockholders. At December
    31, 2006, the minority interest in ODI of $5.0 million is
    included in other long term liabilities on the balance sheet.

On August 16, 2006, Teledyne Technologies, through its
    subsidiary, Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc., acquired
    CollaborX, Inc. (“CollaborX”) for cash consideration
    of $17.5 million, less certain transaction-related
    expenses. At December 31, 2006, total cash paid, including
    other fees, net of cash acquired was $14.9 million.
    CollaborX, based in Colorado Springs, Colorado, provides
    government engineering services primarily to the U.S. Air
    Force and select joint military commands, such as the Missile
    Defense Agency, the United States Joint Forces Command and the
    United States Northern Command.

On April 28, 2006, Teledyne Wireless, Inc. completed the
    acquisition of certain assets of KW Microwave, a manufacturer of
    defense microwave components and subsystems, for
    $10.5 million in cash. Total cash paid, including the
    receipt of a $0.2 million purchase price adjustment, was
    $10.3 million. Principally located in Carlsbad, California,
    the business operates as Teledyne KW Microwave.
    KW Microwave designs and manufactures high performance
    microwave filters and integrated filter assemblies that are used
    in military electronic warfare, communication and navigation
    systems.

On January 27, 2006, we acquired all of the outstanding
    shares of Benthos for $17.50 per share in cash. The
    aggregate consideration for the outstanding Benthos shares was
    approximately $40.6 million (including payments for the
    settlement of outstanding stock options) or $32.2 million
    taking into consideration $8.4 million in cash acquired.
    Benthos, located in North Falmouth, Massachusetts, is a provider
    of oceanographic products used in port and harbor security
    services, military applications, energy exploration and
    oceanographic research.

Teledyne funded the acquisitions primarily from borrowings under
    its credit facility and cash on hand.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

In October 2005, Teledyne Technologies purchased certain assets
    of the microwave technical solutions business of Avnet, Inc. for
    $2.2 million in cash and consolidated these assets with
    Teledyne Cougar Inc.

In August 2005, Teledyne Technologies through its wholly-owned
    subsidiary, Teledyne Investment, Inc., completed the acquisition
    of all of the stock of RD Instruments, Inc. (“RDI”).
    The total purchase price was $36.0 million. Total cash
    paid, net of $0.4 million of cash acquired, was
    $32.0 million. In connection with the acquisition Teledyne
    Technologies assumed debt obligations of $2.0 million. In
    addition, Teledyne Technologies recorded a $3.6 million
    liability to be paid to the seller in August 2007. RDI designs
    and manufactures acoustic Doppler instrumentation. The business
    operates as Teledyne RD Instruments, Inc. and is based in Poway,
    California. Teledyne Technologies funded the acquisition with
    cash on hand and borrowings under its credit facilities. In the
    fourth quarter of 2005, Teledyne Technologies purchased the
    minority interest of a subsidiary owned by RDI for a cash
    payment of $1.7 million.

In August 2005, Teledyne Technologies completed the sale of its
    SWIFT

tm

assets for net proceeds of $2.9 million. These assets were
    acquired as part of the Isco acquisition made in June 2004. No
    gain was recorded on the sale and goodwill was reduced by
    $2.7 million.

In June 2005, Teledyne Technologies through its wholly-owned
    subsidiary, Teledyne Investment, Inc., completed the acquisition
    of all of the stock of Cougar Components Corporation
    (“Cougar”) for a purchase price of $26.5 million.
    In the third quarter Teledyne Technologies also paid a
    $0.6 million purchase price adjustment. In connection with
    the acquisition, Teledyne Technologies assumed debt obligations
    of $3.8 million and acquired cash and cash equivalents of
    $3.3 million. In addition, Teledyne Technologies recorded
    contingent payments totaling $1.6 million to be paid to the
    seller by Teledyne Technologies in specified increments as
    certain conditions are satisfied through June 2007. Total cash
    paid, net of $3.3 million of cash acquired, was
    $22.5 million. Cougar designs and manufactures RF and
    microwave cascadable amplifiers and subsystems for signal
    processing equipment. Principally located in Sunnyvale,
    California, the business operates as Teledyne Cougar, Inc., a
    business unit of Teledyne Microwave. Teledyne Technologies
    funded the acquisition primarily from borrowings under its
    $280.0 million credit facility.

In March 2005, Teledyne Technologies sold the assets of

STIP-Isco,

a
    German subsidiary. Teledyne Technologies received
    $5.6 million in connection with the sale. An additional
    $0.4 million is held in escrow which should be released to
    Teledyne Technologies in specified increments as certain
    conditions are satisfied through February 2007. This business
    was acquired as part of the Isco acquisition made in June 2004.
    No gain was recorded on the sale and goodwill was reduced by
    $2.4 million accordingly.

In October 2004, Teledyne, through its wholly-owned subsidiary
    Teledyne Wireless, Inc., acquired the defense electronics
    business of Celeritek, Inc. (“Celeritek”) for
    $32.7 million in cash, which includes the receipt of a
    $0.3 million purchase price adjustment. Celeritek’s
    defense electronics business designs and manufactures gallium
    arsenide-based radio frequency and microwave components and
    subassemblies for electronic warfare, radar and other military
    applications. Teledyne relocated the business from
    Santa Clara, California and consolidated it with
    Teledyne’s operations in Mountain View, California.

In July 2004, Teledyne Investment, Inc., completed the
    acquisition of Reynolds Industries, Incorporated
    (“Reynolds”), headquartered in Los Angeles,
    California, for total consideration of $41.2 million which
    includes the payment of a purchase price adjustment and is net
    of cash acquired. Reynolds is a supplier of specialized high
    voltage connectors and subassemblies for defense, aerospace and
    industrial applications, as well as unique pilot helmet mounted
    display components and subsystems.

In June 2004, Teledyne completed the acquisition of the stock of
    Isco, Inc. (“Isco”) for $16.00 per share in cash
    or $93.8 million net of cash acquired. Teledyne sold
    $17.3 million of marketable securities acquired as part of
    the Isco acquisition and applied the proceeds against debt.
    Isco, located in Lincoln, Nebraska, is a producer of water
    quality monitoring products such as wastewater samplers and open
    channel flow meters.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Isco’s liquid chromatography customers include
    pharmaceutical laboratories involved in drug discovery and
    development. Isco also manufactures chemical separation
    instruments for industrial and research use.

In February 2004, Teledyne Tekmar Company acquired assets of
    Leeman Labs, Inc. (“Leeman”), located in Hudson, New
    Hampshire, for $8.1 million in cash, which includes a
    payment of a $0.1 million purchase price adjustment.
    Leeman’s product lines augment Teledyne’s existing
    laboratory and continuous monitoring instruments used in
    environmental applications.

On December 31, 2003, which is part of Teledyne’s 2004
    fiscal year, Teledyne, through its wholly-owned subsidiary,
    Teledyne Wireless, Inc., acquired certain assets of the
    Filtronic Solid State (“Solid State”) business from
    Filtronic plc for $12.0 million in cash. Solid State
    designs and manufactures customized microwave subassemblies for
    electronic warfare, radar and other military applications. The
    business, which operates as Teledyne Microwave, was relocated
    from Santa Clara, California to Teledyne’s operations
    in Mountain View, California.

In June 2003, Teledyne acquired from Spirent plc its Aviation
    Information Solutions businesses (collectively “AIS”),
    which include Spirent Systems Wichita, Inc., Spirent
    Systems — Aerospace Solutions (Ottawa) Limited and
    assets of United Kingdom-based The Flight Data Company Limited,
    for $6.4 million in cash, which is net of a purchase price
    adjustment. AIS designs and manufactures aerospace data
    acquisition devices, networking products and flight deck and
    cabin displays. The acquisition of AIS provided Teledyne with
    advanced airborne file servers, data analysis software and
    information displays that are highly synergistic with Teledyne
    Controls’ data acquisition and communication systems that
    enhance flight reliability and maintenance efficiency for
    airline and airfreight customers.

In May 2003, Teledyne acquired Tekmar Company, a wholly-owned
    subsidiary of Emerson Electric Co., for $13.5 million in
    cash. Tekmar Company, also known as Tekmar-Dohrmann, is a
    manufacturer of gas chromatography introduction systems and
    automated total organic carbon analyzers. Tekmar Company,
    located in Mason, Ohio, became a business unit of Teledyne
    Instruments, a group of electronic instrumentation businesses
    within Teledyne’s Electronics and Communications business
    segment. Tekmar Company manufactures instruments that automate
    the preparation and concentration of drinking water and
    wastewater samples for the analysis of volatile organic
    compounds in gas chromatographs. It also provides laboratory
    analytical systems for the detection of total organic carbon.

In September 2002, Teledyne acquired Monitor Labs, Incorporated
    from Spirent plc for $24.0 million in cash. Monitor Labs is
    a supplier of environmental monitoring instrumentation for the
    detection, measurement and reporting of air pollutants with
    locations in Englewood, Colorado and Gibsonia, Pennsylvania.

Each of the above acquisitions are part of the Electronics and
    Communications segment and are included in the consolidated
    financial statements since the date of each respective
    acquisition.

Note 4.  Financial
    Instruments

Teledyne values financial instruments as required by
    SFAS No. 107 — “Disclosures about Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments,” as amended. The carrying
    amounts of cash and cash equivalents approximate fair value
    because of the short maturity of those instruments. Teledyne
    estimates the fair value of its long-term debt based on the
    quoted market prices for debt of similar rating and similar
    maturity and at comparable interest rates. The estimated fair
    value of Teledyne’s long-term debt at December 31,
    2006 approximated the carrying value of $226.9 million. The
    estimated fair value of Teledyne’s long-term debt at
    January 1, 2006 approximated the carrying value of
    $43.6 million. The estimated fair value of Teledyne’s
    long-term debt at January 2, 2005 approximated the carrying
    value of $70.6 million.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The carrying value of other on-balance-sheet financial
    instruments approximates fair value, and the cost, if any, to
    terminate off-balance sheet financial instruments (primarily
    letters of credit) is not significant.

Note 5.  Accounts
    Receivable

Accounts receivable are summarized as follows (in millions):

Balance at year-end



U.S. Government and prime
    contractors contract receivables:

Billed receivables

$

42.4

$

30.5

Unbilled receivables

32.4

21.8

Commercial and other receivables

154.0

117.4

228.8

169.7

Reserve for doubtful accounts

(2.7

)

(2.1

)

Total accounts receivable,
    net

$

226.1

$

167.6

The billed contract receivables from the U.S. Government
    and prime contractors contain $24.3 million and
    $17.3 million at December 31, 2006 and January 1,
    2006, respectively, due to long-term contracts. The unbilled
    contract receivables from the U.S. Government and prime
    contractors contain $22.1 million and $20.4 million at
    December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006, respectively,
    due to long-term contracts.

Unbilled contract receivables represent accumulated costs and
    profits earned but not yet billed to customers. The Company
    believes that substantially all such amounts will be billed and
    collected within one year.

Note 6.  Inventories

Inventories consisted of the following (in millions):

Balance at year-end



Raw materials and supplies

$

59.3

$

44.7

Work in process

106.2

92.1

Finished goods

15.9

12.2

Total inventories at cost, net

181.4

149.0

LIFO reserve

(24.4

)

(23.7

)

Progress payments

(1.2

)

(8.0

)

Total inventories,
    net

$

155.8

$

117.3

Inventories at cost, determined on the

last-in,

first-out method were $110.9 million at December 31,
    2006 and $97.7 million at January 1, 2006. The
    remainder of the inventories valued at cost, using the

first-in,

first-out method, were $70.5 million at December 31,
    2006 and $51.3 million at January 1, 2006.

In 2006, the Company recorded LIFO expense of $0.7 million
    which resulted from higher inventory levels. In 2005, the
    Company recorded LIFO expense of $2.1 million which
    resulted from higher inventory levels and the effect of the
    current year LIFO index. In 2004, the Company recorded LIFO
    expense of $0.5 million which resulted from higher
    inventory levels.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Total inventories at current cost were net of reserves for
    excess, slow moving and obsolete inventory of $22.8 million
    and $18.7 million at December 31, 2006 and
    January 1, 2006, respectively. The reserve for excess, slow
    moving and obsolete inventory at December 31, 2006
    reflected reserves of $2.7 million acquired as part of
    acquisitions made in 2006.

Inventories, before progress payments, related to long-term
    contracts were $14.8 million and $11.7 million at
    December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006, respectively.
    Progress payments related to long-term contracts were
    $7.6 million and $4.9 million at December 31,
    2006 and January 1, 2006, respectively.

Under the contractual arrangements by which progress payments
    are received, the customer has an ownership right in the
    inventories associated with specific contracts.

Note 7.  Supplemental
    Balance Sheet Information

Property, plant and equipment were as follows (in millions):

Balance at year-end



Land

$

19.4

$

9.3

Buildings

80.7

58.7

Equipment and software

267.8

210.1

367.9

278.1

Accumulated depreciation and
    amortization

(203.1

)

(181.4

)

Total property, plant and
    equipment, net

$

164.8

$

96.7

Other long-term assets included amounts related to deferred
    compensation of $19.5 million and $15.4 million at
    December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006, respectively.
    Accrued liabilities included salaries and wages and other
    related compensation reserves of $60.1 million and
    $48.1 million at December 31, 2006 and January 1,
    2006, respectively. Accrued liabilities also included customer
    related deposits and credits of $19.7 million and
    $14.4 million at December 31, 2006 and January 1,
    2006, respectively. Other long-term liabilities included
    aircraft product liability reserves of $44.4 million and
    $33.9 million at December 31, 2006 and January 1,
    2006, respectively and deferred compensation liabilities of
    $19.3 million and $15.3 million at December 31,
    2006 and January 1, 2006, respectively. Other long-term
    liabilities also included reserves for self-insurance,
    environmental liabilities and the long-term portion of
    compensation reserves.

Note 8.  Stockholders’
    Equity

The following is an analysis of Teledyne’s common stock
    share activity:

Balance, December 29,

32,266,578

Stock options exercised and other

645,784

Balance, January 2,

32,912,362

Stock options exercised and other

771,309

Balance, January 1,

33,683,671

Stock options exercised and other

1,036,029

Balance, December 31,

34,719,700



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Shares issued in all three fiscal years include stock options
    exercised as well as shares issued under certain compensation
    plans.

Preferred
    Stock

Authorized preferred stock may be issued with designations,
    powers and preferences designated by the Board of Directors.
    There were no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding in
    2006, 2005 or 2004.

Stockholder
    Rights Plan

On November 12, 1999, the Company’s Board of Directors
    unanimously adopted a stockholder rights plan under which
    preferred share purchase rights were distributed as a dividend
    on each share of Teledyne’s Common Stock distributed to
    ATI’s stockholders in connection with the spin-off and each
    share to become outstanding between the effective date of the
    spin-off and the earliest of the distribution date, redemption
    date and final expiration date. The rights will be exercisable
    only if a person or group acquires 15 percent or more of
    the Company’s Common Stock or announces a tender offer, the
    consummation of which would result in ownership by a person or
    group of 15 percent or more of the Common Stock. Each right
    will entitle stockholders to then buy one-hundredth of a share
    of a new series of junior participating preferred stock at an
    exercise price of $60 per share. There are
    1,250,000 shares of Series A Junior Participating
    Preferred Stock authorized for issuance under the plan. The
    record date for the distribution was the close of business of
    November 22, 1999. The rights will expire on
    November 12, 2009, subject to earlier redemption or
    exchange by Teledyne as described in the plan. The rights
    distribution is not taxable to stockholders.

Stock
    Incentive Plan

ATI sponsored an incentive plan that provided for ATI stock
    option awards to officers and key employees. Teledyne had
    officers and key employees that participated in this plan prior
    to the spin-off. In connection with the spin-off, outstanding
    stock options held by Teledyne’s employees were converted
    into options to purchase Teledyne’s Common Stock. The
    number of shares and the exercise price of each ATI option that
    was converted to a Teledyne option was based upon a formula
    designed to preserve the inherent economic value, vesting and
    term provisions of such ATI options as of the Distribution Date.
    The exchange ratio and fair market value of the Teledyne’s
    Common Stock, upon active trading, also impacted the number of
    options issued to Teledyne’s employees.

Teledyne has established its own long-term incentive plans which
    provide its Board of Directors the flexibility to grant
    restricted stock, performance shares, non-qualified stock
    options, incentive stock options and stock appreciation rights
    to officers and employees of Teledyne. Stock options become
    exercisable in one-third increments on the first, second and
    third anniversary of the grant and have a maximum 10 year
    life.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Stock option transactions for Teledyne’s employee stock
    option plans are summarized as follows:




Weighted

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Average

Exercise

Exercise

Exercise

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Beginning balance

3,039,311

$

16.82

3,254,454

$

14.92

3,364,237

$

14.12

Granted

466,063

$

32.36

451,313

$

26.99

462,859

$

19.28

Exercised

(942,196

)

$

13.02

(659,906

)

$

14.46

(538,552

)

$

13.35

Canceled or expired

(25,619

)

$

27.76

(6,550

)

$

20.73

(34,090

)

$

18.76

Ending balance

2,537,559

$

20.97

3,039,311

$

16.82

3,254,454

$

14.92

Options exercisable at
    year-end

1,649,681

$

16.92

2,048,864

$

14.61

2,331,729

$

14.28

The following table provides certain information with respect to
    stock options outstanding and stock options exercisable at
    December 31, 2006 under the employee stock option plans:

Stock Options Outstanding

Stock Options Exercisable

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Exercise

Remaining

Exercise

Range of Exercise Prices

Shares

Price

Life

Shares

Price

$ 8.42 −
    $ 9.99

105,000

$

9.67

3.2

105,000

$

9.67

$10.00 − $19.99

1,537,942

$

16.64

5.1

1,392,757

$

16.37

$20.00 − $29.99

432,452

$

26.90

8.1

146,207

$

26.71

$30.00 − $36.10

462,165

$

32.28

9.1

5,717

$

33.01

2,537,559

$

20.97

6.3

1,649,681

$

16.92

Non-Employee
    Director Stock Compensation Plan

Teledyne also sponsors a stock plan for non-employee directors
    pursuant to which non-employee directors receive annual stock
    options and may receive stock or stock options in lieu of their
    respective retainer and meeting fees. The options become
    exercisable one year after issuance and have a maximum
    10 year life.

Stock option transactions for Teledyne’s non-employee
    director stock option plan are summarized as follows:




Weighted

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Average

Exercise

Exercise

Exercise

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Beginning balance

246,412

$

16.33

228,012

$

14.01

189,348

$

13.11

Granted

55,464

$

32.52

48,400

$

26.48

47,503

$

17.42

Exercised

(690

)

$

10.86

(30,000

)

$

15.07

(8,839

)

$

12.96

Ending balance

301,186

$

19.32

246,412

$

16.33

228,012

$

14.01

Options exercisable at
    year-end

247,474

$

16.38

198,012

$

13.85

180,509

$

13.11



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following table provides certain information with respect to
    stock options outstanding and stock options exercisable at
    December 31, 2006 under the non-employee director stock
    option plan:

Stock Options Outstanding

Stock Options Exercisable

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Exercise

Remaining

Exercise

Range of Exercise Prices

Shares

Price

Life

Shares

Price

$ 6.31 −
    $ 9.99

32,776

$

8.90

4.6

32,776

$

8.90

$10.00 − $19.99

175,944

$

14.92

6.0

169,124

$

14.92

$20.00 − $29.99

51,570

$

26.90

8.4

45,574

$

27.14

$30.00 − $39.99

38,896

$

35.99

9.3

—

—

$40.00 − $42.10

2,000

$

42.10

9.8

—

—

301,186

$

19.32

6.7

247,474

$

16.38

Performance
    Share Plan

Teledyne’s Performance Share Plan (“PSP”)
    provides grants of performance share units, which key officers
    and executives may earn if Teledyne meets specified performance
    objectives over a three-year period. Awards are payable in cash
    and shares. Awards are generally paid to the participants in
    three annual installments after the end of the performance cycle
    so long as they remain employed by Teledyne (with exceptions for
    retirement, disability and death).

In January 2006, the performance cycle for the three-year period
    ending December 28, 2008 was set. Based on target
    performance over the three-year period, an aggregate of
    87,416 shares are expected to be issued in three equal
    installments during 2009, 2010 and 2011.

In December 2002, the performance cycle for the three-year
    period ending January 1, 2006 was set. Based on actual
    performance over the three-year period, an aggregate of
    173,550 shares are expected to be issued in two equal
    installments during 2007 and 2008.

Prior to 2006, the calculated expense for each plan year was
    based on the expected cash payout and the expected shares to be
    issued valued at the share price at the inception of the plan
    performance cycle. Under SFAS No. 123(R), the calculated
    expense for each plan year is also based on the expected cash
    payout and expected shares to be issued, except for the shares
    that can be issued based on a market based comparison. The
    expense was calculated using the requirements of SFAS
    No. 123(R). The expected expense for these shares was
    calculated using a Monte-Carlo type simulation which takes into
    consideration several factors including volatility, risk free
    interest rates and correlation of Teledyne’s stock price
    with the comparator, the Russell 2000 Index. No adjustment
    to the calculated expense for the shares issued based on a
    market based comparison will be made regardless of actual
    performance.

Restricted
    Stock Award Program

Under Teledyne’s restricted stock award program selected
    officers and key executives receive a grant of stock equal to
    30% of the participant’s annual base salary at the date of
    grant. The Restricted Stock is subject to transfer and
    forfeiture restrictions during an applicable “restricted
    period”. The restrictions have both time-based and
    performance-based components. The restricted period expires (and
    the restrictions lapse) on the third anniversary of the date of
    grant, subject to the achievement of stated performance
    objectives over a specified three-year performance period. If
    employment is terminated (other than via death, retirement or
    disability) during the restricted period, stock is forfeited.
    Under the 2004 to 2006 and 2005 to 2007 and 2006 to 2008
    performance periods an aggregate of 130,450 shares of
    restricted stock were issued and outstanding at year-end 2006.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following table summarizes Teledyne’s restricted stock
    activity:

Weighted

Shares

average price

Balance, December 29,

116,816

$

14.55

Granted

52,368

$

19.18

Balance, January 2,

169,184

$

15.99

Granted

39,270

$

28.54

Issued

(51,290

)

$

16.41

Balance, January 1,

157,164

$

18.98

Granted

38,812

$

30.78

Issued

(65,526

)

$

13.10

Balance, December 31,

130,450

$

25.45

Prior to 2006, the calculated expense for each plan year was
    based on the expected number of shares to be issued valued at
    the share price at the grant inception date. This calculated
    expense was adjusted downward if performance conditions were not
    expected to be met. Under SFAS No. 123(R), the calculated
    expense for each plan year is based on a Monte-Carlo type
    simulation which takes into consideration several factors
    including volatility, risk free interest rates and the
    correlation of Teledyne’s stock price with the comparator,
    the Russell 2000 Index. No adjustment to the calculated expense
    will be made regardless of actual performance.

Note 9.  Related
    Party Transactions

Prior to and in connection with the spin-off, Teledyne and ATI
    entered into agreements providing for the separation of the
    companies and governing various relationships for separating
    employee benefits and tax obligations, indemnification and
    transition services. The Company’s principal spin-off
    requirements, including the requirement to ensure a favorable
    tax treatment, have been satisfied. One of Teledyne’s
    directors continues to serve on ATI’s board.

The Company’s Chairman, President and Chief Executive
    Officer is a director of Mellon Financial Corporation, as is one
    of the Company’s other directors. Another of its directors
    is a former chief executive officer and director of Mellon
    Financial Corporation. Mellon Bank, N.A. is one of ten lenders
    under the Company’s $400.0 million credit facility,
    having committed up to $45.0 million under the facility.
    Mellon Bank, N.A. also provides cash management services and an
    uncommitted $5.0 million line of credit. Mellon Bank, N.A.
    serves as trustee under the Company’s pension plan and
    through its affiliates and subsidiaries provides asset
    management and transition services for the plan. Mellon Investor
    Services LLC serves as our transfer agent and registrar, as well
    as agent under the Company’s stockholders’ rights plan.

Note 10.  Long-Term
    Debt

At December 31, 2006, Teledyne had $226.9 million in
    long-term debt outstanding. At January 1, 2006, Teledyne
    had $43.6 million in long-term debt outstanding.

Effective July 14, 2006, the Company amended and restated
    its $280.0 million credit facility. The amended and
    restated credit facility has lender commitments of
    $400.0 million and expires in July 2011. Excluding interest
    and fees, no payments are due under the amended and restated
    credit facility until it



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

matures. At year-end 2006, we had $174.7 million of
    available committed credit under the credit facility, which can
    be utilized, as needed, for daily operating and periodic cash
    needs, including acquisitions. Borrowings under the credit
    facility bear interest, at our option, at a rate based on either
    a defined base rate or the London Interbank Offered Rate
    (“LIBOR”), plus applicable margins. The credit
    agreement also provides for facility fees that vary between
    0.10% and 0.25% of the credit line, depending on our
    consolidated leverage ratio as calculated from time to time. The
    credit agreement requires the Company to comply with various
    financial and operating covenants, including maintaining certain
    consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios, as well as
    minimum net worth levels and limits on acquired debt. We also
    have two $5.0 million uncommitted credit lines available.
    These credit lines are utilized, as needed, for periodic cash
    needs. Total debt at year-end 2006 includes $216.9 million
    outstanding under the $400.0 million credit facility,
    $10.0 million outstanding under the two $5.0 million
    uncommitted bank facilities and $1.2 million in other debt.
    The amounts outstanding under the two uncommitted bank
    facilities are classified as long term on the balance sheet as
    the Company has the ability and the intent to repay these using
    its $400.0 million credit facility, if necessary. The
    Company also has a $3.9 million capital lease, of which
    $0.1 million is current. At year-end 2006, Teledyne had
    $8.4 million in outstanding letters of credit.

Total interest expense including credit facility fees and other
    bank charges was $7.7 million in 2006, $3.8 million in
    2005 and $2.2 million in 2004.

At December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006, long-term
    debt consisted of the following (in millions):



Revolving credit and bank
    facilities, weighted average 6.02% at
    December 31, 2006

$

226.9

$

43.5

Other unsecured debt due through
    2008 at varying rates

1.2

0.2

Total

228.1

43.7

Less:

Current portion

(1.2

)

(0.1

)

Total long-term debt

$

226.9

$

43.6

At December 31, 2006, future minimum principal payments on
    long-term debt subsequent to December 31, 2006 were as
    follows: $1.2 million in 2007 and $226.9 million in
    2011.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 11.  Income
    Taxes

Provision for income taxes from continuing operations was as
    follows (in millions):




Current

Federal

$

42.8

$

35.2

$

26.7

State

8.7

6.8

4.6

Foreign

1.6

1.4

0.6

Total current

53.1

43.4

31.9

Deferred

Federal

(9.3

)

(4.0

)

(6.1

)

State

(2.4

)

(0.6

)

0.5

Total deferred

(11.7

)

(4.6

)

(5.6

)

Provision for income
    taxes

$

41.4

$

38.8

$

26.3

Income before income taxes included income from domestic
    operations of $115.4 million for 2006, $99.5 million
    for 2005 and $66.5 million for 2004. In 2006, Teledyne
    reversed income tax contingency reserves of $3.3 million.
    These reserves were determined to be no longer needed due to the
    expiration of applicable statutes of limitations. The following
    is a reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to
    the actual effective income tax rate:




U.S. federal statutory tax
    rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

State and local taxes, net of
    federal benefit

3.9

3.7

3.8

Reserve reversal, net

(2.7

)

—

(0.3

)

Extraterritorial income exclusion

(1.4

)

(1.2

)

(2.1

)

Other

(0.8

)

0.1

2.3

Effective income tax rate

34.0

%

37.6

%

38.7

%

Deferred income taxes result from temporary differences in the
    recognition of income and expense for financial and income tax
    reporting purposes, and differences between the fair value of
    assets acquired in business combinations accounted for as
    purchases for financial reporting purposes and their
    corresponding tax bases. Deferred income taxes represent future
    tax benefits or costs to be recognized when those temporary
    differences reverse. A valuation allowance of $0.7 million
    exists against deferred tax assets for 2006. The reduction in
    the valuation allowance from 2005 was due to the utilization of
    net operating loss carryforward amounts. A valuation allowance
    of $1.4 million exists against deferred tax assets for
    2005. Of this amount, $0.6 million relates to acquisitions
    and if not used would result in an adjustment of goodwill. The
    reduction in the valuation allowance from 2004 was due to the
    utilization of net operating loss carryforward amounts. A
    valuation allowance of $3.3 million exists against deferred
    tax assets for 2004. Of this amount, $2.1 million relates
    to acquisitions and if not used would result in an adjustment of
    goodwill.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The categories of assets and liabilities that have resulted in
    differences in the timing of the recognition of income and
    expense were as follows (in millions):



Deferred income tax assets:

Current

Reserves

$

17.7

$

12.5

Inventory valuation

8.4

7.6

Accrued vacation

8.6

6.7

Long-term

Postretirement benefits other than
    pensions

10.4

8.8

Reserves

23.8

18.3

Deferred compensation and other
    benefit plans

20.8

27.1

Total deferred income tax assets

89.7

81.0

Deferred income tax liabilities:

Current

Other items

0.3

1.4

Long-term

Property, plant and equipment
    differences

6.6

8.6

Other items

9.8

2.7

Total deferred income tax
    liabilities

16.7

12.7

Net deferred income tax asset

$

73.0

$

68.3

Deferred tax expense includes tax amounts related to reserves of
    $4.8 million, $4.4 million and $4.8 million for
    2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Additional paid in capital
    was credited $8.4 million in 2006, $5.2 million in
    2005 and $2.4 million in 2004 for the tax benefit resulting
    from the exercise of stock options.

Note 12.  Pension
    Plans and Postretirement Benefits

Prior to the spin-off, certain Teledyne’s employees
    participated in the defined benefit plan sponsored by ATI.
    Benefits under the defined benefit plan are generally based on
    years of service

and/or

final
    average pay. ATI funded the pension plan in accordance with the
    requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
    1974, as amended, and the Internal Revenue Code.

As of the spin-off date, Teledyne assumed the existing defined
    benefit plan obligations for all of Teledyne’s employees,
    both active and inactive, at its companies that perform
    government contract work and for Teledyne’s active
    employees at its companies that do not perform government
    contract work. ATI transferred pension assets to fund the new
    Teledyne’s defined benefit pension plan.

Teledyne’s FAS 87 pension expense was
    $15.4 million in 2006 of which $10.5 million was
    recoverable in accordance with U.S. Government Cost
    Accounting Standards (“CAS”) from certain government
    contracts compared with FAS 87 pension expense of
    $12.7 million in 2005 of which $9.3 million was
    recoverable in accordance with CAS and FAS 87 pension
    expense of $8.7 million in 2004 of which $0.5 million
    was recoverable in accordance with CAS. Teledyne made pretax
    contributions to its pension plans of $20.9 million in 2006
    and $15.5 million in 2005 prior to any recovery from the
    U.S. Government. The Company anticipates



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

making total contributions, before any recovery from the
    U.S. Government, of approximately $6.6 million to its
    pension plans in 2007.

As of the spin-off date, Teledyne also participated in a 401(k)
    plan that was open to all full time U.S. employees and was
    sponsored by ATI. Teledyne established its own 401(k) plan
    effective April 1, 2000. As of January 1, 2004,
    non-union new hires participate in an enhanced defined
    contribution plan as opposed to the Company’s existing
    defined benefit plan. The Company’s contribution associated
    with these 401(k) plans were $5.1 million,
    $4.2 million and $3.2 million, for 2006, 2005 and
    2004, respectively.

The Company sponsors several postretirement defined benefit
    plans covering certain salaried and hourly employees. The plans
    provide health care and life insurance benefits for certain
    eligible retirees.

The following table sets forth the components of net period
    pension benefit (income) expense for Teledyne’s defined
    benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for 2006,
    2005 and 2004 (in millions):

Pension Benefits

Postretirement Benefits







Service cost — benefits
    earned during the period

$

14.9

$

13.9

$

12.8

$

0.1

$

—

$

0.1

Interest cost on benefit obligation

32.2

29.7

28.7

1.3

1.1

1.1

Expected return on plan assets

(38.2

)

(34.6

)

(35.0

)

—

—

—

Amortization of prior service cost

2.0

2.0

2.1

—

—

—

Recognized actuarial (gain) loss

4.5

1.7

0.1

(0.6

)

(0.8

)

(1.1

)

Net periodic benefit (income)
    expense

$

15.4

$

12.7

$

8.7

$

0.8

$

0.3

$

0.1

The following table sets forth the reconciliation of the
    beginning and ending balances of the benefit obligation of the
    defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans (in
    millions):

Pension Benefits

Postretirement Benefits





Changes in benefit
    obligation:

Benefit obligation —
    beginning of year

$

524.5

$

488.8

$

19.5

$

18.0

Service cost — benefits
    earned during the period

14.9

13.9

0.1

—

Interest cost on projected benefit
    obligation

32.2

29.7

1.3

1.1

Actuarial (gain) loss

(0.6

)

14.9

(1.7

)

2.4

Benefits paid

(25.8

)

(22.8

)

(2.0

)

(2.0

)

Termination benefits

(1.3

)

—

—

—

Business combination

85.1

—

13.6

—

Plan amendments

0.2

—

(4.0

)

—

Benefit obligation — end
    of year

$

629.2

$

524.5

$

26.8

$

19.5

Accumulated benefit
    obligation — end of year

$

573.1

$

479.6

The measurement date for the Company’s pension and
    postretirement plans is December 31.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following table presents the estimated future benefit
    payments for the Company’s pension and postretirement plans
    (in millions):

Pension

Postretirement

Plan

Benefit Plan


$

31.5

$

2.4


33.3

2.5


35.1

2.5


37.2

2.4


39.0

2.4

2012 — 2016

226.4

11.1

Total

$

402.5

$

23.3

The following tables set forth the reconciliation of the
    beginning and ending balances of the fair value of plan assets
    for Teledyne’s defined benefit pension plans and the
    percentage of year-end market value by asset class (in millions):

Pension Benefits



Changes in plan
    assets:

Fair value of plan
    assets — beginning of year

$

409.3

$

398.4

Actual return on plan assets

65.8

18.2

Employer contribution —
    defined benefit plan

18.8

14.8

Employer contribution —
    other benefit plans

2.1

0.7

Business combination

118.4

—

Benefits paid

(27.1

)

(22.8

)

Fair value of plan
    assets — end of year

$

587.3

$

409.3

Plan Assets

% to Total



Equity instruments

$

70.8

%

$

67.5

%

Domestic fixed income instruments

28.4

%

31.5

%

Cash

0.8

%

1.0

%

Total

$

100.0

%

$

100.0

%

The Company has an active management policy for a portion of its
    pension assets. The investment policy includes a target
    allocation percentage of 70% in equity instruments and 30% in
    domestic fixed income instruments. The balance in equity
    instruments can range from 65% to 75% before rebalancing is
    required under the Company’s policy. The expected long-term
    rate of return on plan assets is reviewed annually, taking into
    consideration the Company’s asset allocation, historical
    returns on the types of assets held, and the current economic
    environment.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following assumptions were used to determine the benefit
    obligation and the net benefit cost:

For the year




Weighted average discount rate

6.00

%

6.25

%

6.5

%

Weighted average increase in
    future compensation levels

3.25

%

3.25

%

3.5

%

Expected weighted-average
    long-term rate of return

8.5

%

8.5

%

8.5

%

The Company is projecting a long-term rate of return on plan
    assets of 8.5% in 2007. The discount rate used in determining
    the benefit obligations is expected to be 6.00% in 2007 and the
    expected weighted average increase in future compensation levels
    is 3.25%.

The following table sets forth the funded status and amounts
    recognized in Teledyne’s consolidated balance sheets for
    the pension and postretirement plans at year-end 2006 and 2005
    (in millions):

Pension Benefits

Postretirement Benefits





Funded status

$

(41.9

)

$

(115.2

)

$

(26.8

)

$

(19.5

)

Unrecognized prior service cost

3.6

5.3

(3.9

)

—

Unrecognized net (gain) loss

75.7

108.5

(4.1

)

(3.0

)

Prepaid (accrued) benefit cost

$

37.4

$

(1.4

)

$

(34.8

)

$

(22.5

)

Accrued pension obligation
    (long-term)

$

(38.4

)

$

(68.2

)

$

—

$

—

Accrued pension obligation
    (short-term)

(0.8

)

—

—

—

Accrued postretirement benefits
    (long-term)

—

—

(24.4

)

(22.5

)

Accrued postretirement benefits
    (short-term)

—

—

(2.4

)

—

Accumulated other comprehensive
    income

79.3

63.7

(8.0

)

—

Intangible pension asset

—

5.3

—

—

Other liabilities

(2.7

)

(2.2

)

—

—

Net amount recognized

$

37.4

$

(1.4

)

$

(34.8

)

$

(22.5

)

Effective for year end 2006, SFAS No. 158
    “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
    Other Postretirement Plans — An Amendment of FASB
    Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R),” requires
    companies to recognize as a component of other comprehensive
    income, net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs
    or credits that arise during the period but are not recognized
    as components of net periodic benefit cost pursuant to FASB
    Statement No. 87, “Employers’ Accounting for
    Pensions”, or No. 106, “Employers’
    Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than
    Pensions.” In accordance with the requirements of
    SFAS No. 158, the Company has a $43.4 million
    non-cash reduction to stockholders’ equity and a long-term
    additional liability of $71.3 million at year-end 2006.
    Prior to 2006, SFAS No. 87, “Employers’
    Accounting for Pensions,” requires that a minimum benefit
    plan liability be recorded if the value of pension assets is
    less than the accumulated pension benefit obligation. In
    accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 87, the
    Company had a $38.9 million non-cash reduction to
    stockholders’ equity, a long-term intangible asset of
    $5.3 million and a long-term additional pension liability
    of $69.0 million at year-end 2005. The adjustments to
    equity did not affect net income and are recorded net of
    deferred taxes.

At December 31, 2006, the amounts in the minimum pension
    liability adjustment that have not yet been recognized as
    components of net periodic benefit cost for the pension plans
    are: net loss $75.7 million and net prior service cost
    $3.6 million. At December 31, 2006, the amounts in the
    minimum pension liability



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

adjustment that have not yet been recognized as components of
    net periodic benefit income for the retiree medical plans are:
    net gain $4.1 million and net prior service cost
    $3.9 million.

At December 31, 2006, the estimated amounts of the minimum
    pension liability adjustment that are expected to be recognized
    as components of net periodic benefit cost during 2007 for the
    pension plans are: net loss $3.8 million and net prior
    service cost $1.7 million. At December 31, 2006, the
    estimated amounts in the minimum pension liability expected to
    be recognized as components of net periodic benefit income
    during 2007 for the retiree medical plans are: net gain
    $0.7 million and net prior service cost $0.5 million.

The annual assumed rate of increase in the per capita cost of
    covered benefits (the health care cost trend rate) for health
    care plans was 10% in 2006 and was assumed to decrease to 5% by
    the year 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. Assumed
    health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the
    amounts reported for the health care plans. A one percentage
    point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would
    result in an increase in the annual service and interest costs
    by $0.2 million for 2006 and would result in an increase in
    the postretirement benefit obligation by $1.9 million at
    December 31, 2006. A one percentage point decrease in the
    assumed health care cost trend rates would result in a decrease
    in the annual service and interest costs by $0.1 million
    for 2006 and would result in a decrease in the postretirement
    benefit obligation by $1.7 million at December 31,
    2006.

The Company sponsors retiree medical programs for certain of its
    locations. In May 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position

No. 106-2,

“Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the
    Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
    2003” (“FSP

106-2”).

FSP

No. 106-2

provides guidance on the accounting for the effects of the
    Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
    2003” (“The Act”). The Act provides several
    options for Medicare eligible participants and employers,
    including a federal subsidy payable to companies that elect to
    provide a retiree prescription drug benefit which is at least
    actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D. Based on FSP

106-2,

the
    Company’s benefit obligation at December 31, 2006 was
    reduced by $0.9 million and interest cost was reduced by
    less than $0.1 million and the recognized actuarial net
    gain was increased by $0.2 million for the fiscal year
    ended December 31, 2006 due to The Act.

Note 13.  Business
    Segments

Teledyne is a leading provider of sophisticated electronic
    components, instruments and communications products, systems
    engineering solutions and information technology services, and
    aerospace engines and components, as well as

on-site

gas
    and power generation systems. Its customers include aerospace
    prime contractors, general aviation companies, government
    agencies and major communications and other commercial companies.

Teledyne operates in four business segments: Electronics and
    Communications, Systems Engineering Solutions, Aerospace Engines
    and Components and Energy Systems. The factors for determining
    the reportable segments were based on the distinct nature of
    their operations. They are managed as separate business units
    because each requires and is responsible for executing a unique
    business strategy. The Electronics and Communications segment,
    sometimes referred to as Teledyne Electronic Technologies,
    provides a wide range of specialized electronic systems,
    instruments, components and services that address niche market
    applications in defense, commercial aerospace, communications,
    industrial, scientific and medical markets. The Systems
    Engineering Solutions segment, principally through Teledyne
    Brown Engineering, Inc., applies the skills of its extensive
    staff of engineers and scientists to provide innovative systems
    engineering, advanced technology, software development and
    manufacturing solutions to defense, space, environmental, and
    homeland security requirements. The Aerospace Engines and
    Components segment, principally through Teledyne Continental
    Motors, Inc., focuses on the design, development and manufacture
    of piston engines, turbine engines, electronic engine controls
    and aviation batteries. The Energy Systems segment, through
    majority-owned



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc., provides hydrogen gas generators
    and thermoelectric and fuel cell-based power sources.

Segment operating profit includes other income and expense
    directly related to the segment, but excludes minority interest,
    interest income and expense, gains and losses on the disposition
    of assets, sublease rental income and non-revenue licensing and
    royalty income, domestic and foreign income taxes and corporate
    office expenses.

Identifiable assets are those assets used in the operations of
    the segments. Corporate assets primarily consist of cash and
    cash equivalents, deferred tax assets, net pension
    assets/liabilities and other assets.

Information on the Company’s business segments was as
    follows (in millions):




Sales

Electronics and Communications

$

899.4

$

717.8

$

567.9

Systems Engineering Solutions

283.0

263.7

242.2

Aerospace Engines and Components

223.9

196.6

181.8

Energy Systems

26.9

28.4

24.7

Total sales

$

1,433.2

$

1,206.5

$

1,016.6

2006(a)

2005(a)

2004(a)

Income before taxes

Electronics and Communications

$

109.3

$

84.0

$

54.4

Systems Engineering Solutions

24.5

27.5

27.1

Aerospace Engines and Components

20.5

13.5

6.1

Energy Systems

1.0

1.6

1.6

Segment operating profit and other
    segment income

155.3

126.6

89.2

Corporate expense

(27.7

)

(20.9

)

(19.8

)

Interest and debt expense, net

(7.4

)

(3.5

)

(1.9

)

Other income (expense), net

1.5

0.8

0.5

Income before taxes

$

121.7

$

103.0

$

68.0

a)

Total year 2006, 2005 and 2004 segment operating profit includes
    receipts of $2.5 million, $5.0 and $2.5 million,
    respectively, pursuant to an agreement with Honda Motor Co.,
    Ltd., related to the piston engine business. This amount is
    included as part of other income on the income statement table.




Depreciation and
    amortization

Electronics and Communications

$

25.9

$

19.3

$

17.5

Systems Engineering Solutions

1.8

1.5

1.7

Aerospace Engines and Components

3.8

4.2

5.1

Energy Systems

0.5

0.6

0.5

Total depreciation and amortization

$

32.0

$

25.6

$

24.8



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)




Capital expenditures

Electronics and Communications

$

17.9

$

12.5

$

12.8

Systems Engineering Solutions

1.4

1.3

1.7

Aerospace Engines and Components

6.5

5.5

3.2

Energy Systems

0.5

0.3

1.1

Corporate

0.1

0.2

—

Total capital expenditures

$

26.4

$

19.8

$

18.8




Identifiable assets

Electronics and Communications

$

804.4

$

522.5

$

439.2

Systems Engineering Solutions

70.8

50.1

37.1

Aerospace Engines and Components

80.0

56.9

49.8

Energy Systems

11.8

11.4

9.5

Corporate

94.4

87.3

89.2

Total identifiable assets

$

1,061.4

$

728.2

$

624.8

Information on the Company’s sales to the
    U.S. Government, including direct sales as a prime
    contractor and indirect sales as a subcontractor, were as
    follows (in millions):




Electronics and Communications

$

249.1

$

198.5

$

147.3

Systems Engineering Solutions

278.9

260.0

240.4

Aerospace Engines and Components

24.9

32.3

26.0

Energy Systems

16.5

19.8

19.4

Total U.S. Government sales

$

569.4

$

510.6

$

433.1

Sales to the U.S. Government included sales to the
    Department of Defense of $431.4 million in 2006,
    $391.7 million in 2005, and $335.4 million in 2004.

Total international sales were $300.1 million in 2006,
    $222.3 million in 2005, and $198.0 million in 2004. Of
    these amounts, sales by operations in the United States to
    customers in other countries were $219.8 million in 2006,
    $196.9 million in 2005, and $190.3 million in 2004.
    There were no sales to individual countries outside of the
    United States in excess of 10 percent of the Company’s
    sales. Sales between business segments, which were not material,
    generally were priced at prevailing market prices.

Note 14.  Lease
    Commitments

The Company leases buildings and equipment under capital and
    operating leases. The present value of the minimum capital lease
    payments, net of the current portion, totaled $3.4 million
    at December 31, 2006. Operating lease agreements, which
    include leases for manufacturing facilities and office space
    frequently include renewal options and require the Company to
    pay for utilities, taxes, insurance and maintenance expense.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

At December 31, 2006, future minimum lease payments for
    capital leases and for operating leases with non-cancelable
    terms of more than one year were as follows (in millions):

Capital

Operating


$

0.4

$

14.5


0.4

12.8


0.4

11.4


0.4

9.8


0.4

7.5

Thereafter

5.0

32.9

Total minimum lease payments

7.0

$

88.9

Less:

Imputed interest

(3.0

)

Current portion

(0.1

)

Present value of minimum capital
    lease payment, net of current portion

$

3.9

The 2006 property, plant and equipment accounts included
    $3.7 million of property leased under a capital lease and
    $0.6 million of related accumulated depreciation. The 2005
    property, plant and equipment accounts included
    $3.2 million of property leased under a capital lease and
    $0.2 million of related accumulated depreciation. Rental
    expense under operating leases, net of sublease income, was
    $13.2 million in 2006, $11.6 million in 2005, and
    $12.2 million in 2004.

Note 15.  Commitments
    and Contingencies

The Company is subject to federal, state and local environmental
    laws and regulations which require that it investigate and
    remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at
    sites associated with past and present operations, including
    sites at which the Company has been identified as a potentially
    responsible party under the federal Superfund laws and
    comparable state laws.

In accordance with the Company’s accounting policy
    disclosed in Note 2, environmental liabilities are recorded
    when the Company’s liability is probable and the costs are
    reasonably estimable. In many cases, however, investigations are
    not yet at a stage where the Company has been able to determine
    whether it is liable or, if liability is probable, to reasonably
    estimate the loss or range of loss, or certain components
    thereof. Estimates of the Company’s liability are further
    subject to uncertainties regarding the nature and extent of site
    contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available,
    evolving remediation standards, imprecise engineering
    evaluations and estimates of appropriate cleanup technology,
    methodology and cost, the extent of corrective actions that may
    be required, and the number and financial condition of other
    potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their
    responsibility for the remediation. Accordingly, as
    investigation and remediation of these sites proceeds, it is
    likely that adjustments in the Company’s accruals will be
    necessary to reflect new information. The amounts of any such
    adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations in a given period, but the
    amounts, and the possible range of loss in excess of the amounts
    accrued, are not reasonably estimable. Based on currently
    available information, however, management does not believe that
    future environmental costs in excess of those accrued with
    respect to sites with which the Company has been identified are
    likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    financial condition or liquidity. However, there can be no
    assurance that additional future developments, administrative
    actions or liabilities relating to environmental matters will
    not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    financial condition or results of operations.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

At December 31, 2006, the Company’s reserves for
    environmental remediation obligations totaled approximately
    $5.1 million, of which approximately $0.1 million was
    included in other current liabilities. The Company is evaluating
    whether it may be able to recover a portion of future costs for
    environmental liabilities from its insurance carriers and from
    third parties.

The timing of expenditures depends on a number of factors that
    vary by site, including the nature and extent of contamination,
    the number of potentially responsible parties, the timing of
    regulatory approvals, the complexity of the investigation and
    remediation, and the standards for remediation. The Company
    expects that it will expend present accruals over many years,
    and will complete remediation of all sites with which it has
    been identified in up to thirty years.

Various claims (whether based on U.S. Government or Company
    audits and investigations or otherwise) may be asserted against
    the Company related to its U.S. Government contract work,
    including claims based on business practices and cost
    classifications and actions under the False Claims Act. Although
    such claims are generally resolved by detailed fact-finding and
    negotiation, on those occasions when they are not so resolved,
    civil or criminal legal or administrative proceedings may ensue.
    Depending on the circumstances and the outcome, such proceedings
    could result in fines, penalties, compensatory and treble
    damages or the cancellation or suspension of payments under one
    or more U.S. Government contracts. Under government
    regulations, a company, or one or more of its operating
    divisions or units, can also be suspended or debarred from
    government contracts based on the results of investigations.
    However, although the outcome of these matters cannot be
    predicted with certainty, management does not believe there is
    any audit, review or investigation currently pending against the
    Company of which management is aware that is likely to result in
    suspension or debarment of the Company, or that is otherwise
    likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    financial condition or liquidity, although the resolution in any
    reporting period of one or more of these matters could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
    operations for that period.

A number of other lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or
    may be asserted against the Company relating to the conduct of
    its business, including those pertaining to product liability,
    patent infringement, commercial, employment and employee
    benefits. While the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted
    with certainty, and some of these lawsuits, claims or
    proceedings may be determined adversely to the Company,
    management does not believe that the disposition of any such
    pending matters is likely to have a material adverse effect on
    the Company’s financial condition or liquidity, although
    the resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these
    matters could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations for that period. Teledyne
    has aircraft and product liability insurance with an annual
    self-insured retention for general aviation aircraft liabilities
    incurred in connection with products manufactured by Teledyne
    Continental Motors of $22.9 million. The Company’s
    current aircraft product liability insurance policy expires in
    May 2007.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 16.  Quarterly
    Financial Data (Unaudited)

The following is Teledyne’s quarterly information (in
    millions, except per share amounts):

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

4th Quarter

Fiscal year 2006(a)

Sales

$

330.2

$

348.1

$

363.6

$

391.3

Gross profit

$

93.4

$

102.7

$

102.3

$

114.6

Net income

$

17.9

$

20.9

$

22.6

$

18.9

Basic earnings per
    share

$

0.53

$

0.61

$

0.65

$

0.54

Diluted earnings per
    share

$

0.51

$

0.59

$

0.63

$

0.53

(a)

Fiscal year 2006 was a

52-week

year, each quarter contained 13 weeks.

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

4th Quarter

Fiscal year 2005(a)

Sales

$

297.5

$

303.3

$

295.3

$

310.4

Gross profit

$

83.0

$

83.3

$

82.8

$

87.8

Net income

$

15.8

$

16.1

$

15.7

$

16.6

Basic earnings per share

$

0.48

$

0.49

$

0.47

$

0.50

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.46

$

0.47

$

0.45

$

0.48

(a)

Fiscal year 2005 was a

52-week

year, each quarter contained 13 weeks.



Schedule II

VALUATION
    AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

For the
    Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2006, January 1, 2006
    and January 2, 2005

(In
    millions)

Additions

Balance at

Charged to

Balance at

beginning

costs and

end of

Description

of period

expenses

Acquisitions

Deductions(a)

period

Fiscal 2006

Reserve for doubtful
    accounts

$

2.1

1.3

—

(0.7

)

$

2.7

Aircraft product liability
    reserve

$

37.1

16.3

—

(6.5

)

$

46.9

Environmental
    reserves

$

3.5

0.3

1.4

(0.1

)

$

5.1

Fiscal 2005

Reserve for doubtful accounts

$

2.6

0.4

—

(0.9

)

$

2.1

Aircraft product liability reserve

$

27.4

17.2

—

(7.5

)

$

37.1

Environmental reserves

$

3.5

0.3

—

(0.3

)

$

3.5

Fiscal 2004

Reserve for doubtful accounts

$

2.4

0.6

0.5

(0.9

)

$

2.6

Aircraft product liability reserve

$

13.0

15.9

—

(1.5

)

$

27.4

Environmental reserves

$

2.0

1.8

—

(0.3

)

$

3.5

(a)

Represents payments except the amounts for allowance for
    doubtful accounts primarily represents uncollectible accounts
    written off, net of recoveries.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized as of February 27, 2007.

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated (Registrant)

By:

/s/

Robert
    Mehrabian

Robert Mehrabian

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

/s/

Robert
    Mehrabian

Robert
    Mehrabian

Chairman, President and

Chief Executive Officer

(Principal Executive Officer)

and Director

February 27, 2007

/s/

Dale
    A.
    Schnittjer

Dale
    A. Schnittjer

Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer

(Principal Financial Officer)

February 27, 2007

/s/

Susan
    L. Main

Susan
    L. Main

Vice President and Controller
    (Principal Accounting Officer)

February 27, 2007

*

Roxanne
    S. Austin

Director

February 27, 2007

*

Robert
    P. Bozzone

Director

February 27, 2007

*

Frank
    V. Cahouet

Director

February 27, 2007

*

Charles
    Crocker

Director

February 27, 2007

*

Kenneth
    C. Dahlberg

Director

February 27, 2007

*

Simon
    M. Lorne

Director

February 27, 2007

*

Paul
    D. Miller

Director

February 27, 2007

*

Michael
    T. Smith

Director

February 27, 2007

*

Wesley
    W. von Schack

Director

February 27, 2007

*By:

/s/

Melanie
    S. Cibik

Melanie
    S. Cibik

Pursuant to Powers of Attorney

filed as Exhibit 24.1 and 24.2



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

No.

Description


.1

Separation and Distribution
    Agreement dated as of November 29, 1999 by and among
    Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated, TDY Holdings, LLC, Teledyne
    Industries, Inc. and Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of November 29, 1999 (File

No. 1-15295))


.2

Purchase Agreement dated as of
    July 26, 2006, by and among Rockwell Automation, Inc.,
    Rockwell Collins, Inc. and Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc.
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated July 25, 2006)


.3

Guarantee of Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated relating to the Purchase Agreement (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.2 of Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated July 25, 2006)


.1

Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated (including
    Certificate of Designation of Series A Junior Participating
    Preferred Stock) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1
    to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295))


.2

Amended and Restated Bylaws of
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 3.2 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000

(File No. 1-15295))


.1

Rights Agreement dated as of
    November 29, 1999 between Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated and ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, L.L.C.
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of November 29, 1999 (File

No. 1-15295))


.1

Tax Sharing and Indemnification
    Agreement between Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated and Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of November 29, 1999 (File

No. 1-15295))


.2

Employee Benefits Agreement
    between Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated and Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K/A

(Amendment No. 1) dated as of November 29, 1999
    (File

No. 1-15295))†


.3

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    1999 Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.4

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    1999 Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.5

Amendment No. 1 to Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated 1999 Non-Employee Director Stock
    Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295)†


.6

Amendment No. 2 to Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated 1999 Non-Employee Director Stock
    Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295)†


.7

Amendment No. 3 to Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated 1999 Non-Employee Director Stock
    Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 29, 2002 (File

No. 1-15295)†


.8

Amendment No. 4 to Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated 1999 Non-Employee Director Stock
    Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s

Form 10-Q

for the period ended September 28, 2003) (File

No. 1-15295)

†


.9

Second Amended and Restated
    Employment Agreement between Robert Mehrabian and Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 26, 2006 (File

No. 1-15295))†



Exhibit

No.

Description


.11

Form of Change of Control
    Severance Agreement (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295)

with regard to Dale A. Schnittjer (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the period ended June 29, 2003 (File

No. 1-15295))

and with regard to Susan L. Main (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 99.2 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated March 29, 2004 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.12

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 10.10 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.13

Amendment No. 1 to Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the
    Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295)

†


.14

Amendment No. 2 to Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the
    Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295)

†


.15

Amendment No. 3 to Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Company’s

Form 10-Q

for the period ended September 28, 2003) (File

No. 1-15295)

†


.16

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    Pension Equalization/Benefit Restoration Plan, as amended and
    restated (incorporated by reference to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 1, 2006 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.17

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    2002 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.14 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 30, 2001 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.18

Administrative Rules of the 2002
    Stock Incentive Plan Related to Non-Employee Director Stock
    Compensation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to
    the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 23, 2007)†


.19

Form of Restricted Stock Award
    Agreement — January 25, 2005 Award (incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2005 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.20

Form of Restricted Stock Award
    Agreement — January 24, 2006 Award (incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 1, 2006 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.21

Form of Restricted Stock Award
    Agreement — January 23, 2007 Award*†


.22

Amended and Restated Credit
    Agreement, dated as of July 14, 2006, among Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated, Bank of America, N.A., as
    Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, certain
    lenders thereunder and certain subsidiaries of Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated as guarantors (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated July 14, 2006)


.23

Description of the 2007 Annual
    Incentive Plan (contained in and incorporated by reference to
    the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 23, 2007).†


.1

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    Corporate Objectives and Guidelines for Employee
    Conduct — this code of ethics may be accessed via the
    Company’s website at

www.teledyne.com/aboutus/ethics.asp


.2

Code of Ethics for Financial
    Executives — this code of ethics may be accessed via
    the Company’s website at

www.teledyne.com/aboutus/ethics.asp


Subsidiaries of Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated*


Consent of Ernst & Young
    LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm*


.1

Power of Attorney —
    Directors*


.2

Power of Attorney —
    Charles Crocker*


.1

Certification of Chief Executive
    Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002*



Exhibit

No.

Description


.2

Certification of Chief Financial
    Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002*


.1

Certification of Chief Executive
    Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002*


.2

Certification of Chief Financial
    Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002*

*

Submitted electronically herewith.

†

Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
    required to be filed as an Exhibit to this

Form 10-K.

106