Item 1.Business



The
    Company



Campbell Soup Company, together with its consolidated
    subsidiaries (Campbell or the company), is a global manufacturer
    and marketer of high-quality, branded convenience food products.
    Campbell was incorporated as a business corporation under the
    laws of New Jersey on November 23, 1922; however, through
    predecessor organizations, it traces its heritage in the food
    business back to 1869. The company’s principal executive
    offices are in Camden, New Jersey08103-1799.



Reportable
    Segments



Commencing with the 2011 Annual Report onForm 10-K,the company reports the results of operations in the following
    reportable segments: U.S. Simple Meals;
    U.S. Beverages; Global Baking and Snacking; International
    Simple Meals and Beverages; and North America Foodservice.
    Segment results of prior periods were modified to conform to the
    current presentation. The company has ten operating segments
    based on product type and geographic location and has aggregated
    the operating segments into the appropriate reportable segment
    based on similar economic characteristics; products; production
    processes; types or classes of customers; distribution methods;
    and regulatory environment. See also Note 6 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements. The segments are discussed in
    greater detail below.



U.S.
    Simple Meals



The U.S. Simple Meals segment aggregates the following
    operating segments: U.S. Soup and U.S. Sauces. The
    U.S. Soup retail business includes the following products:Campbell’scondensed andready-to-servesoups; andSwansonbroth and stocks. The U.S. Sauces
    retail business includes the following products:Pregopasta sauce;PaceMexican sauce;Swansoncanned poultry; andCampbell’scanned gravies,
    pasta, and beans.



U.S.
    Beverages



The U.S. Beverages segment represents the U.S. retail
    beverages business, including the following products:V8juices and beverages andCampbell’stomato juice.



Global
    Baking and Snacking



The Global Baking and Snacking segment aggregates the following
    operating segments:Pepperidge Farmcookies, crackers,
    bakery and frozen products in U.S. retail; andArnott’sbiscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific.



International
    Simple Meals and Beverages



The International Simple Meals and Beverages segment aggregates
    the simple meals and beverages operating segments outside of the
    United States, including Europe, Latin America, the Asia Pacific
    region and the retail business in Canada. The segment’s
    operations includeErascoandHeisse Tassesoups
    in Germany,LiebigandRoycosoups in France,Devos Lemmensmayonnaise and cold sauces andCampbell’sandRoycosoups in Belgium, andBlå Bandsoups and sauces in Sweden. In Asia
    Pacific, operations includeCampbell’ssoup and
    stock,Swansonbroths,V8beverages andPregopasta sauce. In Canada, operations includeHabitantandCampbell’ssoups,Pregopasta sauce,PaceMexican sauce,V8beverages and certain
    Pepperidge Farm products. The French sauce and mayonnaise
    business, which was marketed under theLesieurbrand and
    divested on September 29, 2008, was historically included
    in this segment.



North
    America Foodservice



The North America Foodservice segment represents the
    distribution of products such as soup, specialty entrees,
    beverage products, other prepared foods and Pepperidge Farm
    products through various food service channels in the United
    States and Canada.







Ingredients
    and Packaging



The ingredients and packaging required for the manufacture of
    the company’s food products are purchased from various
    suppliers. These items are subject to fluctuations in price
    attributable to a number of factors, including changes in crop
    size, cattle cycles, product scarcity, demand for raw materials,
    energy costs, government-sponsored agricultural programs, import
    and export requirements and weather conditions (including the
    potential effects of climate change) during the growing and
    harvesting seasons. To help reduce some of this price
    volatility, the company uses a combination of purchase orders,
    short- and long-term contracts and various commodity risk
    management tools for most of its ingredients and packaging.
    Ingredient inventories are at a peak during the late fall and
    decline during the winter and spring. Since many ingredients of
    suitable quality are available in sufficient quantities only at
    certain seasons, the company makes commitments for the purchase
    of such ingredients during their respective seasons. At this
    time, the company does not anticipate any material restrictions
    on availability or shortages of ingredients or packaging that
    would have a significant impact on the company’s
    businesses. For information on the impact of inflation on the
    company, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”



Customers



In most of the company’s markets, sales activities are
    conducted by the company’s own sales force and through
    broker and distributor arrangements. During fiscal 2011, in an
    effort to enhance merchandising effectiveness and coverage, the
    company outsourced a larger portion of its U.S. retail
    merchandising activities to a third party. In the United States,
    Canada and Latin America, the company’s products are
    generally resold to consumers in retail food chains, mass
    discounters, mass merchandisers, club stores, convenience
    stores, drug stores, dollar stores and other retail, commercial
    and non-commercial establishments. In Europe, the company’s
    products are generally resold to consumers in retail food
    chains, mass discounters, mass merchandisers, club stores,
    convenience stores and other retail, commercial and
    non-commercial establishments. In the Asia Pacific region, the
    company’s products are generally resold to consumers
    through retail food chains, convenience stores and other retail,
    commercial and non-commercial establishments. The company makes
    shipments promptly after receipt and acceptance of orders.



The company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and
    its affiliates, accounted for approximately 17% of the
    company’s consolidated net sales in fiscal 2011 and 18%
    during fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009. All of the company’s
    segments sold products to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. or its
    affiliates. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of the
    company’s consolidated net sales.



Trademarks
    and Technology



As of September 15, 2011, the company owned over 4,100
    trademark registrations and applications in over
    160 countries and believes that its trademarks are of
    material importance to its business. Although the laws vary by
    jurisdiction, trademarks generally are valid as long as they are
    in useand/ortheir
    registrations are properly maintained and have not been found to
    have become generic. Trademark registrations generally can be
    renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks are in use. The
    company believes that its principal brands, includingCampbell’s,Erasco,Liebig,Pepperidge Farm,Goldfish,V8,Pace,Prego,Swanson,RoycoandArnott’s,are protected by trademark law in the major markets where
    they are used. In addition, some of the company’s products
    are sold under brands that have been licensed from third parties.



Although the company owns a number of valuable patents, it does
    not regard any segment of its business as being dependent upon
    any single patent or group of related patents. In addition, the
    company owns copyrights, both registered and unregistered, and
    proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes, and
    other intellectual property rights that are not registered.



Competition



The company experiences worldwide competition in all of its
    principal products. This competition arises from numerous
    competitors of varying sizes, including producers of generic and
    private label products, as well as from manufacturers of other
    branded food products, which compete for trade merchandising
    support and consumer






dollars. As such, the number of competitors cannot be reliably
    estimated. The principal areas of competition are brand
    recognition, taste, quality, price, advertising, promotion,
    convenience and service.



Working
    Capital



For information relating to the company’s cash and working
    capital items, see “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”



Capital
    Expenditures



During fiscal 2011, the company’s aggregate capital
    expenditures were $272 million. The company expects to
    spend approximately $325 million for capital projects in
    fiscal 2012. Major fiscal 2012 capital projects include an
    ongoing initiative to simplify the soup-making process in North
    America (also known as the soup common platform initiative),
    Pepperidge Farm’s new 34,000-square-foot innovation center,
    packing automation and capacity expansion projects at one of the
    company’s Australian biscuit plants, continued enhancement
    of the company’s corporate headquarters in Camden, New
    Jersey, and a warehouse automation project at one of the
    company’s North American plants.



Research
    and Development



new 34,000-squre-foot



Environmental
    Matters



The company has requirements for the operation and design of its
    facilities that meet or exceed applicable environmental rules
    and regulations. Of the company’s $272 million in
    capital expenditures made during fiscal 2011, approximately
    $18 million was for compliance with environmental laws and
    regulations in the United States. The company further estimates
    that approximately $20 million of the capital expenditures
    anticipated during fiscal 2012 will be for compliance with
    United States environmental laws and regulations. The company
    believes that continued compliance with existing environmental
    laws and regulations (both within the United States and
    elsewhere) will not have a material effect on capital
    expenditures, earnings or the competitive position of the
    company. In addition, the company continues to monitor pending
    environmental laws and regulations within the United States and
    elsewhere, including laws and regulations relating to climate
    change and greenhouse gas emissions. While the impact of these
    pending laws and regulations cannot be predicted with certainty,
    the company does not believe that compliance with these pending
    laws and regulations will have a material effect on capital
    expenditures, earnings or the competitive position of the
    company.



Seasonality



Demand for the company’s products is somewhat seasonal,
    with the fall and winter months usually accounting for the
    highest sales volume due primarily to demand for the
    company’s soup products. Demand for the company’s
    sauce, beverage, baking and snacking products, however, is
    generally evenly distributed throughout the year.






Employees



On July 31, 2011, there were approximately
    17,500 employees of the company.



Financial
    Information



For information with respect to revenue, operating profitability
    and identifiable assets attributable to the company’s
    reportable segments and geographic areas, see Note 6 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements. Prior periods have been
    modified in Note 6 to reflect the company’s current
    reporting segments. For risks attendant to the company’s
    foreign operations, see “Risk Factors.”



Company
    Website



The company’s primary corporate website can be found atwww.campbellsoupcompany.com. The company makes available
    free of charge at this website (under the “Investor
    Center — Financial Information — SEC
    Filings” caption) all of its reports (including amendments)
    filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including its annual report
    onForm 10-K,its quarterly reports onForm 10-Qand its current reports onForm 8-K.These reports are made available on the website as soon as
    reasonably practicable after their filing with, or furnishing
    to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.



