Item 1.Business

The Company

Unless otherwise stated, the terms "we," "us", "our" and the "company" refer to Campbell Soup Company and its consolidated subsidiaries.

We are a manufacturer and marketer of high-quality, branded convenience food products. We organized as a business corporation under the laws of New Jersey on November 23, 1922; however, through predecessor organizations, we trace our heritage in the food business back to 1869. Our principal executive offices are in Camden, New Jersey 08103-1799.

Background

Our long-term goal is to build shareholder value by driving sustainable, profitable net sales growth. Guided by our purpose - “Real Food That Matters For Life’s Moments,” we expect to deliver this goal by executing against a dual strategy of strengthening our core businesses while also expanding into faster-growing spaces. We have made a number of enterprise design and portfolio changes over the past several years in support of this strategy, including the following:

•On January 29, 2015, we announced plans to implement a new enterprise design focused mainly on product categories. Under the new design, which we fully implemented at the beginning of 2016, our businesses are organized in the following divisions: Americas Simple Meals and Beverages, Global Biscuits and Snacks, and Campbell Fresh.

•In support of the new enterprise design, we designed and implemented a new Integrated Global Services (IGS) organization to deliver shared services across the company. IGS, which became effective at the beginning of 2016, is expected to reduce costs while increasing our efficiency and effectiveness. We are also pursuing other initiatives to reduce costs and increase effectiveness, such as streamlining our organizational structure and adopting zero-based budgeting over time. See "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for additional information on these initiatives.

•In 2013, we acquired Bolthouse Farms and Plum. In 2014, we acquired Kelsen and divested our European simple meals business. Most recently, on June 29, 2015, we completed the acquisition of the assets of Garden Fresh Gourmet for approximately $230 million. Garden Fresh Gourmet is a provider of refrigerated salsa in North America, and it also produces hummus, dips and tortilla chips. We funded the Garden Fresh Gourmet acquisition through the issuance of commercial paper. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our recent acquisitions, and Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our divestiture of the European simple meals business.

For additional information on our dual strategy of strengthening our core businesses while also expanding into faster-growing spaces, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

2015 Reportable Segments

Through the fourth quarter of 2015, we reported the results of our operations in the following reportable segments: U.S. Simple Meals; Global Baking and Snacking; International Simple Meals and Beverages; U.S. Beverages; and Bolthouse and Foodservice. During this period, we had11operating segments based on product type and geographic location, and we aggregated the operating segments into the appropriate reportable segment based on similar economic characteristics, products, production processes, types or classes of customers, distribution methods and regulatory environment. See also Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The 2015 reportable segments are discussed in greater detail below.

U.S. Simple Meals

The U.S. Simple Meals segment includes the following products:Campbell’scondensed and ready-to-serve soups;Swansonbroth and stocks;Pregopasta sauces;PaceMexican sauces;Campbell’sgravies, pasta, beans and dinner sauces;Swansoncanned poultry; andPlumfood and snacks.

Global Baking and Snacking

The Global Baking and Snacking segment aggregates the following operating segments: Pepperidge Farm cookies, crackers, bakery and frozen products in U.S. retail; Arnott’s biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific; and Kelsencookies globally.

International Simple Meals and Beverages

The International Simple Meals and Beverages segment aggregates the following operating segments: the retail business in Canada and the simple meals and beverages business in Asia Pacific, Latin America and China. See “Background” and Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the sale of the European simple meals business, which was historically










included in this segment. The results of operations of the European simple meals business have been reflected as discontinued operations.

U.S. Beverages

The U.S. Beverages segment represents the U.S. retail beverages business, including the following products:V8juices and beverages, andCampbell’stomato juice.

Bolthouse and Foodservice

Bolthouse and Foodservice comprises the Bolthouse Farms carrot products operating segment (Farms), including fresh carrots, juice concentrate and fiber; the Bolthouse Farms refrigerated beverages and refrigerated salad dressings operating segment (CPG); the North America Foodservice operating segment; and as of June 29, 2015, the Garden Fresh Gourmet operating segment. The North America Foodservice operating segment represents the distribution of products such as soup, specialty entrées, beverage products, other prepared foods and Pepperidge Farm products through various food service channels in the U.S. and Canada. None of these operating segments meets the criteria for aggregation nor the thresholds for separate disclosure.

New Reportable Segments in 2016

As discussed above, we recently announced plans to organize our businesses into three divisions: Americas Simple Meals and Beverages, Global Biscuits and Snacks, and Campbell Fresh. At the beginning of 2016, we implemented this new enterprise design, and we are now managing our operations under the design. Accordingly, we will modify our segment reporting as appropriate in future filings.

Ingredients and Packaging

The ingredient and packaging materials required for the manufacture of our food products are purchased from various suppliers. These items are subject to fluctuations in price attributable to a number of factors, including changes in crop size, cattle cycles, disease, product scarcity, demand for raw materials, commodity market speculation, energy costs, currency fluctuations, government-sponsored agricultural programs, import and export requirements, drought and other weather conditions (including the potential effects of climate change) during the growing and harvesting seasons. To help reduce some of this price volatility, we use a combination of purchase orders, short- and long-term contracts, inventory management practices and various commodity risk management tools for most of our ingredients and packaging. Ingredient inventories are at a peak during the late fall and decline during the winter and spring. Since many ingredients of suitable quality are available in sufficient quantities only at certain seasons, we make commitments for the purchase of such ingredients during their respective seasons. At this time, we do not anticipate any material restrictions on the availability of ingredients or packaging that would have a significant impact on our businesses. For information on the impact of inflation, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Customers

In most of our markets, sales and merchandising activities are conducted through our own sales force and our third-party broker and distributor partners. In the U.S., Canada and Latin America, our products are generally resold to consumers in retail food chains, mass discounters, mass merchandisers, club stores, convenience stores, drug stores, dollar stores and other retail, commercial and non-commercial establishments. In the Asia Pacific region, our products are generally resold to consumers through retail food chains, convenience stores and other retail, commercial and non-commercial establishments. We make shipments promptly after receipt and acceptance of orders.

Our five largest customers accounted for approximately38%of our consolidated net sales from continuing operations in 2015,35%in 2014 and36%in 2013. Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately20%of our consolidated net sales in 2015 and19%in 2014 and 2013. All of our reportable segments sold products to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. or its affiliates. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales.

Trademarks and Technology

As of September15, 2015, we owned over 3,700 trademark registrations and applications in over 160 countries. We believe our trademarks are of material importance to our business. Although the laws vary by jurisdiction, trademarks generally are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained and have not been found to have become generic. Trademark registrations generally can be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks are in use. We believe that our principal brands, includingArnott's, Bolthouse Farms, Campbell's, Garden Fresh Gourmet, Goldfish, Kjeldsens, Pace, Pepperidge Farm, Plum, Prego, Swanson,andV8,are protected by trademark law in the major markets where they are used. In addition, some of our products are sold under brands that have been licensed from third parties.

Although we own a number of valuable patents, we do not regard any segment of our business as being dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. In addition, we own copyrights, both registered and unregistered, and proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how, processes, and other intellectual property rights that are not registered.










Competition

We experience worldwide competition in all of our principal products. This competition arises from numerous competitors of varying sizes across multiple food and beverage categories, and includes producers of generic and private label products, as well as other branded food and beverage manufacturers. All of these competitors vie for trade merchandising support and consumer dollars. The number of competitors cannot be reliably estimated. The principal areas of competition are brand recognition, taste, quality, price, advertising, promotion, convenience and service.

Working Capital

For information relating to our cash and working capital items, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Capital Expenditures

During 2015, our aggregate capital expenditures were$380 million. We expect to spend approximately$350 millionfor capital projects in 2016. Major 2016 capital projects include an ongoing Bolthouse Farms beverage and salad dressing capacity expansion project, an ongoing North American warehouse capacity expansion project, a new Australian multi-pack biscuit capacity expansion project and a new refrigeration replacement project at our Virginia, Australia, plant.

Research and Development

During the last three fiscal years, our expenditures on research and development activities relating to new products and the improvement and maintenance of existing products were$113 millionin 2015,$121 millionin 2014, and$128 millionin 2013. The decrease from 2014 to 2015 was primarily due to savings from cost reduction and restructuring initiatives. The decrease from 2013 to 2014 was primarily due to lower incentive compensation costs and cost savings from restructuring initiatives, partially offset by the impact of acquisitions.

Environmental Matters

We have requirements for the operation and design of our facilities that meet or exceed applicable environmental rules and regulations. Of our$380 millionin capital expenditures made during 2015, approximately $12 million was for compliance with environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. We further estimate that approximately $10 million of the capital expenditures anticipated during 2016 will be for compliance with U.S. environmental laws and regulations. We believe that continued compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations (both within the U.S. and elsewhere) will not have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or our competitive position. In addition, we continue to monitor existing and pending environmental laws and regulations within the U.S. and elsewhere, including the recently-enacted regulations in the U.S. to limit carbon dioxide emissions from electric utilities, relating to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. While the impact of these laws and regulations cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe that compliance with these laws and regulations will have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or our competitive position.

Seasonality

Demand for our products is somewhat seasonal, with the fall and winter months usually accounting for the highest sales volume due primarily to demand for our soup products. Sales of Kelsen products are also highest in the fall and winter months due primarily to holiday gift giving. Demand for our other products is generally evenly distributed throughout the year.

Employees

OnAugust 2, 2015, we had approximately 18,600 employees.

Financial Information

Financial information for our reportable segments and geographic areas is found in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For risks attendant to our foreign operations, see “Risk Factors.”

Websites

Our primary corporate website can be found atwww.campbellsoupcompany.com. We make available free of charge at this website (under the “Investor Center — Financial Information — SEC Filings” caption) all of our reports (including amendments) filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K. These reports are made available on the website as soon as reasonably practicable after their filing with, or furnishing to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

All websites appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are inactive textual references only, and the information in, or accessible through, such websites is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or into any of our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.














