Item 1.Business

The Company

Campbell Soup Company, together with its consolidated subsidiaries (Campbell or the company), is a manufacturer and marketer of high-quality, branded convenience food products. Campbell was organized as a business corporation under the laws of New Jersey on November 23, 1922; however, through predecessor organizations, it traces its heritage in the food business back to 1869. The company’s principal executive offices are in Camden, New Jersey 08103-1799.

Background

On August 6, 2012, the company completed the acquisition of BF Bolthouse Holdco LLC (Bolthouse Farms) for approximately $1.55 billion in cash. Based in Bakersfield, California, Bolthouse Farms is a vertically integrated food and beverage company focused on developing, manufacturing and marketing fresh carrots and proprietary, high value-added healthy products.

On June 13, 2013, the company completed the acquisition of Plum PBC (formerly Plum Inc.) (Plum) for approximately$249 million, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Based in Emeryville, California, Plum is a leading provider of premium, organic foods and snacks that serve the nutritional needs of babies, toddlers and children. ThePlumOrganicsbrand is the No. 4 brand of baby food in the U.S. and the No. 2 brand of organic baby food in the U.S. The acquisition provides the company with an attractive platform to extend its core categories of simple meals, snacks and beverages and enhances the company's access to a new generation of consumers. Since the Plum acquisition occurred on June 13, 2013, only the results of operations of Plum from June 13, 2013 through July 28, 2013 are included in this 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Report).

On August 8, 2013, the company completed the acquisition of Kelsen Group A/S (Kelsen) for approximately$325 million, subject to customary purchase price adjustments.  Based in Nørre Snede, Denmark, Kelsen is a producer of quality baked snacks that are sold in 85 countries around the world. Its primary brands includeKjeldsensandRoyal Dansk. Kelsen has established distribution networks in markets in Asia, the U.S., Europe, the Middle East, South America and Africa, and it is a market leader in the assortment segment of the sweet biscuits category in China and Hong Kong. The Kelsen acquisition provides the company with an immediate opportunity for growth in the large baked snacks category in China. Kelsen employs approximately 350 persons, and  its two primary manufacturing facilities are company-owned and located in Nørre Snede and Ribe, Denmark. Since the Kelsen acquisition occurred subsequent to 2013, the results of Kelsen's operations are not included in this Report, and the discussion of the company's business and operations in this Report does not incorporate Kelsen's business and operations unless specifically stated otherwise.

On August 12, 2013, the company announced that it is in final and exclusive negotiations for the potential sale of its simple meal business in Europe to CVC Capital Partners, a leading global private equity firm. CVC has made a firm offer to purchase the business. The proposed transaction includes the company's simple meal national brands, includingLiebigandRoycoin France,Erascoin Germany,Blå Bandin Sweden andDevos LemmensandRoycoin Belgium. The proposal also includes the sale of four plants in Puurs, Belgium; Le Pontet, France; Lubeck, Germany; and Kristianstadt, Sweden. The proposed transaction does not include the export of Pepperidge Farm products throughout Europe, Campbell’s products in the United Kingdom or Kelsen. The company has the option to cause the parties to execute a binding share purchase agreement. The proposed transaction is subject to clearance by the relevant European competition law authorities. The company has reflected the results of the business as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings for all years presented. The assets and liabilities of the European business have been reflected in assets and liabilities held for sale in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as ofJuly 28, 2013. The business was historically included in the International Simple Meals and Beverages segment.

Reportable Segments

The company reports the results of operations in the following reportable segments: U.S. Simple Meals; Global Baking and Snacking; International Simple Meals and Beverages; U.S. Beverages; and Bolthouse and Foodservice. The company has13operating segments based on product type and geographic location and has aggregated the operating segments into the appropriate reportable segment based on similar economic characteristics; products; production processes; types or classes of customers; distribution methods; and regulatory environment. See also Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The segments are discussed in greater detail below.

U.S. Simple Meals

The U.S. Simple Meals segment aggregates the following operating segments: U.S. Soup and U.S. Sauces. The U.S. Soup retail business includes the following products:Campbell’scondensed and ready-to-serve soups; andSwansonbroth and stocks. The U.S. Sauces retail business includes the following products:Pregopasta sauces;PaceMexican sauces;Campbell’scanned gravies, pasta, and beans;Swansoncanned poultry; and as of June 13, 2013,Plum Organicsfoods and snacks.










Global Baking and Snacking

The Global Baking and Snacking segment aggregates the following operating segments:Pepperidge Farmcookies, crackers, bakery and frozen products in U.S. retail; andArnott’sbiscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific.

International Simple Meals and Beverages

The International Simple Meals and Beverages segment aggregates the simple meals and beverages operating segments outside of the U.S., including the retail business in Canada and the businesses in Asia Pacific, Latin America and China. In Canada, the segment’s operations includeHabitantandCampbell’ssoups,Pregopasta sauces,PaceMexican sauces,V8juices and beverages and certain Pepperidge Farm products. In Asia Pacific, the segment's operations includeCampbell’ssoup and stock,Kimballsauces,V8juices and beverages,Pregopasta sauce andSwansonbroths. As previously discussed, on August 12, 2013, the company announced that it is in final and exclusive negotiations for the potential sale of its simple meal brands in Europe. The European simple meal business was historically included in this segment. The results of operations for the European simple meal business are reflected as discontinued operations for the years presented in this Report, and the assets of the business have been reflected as assets held for sale as ofJuly 28, 2013.

Bolthouse and Foodservice

Bolthouse and Foodservice comprises the Bolthouse Farms carrot products operating segment, including fresh carrots, juice concentrate and fiber; the Bolthouse Farms super-premium refrigerated beverages and refrigerated salad dressings operating segment; and the North America Foodservice operating segment. The North America Foodservice operating segment represents the distribution of products such as soup, specialty entrées, beverage products, other prepared foods and Pepperidge Farm products through various food service channels in the U.S. and Canada. None of these operating segments meets the criteria for aggregation nor the thresholds for separate disclosure.

Ingredients and Packaging

The ingredient and packaging materials required for the manufacture of the company’s food products are purchased from various suppliers. These items are subject to fluctuations in price attributable to a number of factors, including changes in crop size, cattle cycles, product scarcity, demand for raw materials, energy costs, government-sponsored agricultural programs, import and export requirements and regional drought and other weather conditions (including the potential effects of climate change) during the growing and harvesting seasons. To help reduce some of this price volatility, the company uses a combination of purchase orders, short- and long-term contracts and various commodity risk management tools for most of its ingredients and packaging. Ingredient inventories are at a peak during the late fall and decline during the winter and spring. Since many ingredients of suitable quality are available in sufficient quantities only at certain seasons, the company makes commitments for the purchase of such ingredients during their respective seasons. At this time, the company does not anticipate any material restrictions on availability or shortages of ingredients or packaging that would have a significant impact on the company’s businesses. For information on the impact of inflation on the company, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Customers

In most of the company’s markets, sales and merchandising activities are conducted through the company’s own sales force and its third-party broker and distributor partners. In the U.S., Canada and Latin America, the company’s products are generally resold to consumers in retail food chains, mass discounters, mass merchandisers, club stores, convenience stores, drug stores, dollar stores and other retail, commercial and non-commercial establishments. In the Asia Pacific region, the company’s products are generally resold to consumers through retail food chains, convenience stores and other retail, commercial and non-commercial establishments. The company makes shipments promptly after receipt and acceptance of orders.

The company's five largest customers accounted for approximately36%of the company's consolidated net sales from continuing operations in 2013, and37%in 2012 and 2011. The company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately19%of the company’s consolidated net sales in 2013 and 2012 and18%in 2011. All of the company’s segments sold products to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. or its affiliates. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of the company’s consolidated net sales.

Trademarks and Technology

As of September 13, 2013, the company owned over 4,400trademark registrations and applications in over 170 countries, including the registrations acquired in the Plum and Kelsen acquisitions and those associated with its European simple meal business. The company believes its trademarks are of material importance to its business. Although the laws vary by jurisdiction, trademarks generally are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained and have not been found to have become generic. Trademark registrations generally can be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks are in use. The company believes that its principal brands, includingCampbell's, Pepperidge Farm, Goldfish, V8, Pace, Prego, Swanson, Arnott'sandBolthouse Farms,as well as thePlumbrand acquired in the Plum acquisition and theKjeldsensandRoyal Danskbrands










acquired in the Kelsen acquisition, are protected by trademark law in the major markets where they are used. In addition, some of the company's products are sold under brands that have been licensed from third parties.

Although the company owns a number of valuable patents, it does not regard any segment of its business as being dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. In addition, the company owns copyrights, both registered and unregistered, and proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how, processes, and other intellectual property rights that are not registered.

Competition

The company experiences worldwide competition in all of its principal products. This competition arises from numerous competitors of varying sizes across multiple food and beverage categories, and includes producers of generic and private label products, as well as other branded food and beverage manufacturers. All of these competitors vie for trade merchandising support and consumer dollars. The number of competitors cannot be reliably estimated. The principal areas of competition are brand recognition, taste, quality, price, advertising, promotion, convenience and service.

Working Capital

For information relating to the company’s cash and working capital items, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Capital Expenditures

During 2013, the company’s aggregate capital expenditures were$336 million. The company expects to spend approximately$350 millionfor capital projects in 2014. Major 2014 capital projects include a Pepperidge Farm cracker capacity expansion project, a U.S. beverage relocation and refurbishment project, the ongoing implementation of a series of related initiatives to simplify the soup-making process in North America (also known as the soup common platform initiative), and a flexible production line for Bolthouse Farms.

Research and Development

During the last three fiscal years, the company’s expenditures on research and development activities relating to new products and the improvement and maintenance of existing products were$128 millionin 2013,$116 millionin 2012, and$120 millionin 2011. The increase from 2012 to 2013 was primarily due to higher incentive compensation and benefit costs, the addition of Bolthouse Farms expenses and higher costs associated with product innovation in North America. The decrease from 2011 to 2012 was primarily due to cost savings initiatives and other factors, partially offset by higher costs associated with product innovation in North America and the Asia Pacific region and inflation.

Environmental Matters

The company has requirements for the operation and design of its facilities that meet or exceed applicable environmental rules and regulations. Of the company’s$336 millionin capital expenditures made during 2013, approximately $15 million was for compliance with environmental laws and regulations in the U.S.  The company further estimates that approximately $14 million of the capital expenditures anticipated during 2014 will be for compliance with U.S. environmental laws and regulations. The company believes that continued compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations (both within the U.S. and elsewhere) will not have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or the competitive position of the company. In addition, the company continues to monitor pending environmental laws and regulations within the U.S. and elsewhere, including laws and regulations relating to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. While the impact of these pending laws and regulations cannot be predicted with certainty, the company does not believe that compliance with these pending laws and regulations will have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or the competitive position of the company.

Seasonality

Demand for the company’s products is somewhat seasonal, with the fall and winter months usually accounting for the highest sales volume due primarily to demand for the company’s soup products. Demand for the company’s sauce, beverage, baking and snacking products, however, is generally evenly distributed throughout the year.

Employees

OnJuly 28, 2013, there were approximately 20,000 employees of the company.  In addition, as ofJuly 28, 2013, Campbell Swire, the company's joint venture in China, employed approximately 170 persons.

Financial Information

Financial information for the company’s reportable segments and geographic areas is found in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For risks attendant to the company’s foreign operations, see “Risk Factors.”

Company Website

The company’s primary corporate website can be found atwww.campbellsoupcompany.com. The company makes available free of charge at this website (under the “Investor Center — Financial Information — SEC Filings” caption) all of its reports










(including amendments) filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including its annual report on Form 10-K, its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and its current reports on Form 8-K. These reports are made available on the website as soon as reasonably practicable after their filing with, or furnishing to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.



