Item 1.Business

The Company

Campbell Soup Company, together with its consolidated subsidiaries (Campbell or the company), is a manufacturer and marketer of high-quality, branded convenience food products. Campbell was organized as a business corporation under the laws of New Jersey on November 23, 1922; however, through predecessor organizations, it traces its heritage in the food business back to 1869. The company’s principal executive offices are in Camden, New Jersey 08103-1799.

Recent Developments

On September 27, 2012, the company announced several initiatives to improve its U.S. supply chain cost structure and increase asset utilization across its U.S. thermal plant network. The initiatives include closing the company's Sacramento, California, thermal plant, which produces soups, sauces and beverages, and the company's South Plainfield, New Jersey, spice plant, which supplies ingredients to the company's U.S. thermal plants. As a result of the initiatives, the company expects to incur pre-tax costs of approximately $115 million, most of which will be incurred in 2013. The company also expects to invest approximately $27 million in capital expenditures, primarily to relocate and refurbish a beverage filling and packaging line. For additional information relating to the initiatives, see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Reportable Segments

The company reports the results of operations in the following reportable segments: U.S. Simple Meals; Global Baking and Snacking; International Simple Meals and Beverages; U.S. Beverages; and North America Foodservice. The company has11operating segments based on product type and geographic location and has aggregated the operating segments into the appropriate reportable segment based on similar economic characteristics; products; production processes; types or classes of customers; distribution methods; and regulatory environment. See also Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The segments are discussed in greater detail below.

U.S. Simple Meals

The U.S. Simple Meals segment aggregates the following operating segments: U.S. Soup and U.S. Sauces. The U.S. Soup retail business includes the following products:Campbell’scondensed and ready-to-serve soups; andSwansonbroth and stocks. The U.S. Sauces retail business includes the following products:Pregopasta sauces;PaceMexican sauces;Campbell’scanned gravies, pasta, and beans; andSwansoncanned poultry.

Global Baking and Snacking

The Global Baking and Snacking segment aggregates the following operating segments:Pepperidge Farmcookies, crackers, bakery and frozen products in U.S. retail; andArnott’sbiscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific.

International Simple Meals and Beverages

The International Simple Meals and Beverages segment aggregates the simple meals and beverages operating segments outside of the U.S., including Europe, the retail business in Canada, and the businesses in Asia Pacific, Latin America and China. The segment’s operations includeErascoandHeisse Tassesoups in Germany,LiebigandRoycosoups in France,Devos Lemmensmayonnaise and cold sauces andCampbell’sandRoycosoups in Belgium, andBlå Bandsoups and sauces in Sweden. In Canada, operations includeHabitantandCampbell’ssoups,Pregopasta sauces,PaceMexican sauces,V8juices and beverages and certain Pepperidge Farm products. In Asia Pacific, operations includeCampbell’ssoup and stock,Kimballsauces,V8juices and beverages,










Pregopasta sauce andSwansonbroths.

U.S. Beverages

The U.S. Beverages segment represents the U.S. retail beverages business, including the following products:V8juices and beverages andCampbell’stomato juice.

North America Foodservice

The North America Foodservice segment represents the distribution of products such as soup, specialty entrees, beverage products, other prepared foods and Pepperidge Farm products through various food service channels in the U.S. and Canada.

Ingredients and Packaging

The ingredient and packaging materials required for the manufacture of the company’s food products are purchased from various suppliers. These items are subject to fluctuations in price attributable to a number of factors, including changes in crop size, cattle cycles, product scarcity, demand for raw materials, energy costs, government-sponsored agricultural programs, import and export requirements and regional drought and other weather conditions (including the potential effects of climate change) during the growing and harvesting seasons. To help reduce some of this price volatility, the company uses a combination of purchase orders, short- and long-term contracts and various commodity risk management tools for most of its ingredients and packaging. Ingredient inventories are at a peak during the late fall and decline during the winter and spring. Since many ingredients of suitable quality are available in sufficient quantities only at certain seasons, the company makes commitments for the purchase of such ingredients during their respective seasons. At this time, the company does not anticipate any material restrictions on availability or shortages of ingredients or packaging that would have a significant impact on the company’s businesses. For information on the impact of inflation on the company, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Customers

In most of the company’s markets, sales and merchandising activities are conducted through the company’s own sales force and its third-party broker and distributor partners. In the U.S., Canada and Latin America, the company’s products are generally resold to consumers in retail food chains, mass discounters, mass merchandisers, club stores, convenience stores, drug stores, dollar stores and other retail, commercial and non-commercial establishments. In Europe, the company’s products are generally resold to consumers in retail food chains, mass discounters, mass merchandisers, club stores, convenience stores and other retail, commercial and non-commercial establishments. In the Asia Pacific region, the company’s products are generally resold to consumers through retail food chains, convenience stores and other retail, commercial and non-commercial establishments. The company makes shipments promptly after receipt and acceptance of orders.

The company's five largest customers accounted for approximately34%of the company's consolidated net sales in2012,2011, and2010. The company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately17%of the company’s consolidated net sales in2012and2011, and18%in2010. All of the company’s segments sold products to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. or its affiliates. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of the company’s consolidated net sales.

Trademarks and Technology

As of September 14, 2012, the company owned over 4,200 trademark registrations and applications in over 165 countries, including the registrations acquired in the Bolthouse Farms acquisition. The company believes that its trademarks are of material importance to its business. Although the laws vary by jurisdiction, trademarks generally are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained and have not been found to have become generic. Trademark registrations generally can be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks are in use. The company believes that its principal brands, includingCampbell’s,Erasco,Liebig,Pepperidge Farm,Goldfish,V8,Pace,Prego,Swanson,RoycoandArnott’s, as well as theBolthouse Farmsbrand acquired in the Bolthouse Farms acquisition, are protected by trademark law in the major markets where they are used. In addition, some of the company’s products are sold under brands that have been licensed from third parties.

Although the company owns a number of valuable patents, it does not regard any segment of its business as being dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. In addition, the company owns copyrights, both registered and unregistered, and proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes, and other intellectual property rights that are not registered.

Competition

The company experiences worldwide competition in all of its principal products. This competition arises from numerous competitors of varying sizes across multiple food and beverage categories, and includes producers of generic and private label products, as well as other branded food and beverage manufacturers. All of these competitors vie for trade merchandising support and consumer dollars. The number of competitors cannot be reliably estimated. The principal areas of competition are brand recognition, taste, quality, price, advertising, promotion, convenience and service.










Working Capital

For information relating to the company’s cash and working capital items, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Capital Expenditures

During2012, the company’s aggregate capital expenditures were$323 million. The company expects to spend approximately$330 millionfor capital projects in fiscal2013, including Bolthouse Farms projects. Major2013capital projects include a soup capacity expansion project for the North America Foodservice business, a cracker expansion project for Pepperidge Farm, the ongoing implementation of a series of related initiatives to simplify the soup-making process in North America (also known as the soup common platform initiative), the relocation and refurbishment of a U.S. beverage filling and packaging line, a packing automation project at one of the company’s Australian biscuit plants, and the continued implementation of an advanced planning system in North America.

Research and Development

During the last three fiscal years, the company’s expenditures on research and development activities relating to new products and the improvement and maintenance of existing products were$125 millionin2012,$129 millionin2011, and$123 millionin2010. The decrease from2011to2012was primarily due to cost savings initiatives and other factors, partially offset by higher costs associated with product innovation in North America and the Asia Pacific region and inflation. The increase from2010to2011was primarily due to costs associated with an ongoing initiative to simplify the soup-making process in North America, costs associated with product innovation in North America, costs associated with a global baked snacks initiative, and the impact of currency, partially offset by cost savings initiatives. In fiscal 2013, the company expects to conduct much of its baking and snacking portfolio-related research and development at its new Pepperidge Farm innovation center, as well as its existing Arnott's innovation center.

Environmental Matters

The company has requirements for the operation and design of its facilities that meet or exceed applicable environmental rules and regulations. Of the company’s$323 millionin capital expenditures made during2012, approximately $8 million was for compliance with environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. The company further estimates that approximately $18 million of the capital expenditures anticipated during2013will be for compliance with U.S. environmental laws and regulations. The company believes that continued compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations (both within the U.S. and elsewhere) will not have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or the competitive position of the company. In addition, the company continues to monitor pending environmental laws and regulations within the U.S. and elsewhere, including laws and regulations relating to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. While the impact of these pending laws and regulations cannot be predicted with certainty, the company does not believe that compliance with these pending laws and regulations will have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or the competitive position of the company.

Seasonality

Demand for the company’s products is somewhat seasonal, with the fall and winter months usually accounting for the highest sales volume due primarily to demand for the company’s soup products. Demand for the company’s sauce, beverage, baking and snacking products, however, is generally evenly distributed throughout the year.

Employees

OnJuly 29, 2012, there were approximately 17,700 employees of the company. In addition, as of July 29, 2012, Campbell Swire, the company's joint venture in China, employed approximately 170 persons.

Financial Information

Financial information for the company’s reportable segments and geographic areas is found in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For risks attendant to the company’s foreign operations, see “Risk Factors.”

Company Website

The company’s primary corporate website can be found atwww.campbellsoupcompany.com. The company makes available free of charge at this website (under the “Investor Center — Financial Information — SEC Filings” caption) all of its reports (including amendments) filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including its annual report on Form 10-K, its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and its current reports on Form 8-K. These reports are made available on the website as soon as reasonably practicable after their filing with, or furnishing to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.














