Item 1.Business



The
    Company



Campbell Soup Company (“Campbell” or the
    “company”), together with its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is a global manufacturer and marketer of
    high-quality, branded convenience food products. Campbell was
    incorporated as a business corporation under the laws of New
    Jersey on November 23, 1922; however, through predecessor
    organizations, it traces its heritage in the food business back
    to 1869. The company’s principal executive offices are in
    Camden, New Jersey08103-1799.



The company’s operations are organized and reported in the
    following segments: U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages; Baking
    and Snacking; International Soup, Sauces and Beverages; and
    North America Foodservice. The segments are discussed in greater
    detail below.



U.S.
    Soup, Sauces and Beverages



The U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages segment comprises the
    U.S. retail business, including the following products:Campbell’scondensed andready-to-servesoups;Swansonbroth, stocks and canned poultry;Pregopasta sauce;PaceMexican sauce;Campbell’scanned pasta, gravies, and beans;V8vegetable
    juices;V8 V-Fusionjuices and beverages;V8 Splashjuice drinks; andCampbell’stomato juice.



Baking
    and Snacking



The Baking and Snacking segment includes the following
    businesses:Pepperidge Farmcookies, crackers, bakery and
    frozen products in U.S. retail; andArnott’sbiscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific. As previously
    disclosed in May 2008, the company completed the divestiture of
    certain salty snack food brands and assets in Australia, which
    were historically included in this segment.



International
    Soup, Sauces and Beverages



The International Soup, Sauces and Beverages segment includes
    the soup, sauce and beverage businesses outside of the United
    States, including Europe, Latin America, the Asia Pacific
    region, as well as the emerging markets of Russia and China, and
    the retail business in Canada. The segment’s operations
    includeErascoandHeisse Tassesoups in Germany,LiebigandRoycosoups in France,Devos Lemmensmayonnaise and cold sauces andCampbell’sandRoycosoups in Belgium, andBlå Bandsoups
    and sauces in Sweden. In Asia Pacific, operations includeCampbell’ssoup and stock,Swansonbroths,V8beverages andPregopasta sauce. In Canada,
    operations includeHabitantandCampbell’ssoups,Pregopasta sauce,PaceMexican sauce,V8beverages and certain Pepperidge Farm products. The
    French sauce and mayonnaise business, which was marketed under
    theLesieurbrand and divested on September 29,
    2008, was historically included in this segment.



North
    America Foodservice



The North America Foodservice segment includes the
    company’s Away From Home operations, which represent the
    distribution of products such as soup, specialty entrees,
    beverage products, other prepared foods and Pepperidge Farm
    products through various food service channels in the United
    States and Canada.



Ingredients
    and Packaging



The ingredients and packaging required for the manufacture of
    the company’s food products are purchased from various
    suppliers. These items are subject to fluctuations in price
    attributable to a number of factors, including changes in crop
    size, cattle cycles, product scarcity, demand for raw materials,
    energy costs, government-sponsored agricultural programs, import
    and export requirements and weather conditions (including the
    potential effects of climate change) during the growing and
    harvesting seasons. To help reduce some of this price
    volatility, the company uses a combination of purchase orders,
    short- and long-term contracts and various commodity risk
    management tools for most of its ingredients and packaging.
    Ingredient inventories are at a peak during the late fall






and decline during the winter and spring. Since many ingredients
    of suitable quality are available in sufficient quantities only
    at certain seasons, the company makes commitments for the
    purchase of such ingredients during their respective seasons. At
    this time, the company does not anticipate any material
    restrictions on availability or shortages of ingredients or
    packaging that would have a significant impact on the
    company’s businesses. For information on the impact of
    inflation on the company, see “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition.”



Customers



In most of the company’s markets, sales activities are
    conducted by the company’s own sales force and through
    broker and distributor arrangements. In the United States,
    Canada and Latin America, the company’s products are
    generally resold to consumers in retail food chains, mass
    discounters, mass merchandisers, club stores, convenience
    stores, drug stores, dollar stores and other retail, commercial
    and non-commercial establishments. In Europe, the company’s
    products are generally resold to consumers in retail food
    chains, mass discounters, mass merchandisers, club stores,
    convenience stores and other retail, commercial and
    non-commercial establishments. In the Asia Pacific region, the
    company’s products are generally resold to consumers
    through retail food chains, convenience stores and other retail,
    commercial and non-commercial establishments. The company makes
    shipments promptly after receipt and acceptance of orders.



The company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and
    its affiliates, accounted for approximately 18% of the
    company’s consolidated net sales in fiscal 2010 and fiscal
    2009, and 16% in fiscal 2008. All of the company’s segments
    sold products to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. or its affiliates. No
    other customer accounted for 10% or more of the company’s
    consolidated net sales.



Trademarks
    and Technology



As of September 15, 2010, the company owned over 4,100
    trademark registrations and applications in over 160 countries
    and believes that its trademarks are of material importance to
    its business. Although the laws vary by jurisdiction, trademarks
    generally are valid as long as they are in useand/ortheir
    registrations are properly maintained and have not been found to
    have become generic. Trademark registrations generally can be
    renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks are in use. The
    company believes that its principal brands, includingCampbell’s,Erasco,Liebig,Pepperidge Farm,Goldfish,V8,Pace,Prego,Swanson, andArnott’s,are
    protected by trademark law in the major markets where they are
    used. In addition, some of the company’s products are sold
    under brands that have been licensed from third parties.



Although the company owns a number of valuable patents, it does
    not regard any segment of its business as being dependent upon
    any single patent or group of related patents. In addition, the
    company owns copyrights, both registered and unregistered, and
    proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes, and
    other intellectual property rights that are not registered.



Competition



The company experiences worldwide competition in all of its
    principal products. This competition arises from numerous
    competitors of varying sizes, including producers of generic and
    private label products, as well as from manufacturers of other
    branded food products, which compete for trade merchandising
    support and consumer dollars. As such, the number of competitors
    cannot be reliably estimated. The principal areas of competition
    are brand recognition, quality, price, advertising, promotion,
    convenience and service.



Working
    Capital



For information relating to the company’s cash and working
    capital items, see “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition.”





Capital
    Expenditures



During fiscal 2010, the company’s aggregate capital
    expenditures were $315 million. The company expects to
    spend approximately $300 million for capital projects in
    fiscal 2011. Major fiscal 2011 capital projects include
    continued enhancement of the company’s corporate
    headquarters in Camden, New Jersey, an upgrade to the
    company’s research and development capabilities and the
    upgrade of certain manufacturing equipment at various facilities
    in the U.S.



Research
    and Development



During the last three fiscal years, the company’s
    expenditures on research activities relating to new products and
    the improvement and maintenance of existing products for
    continuing operations were $123 million in 2010,
    $114 million in 2009, and $115 million in 2008. The
    increase from 2009 to 2010 was primarily due to an increase in
    compensation and benefit costs, costs associated with an
    initiative to simplify the soup-making process in
    North America, and the impact of currency. The decrease
    from 2008 to 2009 was primarily due to the impact of currency.
    The company conducts this research primarily at its headquarters
    in Camden, New Jersey, although important research is undertaken
    at various other locations inside and outside the United States.



Environmental
    Matters



The company has requirements for the operation and design of its
    facilities that meet or exceed applicable environmental rules
    and regulations. Of the company’s $315 million in
    capital expenditures made during fiscal 2010, approximately
    $10 million was for compliance with environmental laws and
    regulations in the United States. The company further estimates
    that approximately $7 million of the capital expenditures
    anticipated during fiscal 2011 will be for compliance with
    United States environmental laws and regulations. The company
    believes that continued compliance with existing environmental
    laws and regulations will not have a material effect on capital
    expenditures, earnings or the competitive position of the
    company.



Seasonality



Demand for the company’s products is somewhat seasonal,
    with the fall and winter months usually accounting for the
    highest sales volume due primarily to demand for the
    company’s soup products. Demand for the company’s
    sauce, beverage, baking and snacking products, however, is
    generally evenly distributed throughout the year.



Employees



On August 1, 2010, there were approximately
    18,400 employees of the company.



Financial
    Information



For information with respect to revenue, operating profitability
    and identifiable assets attributable to the company’s
    business segments and geographic areas, see Note 6 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.



Company
    Website



The company’s primary corporate website can be found atwww.campbellsoupcompany.com. The company makes available
    free of charge at this website (under the “Investor
    Center — Financial Information — SEC
    Filings” caption) all of its reports filed or furnished
    pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, including its annual report onForm 10-K,its quarterly reports onForm 10-Qand its current reports onForm 8-K.These reports are made available on the website as soon as
    reasonably practicable after their filing with, or furnishing
    to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.



