Item 1.Business

The Company

Campbell Soup Company, together with its consolidated subsidiaries (Campbell or the company), is a manufacturer and marketer of high-quality, branded convenience food products. Campbell was organized as a business corporation under the laws of New Jersey on November 23, 1922; however, through predecessor organizations, it traces its heritage in the food business back to 1869. The company’s principal executive offices are in Camden, New Jersey 08103-1799.

Background

On August 6, 2012, the company completed the acquisition of BF Bolthouse Holdco LLC (Bolthouse Farms). Based in Bakersfield, California, Bolthouse Farms is a vertically integrated food and beverage company focused on developing, manufacturing and marketing fresh carrots and proprietary, high value-added products. After taking into account customary purchase price adjustments, the final all-cash purchase price was$1.561 billion. For more information on the Bolthouse Farms acquisition, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

On June 13, 2013, the company completed the acquisition of Plum, PBC (Plum). Based in Emeryville, California, Plum is a leading provider of premium, organic foods and snacks that serve the nutritional needs of babies, toddlers and children. The final all-cash purchase price was $249 million. For more information on the Plum acquisition, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

On August 8, 2013, the company completed the acquisition of Kelsen Group A/S (Kelsen). Based in Nørre Snede, Denmark, Kelsen is a producer of quality baked snacks that are sold in 85 countries around the world. The final all-cash purchase price was $331 million. For more information on the Kelsen acquisition, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

On October 28, 2013, the company completed the sale of its European simple meals business to Soppa Investments S.à r.l., an affiliate of CVC Capital Partners. The all-cash preliminary sale price was€400 million, or$548 million, and was subject to certain post-closing adjustments, which resulted in a$14 millionreduction of proceeds. The company recognized a pre-tax gain of$141 million($72 millionafter tax or$.23per share) in 2014. The company has reflected the results of the European simple meals business as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings for all years presented. The business was historically included in the International Simple Meals and Beverages segment. For more information on the sale of the European simple meals business, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Reportable Segments

The company reports the results of operations in the following reportable segments: U.S. Simple Meals; Global Baking and Snacking; International Simple Meals and Beverages; U.S. Beverages; and Bolthouse and Foodservice. The company has10operating segments based on product type and geographic location and has aggregated the operating segments into the appropriate reportable segment based on similar economic characteristics; products; production processes; types or classes of customers; distribution methods; and regulatory environment. See also Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The reportable segments are discussed in greater detail below.

U.S. Simple Meals

The U.S. Simple Meals segment includes the following products:Campbell’scondensed and ready-to-serve soups;Swansonbroth and stocks;Pregopasta sauces;PaceMexican sauces;Campbell’sgravies, pasta, beans and dinner sauces;Swansoncanned poultry; and as of June 13, 2013,Plum Organicsfood and snacks.

Global Baking and Snacking

The Global Baking and Snacking segment aggregates the following operating segments: Pepperidge Farm cookies, crackers, bakery and frozen products in U.S. retail; Arnott’s biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific; and as of August 8, 2013, Kelsencookies globally.

International Simple Meals and Beverages

The International Simple Meals and Beverages segment aggregates the following operating segments: the retail business in Canada and the simple meals and beverages business in Asia Pacific, Latin America and China. See “Background” and Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the sale of the European simple meals business, which was historically included in this segment. The results of operations of the European simple meals business have been reflected as discontinued operations for the years presented.










U.S. Beverages

The U.S. Beverages segment represents the U.S. retail beverages business, including the following products:V8juices and beverages, andCampbell’stomato juice.

Bolthouse and Foodservice

Bolthouse and Foodservice comprises the Bolthouse Farms carrot products operating segment, including fresh carrots, juice concentrate and fiber; the Bolthouse Farms super-premium refrigerated beverages and refrigerated salad dressings operating segment; and the North America Foodservice operating segment. The North America Foodservice operating segment represents the distribution of products such as soup, specialty entrées, beverage products, other prepared foods and Pepperidge Farm products through various food service channels in the U.S. and Canada. None of these operating segments meets the criteria for aggregation nor the thresholds for separate disclosure.

Ingredients and Packaging

The ingredient and packaging materials required for the manufacture of the company’s food products are purchased from various suppliers. These items are subject to fluctuations in price attributable to a number of factors, including changes in crop size, cattle cycles, product scarcity, demand for raw materials, energy costs, government-sponsored agricultural programs, import and export requirements and regional drought and other weather conditions (including the potential effects of climate change) during the growing and harvesting seasons. To help reduce some of this price volatility, the company uses a combination of purchase orders, short- and long-term contracts, inventory management practices and various commodity risk management tools for most of its ingredients and packaging. Ingredient inventories are at a peak during the late fall and decline during the winter and spring. Since many ingredients of suitable quality are available in sufficient quantities only at certain seasons, the company makes commitments for the purchase of such ingredients during their respective seasons. At this time, the company does not anticipate any material restrictions on availability or shortages of ingredients or packaging that would have a significant impact on the company’s businesses. For information on the impact of inflation on the company, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Customers

In most of the company’s markets, sales and merchandising activities are conducted through the company’s own sales force and its third-party broker and distributor partners. In the U.S., Canada and Latin America, the company’s products are generally resold to consumers in retail food chains, mass discounters, mass merchandisers, club stores, convenience stores, drug stores, dollar stores and other retail, commercial and non-commercial establishments. In the Asia Pacific region, the company’s products are generally resold to consumers through retail food chains, convenience stores and other retail, commercial and non-commercial establishments. The company makes shipments promptly after receipt and acceptance of orders.

The company's five largest customers accounted for approximately35%of the company's consolidated net sales from continuing operations in 2014,36%in 2013 and37%in 2012. The company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately19%of the company’s consolidated net sales in 2014, 2013 and 2012. All of the company’s reportable segments sold products to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. or its affiliates. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of the company’s consolidated net sales.

Trademarks and Technology

As of September15, 2014, the company owned over 3,700 trademark registrations and applications in over 160 countries. The company believes its trademarks are of material importance to its business. Although the laws vary by jurisdiction, trademarks generally are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained and have not been found to have become generic. Trademark registrations generally can be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks are in use. The company believes that its principal brands, includingArnott's, Bolthouse Farms, Campbell's, Goldfish, Kjeldsens, Pace, Pepperidge Farm, Plum Organics, Prego, SwansonandV8,are protected by trademark law in the major markets where they are used. In addition, some of the company's products are sold under brands that have been licensed from third parties.

Although the company owns a number of valuable patents, it does not regard any segment of its business as being dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. In addition, the company owns copyrights, both registered and unregistered, and proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how, processes, and other intellectual property rights that are not registered.

Competition

The company experiences worldwide competition in all of its principal products. This competition arises from numerous competitors of varying sizes across multiple food and beverage categories, and includes producers of generic and private label products, as well as other branded food and beverage manufacturers. All of these competitors vie for trade merchandising support and consumer dollars. The number of competitors cannot be reliably estimated. The principal areas of competition are brand recognition, taste, quality, price, advertising, promotion, convenience and service.










Working Capital

For information relating to the company’s cash and working capital items, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Capital Expenditures

During 2014, the company’s aggregate capital expenditures were$347 million. The company expects to spend approximately$400 millionfor capital projects in 2015. Major 2015 capital projects include a Bolthouse Farms beverage and salad dressing capacity expansion project, the ongoing implementation of a series of related initiatives to simplify and standardize the soup-making process in North America (also known as the soup common platform initiative), the ongoing Pepperidge Farm cracker capacity expansion project, the ongoing enhancement of the company's corporate headquarters in Camden, New Jersey, an ongoing Bolthouse Farms warehouse capacity expansion project and an Indonesian biscuit capacity expansion project.

Research and Development

During the last three fiscal years, the company’s expenditures on research and development activities relating to new products and the improvement and maintenance of existing products were$121 millionin 2014,$128 millionin 2013, and$116 millionin 2012. The decrease from 2013 to 2014 was primarily due to lower incentive compensation costs and cost savings from restructuring initiatives, partially offset by the impact of acquisitions. The increase from 2012 to 2013 was primarily due to higher incentive compensation and benefit costs, the addition of Bolthouse Farms expenses and higher costs associated with product innovation in North America.

Environmental Matters

The company has requirements for the operation and design of its facilities that meet or exceed applicable environmental rules and regulations. Of the company’s$347 millionin capital expenditures made during 2014, approximately $15 million was for compliance with environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. The company further estimates that approximately $16 million of the capital expenditures anticipated during 2015 will be for compliance with U.S. environmental laws and regulations. The company believes that continued compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations (both within the U.S. and elsewhere) will not have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or the competitive position of the company. In addition, the company continues to monitor pending environmental laws and regulations within the U.S. and elsewhere, including proposed regulations in the U.S. to limit carbon dioxide emissions from electric utilities, as well as other laws and regulations relating to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. While the impact of these pending laws and regulations cannot be predicted with certainty, the company does not believe that compliance with these pending laws and regulations will have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or the competitive position of the company.

Seasonality

Demand for the company’s products is somewhat seasonal, with the fall and winter months usually accounting for the highest sales volume due primarily to demand for the company’s soup products. Sales of Kelsen products are also highest in the fall and winter months due primarily to holiday gift giving. Demand for the company’s other simple meal and baking and snacking products, as well as the company's beverage products, is generally evenly distributed throughout the year.

Employees

OnAugust 3, 2014, there were approximately 19,400 employees of the company.

Financial Information

Financial information for the company’s reportable segments and geographic areas is found in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For risks attendant to the company’s foreign operations, see “Risk Factors.”

Company Website

The company’s primary corporate website can be found atwww.campbellsoupcompany.com. The company makes available free of charge at this website (under the “Investor Center — Financial Information — SEC Filings” caption) all of its reports (including amendments) filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including its annual report on Form 10-K, its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and its current reports on Form 8-K. These reports are made available on the website as soon as reasonably practicable after their filing with, or furnishing to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.



