ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

The Company's operations could be affected by various risks, many of which are beyond its control. Based on current information, the Company believes that the following identifies the most significant risk factors that could affect its operations. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.



Risks Relating to the Proposed N&B Transaction and the Dow and Corteva Distributions

DuPont is pursuing a plan to separate and combine its Nutrition & Biosciences business with IFF in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction. This proposed transaction involves risks, including risks that the proposed transaction may not be completed on the currently contemplated timeline or at all and may not achieve the intended benefits.





Even if the proposed transaction is completed, there can be no assurance that DuPont will be able to realize the anticipated value and benefits therefrom or that the new combined company will perform as expected. Further, if the proposed transaction is completed, the combined value of the DuPont Common Stock and the shares of IFF Common Stock issued as consideration in the N&B Merger could be greater than, less than or equal to what the value of DuPont’s Common Stock would have been had the proposed transaction not occurred.



In connection with the proposed transaction with IFF, N&B Inc. entered into a Bridge Commitment Letter to secure from certain financing sources, committed financing in an aggregate principal amount of $7.5 billion, (the “Bridge Loans”) provided that such commitment shall be reduced by, among other things, (1) the amount of net cash proceeds received by N&B Inc. from any issuance of senior unsecured notes pursuant to a Rule 144A offering or other private placement (the "N&B Notes Offering") and (2) certain qualifying term loan commitments under senior unsecured term loan facilities. The proceeds of funded Bridge Loans, if any, would be used by N&B Inc. to make the Special Cash Payment and to pay the related transaction fees and expenses.



In January 2020, N&B Inc. entered into a senior unsecured term loan agreement in the amount of $1.25 billion split evenly between three- and five-year facilities, the proceeds of which shall be used to make the Special Cash Payment and to pay the related transaction fees and expenses. Such term loan facility, reduced the commitments under the Bridge Commitment Letter. The remaining $6.25 billion is expected to be funded through the N&B Notes Offering, if any, and/or the Bridge Loans. The commitments under the Bridge Commitment Letter and the availability of funding under the term loan are subject to customary closing conditions.










Borrowing under the term loan facility and, if any, under the Bridge Loans would occur substantially concurrently with closing of the transaction. Any issuance of senior unsecured notes pursuant to a Rule 144A offering or other private placement for some or all the remaining $6.25 billion would likely occur in advance of the closing. If such issuance occurred prior to the closing, during the period between the offering and the closing of the Proposed N&B Transaction the debt of DuPont on a consolidated basis would be materially increased. Such increase, if any, is not expected to adversely impact DuPont’s results of operations, financial position or access to liquidity. If any notes are issued prior to closing and the proposed transaction with IFF is subsequently terminated, DuPont expects that N&B Inc. would immediately repay any such debt.



The separation and combination of DuPont’s Nutrition & Biosciences business with IFF could result in significant tax liability to DuPont.

Following the N&B Merger with N&B Inc. as the surviving company, except as agreed by the parties, N&B Inc. will merge with and into Neptune Merger Sub II LLC (a wholly owned subsidiary of IFF) (“Merger Sub II”), with Merger Sub II surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of IFF (the “Second Merger,” and together with the N&B Merger, the “Mergers”).



The N&B Distribution and Mergers are expected to be tax-free to DuPont stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes (except to the extent that cash is paid to DuPont stockholders in lieu of fractional shares pursuant to the Merger Agreement), and the Contribution, N&B Distribution, and Special Cash Payment are expected to result in no recognition of gain or loss by DuPont for U.S. federal income tax purposes.





If the Contribution, N&B Distribution and Special Cash Payment failed to qualify for the treatment described above, DuPont would be required to generally recognize taxable gain on the transactions and stockholders of DuPont who receive N&B Inc. Common Stock (and subsequently, IFF Common Stock) pursuant to a pro-rata dividend distribution or an exchange offer would be subject to tax on their receipt of the N&B Inc. Common Stock. Additionally, if certain internal transactions related to the separation of the Nutrition & Biosciences business fail to qualify for their intended tax-free treatment under U.S. federal, state, local tax and/or foreign tax law, DuPont could incur additional tax liabilities.



Under the tax matters agreement to be entered into by DuPont with N&B Inc. and IFF, N&B Inc. or IFF would generally be required to indemnify DuPont for any taxes resulting from the separation of the Nutrition & Biosciences business (and any related costs and other damages) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) certain actions taken by N&B Inc. or IFF involving the capital stock of N&B Inc. or IFF or any assets of the N&B Inc. group (excluding actions required by the documents governing the proposed transactions), or (ii) any breach of certain representations and covenants made by N&B Inc. or IFF.



DuPont is subject to continuing contingent tax-related liabilities of Dow and Corteva following the separations and Distributions.

After the separations and Distributions, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of Dow and Corteva may become the Company’s obligations, either in whole or in part. For example, to the extent that any subsidiary of the Company was included in the consolidated tax reporting group of either Historical Dow or Historical EID for any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective date of the Merger, such subsidiary is jointly and severally liable for the U.S. federal income tax liability of the entire consolidated tax reporting group of Historical Dow or Historical EID, as applicable, for such taxable period. In connection with the separations and Distributions, DuPont, Dow and Corteva have entered into a Tax Matters Agreement, as amended, that allocates the responsibility for prior period consolidated taxes among Dow, Corteva and DuPont. If Dow or Corteva are unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, however, DuPont could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes, and such amounts could be significant. Other provisions of federal, state, local, or foreign law








may establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans, as well as other contingent liabilities.



In connection with the separations and Distributions, certain liabilities are allocated to or retained by DuPont through assumption or indemnification of Dow and/or Corteva, as applicable. If DuPont is required to make payments pursuant to these indemnities to Dow and/or Corteva, DuPont may need to divert cash to meet those obligations, and the Company’s financial results could be negatively impacted. In addition, certain liabilities are allocated to or retained by Dow and/or Corteva through assumption or indemnification, or subject to indemnification by other third parties. These indemnities may not be sufficient to insure the Company against the full amount of liabilities, including PFAS Stray Liabilities, allocated to or retained by it, and Dow, Corteva and/or third parties may not be able to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations in the future.

Pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement, the Employee Matters Agreement, and the Tax Matters Agreement, as amended, (collectively, the “Core Agreements”) with Dow and Corteva, as well as the Letter Agreement between DuPont and Corteva, DuPont has agreed to assume, and indemnify Dow and Corteva for, certain liabilities. (See discussion of the Core Agreements in Note


to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Litigation and Environmental Matters in Note




Generally, as described in Litigation and Environmental Matters, losses related from liabilities related to discontinued and/or divested operations and businesses of Historical EID that are not primarily related to its agriculture business or specialty products business, (“Stray Liabilities”), are allocated to or shared by each of Corteva and DuPont. Stray Liabilities include liabilities arising out of actions to the extent related to or resulting from Historical EID’s development, testing, manufacture or sale of per- or polyfluoroalkyl substances, (“PFAS Stray Liabilities”). In connection with Historical EID’s separation of its Performance Chemicals segment through the spinoff of The Chemours Company (“Chemours”), Chemours indemnifies certain PFAS Stray Liabilities as well as other litigation, environmental and other liabilities that arose prior to the Chemours Separation,



Certain Stray Liabilities are subject to third party indemnities, including certain PFAS Stray Liabilities as discussed above and further described in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements; however, such indemnities may not be sufficient to protect the Company against the full amount of such liabilities or such third parties may refuse or otherwise claim defenses to payment. For example, as described in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, on May 13, 2019, Chemours filed suit in the Delaware Court of Chancery against Historical EID, Corteva and the Company in an attempt to limit its responsibility for the litigation and environmental liabilities allocated to and assumed by Chemours under the Chemours Separation Agreement.



Although the Company believes it is remote, there can be no assurance that any such third party would have adequate resources to satisfy its indemnification obligation when due, or, would not ultimately be successful in claiming defenses against payment. Even if recovery from the third party is ultimately successful, DuPont may be temporarily required to bear these losses. Each of these risks could negatively affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



If the completed distribution of Corteva or Dow, in each case, together with certain related transactions, were to fail to qualify for non-recognition treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then the Company could be subject to significant tax and indemnification liability.

The completed distributions of Corteva and Dow were each conditioned upon the receipt of an opinion from Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, the Company’s tax counsel, regarding the qualification of the applicable distribution along with certain related transactions as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 and Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code,” and such opinions, collectively, the “Tax Opinions”). The Tax Opinions relied on certain facts, assumptions, and undertakings, and certain representations from the Company, Dow and Corteva, as applicable, as well as the IRS Ruling (as defined below). Notwithstanding the Tax Opinions and the IRS Ruling, the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) could determine








on audit that either, or both, of the distributions and certain related transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including if the IRS were to disagree with the conclusions of the Tax Opinions.







The separations and Distributions may expose the Company to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements.

Although DuPont received a solvency opinion from an investment bank confirming that DuPont, Dow and Corteva would each be adequately capitalized following the separations and Distributions, the separations and Distributions could be challenged under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. Fraudulent conveyances or transfers are generally defined to include transfers made or obligations incurred with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud current or future creditors or transfers made or obligations incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value when the debtor was insolvent, or that rendered the debtor insolvent, inadequately capitalized or unable to pay its debts as they become due. Any unpaid creditor could claim that DuPont did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value in the separations and distributions, and that the separations and distributions left DuPont insolvent or with unreasonably small capital or that DuPont intended or believed DuPont would incur debts beyond the Company’s ability to pay such debts as they mature. If a court were to agree with such a plaintiff, then such court could void the separations and distributions as a fraudulent transfer or impose substantial liabilities on it, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and the Company’s results of operations.



The separations and Distributions are also subject to review under state corporate distribution statutes. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, a corporation may only pay dividends to its stockholders either (i) out of its surplus (net assets minus capital) or (ii) if there is no such surplus, out of its net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. Although DuPont’s Board of Directors made the distributions out of DuPont’s surplus and received an opinion that DuPont had adequate surplus under Delaware law to declare the dividends of Corteva and Dow common stock in connection with the Distributions, there can be no assurance that a court will not later determine that some or all of the distributions were unlawful.










Risks Relating to DuPont’s Business

Changes in the Company’s credit ratings could increase the Company’s cost of borrowing or restrict the Company’s ability to access debt capital markets. The Company’s credit ratings are important to the Company’s cost of capital.



A significant percentage of the Company’s net sales are generated from the Company’s international operations and are subject to economic, political, regulatory, foreign exchange and other risks.

The percentage of net sales generated by the international operations of DuPont, including U.S. exports, was approximately 70 percent of net sales on a continuing operations basis for the year ended December 31, 2019. With Asia Pacific as the Company’s largest region, DuPont expects the percentage of the Company’s net sales derived from international operations to continue to be significant. Risks related to international operations include:



•difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex, and often conflicting, laws, treaties and regulations, including antitrust regulations;

•restrictions on, as well as difficulties and costs associated with, the repatriation of cash from foreign countries to the United States and the allocation of revenues or distributions of cash between the Company’s foreign subsidiaries;

•exchange control regulations;

•fluctuations in foreign exchange rates;

•labor compliance costs, including wage, salary and benefit controls and other costs associated with a global workforce, as will as difficulties in hiring and maintaining a qualified staff outside of the United States, especially in the Asia Pacific region;

•government mandated price controls;

•foreign investment laws;

•potential for changes in global trade policies, including import, export and other trade restrictions (such as sanctions and embargoes) and tariffs;

•trends such as populism, economic nationalism and negative sentiment toward multinational companies, as well as government takeover or nationalization of businesses; and

•instability and uncertainty arising from the global geopolitical environment and the evolving international and domestic political, regulatory and economic landscape.



These and other factors can impair the Company’s flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing the Company’s businesses, as well as the Company’s ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins.



The Company’s international operations expose it to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. For its continuing operations as of the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company’s largest currency exposures are the Chinese renminbi and the Taiwan dollar. U.S. dollar fluctuations against foreign currency have an impact to commercial prices and raw material costs in some cases and could result in local price increases if the price or raw material costs is denominated in U.S. dollar.



Sales and expenses of the Company’s non-U.S. businesses are also translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes and fluctuations of foreign currency against the U.S. dollar could impact U.S. dollar-denominated earnings. In addition, the Company’s assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies can also be impacted by foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar, which could result in exchange gain or loss from revaluation.



DuPont also faces exchange rate risk from the Company’s investments in subsidiaries owned and operated in foreign countries.










DuPont has a balance sheet hedging program and actively looks for opportunities in managing currency exposures related to earnings. However, foreign exchange hedging activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to it or be successful in completely mitigating such exposures.



DuPont generates significant amounts of cash outside of the United States that is invested with financial and non-financial counterparties. While DuPont employs comprehensive controls regarding global cash management to guard against cash or investment loss and to ensure the Company’s ability to fund the Company’s operations and commitments, a material disruption to the counterparties with whom DuPont transacts business could expose it to financial loss.



Any one or more of the above factors could adversely affect the Company’s international operations and could significantly affect the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.



Volatility in energy and raw material costs could have a significant impact on the Company’s sales and earnings.

The Company’s manufacturing processes consume significant amounts of energy and raw materials, the costs of which are subject to worldwide supply and demand as well as other factors beyond the Company’s control. Significant variations in the cost of energy, which primarily reflect market prices for oil, natural gas and raw materials, affect the Company’s operating results from period to period. Legislation to address climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, creating a carbon tax or implementing a cap and trade program could create increases in energy costs and price volatility.



When possible, DuPont purchases raw materials through negotiated long-term contracts to minimize the impact of price fluctuations. Additionally, DuPont uses over-the-counter and exchange traded derivative commodity instruments to hedge the Company’s exposure to price fluctuations on certain raw material purchases, including food ingredients. DuPont also takes actions to offset the effects of higher energy and raw material costs through selling price increases, productivity improvements and cost reduction programs. Success in offsetting higher raw material costs with price increases is largely influenced by competitive and economic conditions and could vary significantly depending on the market served. As a result, volatility in these costs may negatively impact the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.



The Company’s results will be affected by competitive conditions and customer preferences.

Demand for the Company’s products, which impacts revenue and profit margins, will be affected by (i) the development and timing of the introduction of competitive products; (ii) the Company’s response to downward pricing trends to stay competitive; (iii) changes in customer order patterns, such as changes in the levels of inventory maintained by customers and the timing of customer purchases which may be affected by announced price changes, changes in the Company’s incentive programs, or the customer’s ability to achieve incentive goals; (iv) the impact of tariffs or trade disputes on availability of raw materials; and (v) changes in customers’ preferences for the Company’s products, including the success of products offered by the Company’s competitors, and changes in customer’s designs for their products that can affect the demand for some of the Company’s products.



Additionally, success in achieving the Company’s growth objectives is significantly dependent on the timing and market acceptance of the Company’s new product offerings, including the Company’s ability to renew the Company’s pipeline of new product offerings and to bring those offerings to market. This ability may be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development, such as the inability to identify viable new products, obtain adequate intellectual property protection, or gain market acceptance of new products. There are no guarantees that new products will prove to be commercially successful. The Company’s success will depend on several factors, including the Company’s ability to:



•correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences;

•allocate the Company’s research & development funding to products and services with higher growth prospects;

•anticipate and respond to the Company’s competitors’ development of new products and services and technological innovations;

•differentiate the Company’s offerings from the Company’s competitors’ offerings and avoid commoditization;

•innovate and develop new technologies and applications, and acquire or obtain rights to third-party technologies that may have valuable applications in the Company’s served markets;

•obtain adequate intellectual property rights with respect to key technologies before the Company’s competitors do;

•successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price them competitively and cost-effectively manufacture and deliver sufficient volumes of new products of appropriate quality on time;

•obtain necessary regulatory approvals of appropriate scope; and

•stimulate customer demand for, and convince customers, to adopt new technologies.



There are no guarantees that new product offerings will prove to be commercially successful.Additionally, the Company’s expansion into new markets may result in greater-than-expected risks, liabilities and expenses.










The costs of complying with evolving regulatory requirements could negatively impact the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permit requirements could result in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations and substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability.

DuPont continues to be subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment, greenhouse gas emissions, and the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. Costs and capital expenditures relating to environmental, health or safety matters are subject to evolving regulatory requirements and depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which impose the requirements. Moreover, changes in environmental regulations could inhibit or interrupt the Company’s operations, or require modifications to the Company’s facilities. Changes to regulations or the implementation of additional regulations, especially in certain highly regulated markets served by the Company’s Nutrition & Biosciences businesses, such as regulatory modernization of food safety laws and evolving standards and regulations affecting pharmaceutical excipients, microbials, or in reaction to new or next-generation technologies, including advances in protein engineering, gene editing and gene mapping, or novel uses of existing technologies may result in significant costs or capital expenditures or require changes in business practice that could result in reduced margins or profitability.



Accordingly, environmental, health or safety regulatory matters could result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities causing a negative impact on the Company’s business, cash flows and results of operations.



The Company’s business, results of operations and reputation could be adversely affected by industry-specific risks including process safety and product stewardship/regulatory compliance issues.

DuPont is subject to risks which include, but are not limited to, product safety or quality; shifting consumer preferences; federal, state, and local regulations on manufacturing or labeling; environmental, health and safety regulations; and customer product liability claims. While DuPont maintains general liability insurance, the amount of liability that may result from certain of these risks may not always be covered by, or could exceed, the applicable insurance coverage. In addition, negative publicity related to product liability, food safety, safety, health and environmental matters may damage the Company’s reputation. The occurrence of any of the matters described above could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.



In most jurisdictions, DuPont must test the safety, efficacy and environmental impact of the Company’s products to satisfy regulatory requirements and obtain the needed approvals. In certain jurisdictions, DuPont must periodically renew the Company’s approvals, which may require it to demonstrate compliance with then-current standards. The regulatory approvals process is lengthy, complex and in some markets unpredictable, with requirements that can vary by product, technology, industry and country. Additionally, the regulatory environment may be impacted by the activities of non-governmental organizations and special interest groups and stakeholder reactions to the actual or perceived impacts of new technology, products or processes on safety, health and the environment. Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals will require submitting a significant amount of information and data, which may require participation from technology providers. Regulatory standards and trial procedures are continuously changing. The pace of change together with the lack of regulatory harmony could result in unintended noncompliance. To maintain the Company’s right to produce or sell existing products or to commercialize new products, DuPont must be able to demonstrate the Company’s ability to satisfy the requirements of regulatory agencies.



The failure to meet existing and new requirements or receive necessary permits or approvals could have near- and long-term effects on the Company’s ability to produce and sell certain current and future products, which could significantly increase operating costs and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.



The Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected by interruption of the Company’s supply chain, information technology or network systems and other business disruptions.

Supply chain disruptions, plant and/or power outages, labor disputes and/or strikes, information technology system and/or network disruptions, whether caused by acts of sabotage, employee error, malfeasance or other actions, geo-political activity, weather events and natural disasters, including hurricanes or flooding that impact coastal regions, and global health risks or pandemics could seriously harm the Company’s operations as well as the operations of the Company’s customers and suppliers. In addition, terrorist attacks and natural disasters have increased stakeholder concerns about the security and safety of chemical production and distribution.



Supply chain and other business disruptions may also be caused by security breaches, which could include, for example, attacks on information technology and infrastructure by hackers, viruses, breaches due to employee error, malfeasance or other actions or other disruptions. DuPont and/or the Company’s suppliers may fail to effectively prevent, detect and recover from these or other security breaches and, therefore, such breaches could result in misuse of the Company’s assets, loss of property including trade secrets and confidential or personal information, some of which is subject to privacy and security laws, and other business








disruptions. As a result, DuPont may be subject to legal claims or proceedings, reporting errors, processing inefficiencies, negative media attention, loss of sales, interference with regulatory compliance which could result in sanctions or penalties, liability or penalties under privacy laws, disruption in the Company’s operations, and damage to the Company’s reputation, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.



Like most major corporations, DuPont is the target of industrial espionage, including cyber-attacks, from time to time. DuPont has determined that these attacks have resulted, and could result in the future, in unauthorized parties gaining access to certain confidential business information. Although management does not believe that DuPont has experienced any material losses to date related to these security breaches, including cybersecurity incidents, there can be no assurance that DuPont will not suffer such losses in the future.



DuPont seeks to actively manage the risks within the Company’s control that could lead to business disruptions and security breaches. As these threats continue to evolve, particularly around cybersecurity, DuPont may be required to expend significant resources to enhance the Company’s control environment, processes, practices and other protective measures. Despite these efforts, such events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.



Enforcing the Company’s intellectual property rights, or defending against intellectual property claims asserted by others, could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, know-how and other confidential information, trademarks, tradenames and other forms of trade dress, are important to the Company’s business. DuPont endeavors to protect the Company’s intellectual property rights in jurisdictions in which the Company’s products are produced or used and in jurisdictions into which the Company’s products are imported. However, DuPont may be unable to obtain protection for the Company’s intellectual property in key jurisdictions. Further, changes in government policies and regulations, including changes made in reaction to pressure from non-governmental organizations, or the public generally, could impact the extent of intellectual property protection afforded by such jurisdictions.



DuPont has designed and implemented internal controls intended to restrict access to and distribution of the Company’s intellectual property. Despite these precautions, the Company’s intellectual property is vulnerable to unauthorized access through employee error or actions, theft and cybersecurity incidents, and other security breaches. When unauthorized access and use or counterfeit products are discovered, DuPont considers the matter for report to governmental authorities for investigation, as appropriate, and take measures to mitigate any potential impact. Protecting intellectual property related to biotechnology is particularly challenging because theft is difficult to detect and biotechnology can be self-replicating. Accordingly, the impact of such theft can be significant.



Competitors are increasingly challenging the Company’s intellectual property positions, and the potential outcomes can be highly uncertain. Third parties may also claim the Company’s products violate their intellectual property rights. Defending such claims, even those without merit, is time-consuming and expensive. In addition, as a result of such claims, DuPont has and could be required in the future to enter into license agreements, develop non-infringing products or engage in litigation that could be costly. If challenges are resolved adversely, it could negatively impact the Company’s ability to obtain licenses on competitive terms, commercialize new products and generate sales from existing products.



In addition, because of the rapid pace of technological change, the confidentiality of patent applications in some jurisdictions and/or the uncertainty in predicting the outcome of complex proceedings relating to ownership or the scope of protection of patents relating to certain emerging technologies, competitors may be unexpectedly issued patents that DuPont does not anticipate. These patents could reduce the value of the Company’s commercial or pipeline products or, to the extent they cover key technologies on which DuPont has unknowingly relied, require it to seek to obtain licenses or cease using the technology, no matter how valuable to the Company’s business. If DuPont decided to obtain licenses to continue using the technology, it cannot ensure DuPont would be able to obtain such a license on acceptable terms.



Legislation and jurisprudence on patent protection is evolving, and changes in laws could affect the Company’s ability to obtain or maintain patent protection for the Company’s products.



Any one or more of the above factors could significantly affect the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.










Increased concerns regarding chemicals in commerce and their potential impact on the environment have resulted in more restrictive regulations, may lead to new regulations and compliance may be costly.

Concerns about chemicals and biotechnology, as well as their potential impact on health and the environment, reflect a growing trend in societal demands for increasing levels of product safety and environmental protection. These concerns could manifest themselves in stockholder proposals, preferred purchasing, delays or failures in obtaining or retaining regulatory approvals, delayed product launches, lack of market acceptance, product discontinuation, continued pressure for and adoption of more stringent regulatory intervention and litigation. These concerns could also influence public perceptions, the viability or continued sales of certain of the Company’s products, the Company’s reputation and the cost to comply with regulations and, as a result, could have a negative impact on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.



An impairment of goodwill or intangible assets could negatively impact the Company’s financial results.

At least annually, DuPont must assess both goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. Intangible assets with finite lives are tested for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable. If testing indicates that goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, their carrying values will be written down based on fair values with a charge against earnings. Where DuPont utilizes discounted cash flow methodologies in determining fair values, continued weak demand for a specific product line or business could result in an impairment. Accordingly, any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations.



As a result of the Merger and related acquisition method of accounting, Historical EID’s assets and liabilities were measured at fair value, and any declines in projected cash flows could have a material, negative impact on the fair value of the Company’s reporting units and assets. Future impairments of the Company’s goodwill or intangible assets also could be recorded due to changes in assumptions, estimates or circumstances and the magnitude of such impairments may be material to it.



Failure to effectively manage acquisitions, divestitures, alliances and other portfolio actions could adversely impact the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.



The Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected by litigation and other commitments and contingencies.

DuPont faces risks arising from various unasserted and asserted litigation matters, including product liability, patent infringement and other intellectual property disputes, contract and commercial litigation, claims for damage or personal injury, antitrust claims, governmental regulations and other actions. An adverse outcome in any one or more of these matters could be material to the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.



In the ordinary course of business, DuPont may make certain commitments, including representations, warranties and indemnities relating to current and past operations, including those related to divested businesses, and DuPont may issue guarantees of third-party obligations. If DuPont is required to make payments as a result, they could exceed the amounts accrued therefor, thereby adversely affecting the Company’s results of operations.



DuPont is subject to numerous laws, regulations and mandates globally which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results and forward strategy.

DuPont does business globally in more than 60 countries. DuPont is required to comply with the numerous and far-reaching laws and regulations administered by United States federal, state, local and foreign governmental authorities. DuPont is required to comply with other general business regulations covering areas such as income taxes, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, global trade, trade sanctions, environmental protections, product safety, and handling and production of regulated substances. DuPont expects to frequently face challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges may include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions.








In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, DuPont expects to record reserves for estimates of potential additional tax DuPont may owe. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or appropriately resolve these challenges could subject it to administrative, civil and criminal remedies including fines, penalties, disgorgement, injunctions and recalls of the Company’s products, and damage to the Company’s reputation.



Governmental policies, including antitrust and competition law, trade restrictions, regulations related to medical applications and devices, food safety regulations, sustainability requirements, traceability and other government regulations and mandates, can impact the Company’s ability to execute this strategy successfully. See also “A significant percentage of the Company’s net sales are generated from the Company’s international operations and are subject to the economic, political, regulatory, foreign exchange and other risks.”



Failure to maintain a streamlined operating model and sustain operational improvements may reduce the Company’s profitability or adversely impact the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

The Company’s profitability and margin growth will depend in part on the Company’s ability to maintain a streamlined operating model and drive sustainable improvements, through actions and projects, such as consolidation of manufacturing facilities, transitions to cost-competitive regions and product line rationalizations. A variety of factors may adversely affect the Company’s ability to realize the targeted cost synergies, including failure to successfully optimize the Company’s facilities footprint, the failure to take advantage of the Company’s global supply chain, the failure to identify and eliminate duplicative programs, and the failure to otherwise integrate Historical EID’s or Historical Dow’s respective specialty products businesses, including their technology platforms. There can be no assurance that DuPont is be able to achieve or sustain any or all of the cost savings generated from restructuring actions.



The Company’s U.S. and non-U.S. tax liabilities will be dependent, in part, upon the distribution of income among various jurisdictions in which DuPont operates.

The Company’s future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws, regulations and judicial rulings (or changes in the interpretation thereof), changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of the Company’s tax exposures and various other governmental enforcement initiatives. The Company’s tax expense includes estimates of tax reserves and reflects other estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the Company which could impact the valuation of the Company’s deferred tax assets. Changes in tax laws or regulations, including further regulatory developments arising from U.S. tax reform legislation as well as multi-jurisdictional changes enacted in response to the action items provided by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), will increase tax uncertainty and impact the Company’s provision for income taxes.







