
10-K405
FORM 10-K405




                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                 FORM 10-K405

(Mark One)
   [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999
                                      OR
   [_]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

           For the transition period from __________ to ____________

                         Commission File Number 1-6075

                           UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            UTAH                                      13-2626465
(State or other jurisdiction of                    (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)                    Identification No.)

                       1416 DODGE STREET, OMAHA, NEBRASKA
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

                                   (Zip Code)

                                 (402) 271-5777
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
                          Yes     X      No   ________
                               -------

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  [__].

  As of February 29, 2000, the aggregate market value of the registrant's Common
Stock held by non-affiliates (using the New York Stock Exchange closing price)
was approximately $8,880,699,484.

  The number of  shares outstanding of the registrant's Common Stock as of
February 29, 2000 was 247,842,346.


  Portions of the following documents are incorporated by reference into this
Report; (1) registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
December 31, 1999 (Annual Report) (Parts I, II and IV); and (2) registrant's
definitive Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on
April 21, 2000 (Part III).

                                     PART I
                                     ------

Item 1. Business and Item 2. Properties
        --------             ----------

Corporate Structure

Union Pacific Corporation (UPC or the Corporation) was incorporated in Utah in
1969.  The Corporation operates primarily in the areas of rail transportation,
through its subsidiary Union Pacific Railroad Company; and trucking, through its
subsidiary Overnite Transportation Company.

  In 1999, the Corporation continued implementing its strategy of refocusing on
its core rail transportation business. The implementation of this strategy began
with the 1994 sale of the Corporation's waste management business.  Since then,
the Corporation disposed of its oil and gas operations, sold its logistics
business and attempted to sell its trucking operations. At the same time, the
Corporation invested heavily in rail assets. The Corporation's rail investments
included the 1995 purchase of the Chicago and North Western Transportation
Company (CNW), the 1996 acquisition of Southern Pacific Rail Corporation
(Southern Pacific), and the 1997 and 1999 investments in the Pacific-North and
Chihuahua Pacific lines in Mexico.

  Key strategic transactions in 1999, 1998 and 1997 were as follows:

Mexican Railway Concession - In 1999, the Railroad increased its investment in
the Pacific-North and Chihuahua Pacific lines in Mexico. During 1997, the
Railroad and a consortium of partners were granted a 50-year concession to
operate the Pacific-North and Chihuahua Pacific lines and a 25% stake in the
Mexico City Terminal Company at a price of $525 million. The consortium assumed
operational control of both lines in 1998. In March 1999, the Railroad purchased
an additional 13% ownership interest for $87 million from one of its partners.
The Railroad now holds a 26% ownership share in the consortium and accounts for
the investment under the equity method.

Overnite Divestiture - In May 1998, the Corporation's Board of Directors
approved a formal plan to divest of UPC's investment in Overnite through an
initial public offering. However, market conditions deteriorated to the point
that UPC decided not to consummate the offering.

Skyway - In November 1998, the Corporation completed the sale of Skyway Freight
Systems, Inc. (Skyway), a wholly owned subsidiary. Skyway provided contract
logistics and supply chain management services. The proceeds were used to repay
outstanding debt.  The sale of Skyway generated a net after-tax loss of $50
million, of which $40 million was recognized in 1997 (see Notes 3 and 13 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report).

Southern Pacific - During 1999, UPC continued its integration of Southern
Pacific's rail operations. This process is expected to be completed over the
next 24 months (see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the
Annual Report).  UPC consummated the acquisition of Southern Pacific in
September 1996 for $4.1 billion. Sixty percent of the outstanding Southern
Pacific common shares were converted into UPC common stock and the remaining 40%
of the outstanding shares were acquired for cash. UPC initially funded the cash
portion of the acquisition with credit facility borrowings, all of which have
been subsequently refinanced with other borrowings. The acquisition of Southern
Pacific has been accounted for using the purchase method.

                                      -2-


Operations

Union Pacific Corporation consists of one reportable segment, rail
transportation, and UPC's other product lines (Other Operations). The rail
segment includes the operations of the Corporation's wholly owned subsidiary,
Union Pacific Railroad Company (UPRR) and UPRR's subsidiaries and rail
affiliates (the Railroad). UPRR included as of May 1, 1995, CNW, and, as of
October 1, 1996, Southern Pacific. The Corporation finalized the integration of
CNW in 1996 and expects to complete the integration of the operations of
Southern Pacific over the next 24 months. Other Operations include the trucking
product line (Overnite Transportation Company or Overnite), as well as the
"other" product lines that include technology, self-insurance activities,
corporate holding company operations, which largely support the Railroad, and
all appropriate consolidating entries.

Rail

Operations - The Railroad is a Class I railroad that operates in the United
States.  It has over 33,000 route miles linking Pacific Coast and Gulf Coast
ports to the Midwest and eastern United States gateways and providing several
north/south corridors to key Mexican gateways. The Railroad serves the western
two-thirds of the country and maintains coordinated schedules with other
carriers for the handling of freight to and from the Atlantic Coast, the Pacific
Coast, the Southeast, the Southwest, Canada and Mexico. Export and import
traffic is moved through Gulf Coast and Pacific Coast ports and across the
Mexican and (primarily through interline connections) Canadian borders. The
Railroad is subject to price and service competition from other railroads, motor
carriers and barge operators.

Employees - Approximately 87% of the Railroad's 52,000 employees are represented
by rail unions. During 1996, nearly all of UPRR's unionized workforce ratified
five-year national agreements, which include a combination of general wage
increases and lump-sum payments. In addition, the agreements provide for
increased flexibility in work rules. Negotiations under the Railway Labor Act
for a new national agreement for all crafts began in late 1999 and are in the
initial stages. Under the conditions imposed by the Surface Transportation Board
of the U.S. Department of Transportation (STB) in connection with the Southern
Pacific acquisition, labor agreements between the Railroad and the unions
representing SP employees must be negotiated before the UPRR and SP rail systems
can be fully integrated. The Railroad has successfully reached agreements with
the shopcraft, carmen, clerical and maintenance-of-way unions. By the end of
1999, negotiations with other operating crafts were nearly complete, with only
one hub-and-spoke agreement (Los Angeles) left to implement in early 2000.  The
terms of ratified and pending labor agreements are not expected to have a
material adverse effect on the Corporation's results of operations.

  A separate Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999,
will be filed by UPRR and will contain additional information concerning that
company.

Other Operations

Trucking Product Line

Operations - Overnite Transportation Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Corporation, is a major interstate trucking company specializing in less-than-
truckload shipments. Overnite serves all 50 states and portions of Canada and
Mexico through 166 service centers located throughout the United States.
Overnite transports a variety of products including machinery, tobacco,
textiles, plastics, electronics and paper products. Overnite experiences intense
service and price competition from both regional and national motor carriers.

Employees - As one of the nation's largest predominantly non-union single
operating trucking companies, Overnite is periodically targeted at many of its
service centers by major labor organization efforts instituted by the
International Brotherhood of Teamsters (Teamsters). The Teamsters conducted a
brief job action in July 1999 and began another job action in October 1999 that
continued into 2000. Since year-end 1994, Overnite has received 90 petitions for
union elections at 67 of its 166 service centers.  Twenty-two service centers,
representing approximately 14% of Overnite's 13,000 employee nationwide
workforce, voted for union representation; and the Teamsters have been certified
and

                                      -3-


recognized as the bargaining representative for such employees. Eleven of these
locations filed decertification petitions in 1999. Elections affecting
approximately 400 additional employees are unresolved, and there are no
elections currently scheduled. Additionally, proceedings are pending in certain
cases where a Teamsters' local union lost a representation election. To date,
Overnite has not entered into any collective bargaining agreements with the
Teamsters.

Operational Initiatives - During 1999, 1998 and 1997, Overnite benefited from
several initiatives aimed at better matching its operations to the trucking
industry environment. These actions included workforce reductions, service
center consolidations, centralization of the linehaul management process and
pricing initiatives targeting Overnite's lowest margin customers.  Overnite has
also benefited from growth in its customer base generated by continuing
improvements in its service levels.

Other Product Lines

Other - Included in the "Other" product lines are the results of the corporate
holding company; Union Pacific Technologies, a provider of transportation-
related technologies; Wasatch Insurance Limited, a captive insurance company;
and all necessary consolidating entries.

Other Information

Additional information regarding UPC's operations is presented on pages 6
through 15, in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 38
through 41 and on pages 52 and 53 of the Annual Report, and such information
(excluding photographs on pages 6 through 15, none of which supplements the text
and which are not otherwise required to be disclosed herein) is incorporated
herein by reference. The map of the Corporation's operations on pages 16 and 17
of the Annual Report is also incorporated herein by reference.

Governmental Regulation - UPC's operations are currently subject to a variety of
federal, state and local regulations. The most significant areas of regulation
are described below.  See also the discussion of certain regulatory proceedings
in "Item 3. Legal Proceedings".

  The operations of the Railroad and Overnite are subject to the regulatory
jurisdiction of the STB, other federal agencies and various state agencies. The
STB has jurisdiction over rates charged on certain regulated rail traffic;
freight car compensation; transfer, extension or abandonment of rail lines; and
acquisition of control of rail and motor carriers by rail common carriers. Other
federal agencies have jurisdiction over safety, movement of hazardous materials,
movement and disposal of hazardous waste and equipment standards.  Various state
and local agencies have jurisdiction over disposal of hazardous wastes and seek
to regulate movement of hazardous materials.

Environmental Regulation - UPC and its subsidiaries are subject to various
environmental statutes and regulations, including the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), and the Clean Air Act (CAA).

  RCRA applies to hazardous waste generators and transporters, as well as to
persons engaged in treatment and disposal of hazardous waste, and specifies
standards for storage areas, treatment units and land disposal units. All
generators of hazardous waste are required to label shipments in accordance with
detailed regulations and to prepare a detailed manifest identifying the material
and stating its destination before waste can be released for offsite transport.
The transporter must deliver the hazardous waste in accordance with the manifest
and only to a treatment, storage or disposal facility qualified for RCRA interim
status or having a final RCRA permit.

  The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations under RCRA have
established a comprehensive system for the management of hazardous waste. These
regulations identify a wide range of industrial by-products and residues as
hazardous waste, and specify requirements for "cradle-to-grave" management of
such waste from the time of generation through the time of disposal and beyond.
States that have adopted hazardous waste management programs

                                      -4-


with standards at least as stringent as those promulgated by the EPA may be
authorized by the EPA to administer all or part of RCRA on behalf of the EPA.

  CERCLA was designed to establish a strategy for cleaning up facilities at
which hazardous waste or other hazardous substances have created actual or
potential environmental hazards. The EPA has designated certain facilities as
requiring cleanup or further assessment. Among other things, CERCLA authorizes
the federal government either to clean up such facilities itself or to order
persons responsible for the situation to do so. The act created a multi-billion
dollar fund to be used by the federal government to pay for such cleanup
efforts. In the event the federal government pays for such cleanup, it will seek
reimbursement from private parties upon which CERCLA imposes liability.

  CERCLA imposes strict liability on the owners and operators of facilities in
which hazardous waste and other hazardous substances are deposited or from which
they are released or are likely to be released into the environment. It also
imposes strict liability on the generators of such waste and the transporters of
the waste who select the disposal or treatment sites. Liability may include
cleanup costs incurred by third persons and damage to publicly owned natural
resources. The Company is subject to potential liability under CERCLA as an
owner or operator of facilities at which hazardous substances have been disposed
of, or as a generator or a transporter of hazardous substances disposed of at
other locations. Some states have enacted, and other states are considering
enacting, legislation similar to CERCLA. Certain provisions of these acts are
more stringent than CERCLA. States that have passed such legislation are
currently active in designating more facilities as requiring cleanup and further
assessment.

  The operations of the Corporation are subject to the requirements of the CAA.
The 1990 amendments to the CAA include a provision under Title V requiring that
certain facilities obtain operating permits. EPA regulations require all states
to develop federally-approvable permit programs. Affected facilities must submit
air operating permit applications to the respective states within one year of
the EPA's approval of the state programs. Certain of the Corporation's
facilities may be required to obtain such permits. In addition, in December 1997
the EPA issued final regulations which require that most locomotives purchased
or remanufactured after 1999 or 2000 meet certain stringent emissions criteria.
While the cost of meeting these requirements may be significant, expenditures
are not expected to affect materially the Corporation's financial condition or
results of operations.

  The operations of the Corporation are also subject to other laws protecting
the environment, including permit requirements for wastewater discharges
pursuant to the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System and storm-water
runoff regulations under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.

  Information concerning environmental claims and contingencies and estimated
attendant remediation costs is set forth in Note 12 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements on page 50 of the Annual Report.  Such information is
incorporated herein by reference.

Cautionary Information

Certain statements in this report are, and statements in other material filed or
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (as well as information
included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by
the Corporation) are or will be, forward-looking within the meaning of the
Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-
looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding:
expectations as to operational improvements; expectations as to cost savings,
revenue growth and earnings; the time by which certain objectives will be
achieved; estimates of costs relating to environmental remediation and
restoration; expectations as to product applications; expectations that claims,
lawsuits, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor
negotiations or agreements, or other matters will not have a material adverse
effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or
liquidity; and statements concerning projections, predictions, expectations,
estimates or forecasts as to the Corporation's and its subsidiaries' business,
financial and operational results, and future economic performance, statements
of management's goals and objectives and other similar expressions concerning
matters that are not historical facts.

                                      -5-


  Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future
performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the
times at, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-
looking information is based on information available at the time and/or
management's good faith belief with respect to future events, and is subject to
risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ
materially from those expressed in the statements.

  Important factors that could cause such differences include, but are not
limited to, whether the Corporation and its subsidiaries are fully successful in
implementing their financial and operational initiatives; industry competition,
conditions, performance and consolidation; legislative and/or regulatory
developments, including possible enactment of initiatives to re-regulate the
rail business; natural events such as severe weather, floods and earthquakes;
the effects of adverse general economic conditions, both within the United
States and globally; changes in fuel prices; changes in labor costs; labor
stoppages; the impact of latent year 2000 systems problems; and the outcome of
claims and litigation, including claims arising from environmental
investigations or proceedings.

  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statement was made.
The Corporation assumes no obligation to update forward-looking information to
reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors
affecting forward-looking information. If the Corporation does update one or
more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that the
Corporation will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to
other forward-looking statements.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings
        -----------------

Southern Pacific Acquisition

On August 12, 1996, the STB served a decision (the Decision) approving the
acquisition of control of Southern Pacific by UPC, subject to various
conditions.  The acquisition was consummated on September 11, 1996.  Various
appeals were filed with respect to the Decision, and all such appeals were
ultimately consolidated in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit, and all of the appeals have since been withdrawn or denied.

  Among the conditions to the STB's approval of the Southern Pacific acquisition
was the requirement that the STB retain oversight jurisdiction for five years to
examine whether the conditions imposed under the Decision remain effective to
address the competitive harms caused by the merger. On November 30, 1999, the
STB served a decision in the third annual general oversight proceeding to review
the implementation of the merger and the effectiveness of the conditions imposed
under the Decision. The Board concluded that merger implementation continued to
be positive, the conditions ensured effective competition and no new conditions
were warranted. The STB established July 3, 2000 as the date for the next
comprehensive summary to be filed by the Railroad. The STB order also requires
interested parties to file comments concerning the next annual oversight
proceeding on August 18, 2000, with replies being due September 5, 2000.

Bottleneck Proceedings

The STB initiated a proceeding in 1996 on the issue of whether it should modify
existing laws regarding a railroad's obligation to offer, and a shipper's rights
to challenge, rates for rail service over a bottleneck segment. A bottleneck
segment is a line of railroad that is served by only one railroad between a
junction and an exclusively served shipper facility. The STB proceeding also
encompassed motions to dismiss individual complaint proceedings filed by
shippers challenging class rates charged for or allegedly applicable to the
movement of coal, two of which named UPRR and Southern Pacific as defendants. On
December 31, 1996, the STB served a decision that generally reaffirmed earlier
rulings holding that a rail carrier is not obligated to provide rates for
bottleneck segments and confirmed the right of all rail carriers to set rates
differentially based upon demand. It created an exception, requiring a
bottleneck carrier that does not have its own route between origin and
destination to provide a common-carrier rate, challengable by a shipper, for the
bottleneck segment when the shipper obtains a contract rate for the remainder of
the movement. It also dismissed the two complaint proceedings in which UPRR and
SP were defendants. The STB subsequently served a decision

                                      -6-


generally declining to reconsider its December 31, 1996 decision. Shippers
appealed the STB decisions to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.
In February 1999, the Court of Appeals affirmed the STB's decision and the
dismissal of the two complaints against the Railroad and Southern Pacific. A
petition for a writ of certiorari filed in the United States Supreme Court was
denied in October 1999. The Court of Appeals also dismissed as premature a
cross-appeal by the railroads challenging the contract rate exception.

  In a separate case, the Railroad sought review of the contract rate exception.
A December 1997 STB decision required the Railroad to publish separately
challengeable bottleneck segment rates for the shipper's use in connection with
a contract rate on another carrier. On February 15, 2000, the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia affirmed the STB's decision and the
exception. The shipper's complaint concerning the Railroad's rates and other
rates is awaiting decision by the STB.

Customer Claims

Some customers have submitted claims for damages related to shipments delayed by
the Railroad as a result of congestion problems in 1997 and 1998, and certain
customers have filed lawsuits seeking relief related to such delays. Some
customers have asserted that they have the right to cancel contracts as a result
of alleged material breaches of such contracts by the Railroad.  The Corporation
accrued amounts for these claims in 1998 and 1997.  No additional amounts were
accrued in 1999.

Shareholder Litigation

The Corporation and certain of its directors and officers (who are also
directors of the Railroad) are defendants in two purported class actions that
have been consolidated into one proceeding. The consolidated complaint alleges,
among other things, that the Corporation violated the federal securities laws by
failing to disclose material facts and making materially false and misleading
statements concerning the service, congestion and safety problems encountered
following the Corporation's acquisition of Southern Pacific in 1996. These
lawsuits were filed in late 1997 in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of Texas and seek to recover unspecified amounts of damages.
Management believes that the plaintiffs' claims are without merit and has been
defending them vigorously. The defendants moved to dismiss this action, and the
motion was briefed and submitted to the Court for decision in 1998.  In February
2000, prior to a ruling on the motion, the parties jointly advised the Court
that they were engaged in discussions concerning the possible settlement of the
action and asked the Court to defer ruling on the motion to dismiss pending the
outcome of these discussions.  The Court entered an order dated February 29,
2000 agreeing to such deferral, subject to the motion of either party to
reactivate the action and the pending motion to dismiss at any time.  Although
settlement discussions are proceeding in good faith, there can be no assurance
that they will be successful.

  In addition to the class action litigation, a purported derivative action was
filed on behalf of the Corporation and the Railroad in September 1998 in the
District Court for Tarrant County, Texas, naming as defendants the then-current
and certain former directors of the Corporation and the Railroad and, as nominal
defendants, the Corporation and the Railroad. The derivative action alleges,
among other things, that the named directors breached their fiduciary duties to
the Corporation and the Railroad by approving and implementing the Southern
Pacific merger without informing themselves of its impact or ensuring that
adequate controls were put in place and by causing UPC and the Railroad to make
misrepresentations about the Railroad's service problems to the financial
markets and regulatory authorities. The Corporation's Board of Directors
established a special litigation committee consisting of three independent
directors to review the plaintiff's allegations and determine whether it is in
UPC's best interest to pursue them. In February 1999, the committee rendered its
report, in which it unanimously concluded that further prosecution of the
derivative action on behalf of the Corporation and the Railroad is not in the
best interest of either such company. Accordingly, the Corporation and the
Railroad have filed a motion with the Court to dismiss the derivative action.
The plaintiff has not yet responded to the motion. The individual defendants
also believe that these claims are without merit and intend to defend them
vigorously.

                                      -7-


Other Matters

On August 29, 1997, an Amtrak train, operating on the Railroad's tracks, struck
a car at a crossbuck-protected crossing near Warrensburg, Missouri, injuring
Kimberley R. Alcorn, a passenger in the car. Ms. Alcorn brought suit against the
Railroad and Amtrak in the Circuit Court of Jackson County, Missouri Division
No. 10. On September 24, 1999, a jury found that Amtrak and the Railroad were
negligent in causing the accident. The jury awarded Ms. Alcorn approximately
$40.3 million in compensatory damages, and, on September 29, 1999, found the
Railroad liable for an additional $120 million in punitive damages. On January
19, 2000, the Circuit Court reduced the jury's award to $25 million for
compensatory damages and $50 million for punitive damages, an amount that is
less than ten percent of the Railroad's current assets on December 31, 1999. The
Railroad believes that the damage awards are not supported by the facts or the
law, and is continuing to assist Amtrak's appeal to the Missouri Supreme Court
seeking a new trial or relief from the damage awards. Under the terms of an
existing agreement, Amtrak will continue to defend the Railroad's interests in
this litigation and appeal, and the Railroad believes that Amtrak and its
insurers, under the terms of the agreement, will hold the Railroad harmless from
any final judgment.

Labor Matters

The General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) is seeking a
bargaining order remedy in 11 cases involving Overnite where a Teamsters local
union lost a representation election. A bargaining order remedy would require
Overnite to recognize and bargain with the union as if the union had won instead
of lost the election and would be warranted only if the following findings are
made: (1) the petitioning Teamsters local had obtained valid authorization cards
from a majority of the employees in an appropriate unit; (2) Overnite committed
serious unfair labor practices; and (3) those unfair labor practices would
preclude the holding of a fair election despite the application of less drastic
remedies. In these eleven cases an administrative law judge has ruled that the
bargaining order remedy is warranted. Overnite appealed those rulings to the
NLRB. The NLRB has upheld the decision of the administrative law judge in four
cases, and Overnite has appealed the NLRB's ruling to the United States Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Overnite's appeal with respect to the remaining
seven cases is pending before the NLRB. In a twelfth case, the administrative
law judge found that a bargaining order remedy was not warranted. Under NLRB
case law, a bargaining order remedy would attach retrospectively to the date
when, after a union with a showing of majority support demanded recognition,
Overnite embarked on an unlawful course of conduct. In the event of such a
retroactive effective bargaining order, Overnite would face back pay liability
for losses in employee earnings due to unilateral changes in terms or conditions
of employment, such as layoffs, reduced hours of work or less remunerative work
assignments. Overnite believes it has substantial defenses in the bargaining
order cases and intends to continue to defend them aggressively.

Environmental Matters

The Railroad was named as a defendant in a civil action brought by the
California Department of Fish and Game, Office of Spill Prevention and Response
on April 10, 1998. The complaint alleged violations of California Fish and Game
Code Section 5650, California Business and Professions Code Section 17200, Civil
Code Sections 3479 and 3480, and damage to the waters of California for which
the Department of Fish and Game allege trusteeship. The complaint resulted from
derailments and alleged releases of diesel fuel oil during 1995 in the Feather
River Canyon in Butte County, California. The complaint sought penalties,
exemplary damages, natural resource damages and unspecified injunctive relief.
In 1999, a settlement was reached in this case between the Railroad and the
governmental entities in which the Railroad agreed to various measures to assess
and mitigate rockslide hazards and to pay stipulated civil penalties for future
releases.

  The Railroad was named as a defendant in a criminal misdemeanor action brought
by the State of California in the Municipal Court of Placer County, California
on February 24, 1998. The complaint alleged a violation of California Fish and
Game Code Section 5650 as a result of a diesel fuel spill in Norden, California
in February 1997. In addition, the California Department of Fish and Game sought
penalties, monitoring costs and natural resource damages under state water
statutes, and the EPA sought penalties for violation of the Clean Water Act in
connection with the same incident. In 1999, a settlement was reached in this
case between the Railroad and the governmental entities in which the Railroad
had agreed to remediate the spill and pay total penalties of approximately
$305,000.

                                      -8-


  The Railroad received approximately 20 Notices of Violation (NOVs) from the
South Coast Air Quality Management District (the District) relating to fumes
emitted from idling diesel locomotives at Slover siding near the Railroad's yard
in West Colton, California. Trains awaiting crews or room to enter the West
Colton yard were parked at Slover siding with their engines running for various
amounts of time, causing exhaust fumes to enter the backyards and homes of
residents living along the siding. The District had cited the Railroad for
creating a public nuisance pursuant to the California Health and Safety Code and
the District's regulations. Each violation carried a maximum civil penalty of
$25,000 per day, which could be increased in some circumstances to $50,000 per
day. Although the Railroad modified its operating procedures for trains entering
the West Colton yard to reduce the problem, the District entered an order with
respect to the situation which the Railroad believed to be an impermissible
burden on interstate commerce preempted by applicable federal law.  In 1999, the
Railroad and the government reached a settlement in this case.  Under the terms
of the settlement, the Railroad paid a penalty of $500,000 and made certain
operating changes.

  The Railroad received notification that the District Attorney for San
Bernardino County, California opened an investigation into the Railroad's
handling of several hazardous material spills in Barstow and West Colton,
California. The incident in Barstow involved a rear-end collision between two
trains near Barstow in August 1997 that resulted in a spillage of locomotive
diesel fuel and leakage from two tank cars containing toxic chemicals. Three
incidents in the West Colton yard in 1998 involved leaking tank cars and spills
of diesel fuel from a derailed locomotive. The District Attorney's office was
investigating allegations that cleanup procedures were not undertaken promptly
and required notices were not given in connection with these incidents.  In
1999, the Railroad and the government reached a settlement in this case. Under
the terms of the settlement, the Railroad paid a civil penalty of $350,000 and
agreed to certain spill handling and reporting requirements.

  In March 1998, the Railroad received notice that the Railroad and Clean
Harbors, a waste disposal firm, were the subjects of a criminal investigation by
the EPA and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Tank cars containing hazardous
waste billed to Clean Harbors' transload facility in Sterling, Colorado were
held in the Railroad's Sterling, Colorado rail yard for periods longer than ten
days prior to placement in Clean Harbors' facility, allegedly in violation of
hazardous waste regulations. The Railroad is cooperating with the investigation
and has responded to grand jury subpoenas. A finding of violation could result
in significant criminal or civil penalties.

  The Corporation and its affiliates have received notices from the EPA and
state environmental agencies alleging that they are or may be liable under
certain federal or state environmental laws for remediation costs at various
sites throughout the United States, including sites which are on the Superfund
National Priorities List or state superfund lists. Although specific claims have
been made by the EPA and state regulators with respect to some of these sites,
the ultimate impact of these proceedings and suits by third parties cannot be
predicted at this time because of the number of potentially responsible parties
involved, the degree of contamination by various wastes, the scarcity and
quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and/or the speculative
nature of remediation costs. Nevertheless, at many of the superfund sites, the
Corporation believes it will have little or no exposure because no liability
should be imposed under applicable law, one or more other financially able
parties generated all or most of the contamination, or a settlement of the
Corporation's exposure has been reached although regulatory proceedings at the
sites involved have not been formally terminated.

  Information concerning environmental claims and contingencies and estimated
attendant remediation costs is set forth in Note 12 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements on page 50 of the Annual Report.  Such information is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
        ---------------------------------------------------

Not applicable.

                                      -9-


                    Executive Officers of the Registrant and
                    ----------------------------------------
                  Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries
                  --------------------------------------------



                                      -10-


                    Executive Officers of the Registrant and
                    ----------------------------------------
                  Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries
                  --------------------------------------------
                                  (Continued)


(1)  Mr. Davidson was elected Chairman and Chief Executive Officer effective
     January 1, 1997.  He became President of UPC effective May 1994 and was
     also Chief Operating Officer of UPC from November 1995 to December 1996. He
     was President and Chief Executive Officer of the Railroad until August
     1995, Chairman of the Railroad until November 1996 and Chairman and Chief
     Executive Officer of the Railroad since November 1996.

(2)  Mr. Young was elected Executive Vice President-Finance of UPC and Chief
     Financial Officer of the Railroad effective December 1, 1999. He was
     elected Controller of UPC and Senior Vice President - Finance of the
     Railroad effective March 1999 and Senior Vice President - Finance of UPC
     effective June 1998. He served as Treasurer of the Railroad from June 1998
     to March 1999. He was Vice President - Customer Service Planning and
     Quality of the Railroad from April 1998 to June 1998, Vice President -
     Quality and Operations Planning from September 1997 to April 1998, Vice
     President - Finance and Quality from September 1995 to September 1997, and
     prior thereto he was Vice President - Re-engineering of the Railroad.

(3)  Mr. Bryan was elected to his current position effective May 1997.  Prior
     thereto, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Union Pacific
     Technologies, Inc., a former subsidiary of UPC.

(4)  Ms. Schaefer was elected to her current position effective April 1997. From
     April 1994 to April 1997 she was Vice President - Human Resources of the
     Railroad.  Prior thereto, she was Director of Compensation and Human
     Resources Information Services of UPC.

(5)  Mr. Starzel was elected to his current position effective April 1998.  From
     September 1996 to April 1998 he was Vice President - Western Region of the
     Railroad and prior thereto he was Vice Chairman of Southern Pacific Rail
     Corporation.

(6)  Mr. von Bernuth was elected Corporate Secretary effective April 1997.  He
     has been Senior Vice President and General Counsel during the past five
     years.

(7)  Mr. Eisele was elected to his current position effective March 1999.  He
     was Vice President-Strategic Planning from September 1997 to March 1999. He
     was Vice President - Purchasing for the Railroad from April 1994 to
     September 1997.  Prior thereto, he was Vice President - Human Resources for
     the Railroad.

(8)  Mr. Gutschewski was elected Vice President - Taxes effective August 1998.
     Prior thereto, he was Assistant Vice President - Tax and Financial
     Management of the Railroad.

(9)  Mr. Putz was elected Vice President and Controller of UPC and Chief
     Accounting Officer of the Railroad effective December 1, 1999.  Prior
     thereto, he was Assistant Vice President and Controller of the Railroad.

(10) Ms. Jones was elected to her current position effective March 1999.  She
     served as Vice President - Investor Relations from June 1998 to March 1999.
     She was Assistant Vice President - Treasury and Assistant Treasurer of UPC
     from September 1996 to June 1998 and prior thereto she was Assistant
     Treasurer of UPC.

(11) Mr. Shattuck was elected to his current position effective March 1999.
     Prior thereto, he served as Executive Vice President - Marketing and Sales
     of the Railroad.

(12) Mr. Evans was elected to his current position effective September 1998.
     Prior thereto, he was Senior Vice President of Emerson Electric Company, a
     company engaged in the design, manufacture and sale of electrical,
     electromechanical, and electronic products and systems.

                                      -11-


(13) Mr. Duffy was elected to his current position effective September 1998. He
     was Senior Vice President - Safety Assurance and Compliance Process from
     October 1997 to September 1998. He was Senior Vice President - Customer
     Service and Planning of the Railroad from November 1995 to October 1997.
     From May 1995 to November 1995 he was Vice President - Quality and Network
     Planning of the Railroad. Prior thereto, he was Vice President - Quality of
     the Railroad.

(14) Mr. Koraleski was elected to this position effective March 1999.  He served
     as Controller of UPC from August 1998 to March 1999 and as Executive Vice
     President - Finance of the Railroad from May 1996 to March 1999. Prior to
     May 1996, he was Executive Vice President - Finance and Information
     Technologies of the Railroad.

(15) Mr. King was elected to his current position effective September 1998.  He
     was Executive Vice President - Operations from October 1997 to September
     1998.  He was Vice President - Transportation of the Railroad from November
     1995 to October 1997.  Prior thereto, he was Vice President - Risk
     Management of the Railroad.

(16) Mr. Suggs was elected to his current position in April 1996. Prior thereto,
     he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Preston Trucking Company,
     Inc., a company engaged in truck transportation.


                                    PART II
                                    -------


Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
        -----------------------------------------------------------------
        Matters
        -------

Information as to the markets in which UPC's Common Stock is traded, the
quarterly high and low prices for such stock, the dividends declared with
respect to the Common Stock during the last two years, and the approximate
number of stockholders of record at January 31, 2000 is set forth under Selected
Quarterly Data and Stockholders and Dividends on page 52 of the Annual Report.
Information as to restrictions on the payment of dividends with respect to the
Corporation's Common Stock is set forth in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements on page 45 of the Annual Report. All such information is incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data
        -----------------------

Selected Financial Data for the Corporation for each of the last 10 years is set
forth under the Ten-Year Financial Summary on page 54 of the Annual Report.  All
such information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        -----------------------------------------------------------------------
        of Operations
        -------------

Information as to UPC's financial condition, changes in financial condition,
results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and capital resources, and other
matters is set forth in the Financial Review on pages 18 through 32 of the
Annual Report. All such information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
         ----------------------------------------------------------

Information concerning market risk sensitive instruments is set forth under
Other Matters on page 30 of the Annual Report and in Note 4 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements on pages 42 and 43 of the Annual Report.  All such
information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
        -------------------------------------------

The Corporation's Consolidated Financial Statements, Significant Accounting
Policies, Notes to the Financial Statements and Independent Auditors' Report are
presented on pages 33 through 51 of the Annual Report.  Selected quarterly

                                      -12-


financial data are set forth under Selected Quarterly Data on page 52 of the
Annual Report. All such information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
         ---------------------------------------------------------------
         Financial Disclosure
         --------------------

None.

                                    PART III
                                    --------

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
         --------------------------------------------------

         (a)  Directors of Registrant.

         Information as to the names, ages, positions and offices with UPC,
terms of office, periods of service, business experience during the past five
years and certain other directorships held by each director or person nominated
to become a director of UPC is set forth in the Election of 12 Directors segment
of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

         (b)  Executive Officers of Registrant.

         Information concerning the executive officers of UPC and its
subsidiaries is presented in Part I of this Report under Executive Officers of
the Registrant and Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries.

         (c)  Section 16(a) Compliance.

         Information concerning compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 is set forth in the Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein
by reference.

Item 11. Executive Compensation
         ----------------------

Information concerning compensation received by UPC's directors and certain
executive officers is presented in the Compensation of Directors, Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation, Report on Executive
Compensation, Summary Compensation Table, Option/SAR Grants Table, Option/SAR
Exercises and Year-End Value Table, Defined Benefit Plans and Five-Year
Performance Comparison segments of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
         --------------------------------------------------------------

Information as to the number of shares of UPC's equity securities beneficially
owned as of February 11, 2000 by each of its directors and nominees for
director, its five most highly compensated executive officers, its directors and
executive officers as a group and certain beneficial owners is set forth in the
Election of 12 Directors, Security Ownership of Management, and Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners segments of the Proxy Statement and is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
         ----------------------------------------------

Information on related transactions is set forth in the Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions and Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation segments of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by
reference.

                                      -13-


                                    PART IV
                                    -------

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K
         ---------------------------------------------------------------

         (a)  (1) and (2) Financial Statements and Schedules
              ----------------------------------------------

              The Consolidated Financial Statements, Significant Accounting
              Policies, Notes to the Financial Statements and Independent
              Auditors' Report on pages 33 through 51, inclusive, of the Annual
              Report are incorporated herein by reference.

              No schedules are required to be filed because of the absence of
              conditions under which they would be required or because the
              required information is set forth in the consolidated financial
              statements referred to above.

         (3)  Exhibits
              --------

              Items 10(f) through 10(t) below constitute management contracts
              and executive compensation arrangements required to be filed as
              exhibits to this report.

              3(a)  Revised Articles of Incorporation of UPC, as amended through
                    April 25, 1996, are incorporated herein by reference to
                    Exhibit 3 to the Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                    for the quarter ended March 31, 1996.

              3(b)  By-Laws of UPC, as amended effective as of November 19,
                    1998, are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to
                    the Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K filed November
                    25, 1998.

              4     Pursuant to various indentures and other agreements, UPC has
                    issued long-term debt. No such agreement has securities or
                    obligations covered thereby which exceed 10% of the
                    Corporation's total consolidated assets. UPC agrees to
                    furnish the Commission with a copy of any such indenture or
                    agreement upon request by the Commission.

              10(a) Amended and Restated Anschutz Shareholders Agreement, dated
                    as of July 12, 1996, among UPC, UPRR, The Anschutz
                    Corporation (TAC), Anschutz Foundation (the Foundation) and
                    Mr. Philip F. Anschutz, is incorporated herein by reference
                    to Annex D to the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus included
                    in Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to UPC's Registration
                    Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64707).

              10(b) Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as
                    of July 12, 1996, among UPC, TAC and the Foundation is
                    incorporated herein by reference to Annex H to the Joint
                    Proxy Statement/Prospectus included in Post-Effective
                    Amendment No. 2 to UPC's Registration Statement on Form S-4
                    (No. 33-64707).

              10(c) Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as
                    of July 12, 1996, among UPC, UP Holding Company, Inc., Union
                    Pacific Merger Co. and Southern Pacific Rail Corporation
                    (SP) is incorporated herein by reference to Annex J to the
                    Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus included in Post-Effective
                    Amendment No. 2 to UPC's Registration Statement on Form S-4
                    (No. 33-64707).

              10(d) Agreement, dated September 25, 1995, among UPC, UPRR,
                    Missouri Pacific Railroad Company (MPRR), SP, Southern
                    Pacific Transportation Company (SPT), The Denver & Rio
                    Grande Western Railroad Company (D&RGW), St. Louis
                    Southwestern Railway Company (SLSRC) and SPCSL Corp.
                    (SPCSL), on the one hand, and Burlington Northern Railroad
                    Company (BN)

                                      -14-


                    and The Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company (Santa
                    Fe), on the other hand, is incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 10.11 to UPC's Registration Statement on Form S-4
                    (No. 33-64707).

              10(e) Supplemental Agreement, dated November 18, 1995, between
                    UPC, UPRR, MPRR, SP, SPT, D&RGW, SLSRC and SPCSL, on the one
                    hand, and BN and Santa Fe, on the other hand, is
                    incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to UPC's
                    Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64707).

              10(f) The Executive Incentive Plan of UPC, amended April 27, 1995,
                    is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
                    Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                    ended March 31, 1995.

              10(g) The Executive Stock Purchase Incentive Plan of UPC is
                    incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
                    Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                    ended September 30, 1999.

              10(h) Written Description of Premium Exchange Program Pursuant to
                    1993 Stock Option and Retention Stock Plan of UPC is
                    incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
                    Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                    ended September 30, 1999.

              10(i) The Supplemental Pension Plan for Officers and Managers of
                    UPC and Affiliates, as amended and restated, is incorporated
                    herein by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Corporation's
                    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                    1993.

              10(j) Letter Agreement, dated September 8, 1998, between UPC and
                    Mr. Ivor J. Evans, is incorporated herein by reference to
                    Exhibit 10.1 to the Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form
                    10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1998.

              10(k) Letter Agreement, dated November 18, 1999, amending Letter
                    Agreement dated September 8, 1999 between UPC and Mr. Ivor
                    J. Evans.

              10(l) Letter Agreement, dated September 11, 1996, between UPC and
                    Robert Starzel is incorporated herein by reference to
                    Exhibit 10(i) the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                    for the year ended December 31, 1998.

              10(m) Employment Agreement, dated as of October 26, 1994, between
                    SP and SPT, on the one hand, and Robert F. Starzel, on the
                    other hand, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
                    10.10 to SP's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                    December 31, 1994.

              10(n) The 1988 Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan of UPC, as
                    amended as of September 24, 1998, is incorporated herein by
                    reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Corporation's Quarterly
                    Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
                    1998.

              10(o) The 1993 Stock Option and Retention Stock Plan of UPC, as
                    amended May 27, 1999, is incorporated herein by reference to
                    Exhibit 10(b) to the Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form
                    10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1999.

              10(p) The Pension Plan for Non-Employee Directors of UPC, as
                    amended January 25, 1996, is incorporated herein by
                    reference to Exhibit 10(w) to the Corporation's Annual
                    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.

                                      -15-


              10(q) The Executive Life Insurance Plan of UPC, as amended October
                    1997, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(t)
                    to the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                    ended December 31, 1997.

              10(r) The UPC Stock Unit Grant and Deferred Compensation Plan for
                    the Board of Directors, as amended May 27, 1999, is
                    incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
                    Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                    ended June 30, 1999.

              10(s) Charitable Contribution Plan for Non-Employee Directors of
                    Union Pacific Corporation is incorporated herein by
                    reference to Exhibit 10(z) to the Corporation's Annual
                    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.

              10(t) Written Description of Other Executive Compensation
                    Arrangements of Union Pacific Corporation is incorporated
                    herein by reference to Exhibit 10(q) to the Corporation's
                    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                    1998.

              12    Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

              13    Pages 6 through 54, inclusive, of UPC's Annual Report to
                    Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1999, but
                    excluding photographs set forth on pages 6 through 17, none
                    of which supplements the text and which are not otherwise
                    required to be disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

              21    List of the Corporation's significant subsidiaries and their
                    respective states of incorporation.

              23    Independent Auditors' Consent.

              24    Powers of attorney executed by the directors of UPC.

              27    Financial Data Schedule.

              99(a) Financial Statements for the Fiscal Year ended December 31,
                    1999 required by Form 11-K for the UPC Thrift Plan - to be
                    filed by amendment.

              99(b) Financial Statements for the Fiscal Year ended December 31,
                    1999 required by Form 11-K for the Union Pacific Fruit
                    Express Company Agreement Employee 401(k) Retirement Thrift
                    Plan - to be filed by amendment.

              99(c) Financial Statements for the Fiscal Year ended December 31,
                    1999 required by Form 11-K for the Union Pacific Agreement
                    Employee 401(k) Retirement Thrift Plan - to be filed by
                    amendment.

              99(d) Financial Statements for the Fiscal Year ended December 31,
                    1999 required by Form 11-K for the Chicago and North Western
                    Railway Company Profit Sharing and Retirement Savings
                    Program - to be filed by amendment.

              99(e) Financial Statements for the Fiscal Year ended December 31,
                    1999 required by Form 11-K for the Southern Pacific Rail
                    Corporation Thrift Plan to be filed by amendment.


     (b)  Reports on Form 8-K
          -------------------

          On January 20, 2000, UPC filed a Current Report on Form 8-K announcing
          UPC's financial results for the fourth quarter of 1999.

          On March 9, 2000, UPC filed a Current Report on Form 8-K filing the
          Union Pacific Corporation 2000 Directors' Stock Plan, which will be
          considered for approval at the UPC 2000 Annual Meeting of
          Shareholders.

                                      -16-


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on this 27th day of March,
2000.


                                    UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION


                                    By  /s/ Richard K. Davidson
                                       -------------------------------------
                                      Richard K. Davidson, Chairman,
                                      President and Chief Executive Officer


      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below, on this 27th day of March, 2000, by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.

      PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER
       AND DIRECTOR:

                                      /s/ Richard K. Davidson
                                      --------------------------------------
                                      Richard K. Davidson, Chairman,
                                      President, Chief Executive
                                      Officer and Director

      PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER:

                                      /s/ James R. Young
                                      --------------------------------------
                                      James R. Young,
                                      Executive Vice President - Finance
                                      Chief Financial Officer

      PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER:

                                      /s/ Richard J. Putz
                                      --------------------------------------
                                      Richard J. Putz,
                                      Vice President and Controller

                                      -17-


    SIGNATURES - (Continued)


DIRECTORS:
- ----------

Philip F. Anschutz*                                     Spencer F. Eccles*

Robert P. Bauman*                                       Ivor J. Evans*

Richard B. Cheney*                                      Elbridge T. Gerry, Jr.*

E. Virgil Conway*                                       Judith Richards Hope*

Richard K. Davidson*                                    Richard J. Mahoney*

Thomas J. Donohue*                                      Richard D. Simmons*








* By /s/ Thomas E. Whitaker
     --------------------------------------
     Thomas E. Whitaker, Attorney-in-fact

                                      -18-


                           Union Pacific Corporation
                                 Exhibit Index


Exhibit No.     Description
- -----------     -----------

Filed with this Statement
- -------------------------

10(k)           Letter Agreement, dated November 18, 1999, amending Letter
                Agreement dated September 8, 1999 between UPC and Mr. Ivor J.
                Evans.

12              Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

13              Pages 6 through 54, inclusive, of UPC's Annual Report to
                Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1999, but excluding
                photographs set forth on pages 6 through 17, none of which
                supplements the text and which are not otherwise required to be
                disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

21              List of the Corporation's significant subsidiaries and their
                respective states of incorporation.

23              Independent Auditors' Consent.

24              Powers of attorney executed by the directors of UPC.

27              Financial Data Schedule.

Incorporated by Reference
- -------------------------

3(a)            Revised Articles of Incorporation of UPC, as amended through
                April 25, 1996, are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
                3 to the Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                quarter ended March 31, 1996.

3(b)            By-Laws of UPC, as amended effective as of November 19, 1998,
                are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
                Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 25,
                1998.

10(a)           Amended and Restated Anschutz Shareholders Agreement, dated as
                of July 12, 1996, among UPC, UPRR, The Anschutz Corporation
                (TAC), Anschutz Foundation (the Foundation) and Mr. Philip F.
                Anschutz, is incorporated herein by reference to Annex D to the
                Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus included in Post-Effective
                Amendment No. 2 to UPC's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No.
                33-64707).

10(b)           Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of
                July 12, 1996, among UPC, TAC and the Foundation is incorporated
                herein by reference to Annex H to the Joint Proxy
                Statement/Prospectus included in Post-Effective Amendment No. 2
                to UPC's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64707).

10(c)           Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of
                July 12, 1996, among UPC, UP Holding Company, Inc., Union
                Pacific Merger Co. and Southern Pacific Rail Corporation (SP) is
                incorporated herein by reference to Annex J to the Joint Proxy
                Statement/Prospectus included in Post-Effective Amendment No. 2
                to UPC's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64707).

10(d)           Agreement, dated September 25, 1995, among UPC, UPRR, Missouri
                Pacific Railroad Company (MPRR), SP, Southern Pacific
                Transportation Company (SPT), The Denver & Rio Grande Western
                Railroad Company (D&RGW), St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company
                (SLSRC) and SPCSL Corp. (SPCSL), on the one hand, and Burlington
                Northern Railroad Company (BN) and The Atchison, Topeka and
                Santa Fe Railway Company (Santa



                Fe), on the other hand, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                10.11 to UPC's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No.
                33-64707).

10(e)           Supplemental Agreement, dated November 18, 1995, between UPC,
                UPRR, MPRR, SP, SPT, D&RGW, SLSRC and SPCSL, on the one hand,
                and BN and Santa Fe, on the other hand, is incorporated herein
                by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to UPC's Registration Statement on
                Form S-4 (No. 33-64707).

10(f)           The Executive Incentive Plan of UPC, amended April 27, 1995, is
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
                Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                ended March 31, 1995.

10(g)           The Executive Stock Purchase Incentive Plan of UPC is
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
                Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                ended September 30, 1999.

10(h)           Written Description of Premium Exchange Program Pursuant to 1993
                Stock Option and Retention Stock Plan of UPC is incorporated
                herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Corporation's
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
                30, 1999.

10(i)           The Supplemental Pension Plan for Officers and Managers of UPC
                and Affiliates, as amended and restated, is incorporated herein
                by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Corporation's Annual Report
                on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993.

10(j)           Letter Agreement, dated September 8, 1998, between UPC and Mr.
                Ivor J. Evans, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
                10.1 to the Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                quarter ended September 30, 1998.

10(l)           Letter Agreement, dated September 11, 1996, between UPC and
                Robert Starzel is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
                10(i) the Corporation's Annual Report or Form 10-K for the year
                ended December 31, 1998.

10(m)           Employment Agreement, dated as of October 26, 1994, between SP
                and SPT, on the one hand, and Robert F. Starzel, on the other
                hand, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to
                SP's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                1994.

10(n)           The 1988 Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan of UPC, as
                amended as of September 24, 1998, is incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Corporation's Quarterly Report
                on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1998.

10(o)           The 1993 Stock Option and Retention Stock Plan of UPC, as
                amended May 27, 1999, is incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10(b) to the Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                for the quarter ended June 30, 1999.

10(p)           The Pension Plan for Non-Employee Directors of UPC, as amended
                January 25, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
                10(w) to the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                year ended December 31, 1995.

10(q)           The Executive Life Insurance Plan of UPC, as amended October
                1997, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(t) to
                the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                December 31, 1997.



10(r)           The UPC Stock Unit Grant and Deferred Compensation Plan for the
                Board of Directors, as amended May 27, 1999, is incorporated
                herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Corporation's
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
                1999.

10(s)           Charitable Contribution Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Union
                Pacific Corporation is incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10(z) to the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                for the year ended December 31, 1995.

10(t)           Written Description of Other Executive Compensation Arrangements
                of Union Pacific Corporation is incorporated herein by reference
                to Exhibit 10(q) to the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                for the year ended December 31, 1998.

99(a)           Financial Statements for the Fiscal Year ended December 31, 1999
                required by Form 11-K for the UPC Thrift Plan - to be filed by
                amendment.

99(b)           Financial Statements for the Fiscal Year ended December 31, 1999
                required by Form 11-K for the Union Pacific Fruit Express
                Company Agreement Employee 401(k) Retirement Thrift Plan - to be
                filed by amendment.

99(c)           Financial Statements for the Fiscal Year ended December 31, 1999
                required by Form 11-K for the Union Pacific Agreement Employee
                401(k) Retirement Thrift Plan - to be filed by amendment.

99(d)           Financial Statements for the Fiscal Year ended December 31, 1999
                required by Form 11-K for the Chicago and North Western Railway
                Company Profit Sharing and Retirement Savings Program - to be
                filed by amendment.

99(e)           Financial Statements for the Fiscal Year ended December 31, 1999
                required by Form 11-K for the Southern Pacific Rail Corporation
                Thrift Plan - to be filed by amendment.


