
10-K
1998 10K-ANNUAL REPORT


                                
     PAGE 1
                            FORM 10-K
                                
               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                                
                    WASHINGTON, D. C.  20549

[X]ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1998

                               OR

[  ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from              to
Commission file number 1-44

                 ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY
     (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

         Delaware                                  41-0129150
(State or other jurisdiction of                (I. R. S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                Identification No.)

4666 Faries Parkway   Box 1470   Decatur, Illinois   62525
(Address of principal executive offices)           (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code217-424-5200

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                        Name of each exchange on
   Title of each class                     which registered

Common Stock, no par value              New York Stock Exchange
                                        Chicago Stock Exchange
                                        Swiss Exchange
                                        Tokyo Stock Exchange
                                        Frankfurt Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X     No ___
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge,
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-
affiliates of the registrant.

          Common Stock, no par value--$8.7 billion
(Based on the closing price of the New York Stock Exchange on
August 24, 1998)

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
registrant's classes of common stock, as of the latest
practicable date.

          Common Stock, no par value--567,619,871 shares
                    (August 31, 1998)

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the annual shareholders' report for the year ended
June 30, 1998 are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and
IV.

Portions of the annual proxy statement for the year ended June
30, 1998 are incorporated by reference into Part III.
     PAGE 2
PART I

Item 1. BUSINESS

        (a)    General Development of Business

              Archer Daniels Midland Company was incorporated
           in Delaware in 1923, successor to the Daniels
           Linseed Co. founded in 1902.

              During the last five years, the Company has
           experienced significant growth, spending
           approximately $4.5 billion for construction of new
           plants, expansions of existing plants and the
           acquisitions of plants and transportation equipment.
           There have been no significant dispositions during
           this period. However, during this period, the
           Company has disposed of its Supreme Sugar subsidiary
           and its British Arkady bakery ingredient business.
           In addition, the Company has contributed malting
           operations, formula feed operations, rice milling
           operations, Mexican wheat flour mills and masa corn
           flour operations to various unconsolidated joint
           ventures.

        (b)    Financial Information About Industry Segments

              The Company is in one business segment--
           procuring, transporting, storing, processing and
           merchandising agricultural commodities and products.

        (c)    Narrative Description of Business

                                        (i)Principal products
               produced and principal markets for and methods of
               distribution of such products.

                                           The Company is
               engaged in the business of procuring,
               transporting, storing, processing and
               merchandising agricultural commodities and
               products. It is one of the world's largest
               processors of oilseeds, corn and wheat. The
               Company also processes cocoa beans, milo, oats,
               barley and peanuts. Other operations include
               transporting, merchandising and storing
               agricultural commodities and products. These
               operations and processes produce products which
               have primarily two end uses: food or feed
               ingredients. Each commodity processed is in
               itself a feed ingredient as are the by-products
               produced during the processing of each commodity.

               Production processes of all commodities are
               capital intensive and similar in nature. These
               processes involve grinding, crushing or milling
               with further value added through extraction,
               refining and fermenting. Generally, each
               commodity can be processed by any of these
               methods to generate additional value-added
               products.
     PAGE 3
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

               All commodities and related processed products
               share the same network of commodity procurement
               facilities, transportation services (including
               rail, barge, truck and ocean vessels) and storage
               facilities. The geographic areas, customers and
               marketing methods are basically the same for all
               commodities and their related further processed
               products. Feed ingredient products and by-
               products are sold to farmers, feed dealers and
               livestock producers, all of whom purchase
               products from across the entire commodity chain.
               Food ingredient products are also sold to one
               basic group of customers: food and beverage
               processors. Any single customer may purchase
               products produced from all commodities, and any
               single food or feed product could include
               ingredients produced from all commodities
               processed.

               Oilseed Products

                                           Soybeans, cottonseed,
               sunflower seeds, canola, peanuts, flaxseed and
               corn germ are processed to provide vegetable oils
               and meals principally for the food and feed
               industries. Crude vegetable oil is sold "as is"
               or is further processed by refining and
               hydrogenating into margarine, shortening, salad
               oils and other food products. Partially refined
               oil is sold for use in chemicals, paints and
               other industrial products. Lecithin, an
               emulsifier produced in the vegetable oil refining
               process, is marketed as a food and feed
               ingredient. Natural source Vitamin E, an
               antioxidant, and distilled monoglycerides, an
               emulsifier, are produced from soybeans and other
               oilseeds.

                                           Oilseed meals supply
               more than one-half of the high protein
               ingredients used in the manufacture of commercial
               livestock and poultry feeds. Soybean meal is
               further processed into soy flour and grits, used
               in both food and industrial products, and into
               value-added soy protein products. Textured
               vegetable protein (TVP), a soy protein product
               developed by the Company, is sold primarily to
               the institutional food market and, through
               others, to the food consumer market. The Company
               also produces a wide range of other edible soy
               protein products including isolated soy protein,
               soy protein concentrate, soy-based milk products,
               soy flours and soy protein meat substitutes
               (Harvest Burgers and Harvest Burgers for
               Recipes). The Company produces and markets a wide
               range of consumer and institutional health foods
               based on the Company's various soy protein
               products, including soy-derived isoflavones. The
               Company produces cottonseed flour which is sold
               primarily to the pharmaceutical industry. Cotton
               cellulose pulp is manufactured and sold to the
               chemical, paper and filter markets.
     PAGE 4
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

               Corn Products

                                           The Company is
               engaged in dry milling and wet milling corn
               operations. Products produced for use by the food
               and beverage industry include syrup, starch,
               glucose, dextrose, crystalline dextrose, high
               fructose sweeteners, crystalline fructose and
               grits. Corn gluten feed and distillers grains are
               produced for use as feed ingredients. Ethyl
               alcohol is produced to beverage grade or for
               industrial use as ethanol. In gasoline, ethanol
               increases octane and is used as an extender and
               oxygenate. Corn germ, a by-product of the milling
               process, is further processed as an oilseed.

                                           By fermentation of
               dextrose, the Company produces citric and lactic
               acids, feed-grade amino acids and vitamins,
               lactates, sorbitol, xanthan gum, and food
               emulsifiers principally for the food and feed
               industries.

               Wheat and Other Milled Products

                                           Wheat flour is sold
               primarily to large bakeries, durum flour is sold
               to pasta manufacturers and bulgur, a gelatinized
               wheat food, is sold to both the export and the
               domestic food markets. The Company produces wheat
               starch and vital wheat gluten for the baking
               industry. The Company mills oats into oat bran
               and oat flour for institutional and consumer food
               customers. The Company also mills milo to produce
               industrial flour that is used in the
               manufacturing of wall board for the building
               industry.

               Other Products and Services

                                           The Company buys,
               stores and cleans agricultural commodities, such
               as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats and barley,
               for resale to other processors worldwide.

               The Company grinds cocoa beans and produces cocoa
               liquor, cocoa butter, cocoa powder, chocolate and
               various compounds for the food processing
               industry.

                                           The Company produces
               and distributes formula feeds and animal health
               and nutrition products to the livestock, dairy
               and poultry industries. Many of the feed
               ingredients and health and nutrition products are
               produced in the Company's other commodity
               processing operations.

                                           The Company produces
               bakery products and mixes which are sold to the
               baking industry.
     PAGE 5
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

                                           The Company produces
               spaghetti, noodles, macaroni, and other consumer
               food products. The Company also produces lettuce,
               other fresh vegetables and herbs in its
               hydroponic greenhouse.

                                           The Company processes
               and distributes edible beans for use in many
               parts of the food industry.

                                           The Company raises
               fish for distribution to consumer food customers.

                                           Hickory Point Bank
               and Trust Co. furnishes public banking and trust
               services, as well as cash management and
               securities safekeeping services for the Company.

                                           ADM Investor
               Services, Inc. is a registered futures commission
               merchant and a clearing member of all principal
               commodities exchanges. ADM Investor Services
               International, Ltd. specializes in futures,
               options and foreign exchange in the European
               marketplace.

                                           Agrinational
               Insurance Company acts as a direct insurer and
               reinsurer of a portion of the Company's domestic
               and foreign property and casualty insurance
               risks.

                                           The Company owns a
               57% interest in Heartland Rail Corporation.
               Heartland's 80% owned affiliate, Iowa Interstate
               Railroad, operates a regional railroad in Iowa
               and Illinois.

                                           Alfred C. Toepfer
               International (Germany) and affiliates, in which
               the Company has a 50% interest, is one of the
               world's largest, most respected trading companies
               specializing in agricultural commodities and
               processed products. Toepfer has forty-three sales
               offices worldwide.

                                           Compagnie
               Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces
               SA (Luxembourg) and affiliates, of which the
               Company has a 41.5% interest, owns European
               agricultural processing plants that are primarily
               engaged in wet corn milling and wheat starch
               production.

                                           Gruma S.A. de C.V.
               (Mexico) and affiliates, of which the Company has
               a 22% interest, is the world's largest producer
               and marketer of corn flour and tortillas with
               operations in the U.S., Mexico and Central
               America. Additionally, the Company has a 20%
               interest in a joint venture which consists of the
               combined U.S. corn flour operations of ADM and
               Gruma. The Company also has a 40% share, through
               a joint venture with Gruma, in seven Mexican-
               based wheat flour mills.
     PAGE 6
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

               The Company owns a 30% non-voting equity interest
               in Minnesota Corn Processors (MCP). MCP operates
               wet corn milling plants in Minnesota and
               Nebraska.
               
               The Company formed a strategic alliance with
               United Grain Growers of Canada (UGG) which
               resulted in the Company having approximately 42%
               ownership of UGG. UGG, with more than 175
               locations throughout Western Canada, is involved
               in grain merchandising, crop input marketing and
               distribution, livestock production services and
               farm business communications.
               
               Consolidated Nutrition, L.C., a joint venture
               between the Company and Ag Processing Inc., is a
               supplier of premium animal feeds and animal
               health products. The Company has a 50% ownership
               interest in this joint venture.

               ADM/Countrymark, LLC, a joint venture between the
               Company and Countrymark Cooperative Inc.,
               operates a grain business in Indiana, Kentucky,
               Maryland, Michigan and Ohio. The Company has a
               50% ownership interest in this joint venture. The
               Company also has a 50% interest in Kalama Export
               Company, a joint venture with Con Agra Inc.,
               which operates a grain export elevator in
               Washington.
               
               The Company owns a 28% interest in Acatos &
               Hutchinson, a U.K. based company, that processes
               and markets edible oil.
               
               Eaststarch C.V. (Netherlands), of which the
               Company has a 50% interest, operates wet corn
               milling plants in Bulgaria, Hungary, Slovakia and
               Turkey.
               
               Almidones Mexicanos S.A. (Mexico), of which the
               Company has a 50% interest, operates a wet corn
               milling plant in Mexico.
               
               Golden Peanut Company, a joint venture between
               the Company, Gold Kist, Inc. and Alimenta
               Processing Corporation, is a major supplier of
               peanuts to both the domestic and export markets.
               The Company has a 33 1/3% ownership interest in
               this joint venture.
               
               ADM-Riceland Partnership, a joint venture between
               the Company and Riceland Foods, Inc., is a
               processor of rice and rice products for
               institutional and consumer food customers. The
               Company has a 50% ownership interest in this
               joint venture.

               
               

               The Company owns a 50% interest in Sociedad
               Aceitera Oriente, S.A., a Bolivian company that
               is in the oilseed crushing, refining and bottling
               business.
     PAGE 7

Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued
               
               International Malting Company, a joint venture
               between the Company and the LeSaffre Company,
               operates barley malting plants in the United
               States, Canada and France. The Company has a 40%
               ownership interest in this joint venture.
               
                                           The Company
               participates in various joint ventures that
               operate oilseed crushing facilities, oil
               refineries and related storage facilities in
               China and Indonesia.

                                           The percentage of net
               sales and other operating income by classes of
               products and services for the last three fiscal
               years were as follows:

               Methods of Distribution

               Since the Company's customers are principally
               other manufacturers and processors, its products
               are distributed mainly in bulk from processing
               plants or storage facilities directly to the
               customers' facilities. The Company owns a large
               number of trucks and trailers and owns or leases
               large numbers of railroad tank cars and hopper
               cars to augment those provided by the railroads.
               The Company uses the inland waterway systems of
               North and South America and functions as a
               contract carrier of commodities for its own
               operations as well as for other companies. The
               Company owns and leases approximately 2,250 river
               barges and 53 line-haul towboats.
     PAGE 8
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

         (ii)  Status of new products

                                           The Company continues
               to expand its business through the development
               and production of new, value-added products.
               These new products include a wide-range of health
               and nutrition products known as neutraceuticals
               or functional foods. The Company has entered the
               vitamin market with the production of riboflavin
               and vitamin E and is currently expanding
               production facilities to produce vitamin C. The
               Company continues to develop its soy protein meat
               substitutes, Harvest Burgers and Harvest Burgers
               for Recipes, its soy protein powdered non-dairy
               beverage, Nutribev, and its non-dairy frozen
               dessert, Dairylike. The Company is developing and
               expanding production facilities to produce soy-
               derived isoflavones, sterols, granular lecithin,
               astaxathin, distilled monoglycerides and xanthan
               gum. Additionally, the Company is in the early
               stages of development of the antioxidants beta-
               carotene, oligosaccharides and tocotrienols.

        (iii)  Source and availability of raw materials

                                           Substantially all of
               the Company's raw materials are agricultural
               commodities. In any single year, the availability
               and price of these commodities are subject to
               wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors
               such as weather, plantings, government (domestic
               and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes
               in global demand created by population growth and
               higher standards of living and worldwide
               production of similar and competitive crops.

         (iv)  Patents, trademarks and licenses

                                           The Company owns
               several valuable patents, trademarks and licenses
               but does not consider its business dependent upon
               any single or group of patents, trademarks and
               licenses.

          (v)  Extent to which business is seasonal

                                           Since the Company is
               so widely diversified in global agribusiness
               markets, there are no material seasonal
               fluctuations in the manufacture, sale and
               distribution of its products and services. There
               is a degree of seasonality in the growing season
               and procurement of the Company's principal raw
               materials:  oilseeds, wheat, corn and other
               grains. However, the actual physical movement of
               the millions of bushels of these crops through
               the Company's storage and processing facilities
               is reasonably constant throughout the year. The
               worldwide need for food is not seasonal and is
               ever expanding as is the world's population.
     PAGE 9
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

        (vi)  Working capital items

                                           Price variations and
               availability of grain at harvest often cause wide
               fluctuations in the Company's inventories and
               short-term borrowings.

        (vii) Dependence on single customer

                                           No material part of
               the Company's business is dependent upon a single
               customer or very few customers.

        (viii) Amount of backlog

                                           Because of the nature
               of the Company's business, the backlog of orders
               at year end is not a significant indication of
               the Company's activity for the current or
               upcoming year.

         (ix)  Business subject to renegotiation

                                           The Company has no
               business with the government that is subject to
               renegotiation.

          (x)  Competitive conditions

                                           Markets for the
               Company's products are highly price competitive
               and sensitive to product substitution. No single
               company competes with the Company in all of its
               markets; however, a number of large companies
               compete in one or more markets. Major competitors
               in one or more markets include, but are not
               limited to, Cargill, Inc., ConAgra, Inc., Corn
               Products International, Inc., Eridania Beghin-Say
               and Tate & Lyle.

         (xi)  Research and development expenditures

                                           Practically all of
               the Company's technical efforts and expenditures
               are concerned with food and feed ingredient
               products. Special efforts are being made to find
               improvements in food technology to alleviate the
               protein malnutrition throughout the world,
               utilizing the three largest United States crops:
               corn, soybeans and wheat.
     PAGE 10
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

                                           The need to
               successfully market new or improved food and feed
               ingredients developed in the Company's research
               laboratories led to the concept of technical
               support. The Company is staffed with technical
               representatives who work closely with customers
               and potential customers on the development of
               food and feed products which incorporate Company-
               produced ingredients. These technical
               representatives are an adjunct to both the
               research and sales functions.

                                           The Company maintains
               a research laboratory in Decatur, Illinois where
               product and process development activities are
               conducted. To develop new bioproducts and to
               improve existing bioproducts, new cultures are
               developed using classical mutation and genetic
               engineering. Protein research is conducted at
               facilities in Decatur where meat and dairy pilot
               plants support application research. Starch and
               amyolitic enzyme research is done at a laboratory
               in Clinton, Iowa. Research to support sales and
               development for bakery products is done at a
               laboratory in Olathe, Kansas. Research to support
               sales and development for cocoa and chocolate
               products is done in Milwaukee, Wisconsin and the
               Netherlands. The Company maintains research
               centers in Quincy, Illinois that conduct swine
               and cattle feeding trials to test new formula
               feed products and to develop improved feeding
               efficiencies.
               
               The amounts spent during the three years ended
               June 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996 for such technical
               efforts were approximately $17.1, $12.2 and $11.5
               million, respectively.

                                      (xii)Material effects of
               capital expenditures for environmental protection

                                           During 1998, $16
               million was spent for equipment, facilities and
               programs for pollution control and compliance
               with the requirements of various environmental
               agencies.

                                           There have been no
               material effects upon the earnings and
               competitive position of the Company resulting
               from compliance with federal, state and local
               laws or regulations enacted or adopted relating
               to the protection of the environment.

                                           The Company expects
               that expenditures for environmental facilities
               and programs will continue at approximately the
               present rate with no unusual amounts anticipated
               for the next two years.

Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

        (xiii) Number of employees

                                           The number of persons
               employed by the Company was 23,132 at June 30,
               1998.

           (d)Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic
           Operations and Export Sales

        The Company's foreign operations are principally in
developed countries and do not entail any undue or unusual
business risks. Geographic financial information is set forth in
"Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" of the
annual shareholders' report for the year ended June 30, 1998 and
is incorporated herein by reference.


     PAGE 11
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

        (e)    Executive Officers and Certain Significant
Employees

           Name                       Title                 Age

           G. Allen Andreas    President and Chief Executive 55
                               Officer from 1997. Counsel to
                               the Executive Committee from
                               September 1994. Vice President
                               from 1988.

           Martin L. Andreas   Senior Vice President from 1989.59
                               Assistant to the Chairman.

           Charles P. Archer   Treasurer from October 1992.  42

           Lewis W. Batchelder Group Vice President from     53
                               July 1997. Senior Vice President
                               of ADM/Growmark. Various grain
                               merchandising positions since
1971.

           Charles T. Bayless  Executive Vice President from 63
                               July 1997. Group Vice President
                               from January 1993.

           Howard E. Buoy      Group Vice President from     72
                               January 1993.

           William H. Camp     Vice President from April 1993.49

           Mark J. Cheviron    Vice President from July 1997.49
                               Vice President of Corporate
                               Security and Administrative
                               Services since May 1997. Director
                               of Security since 1980.

           Larry H. Cunningham Group Vice President and      54
                               President of ADM Corn Processing
                               Division from October 1996.
                               Vice President and President
                               of Protein Specialties
                               Division since July 1993.

           Craig L. Hamlin     Group Vice President from     52
                               October 1994. President of
                               ADM Milling from 1989.

           Edward A. Harjehausen    Vice President from October48
                               1992.
     PAGE 12
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

           James C. Ielase     Group Vice President since    57
                               July 1997. President of Golden
                               Peanut Company from April 1995
                               to June 1997. Private investments
                               from 1992 to April 1995.

           Burnell D Kraft     Senior Vice President from    67
                               July 1997. Group Vice President
                               from January 1993. Vice President
                               from 1984. President of
                               ADM/Growmark, Collingwood Grain
                               and Tabor Grain Co. subsidiaries.

           Paul L. Krug, Jr.   Vice President from 1991 and  54
                               President of ADM Investor
                               Services.

           John E. Long        Vice President from July 1996.69
                               President of ADM Research
                               Division from 1992. Various
                               senior research positions from
                               1975.

           Claudia M. Madding  Secretary to the Executive    47
                               Committee from September 1997.
                               Executive Assistant to the
Chairman
                              since July 1997. Assistant
        Secretary
                               from 1993. Administrative
Assistant
                               to the Chairman since 1984.

           Jack McDonald       Vice President from October 1994.
                               President of Southern Cotton Oil
                               Division from 1990.

           John D. McNamara    Group Vice President and      50
                               President of North American
                               Oilseed Processing Division from
                               July 1997. President of ADM Agri-
                               Industries since 1992.

           Steven R. Mills     Controller from October 1994. 43
                               Various senior treasury and
                               accounting positions from 1979.

           Stephen W. Minder   Corporate Compliance Officer from
                               July 1997. Various senior
internal
                               audit positions since 1990.
     PAGE 13
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

           Paul B. Mulhollem   Group Vice President from     49
                               July 1997. Vice President from
                               January 1996. Managing Director
                               of ADM International, Ltd., from
                               1993.

           Brian F. Peterson   Vice President from January 1996.
                               President of ADM BioProducts
                               Division from 1995. Various
                               merchandising positions from
1980.

           Raymond V. Preiksaitis     Group Vice President from46
                               July 1997. Vice President -
                               Management Information Systems
                               from 1988.

           John G. Reed        Vice President from 1982.     68

           Richard P. Reising  Senior Vice President from July54
                               1997. Vice President, Secretary
                               and General Counsel from
                               1991 to 1997.

           John D. Rice        Vice President from 1993 and  44
                               President of ADM Food Oils
                               Division since December 1996.
                               Vice President of ADM Processing
                               Division from 1992.

           Scott A. Roberts    Assistant Secretary and Assistant
                               General Counsel from July 1997.
                               Member of the Law Department
                               since 1985.

           Kenneth A. Robinson Vice President from January 1996.
                               Vice President of ADM Processing
                               Division from 1985.

           Douglas J. Schmalz  Vice President and Chief      52
                               Financial Officer from 1986.
                               Controller from 1986 to 1994.

           David J. Smith      Vice President, Secretary and 43
                               General Counsel from July, 1997.
                               Assistant General Counsel from
                               1995. Assistant Secretary from
                               1988 to July 1997. Member of the
Law
                               Department since 1981.
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

           Stephen H. Yu       Vice President from January 1996.
                               Managing Director of ADM
                               Asia-Pacific, Ltd., from 1993.
                               Various merchandising positions
                               with Continental Grain Company
                               from 1986.

                              Officers of the registrant are
           elected by the Board of Directors for terms of one
           year and until their successors are duly elected and
           qualified.

           G. Allen Andreas and Martin L. Andreas are nephews o
           f Dwayne O.    Andreas, a director of the
           registrant.

     PAGE 14
Item 2. PROPERTIES

        (a)                    Processing Facilities

           The Company owns, leases, or has a 50% or greater
           interest in the following processing plants:

           The Company's operations are such that most products
           are efficiently processed near the source of raw
           materials.  Consequently, the Company has many
           plants located strategically in grain producing
           areas.  The annual volume processed will vary
           depending upon availability of raw materials and
           demand for finished products.
           
           The Company operates thirty-nine domestic and
           fifteen foreign oilseed crushing plants with a daily
           processing capacity of approximately 94,000 metric
           tons (3.5 million bushels).  The domestic plants are
           located in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Illinois,
           Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota,
           Missouri, Mississippi, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio,
           South Carolina, Tennessee and Texas.  The foreign
           plants are located in Brazil, Canada, England,
           Germany, India, Mexico, the Netherlands and Poland.
           The Company also has an interest, through a joint
           venture, in an oilseed crushing plant in Bolivia.
           
           The Company operates four wet corn milling and two
           dry corn milling plants with a daily grind capacity
           of approximately 41,700 metric tons (1.6 million
           bushels).  These plants and other related
           properties, including corn germ extraction and corn
           gluten pellet plants, are located in Illinois, Iowa,
           New York and North Dakota.  The Company also has
           interests, through joint ventures, in corn milling
           plants in Bulgaria, Hungary, Mexico, Slovakia and
           Turkey.
           
           The Company operates twenty-nine domestic wheat and
           durum flour mills, a domestic bulgur plant, three
           domestic corn flour mills, two domestic milo mills,
           and twelve foreign flour mills with a total daily
           milling capacity of approximately 30,700 metric tons
           (1.1 million bushels).  The Company also operates
           seven bakery mix and specialty ingredient plants,
           two pasta plants, and two starch and gluten plants.
           These plants and other related properties are
           strategically located across North and Central
           America in California, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa,
           
Item 2. PROPERTIES--continued

           Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska,
           New York, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Oregon,
           Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, Washington,
           Wisconsin, Barbados, Belize, Canada and Jamaica.
           The Company also has an interest, through a joint
           venture, in rice milling plants in Arkansas and
           Louisiana.
           
           The Company operates fifteen domestic oilseed
           refineries in Arkansas, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana,
           Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, North Dakota, Tennessee
           and Texas as well as ten foreign refineries in
           Brazil, Canada, Germany, India and the Netherlands.
           The Company also has interests, through joint
           ventures, in oilseed refineries in Texas, Bolivia
           and England.  The Company produces packaged oils in
           California, Georgia, Illinois, Brazil and Germany
           and has interests, through joint ventures, in
           packaged oils plants in Bolivia and England.  Soy
           protein specialty products are produced in Illinois
           and the Netherlands, lecithin products are produced
           in Arkansas, Illinois, Iowa, Nebraska, Canada,
           Germany and the Netherlands, and Vitamin E is
           produced in Illinois.  Cotton linter pulp is
           produced in Tennessee and cottonseed flour is
           produced in Texas.
           
           The Company produces feed and food additives at
           seven bioproducts plants located in Illinois, North
           Carolina and Ireland. The Company also operates
           fifteen domestic and nine foreign formula feed and
           animal health and nutrition plants.  The domestic
           plants are located in Georgia, Illinois, Indiana,
           Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, Ohio, Texas and
           Washington.  The foreign plants are located in
           Barbados, Belize, Canada, China, Ireland and Puerto
           Rico.  The Company also has interests, through joint
           ventures, in formula feed plants in Arkansas,
           Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky,
           Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, Ohio,
           Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Wisconsin, Canada, China,
           Puerto Rico and Trinidad.
           
           The Company operates five domestic and eleven
           foreign chocolate and cocoa bean processing plants.
           The domestic plants are located in Georgia,
           Massachusetts, New Jersey, North Carolina and
           Wisconsin, and the foreign plants are located in
           Brazil, Canada, China, England, France, Germany, the
           Netherlands, Poland and Singapore.
           
           The Company operates forty-nine domestic edible bean
           processing facilities located in California,
           Colorado, Idaho, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, North
           Dakota and Wyoming.
           
           The Company operates various other food and food
           ingredient plants in England, France, Germany and
           Jamaica.
     PAGE 15
Item 2. PROPERTIES--continued
           
           Procurement Facilities
           
           The Company operates two hundred domestic terminal,
           country, and river elevators covering the major
           grain producing states, including one hundred thirty-
           seven country elevators and sixty-three terminal and
           river loading facilities including three grain
           export elevators in Louisiana.  Elevators are
           located in Arkansas, Colorado, Georgia, Illinois,
           Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana,
           Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska,
           North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South
           Carolina, Tennessee and Texas.  Domestic grain
           terminals, elevators and processing plants have an
           aggregate storage capacity of approximately
           412,000,000 bushels.
           
           The Company also has interests, through joint
           ventures, in seventeen domestic grain terminals and
           elevators, including two export terminals, one in
           the state of Washington and the other in Maryland.
           The other joint venture grain terminals and
           elevators are located in Indiana, Kentucky,
           Michigan, Minnesota, and Ohio.  Domestic joint
           venture grain terminals and elevators have an
           aggregate storage capacity of approximately
           62,000,000 bushels.
           
           The Company also operates one hundred thirty-four
           foreign grain elevators with an aggregate storage
           capacity of approximately 89,000,000 bushels,
           including three export facilities located in Brazil.
           These elevators are located in Barbados, Brazil,
           Canada, Germany, Ireland and Paraguay. The Company
           also has an interest, through a joint venture, in
           fourteen grain elevators in Bolivia with an
           aggregate storage capacity of approximately
           7,000,000 bushels.
           
           Eleven cotton gins are located in Texas and serve
           the cottonseed crushing plants in that area.
           
     PAGE 16
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
     
     ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
     
     In 1993, the State of Illinois Environmental Protection
     Agency ("IEPA") brought administrative enforcement
     proceedings arising out of the Company's alleged failure
     to obtain permits for certain pollution control equipment
     at certain of the Company's processing facilities in
     Illinois. The Company and IEPA have executed a settlement
     agreement with respect to one of these proceedings. That
     agreement is currently before the Illinois Pollution
     Control Board for approval. The Company believes it has
     meritorious defenses to the remaining proceeding. In
     management's opinion this settlement and the remaining
     proceeding will not, either individually or in the
     aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company's
     financial condition or results of operations.
     
     The Company is involved in approximately 35 administrative
     and judicial proceedings in which it has been identified
     as a potentially responsible party (PRP) under the federal
     Superfund law and its state analogs for the study and
     clean-up of sites contaminated by material discharged into
     the environment. In all of these matters, there are
     numerous PRPs. Due to various factors such as the required
     level of remediation and participation in the clean-up
     effort by others, the Company's future clean-up costs at
     these sites cannot be reasonably estimated. However, in
     management's opinion these proceedings will not, either
     individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse
     effect on the Company's financial condition or results of
     operations.
     
     LITIGATION REGARDING ALLEGED ANTICOMPETITIVE PRACTICES
     
     The Company and certain of its current and former officers
     and directors are currently defendants in various lawsuits
     related to alleged anticompetitive practices by the
     Company as described in more detail below. The Company and
     the individual defendants named in these actions intend to
     vigorously defend the actions unless they can be settled
     on terms deemed acceptable to the parties. The Company has
     paid and intends to continue to pay the legal expenses of
     its current and former officers and directors and to
     indemnify these persons with respect to these actions in
     accordance with Article X of the Bylaws of the Company.
     
     GOVERNMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS
     
     Federal grand juries in the Northern Districts of Illinois,
     California and Georgia, under the direction of the United
     States Department of Justice ("DOJ"), have been
     investigating possible violations by the Company and others
     with respect to the sale of lysine, citric acid and high
     fructose corn syrup, respectively. In connection with an
     agreement with the DOJ, in fiscal 1997 the Company paid the
     United States a fine of $100 million. This agreement
     constitutes a global resolution of all matters between the
     DOJ and the Company and brought to a close all DOJ
     investigations of the Company. The federal grand jury in
     the Northern District of Illinois (lysine) has been closed.
     
     The Company has received notice that certain foreign
     governmental entities were commencing investigations to
     determine whether anticompetitive practices occurred in
     their jurisdictions. In February 1997, the Company's three
     Mexican subsidiaries were notified that the Mexican Federal
     Competition Commission commenced an investigation as to
     whether the Company's marketing and sale of lysine in
     Mexico resulted in violations of that country's federal
     antitrust laws. On June 22, 1998 the Mexican Federal
     Competition Commission issued resolutions concluding its
     investigation relative to the Company's subsidiaries and
     imposing a fine in the approximate amount of $125,000.  In
     June 1997, the Company and several of its European
     subsidiaries were notified that the Commission of the
     European Communities had initiated an investigation as to
     possible anticompetitive practices in the amino acid
     markets, in particular the lysine market, in the European
     Union. In September 1997, the Company received a request
     for information from the Commission of the European
     Communities with respect to an investigation being
     conducted by that Commission into the possible existence of
     certain agreements and/or concerted practices in the citric
     acid market within the European Union. In December, 1997,
     the Company was notified by the Canadian Competition Bureau
     that it is among the subjects of a formal inquiry into an
     alleged conspiracy to fix prices and sales volumes in the
     production, sale and supply of lysine. In connection with
     an agreement with the Canadian Competition Bureau and the
     Attorney General of Canada, the Company paid a fine in the
     approximate amount of $11 million.  This agreement
     constitutes a global resolution of all matters between the
     Canadian Competition Bureau and the Company.  The ultimate
     outcome and materiality of the proceedings of the
     Commission of the European Communities can not presently be
     determined. The Company may become the subject of similar
     antitrust investigations conducted by the applicable
     regulatory authorities of other countries.
     
     HIGH FRUCTOSE CORN SYRUP ACTIONS
     
     The Company, along with other companies, has been named as
     a defendant in thirty-one antitrust suits involving the
     sale of high fructose corn syrup.  Thirty of these actions
     have been brought as putative class actions.
     
     FEDERAL ACTIONS.    Twenty-two of these putative class
     actions allege violations of federal antitrust laws,
     including allegations that the defendants agreed to fix,
     stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels the
     prices of high fructose corn syrup, and seek injunctions
     against continued alleged illegal conduct, treble damages
     of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs, and
     other unspecified relief. The putative classes in these
     cases comprise certain direct purchasers of high fructose
     corn syrup during certain periods in the 1990s. These
     twenty-two actions have been transferred to the United
     States District Court for the Central District of Illinois
     and consolidated under the caption In Re High Fructose
     Corn Syrup Antitrust Litigation, MDL No. 1087 and Master
     File No. 95-1477. The parties are in the midst of
     discovery in this action.
     PAGE 17
     
     On January 14, 1997, the Company, along with other
     companies, was named a defendant in a non-class action
     antitrust suit involving the sale of high fructose corn
     syrup and corn syrup. This action which is encaptioned
     Gray & Co. v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al, No. 97-69-
     AS, and was filed in federal court in Oregon, alleges
     violations of federal antitrust laws and Oregon and
     Michigan state antitrust laws, including allegations that
     defendants conspired to fix, raise, maintain and stabilize
     the price of corn syrup and high fructose corn syrup, and
     seeks treble damages, attorneys' fees and costs of an
     unspecified amount. The parties are in the midst of
     discovery in this action.
     
     STATE ACTIONS. The Company, along with other companies,
     also has been named as a defendant in  seven putative
     class action antitrust suits filed in California state
     court involving the sale of high fructose corn syrup.
     These California actions allege violations of the
     California antitrust and unfair competition laws,
     including allegations that the defendants agreed to fix,
     stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels the
     prices of high fructose corn syrup, and seek treble
     damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and
     costs, restitution and other unspecified relief. One of
     the California putative classes comprises certain direct
     purchasers of high fructose corn syrup in the State of
     California during certain periods in the 1990s. This
     action was filed on October 17, 1995 in Superior Court for
     the County of Stanislaus, California and encaptioned
     Kagome Foods, Inc. v Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. et al.,
     Civil Action No. 37236. This action has been removed to
     federal court and consolidated with the federal class
     action litigation pending in the Central District of
     Illinois referred to above. The other  six California
     putative classes comprise certain indirect purchasers of
     high fructose corn syrup and dextrose in the State of
     California during certain periods in the 1990s. One such
     action was filed on July 21, 1995 in the Superior Court of
     the County of Los Angeles, California and is encaptioned
     Borgeson v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil
     Action No. BC131940. This action and  four other indirect
     purchaser actions have been coordinated before a single
     court in Stanislaus County, California under the caption,
     Food Additives (HFCS) cases, Master File No. 39693. The
     other four actions are encaptioned, Goings v. Archer
     Daniels Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 750276
     (Filed on July 21, 1995, Orange County Superior Court);
     Rainbow Acres v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al., Civil
     Action No. 974271 (Filed on November 22, 1995, San
     Francisco County Superior Court); Patane v. Archer Daniels
     Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 212610 (Filed on
     January 17, 1996, Sonoma County Superior Court); and St.
     Stan's Brewing Co. v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al.,
     Civil Action No. 37237 (Filed on October 17, 1995,
     Stanislaus County Superior Court). On October 8, 1997,
     Varni Brothers Corp. filed a complaint in intervention
     with respect to the coordinated action pending in
     Stanislaus County Superior Court, asserting the same
     claims as those advanced in the consolidated class action.
     The parties are in the midst of discovery in the
     coordinated action.
     
     PAGE 18
     
          The Company, along with other companies, also has
     been named a defendant in a putative class action
     antitrust suit filed in Alabama state court. The Alabama
     action alleges violations of the Alabama, Michigan and
     Minnesota antitrust laws, including allegations that
     defendants agreed to fix, stabilize and maintain at
     artificially high levels the prices of high fructose corn
     syrup, and seeks an injunction against continued illegal
     conduct, damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees
     and costs, and other unspecified relief. The putative
     class in the Alabama action comprises certain indirect
     purchasers in Alabama, Michigan and Minnesota during the
     period March 18, 1994 to March 18, 1996. This action was
     filed on March 18, 1996 in the Circuit Court of Coosa
     County, Alabama, and is encaptioned Caldwell v. Archer-
     Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 96-17. On
     April 23, 1997, the court granted the defendants' motion
     to sever and dismiss the non-Alabama claims. The remaining
     parties are in the midst of discovery in this action.
     
     LYSINE ACTIONS
     
     The Company, along with other companies, had been named as
     a defendant in twenty-one putative class action antitrust
     suits involving the sale of lysine. Except for the actions
     specifically described below, all such suits have been
     settled, dismissed or withdrawn.
     
     STATE ACTIONS. The Company has been named as a defendant,
     along with other companies in two putative class action
     antitrust suits. These two putative class actions allege
     violations of the Alabama antitrust laws, including
     allegations that the defendants agreed to fix, stabilize
     and maintain at artificially high levels the prices of
     lysine, and seek an injunction against continued alleged
     illegal conduct, damages of an unspecified amount,
     attorneys fees and costs, and other unspecified relief.
     The putative classes in these actions comprise certain
     indirect purchasers of lysine in the State of Alabama
     during certain periods in the 1990s. One such action was
     filed on August 17, 1995 in the Circuit Court of DeKalb
     County, Alabama, and is encaptioned Ashley v. Archer-
     Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 95-336.  On
     March 13, 1998, the court denied plaintiff's motion for
     class certification. Subsequently, the plaintiff has
     amended his complaint to add approximately 187 plaintiffs.
     On May 7, 1998, the Company moved for summary judgment as
     to the original named plaintiff's claim.  That motion is
     pending. The other Alabama action, encaptioned Bailey v.
     Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 95-
     165, and filed on December 11, 1995 in the Circuit Court
     of Tallapoosa County, has been placed on the court's
     administrative docket pending the outcome of the Ashley
     action.
     PAGE 19

     CITRIC ACID ACTIONS
     
     The Company, along with other companies, had been named as
     a defendant in eleven putative class action antitrust suits
     and two non-class action antitrust suits involving the sale
     of citric acid. Except for the actions specifically
     described below, all such suits have been settled or
     dismissed.
     
     STATE ACTIONS. The Company, along with other companies,
     has been named as a defendant in one putative class action
     antitrust suit filed in Alabama state court involving the
     sale of citric acid. This action alleges violations of the
     Alabama antitrust laws, including allegations that the
     defendants agreed to fix, stabilize and maintain at
     artificially high levels the prices of citric acid, and
     seeks an injunction against continued alleged illegal
     conduct, damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees
     and costs, and other unspecified relief. The putative
     class in the Alabama action comprises certain indirect
     purchasers of citric acid in the State of Alabama from
     July 1993 until July 1995. This action was filed on July
     27, 1995 in the Circuit Court of Walker County, Alabama
     and is encaptioned Seven Up Bottling Co. of Jasper, Inc.
     v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 95-
     436. The Company currently is seeking appellate review of
     the denial of its motion to dismiss this action. The
     Company, along with other companies, also has been named
     as a defendant in two putative class action antitrust
     suits filed in California state court involving the sale
     of citric acid. These actions allege violations of the
     California antitrust and unfair competition laws,
     including allegations that the defendants conspired to
     fix, maintain or stabilize the price of citric acid, and
     seek injunctions against continued illegal conduct, treble
     damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and
     costs, and other unspecified relief. The putative classes
     in these cases comprise certain indirect purchasers of
     citric acid within the State of California during certain
     periods in the 1990s. One such action was filed on June
     12, 1996 in the Superior Court of the County of San
     Francisco, California and is encaptioned Bianco v. Archer
     Daniels Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 978912. The
     second action was filed on June 28, 1996 in San Francisco
     County Superior Court and is encaptioned Wignall v. Archer
     Daniels Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 979360.
     These actions  have been coordinated before a single court
     in San Francisco County, California under the caption,
     Food Additives Cases II California Indirect Purchaser
     Citric Acid Antitrust Litigation, Coordination Proceeding
     No. 3265. On June 18, 1998, the Company executed a
     settlement agreement with counsel for the plaintiff class
     in which, among other things, the Company agreed to pay
     $1,053,366 to the plaintiff class.  The settlement has
     received final court approval.  The Company, along with
     other companies, also has been named as a defendant in one
     putative class action antitrust suit filed in Wisconsin
     state court involving the sale of citric acid. This action
     alleges violations of the laws of Wisconsin, Minnesota,
     Alabama,
     PAGE 20
     Arizona, California, District of Columbia, Florida,
     Tennessee, West Virginia, Mississippi, New Mexico, North
     Carolina, South Dakota, North Dakota, Kansas, Louisiana,
     Michigan and Maine, including allegations that defendants
     conspired to maintain the price of citric acid at
     artificially high levels and seeks injunctive relief,
     treble damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees
     and costs and other unspecified relief. The putative class
     in this case comprises certain indirect purchasers of
     citric acid in the above referenced states during the
     period July 1, 1991 through June 27, 1995. This action was
     filed on December 20, 1996 in the Circuit Court for
     Milwaukee County, Wisconsin and is encaptioned Raz, et al.
     v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., No. 96-CV-9729. On
     June 26, 1998, the Company executed a settlement agreement
     with counsel for the plaintiff class in which, among other
     things, the Company agreed to pay $1,831,634 to the
     plaintiff class.  This settlement has received preliminary
     court approval and a final approval hearing will be on
     November 20, 1998.
     
     HIGH FRUCTOSE CORN SYRUP/CITRIC ACID STATE CLASS ACTIONS
     
     The Company, along with other companies, has been named as
     a defendant in five putative class action antitrust suits
     involving the sale of both high fructose corn syrup and
     citric acid. Two of these actions allege violations of the
     California antitrust and unfair competition laws,
     including allegations that the defendants agreed to fix,
     stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels the
     prices of high fructose corn syrup and citric acid, and
     seek treble damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys
     fees and costs, restitution and other unspecified relief.
     The putative class in one of these California cases
     comprises certain direct purchasers of high fructose corn
     syrup and citric acid in the State of California during
     the period January 1, 1992 until at least October 1995.
     This action was filed on October 11, 1995 in the Superior
     Court of Stanislaus County, California and is entitled
     Gangi Bros. Packing Co. v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et
     al., Civil Action No. 37217. The putative class in the
     other California case comprises certain indirect
     purchasers of high fructose corn syrup and citric acid in
     the state of California during the period October 12, 1991
     until November 20, 1995. This action was filed on November
     20, 1995 in the Superior Court of San Francisco County and
     is encaptioned MCFH, Inc. v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co.,
     et al., Civil Action No. 974120. The California Judicial
     Council has bifurcated the citric acid and high fructose
     corn syrup claims in these actions and coordinated them
     with other actions in San Francisco County Superior Court
     and Stanislaus County Superior Court. The Company, along
     with other companies, also has been named as a defendant
     in at least one putative class action antitrust suit filed
     in West Virginia state court involving the sale of high
     fructose corn syrup and citric acid. This action also
     alleges violations of the West Virginia antitrust laws,
     including allegations that the defendants agreed to fix,
     stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels the
     prices of high fructose corn syrup and citric acid, and
     seeks treble damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys
     fees and costs, and other unspecified relief. The putative
     class in the West Virginia action comprises certain
     entities within the State of West Virginia that purchased
     products containing high fructose corn syrup and/or citric
     acid for resale from at least 1992 until 1994. This action
     was filed on October 26, 1995, in the Circuit Court for
     Boone County, West Virginia, and is encaptioned Freda's v.
     Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 95-C-
     125. The Company, along with other companies, also has
     been named as a defendant in a putative class action
     antitrust suit filed in the Superior Court for the
     District of Columbia involving the sale of high fructose
     corn syrup and citric acid. This action alleges violations
     of the District of Columbia antitrust laws, including
     allegations that the defendants agreed to fix, stabilize
     and maintain at artificially high levels the prices of
     high fructose corn syrup and citric acid, and seeks treble
     damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and
     costs, and other unspecified relief. The putative class in
     the District of Columbia action comprises certain persons
     within the District of Columbia that purchased products
     containing high fructose corn syrup and/or citric acid
     during the period January 1, 1992 through December 31,
     1994. This action was filed on April 12, 1996 in the
     Superior Court for the District of Columbia, and is
     encaptioned Holder v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al.,
     Civil Action No. 96-2975. Plaintiff's motion for class
     certification is currently pending.  The Company, along
     with other companies, has been named as a defendant in a
     putative class action antitrust suit filed in Kansas state
     court involving the sale of high fructose corn syrup and
     citric acid. This action alleges violations of the Kansas
     antitrust laws, including allegations that the defendants
     agreed to fix, stabilize and maintain at artificially high
     levels the prices of high fructose corn syrup and citric
     acid, and seeks treble damages of an unspecified amount,
     court costs and other unspecified relief. The putative
     class in the Kansas action comprises certain persons
     within the State of Kansas that purchased products
     containing high fructose corn syrup and/or citric acid
     during at least the period January 1, 1992 through
     December 31, 1994. This action was filed on May 7, 1996 in
     the District Court of Wyandotte County, Kansas and is
     encaptioned Waugh v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al.,
     Case No. 96-C-2029. Plaintiff's motion for class
     certification is currently pending.
     PAGE 21
     HIGH FRUCTOSE CORN SYRUP/CITRIC ACID/LYSINE STATE CLASS
     ACTIONS
     
     The Company, along with other companies, has been named as
     a defendant in six putative class action antitrust suits
     filed in California state court involving the sale of high
     fructose corn syrup, citric acid and/or lysine. These
     actions allege violations of the California antitrust and
     unfair competition laws, including allegations that the
     defendants agreed to fix, stabilize and maintain at
     artificially high levels the prices of high fructose corn
     syrup, citric acid and/or lysine, and seek treble damages
     of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs,
     restitution and other unspecified relief. One of the
     putative classes comprises certain direct purchasers of
     high fructose corn syrup, citric acid and/or lysine in the
     State of California during a certain period in the 1990s.
     This action was filed on December 18, 1995 in the Superior
     Court for Stanislaus County, California and is encaptioned
     Nu Laid Foods, Inc. v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al.,
     Civil Action No. 39693. The other five putative classes
     comprise certain indirect purchasers of high fructose corn
     syrup, citric acid and/or lysine in the State of
     California during certain periods in the 1990s. One such
     action was filed on December 14, 1995 in the Superior
     Court for Stanislaus County, California and is encaptioned
     Batson v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action
     No. 39680. The other actions are encaptioned Nu Laid
     Foods, Inc. v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al., No
     39693 (Filed on December 18, 1995 Stanislaus County
     Superior Court); Abbott v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et
     al., No. 41014 (Filed on December 21, 1995, Stanislaus
     County Superior Court); Noldin v. Archer Daniels Midland
     Co., et al., No. 41015 (Filed on December 21, 1995,
     Stanislaus County Superior Court); Guzman v. Archer
     Daniels Midland Co., et al., No. 41013 (Filed on December
     21, 1995, Stanislaus County Superior Court) and Ricci v.
     Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al., No. 96-AS-00383 (Filed
     on February 6, 1996, Sacramento County Superior Court). As
     noted  in prior filings, the plaintiffs in these actions
     and the lysine defendants have executed a settlement
     agreement that has been approved by the court and the
     California Judicial Council has bifurcated the citric acid
     and high fructose corn syrup claims and coordinated them
     with other actions in San Francisco County Superior Court
     and Stanislaus County Superior Court.
     
     SODIUM GLUCONATE ACTIONS
     
     The Company, along with other companies, has been named as
     a defendant in three federal antitrust class actions
     involving the sale of sodium gluconate.  These actions
     allege violations of federal antitrust laws, including
     allegations that the defendants agreed to fix, raise and
     maintain at artificially high levels the prices of sodium
     gluconate, and seek various relief, including treble
     damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and
     costs, and other unspecified relief.  The putative classes
     in these cases comprise certain direct purchasers of
     sodium gluconate during periods in the 1990s.  One such
     action was filed on December 2, 1997, in the United States
     District Court for the Northern District of California and
     is encaptioned Chemical Distribution, Inc, v. Akzo Nobel
     Chemicals BV, et al., No. C -97-4141 (CW).  The second
     action was filed on December 31, 1997, in the United
     States District Court for the District of Massachusetts
     and is encaptioned Stetson Chemicals, Inc. v. Akzo Nobel
     Chemicals BV, 97-CV-1285 RCL. The third action, which was
     amended on February 12, 1998 to name the Company as a
     defendant, was filed in the United States District Court
     for the Northern District of Illinois.  On April 9, 1998,
     the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation transferred
     all three sodium gluconate actions to the United States
     District Court for the Northern District of California for
     coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings.  The
     parties are in the midst of discovery in this action.
     PAGE 22
     SHAREHOLDER DERIVATIVE ACTIONS
     
     Following the public announcement of the grand jury
     investigations in June 1995 discussed above, three
     shareholder derivative suits were filed against certain of
     the Company's then current directors and executive officers
     and nominally against the Company in the United States
     District Court for the Northern District of Illinois and
     fourteen similar shareholder derivative suits were filed in
     the Delaware Court of Chancery. The derivative suits filed
     in federal court in Illinois were consolidated under the
     name Felzen, et al. v. Andreas, et al., Civil Action No. 95-
     C-4006, 95-C-4535, and a consolidated amended derivative
     complaint was filed on September 29, 1995. This complaint
     names all then current directors of the Company (except Mr.
     Coan) and one former director as defendants and names the
     Company as a nominal defendant. It alleges breach of
     fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, abuse of control
     and gross mismanagement, based on the antitrust allegations
     described above, as well as other alleged wrongdoing. On
     October 31, 1995, the Court granted the defendants' motion
     to transfer the Illinois consolidated derivative action to
     the Central District of Illinois, wherein it now bears the
     case number 95-2279. On April 26, 1996, the court dismissed
     the suit without prejudice and permitted the plaintiffs
     twenty-one days to refile it. The plaintiffs refiled the
     complaint on May 17, 1996. The defendants again moved to
     dismiss the complaint on June 1, 1996. Plaintiffs have
     supplemented the complaint to include the antitrust
     settlements and guilty plea described above. The fourteen
     shareholder derivative suits filed in the Delaware Court of
     Chancery have been consolidated as In Re Archer Daniels
     Midland Derivative Litigation, Consolidated No. 14403. An
     amended and consolidated complaint was filed on November
     19, 1996. ADM moved to dismiss the complaint on December
     12, 1996. On May 29, 1997, the Company executed a
     Memorandum of Understanding with counsel for both the
     Illinois and Delaware shareholder derivative plaintiffs.
     This Memorandum of Understanding provides for, among other
     things, $8 million to be paid by or on behalf of certain
     defendants in these actions to the Company and certain
     changes in the structure and policies of the Company's
     Board of Directors. On May 30, 1997, the United States
     District Court for the Central District of Illinois
     preliminarily approved this settlement and on July 7, 1997
     final approval was granted. Certain entities appealed the
     final settlement approval order to the United States Court
     of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. On January 21, 1998 the
     Court of Appeals dismissed the appeal. On April 21, 1998, a
     petition for writ of certiorari before the United States
     Supreme Court was filed with respect to the dismissal by
     the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.
     The individual director defendants and the Company recently
     filed oppositions to the petition for certiorari.  The
     parties will jointly seek dismissal of the Delaware actions
     with prejudice once the federal action is concluded.
     PAGE 23
     DELAWARE STATE LAW ACTION
     
     The Company and certain of its current and former
     directors also have been named as defendants in a putative
     class action suit encaptioned Loudon v. Archer-Daniels-
     Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 14638, filed in the
     Delaware Court of Chancery on October 20, 1995. This
     action alleges violations of Delaware state law and seeks
     invalidation of the 1995 election of the Company's
     directors and damages on the basis of alleged omissions
     from the proxy statement issued by the Company prior to
     its October 19, 1995 annual meeting of shareholders. The
     Delaware Court of Chancery dismissed this action on
     February 20, 1996. On September 17, 1997, the Supreme
     Court of Delaware affirmed the lower court's judgment and
     remanded the case to provide the plaintiffs an opportunity
     to replead.  The revised complaint was filed on November
     21, 1997.  On June 16, 1998, the Company executed a
     Stipulation and Agreement of Compromise and Settlement
     with counsel for the plaintiff class in which, among other
     things, the Company agreed to pay no more than $500,000 in
     attorneys' fees to plaintiffs, as determined by the court,
     and agreed to certain changes in the rules governing the
     conduct of shareholder meetings.  Final approval of the
     settlement was granted on August 5, 1998 and the court
     awarded $300,000 in attorneys' fees to plaintiffs.
     
     OTHER
     
     As described in the notes to the unaudited consolidated
     financial statements and management's discussion of
     operations and financial condition, the Company has made
     provisions to cover assessed fines, litigation settlements
     and related costs and expenses described above. However,
     because of the early stage of other putative class actions
     and proceedings described above, including those related to
     high fructose corn syrup, the ultimate outcome and
     materiality of these matters cannot presently be
     determined. Accordingly, no provision for any liability
     that may result therefrom has been made in the consolidated
     financial statements.
     PAGE 24
Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

        None.

PART II

Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
        STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Common Stock Market Prices and Dividends" of the
        annual shareholders' report for the year ended June 30,
        1998 and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in the
        "Ten-Year Summary of Operating, Financial and Other
        Data" of the annual shareholders' report for the year
        ended June 30, 1998 and is incorporated herein by
        reference.

Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
        CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Management's Discussion of Operations and Financial
        Condition" of the annual shareholders' report for the
        year ended June 30, 1998 and is incorporated herein by
        reference.

Item 7A.QUANTITIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
        RISK

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Management's Discussion of Operations and Financial
        Condition" of the annual shareholders' report for the
        year ended June 30, 1998 and is incorporated herein by
        reference.

Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

        The following financial statements and supplementary
        data included in the annual shareholders' report for
        the year ended June 30, 1998 are incorporated herein by
        reference:

        Consolidated balance sheets--June 30, 1998 and 1997
        Consolidated statements of earnings--Years ended
          June 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996
        Consolidated statements of shareholders' equity--Years
ended
          June 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996
        Consolidated statements of cash flows--Years ended
          June 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996
        Notes to consolidated financial statements--June 30,
        Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
        Report of Independent Auditors
        Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
     PAGE 25
Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

        None.

PART III

Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        Information with respect to directors and executive
        officers is set forth in "Election of Directors" and
        "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
        Compliance" of the definitive proxy statement for 1998
        and is incorporated herein by reference. Certain
        information with respect to executive officers is
        included in Item 1(e) of this report.

Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Executive Compensation" and "Compensation Committee
        Report" of the definitive proxy statement for 1998 and
        is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
        MANAGEMENT

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Principal Holders of Voting Securities" of the
        definitive proxy statement for 1998 and is incorporated
        herein by reference.

Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" of the
        definitive proxy statement for 1998 and is incorporated
        herein by reference.
PART IV

Item 14.EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
        FORM 8-K

             (a)(1)           The following consolidated
             financial statements and other financial data of
             the registrant and its subsidiaries, included in
             the annual report of the registrant to its
             shareholders for the year ended June 30, 1998, are
             incorporated by reference in Item 8, and are also
             incorporated herein by reference:

             Consolidated balance sheets--June 30, 1998 and 1997

             Consolidated statements of earnings--Years ended
              June 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996

             Consolidated statements of shareholders' equity--
              Years ended June 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996
        PAGE 26
Item 14.EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
        FORM 8-K
`       --Continued

             Consolidated statements of cash flows--Years ended
              June 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996

                              Notes to consolidated financial
             statements--June 30, 1998

             Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

             Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

              (a)(2)          Schedules are not applicable and
              therefore not included in this report.

 
 Financial statements of affiliates accounted for
              by the equity method have been omitted because
              they do not, considered individually, constitute
              significant subsidiaries.

             (a)(3)           LIST OF EXHIBITS

                 (3)          Composite Certificate of
              Incorporation and Bylaws filed on November 7,
              1986 as Exhibits 3(a) and 3(b), respectively, to
              Post Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration
              Statement on Form S-3, Registration No. 33-6721,
              are incorporated herein by reference.

                 (4)          Instruments defining the rights
              of security holders, including:
 
                 (i)Indenture dated May 15, 1981, between the r
                 egistrant and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of
                 New York, as Trustee (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 4(b) to Amendment No. 1 to
                 Registration Statement No. 2-71862), relating
                 to the $250,000,000 - 7% Debentures due May 15,
                 2011;

                 (ii)Indenture dated May 1, 1982, between the r
                 egistrant and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of
                 New York, as Trustee (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 4(c) to Registration Statement No. 2-
                 77368), relating to the $400,000,000 Zero
                 Coupon Debentures due May 1, 2002;

                 (iii)Indenture dated as of March 1, 1984 betwe
                 en the registrant and Chemical Bank, as Trustee
                 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the
                 registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
                 August 3, 1984 (File No. 1-44)), as
                 supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture
                 dated as of January 9, 1986, between the
                 registrant and Chemical Bank, as Trustee
                 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the
                 registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
                 January 9, 1986 (File No. 1-44)), relating to
                 the $100,000,000 - 10 1/4% Debentures due
                 January 15, 2006;
        PAGE 27
Item 14.EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
        FORM 8-K
        --Continued

                 (iv)Indenture dated June 1, 1986 between the r
                 egistrant and Chemical Bank, (as successor to
                 Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company), as Trustee
                 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to
                 Registration Statement No. 33-6721), and
                 Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 1, 1989
                 between the registrant and Chemical Bank (as
                 successor to Manufacturers Hanover Trust
                 Company), as Trustee (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 4(c) to Post-Effective Amendment No. 3
                 to Registration
                  Statement No. 33-6721), relating to
                  the $300,000,000 - 8 7/8% Debentures due April
                 15, 2011,
                  the $300,000,000 - 8 3/8% Debentures due April
                 15, 2017, the $300,000,000 - 8 1/8% Debentures
                 due June 1, 2012,
                  the $250,000,000 - 6 1/4% Notes due May 15,
                 2003,
                  the $250,000,000 - 7 1/8% Debentures due March
                 1, 2013,
                  the $350,000,000 - 7 1/2% Debentures due March
                 15, 2027, the $200,000,000 - 6 3/4% Debentures
                 due December 15, 2027, and the $250,000,000 - 6
                 7/8% Debentures due
                  December 15, 2097.

                  Copies of constituent instruments defining
                 rights of holders of long-term debt of the
                 Company and
                  Subsidiaries, other than the Indentures
                 specified herein, are not filed herewith,
                 pursuant to Instruction (b)(4) (iii)(A) to Item
                 601 of Regulation S-K, because the total amount
                 of securities authorized under any such
                 instrument does not exceed 10% of the total
                 assets of the Company and Subsidiaries on a
                 consolidated basis. The registrant
                  hereby agrees that it will, upon request by the
                  Commission, furnish to the Commission a copy of
                 each such instrument.

                              (10)
              Material Contracts--Copies of the Company's stock
              option

and stock unit plans and its savings and investment
              plans, pursuant to Instruction (10)(iii)(A) to Item
              601 of

Regulation S-K, are incorporated herein by
              reference as follows:
 
                (i)Registration Statement No. 2-91811 on Form S-8
                dated June 22, 1984 (definitive Prospectus dated
                July 16, 1984) relating to the Archer Daniels
                Midland 1982 Incentive
                                            Stock Option Plan.
        
                (ii)Registration Statement No. 33-49409 on Form S-
                8 dated
                March 15, 1993 relating to the Archer Daniels M
                idland
                1991 Incentive Stock Option Plan and Archer Dan
                iels
                  Midland Company Savings and Investment Plan.
        PAGE 28
Item 14.EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
        FORM 8-K
        --Continued

                (iii)Registration Statement No. 333-39605 on Fo
                rm S-8 dated November 5, 1997 relating to the
                ADM Savings and Investment Plan for Salaried
                Employees and the ADM Savings and Investment
                Plan for Hourly Employees.
 
                (iv)Registration Statement No. 333-51381 on For
                m S-8 dated April 30, 1998 relating to the
                Archer-Daniels-Midland Company 1996 Stock
                Option Plan.
 
                (v)The Archer-Daniels-Midland Company Stock Uni
                t Plan for Nonemployee Directors (incorporated
                by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company's
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                ended December 31, 1997).

                              (13)Portions of annual report to
              shareholders incorporated by reference

                              (21)Subsidiaries of the registra
              nt

                              (23)Consent of independent audit
              ors

                              (24)          Powers of attorney

                              (27)     Financial Data Schedule

        (b) Reports on Form 8-K


A Form 8-K was not filed during the quarter ended
           June 30, 1998.
     PAGE 29
                           SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: September 24, 1998

                 ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY
                                

/s/ D. J. Smith        /s/ D. J. Schmalz     /s/ S. R. Mills
D. J. Smith            D. J. Schmalz         S. R. Mills
Vice President, Secretary                    Vice President
and                    Controller
and General Counsel    Chief Financial Officer



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below on September 24, 1998,
by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in
the capacities indicated.


*Powers of Attorney authorizing R. P. Reising, D. J. Schmalz and
D. J. Smith and each of them, to sign the Form 10-K on behalf of
the above-named officers and directors of the Company are being
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


