
10-K
1995 10K- ANNUAL REPORT




          PAGE 1
                            FORM 10-K
                                
               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                                
                    Washington, D. C.  20549


[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1995

                               OR

[ ]TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from             to

Commission file number 1-44

                 ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY
     (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

         Delaware                                  41-0129150
(State or other jurisdiction of              (I. R. S. Employer
incorporation or organization)              Identification No.)

4666 Faries Parkway   Box 1470   Decatur, Illinois   62525
(Address of principal executive offices)           (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code217-424-5200

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                        Name of each exchange on
   Title of each class                   which registered

Common Stock, no par value              New York Stock Exchange
                                        Chicago Stock Exchange
                                        Stock Exchange of Basle,
                                             Switzerland
                                        Stock Exchange of
Zurich,
                                             Switzerland
                                        Stock Exchange of
Geneva,
                                             Switzerland
                                        Tokyo Stock Exchange
                                        Frankfurt Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X      No___
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. []

State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-
affiliates of the registrant.

          Common Stock, no par value--$7.5 billion
(Based on the closing price of the New York Stock Exchange on
August 9, 1995)

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
registrant's classes of common stock, as of the latest
practicable date.

          Common Stock, no par value--505,466,902 shares
                    (August 9, 1995)


DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the annual shareholders' report for the year ended
June 30, 1995 are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and
IV.

Portions of the annual proxy statement for the year ended June
30, 1995 are incorporated by reference into Part III.
        PAGE 2
PART I

Item 1. BUSINESS

        (a)    General Development of Business

              Archer Daniels Midland Company was incorporated
           in Delaware in 1923, successor to the Daniels
           Linseed Co. founded in 1902.

              During the last five years, the Company has
           experienced significant growth, spending
           approximately $3.4 billion for construction of new
           plants, expansions of existing plants and the
           acquisitions of plants and transportation equipment.
           There have been no significant dispositions during
           this period.

        (b)    Financial Information About Industry Segments

              The Company is in one business segment--
           procuring, transporting, storing, processing and
           merchandising agricultural commodities and products.

        (c)    Narrative Description of Business

               (i)  Principal products produced and principal
               markets for and methods of distribution of such
               products.

               The Company is engaged in the business of
               procuring, transporting, storing, processing and
               merchandising agricultural commodities and
               products.  It is one of the world's largest
               processors of oilseeds, corn and wheat.  The
               Company also processes milo, oats, barley and
               peanuts.  Other operations include transporting,
               merchandising and storing agricultural
               commodities and products.  These operations and
               processes produce products which have primarily
               two end uses, either food or feed ingredients.
               Each commodity processed is in itself a feed
               ingredient as are the by-products produced during
               the processing of each commodity.

               Production processes of all commodities are
               capital intensive and similar in nature.  These
               processes involve grinding, crushing or milling
               with further value added through extraction,
               refining and fermenting.  Generally, each
               commodity can be processed by any of these
               methods to generate additional value added
               products.  All commodities and related processed
               products share the same network of commodity
               procurement facilities, transportation services
               (including rail, barge, truck and ocean vessels)
               and storage facilities.
        PAGE 3
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

               The geographic areas, customers and marketing
               methods are basically the same for all
               commodities and their related further processed
               products.  Feed ingredient products and by-
               products are sold to farmers, feed dealers and
               livestock producers, all of which can and will
               purchase products from across the entire
               commodity chain.  Food ingredient products are
               also sold to one basic group of customers, food
               and beverage processors.  Any single customer may
               purchase products produced from all commodities
               and any single food or feed product could include
               ingredients produced from all commodities
               processed.

               Oilseed Products

               Soybeans, cottonseed, sunflower seeds, canola,
               peanuts, flaxseed and corn germ are processed to
               provide vegetable oils and meals principally for
               the food and feed industries.  Crude vegetable
               oil is sold as is or is further processed by
               refining and hydrogenating into margarine,
               shortening, salad oils and other food products.
               Partially refined oil is sold for use in
               chemicals, paints and other industrial products.
               Lecithin, an emulsifier produced in the vegetable
               oil refining process, is marketed as a food and
               feed ingredient.

               Oilseed meals supply more than one-half of the
               high protein ingredients used in the domestic
               manufacture of commercial livestock and poultry
               feeds. Soybean meal is further processed into soy
               flour and grits, used in both food and industrial
               products, and into value-added soy protein
               products.  Textured vegetable protein (TVP R), a
               soy protein product developed by the Company, is
               sold primarily to the institutional food market
               and, through others, to the food consumer market.
               The Company also produces a wide range of other
               edible soy protein products including isolated
               soy protein, soy protein concentrate, soy-based
               milk products, soy flours and vegetable patties
               (Harvest Burgers R).  The Company produces and
               markets a wide range of consumer and
               institutional health foods based on the Company's
               various soy protein products.
        PAGE 4
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued
               Corn Products

               The Company is engaged in dry milling and wet
               milling corn operations.  Products produced for
               use by the food and beverage industry include
               syrup, starch, glucose, dextrose, crystalline
               dextrose, high fructose sweeteners, crystalline
               fructose and grits.  Corn gluten feed and
               distillers grains are produced for use as feed
               ingredients.  Ethyl alcohol is produced to
               beverage grade or for industrial use as ethanol.
               Ethanol is used to increase octane, and as an
               extender and oxygenate in gasoline.  Corn germ, a
               by-product of the milling process, is further
               processed as an oilseed.
               
               The Company produces by fermentation, from
               dextrose, citric and lactic acids, feed-grade
               amino acids and vitamins, lactates, sorbitol,
               monosodium glutamate, nematodes and food
               emulsifiers principally for the food and feed
               industries.
               
               Wheat and Other Milled Products
               
               Wheat flour is sold primarily to large bakeries,
               durum flour is sold to pasta manufacturers and
               bulgur, a gelatinized wheat food, is sold to both
               the export and the domestic food markets. Masa
               corn flour is sold primarily to specialty food
               producers to be used in the production of
               tortillas, taco shells and tortilla chips.
               
               The Company mills oats into oat bran and oat
               flour for institutional and consumer food
               customers.  The Company also mills milo to
               produce industrial flour that is used in the
               manufacturing of wall board for the building
               industry.
               
               Other Products and Services
               
               The Company buys, stores and cleans agricultural
               commodities, such as corn, wheat, soybeans,
               canola, milo, sunflower seeds, oats and barley,
               for resale to other processors worldwide.
               
               The Company produces and distributes formula
               feeds and animal health and nutrition products to
               the livestock, dairy and poultry industries.
               Many of the feed ingredients and health and
               nutrition products can be, and in many cases are,
               produced in our other commodity processing
               operations.
               
               The Company produces bakery products and mixes
               which are sold to the baking industry.
               PAGE 5
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

               The Company produces spaghetti, noodles,
               macaroni, and other consumer food products.  The
               Company also produces lettuce, other fresh
               vegetables and herbs in its hydroponic
               greenhouse.
               
               Malt products are produced for use by the food
               and beverage industries.
               
               The Company raises fish for distribution to
               consumer food customers.
               
               Granulated and liquid refined sugars sold
               principally to the food and beverage industries
               were produced by a subsidiary of the Company.
               The subsidiary was disposed of during July, 1995.
               
               Hickory Point Bank and Trust Co. furnishes public
               banking services, except commercial loans, as
               well as cash management and securities
               safekeeping services for the Company.
               
               Agrinational Insurance Company and Agrinational
               Ltd., Vermont and Cayman Island subsidiaries,
               respectively, act as direct insurers and
               reinsurers of a portion of the Company's domestic
               and foreign property and casualty insurance
               risks.
               
               Alfred C. Toepfer International (Germany) and
               affiliates, of which the Company has a 50%
               interest, is one of the world's largest, most
               respected trading companies specializing in
               processed agricultural products.  Toepfer has
               forty-one sales offices worldwide.
               
               Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits
               Amylaces SA (Luxembourg) and affiliates, of which
               the Company has a 41.5% interest, owns European
               agricultural processing plants that are primarily
               engaged in corn wet milling and wheat starch
               production.
               
               The Company, through its partnership with Gold
               Kist, Inc. and Alimenta Processing Corporation
               d/b/a Golden Peanut Company, is a major supplier
               of peanuts to both the domestic and export
               markets. These peanuts are used in peanut butter,
               snacks, cereals and many other foods.

               The Company, through its partnership with Ag
               Processing Inc. d/b/a Consolidated Nutrition, is
               a supplier of premium animal feeds and animal
               health products.
               
               
          PAGE 6
               The Company, through its partnership with
               Riceland Foods, Inc., is a processor of rice and
               rice products for institutional and consumer food
               customers.
Item 1.    BUSINESS--Continued

               The Company participates in various joint
               ventures that operate oilseed crushing
               facilities, oil refineries and related storage
               facilities in China and Indonesia.
               
               The percentage of net sales and other operating
               income by classes of products and services for
               the last three fiscal years were as follows:
               
                                       1995    1994   1993
                                    ______________________
               
               Oilseed products         60%     59%    58%
               Corn products             20      20     21
               Wheat and other
                 milled products         11      12     13
               Other products and services9       9      8
                                        ___     ___    ___
                                       100%    100%   100%
                                        ===     ===    ===
               
               Methods of Distribution
               
               Since the Company's customers are principally
               other manufacturers and processors, its products
               are distributed mainly in bulk from processing
               plants or storage facilities directly to the
               customers' facilities.  The Company owns a large
               number of trucks and trailers and owns or leases
               large numbers of railroad tank cars and hopper
               cars to augment those provided by the railroads.
               The Company uses the inland waterway system and
               functions as a contract carrier of commodities
               for its own operations as well as for other
               companies.  The Company owns and leases
               approximately 1,900 river barges and 26 line-haul
               towboats.
               
         (ii)  Status of new products

               The Company continues to expand its bioproducts.
               The Company is currently producing from dextrose,
               feed-grade amino acids; lysine, threonine and
               tryptophan, and food additives; citric acid,
               monosodium glutamate (MSG), lactic acid and
               xanthan gum.  The Company has entered the vitamin
               market with the production of riboflavin and is
               currently expanding production facilities to
               produce biotin and vitamins C and E.  In
               addition, the Company is currently expanding
               production facilities to produce emulsifiers,
               distilled monoglycerides and astaxanthan.
           PAGE 7
Item 1.    BUSINESS--Continued

        (iii)  Source and availability of raw materials

               Substantially all of the Company's raw materials
               are agricultural commodities.  In any single
               year, the availability and price of these
               commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due
               to unpredictable factors such as weather,
               plantings, government (domestic and foreign)

               farm programs and policies, changes in global
               demand created by population growth and higher
               standards of living and worldwide production of
               similar and competitive crops.  The Company
               follows a policy of hedging commodity
               transactions, including certain anticipated
               production requirements, to minimize price risk
               due to market fluctuations and risk of crop
               failure.

         (iv)  Patents, trademarks and licenses

               The Company owns several valuable patents,
               trademarks and licenses but does not consider its
               business dependent upon any single or group of
               patents, trademarks and licenses.

          (v)  Extent to which business is seasonal

               Since the Company is so widely diversified in
               global agribusiness markets, there are no
               material seasonal fluctuations in the
               manufacture, sale and distribution of its
               products and services.  There is a degree of
               seasonality in the growing season and procurement
               of the Company's principal raw materials:
               oilseeds, wheat, corn and other grains.  However,
               the actual physical movement of the millions of
               bushels of these crops through the Company's
               storage and processing facilities is reasonably
               constant throughout the year.  The worldwide need
               for food is not seasonal and is ever expanding as
               is the world's population.

         (vi)  Working capital items

               Price variations and availability of grain at
               harvest often cause wide fluctuations in the
               Company's inventories and short-term borrowings.

        (vii)  Dependence on single customer

               No material part of the Company's business is
               dependent upon a single customer or very few
               customers.

        PAGE 8
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

       (viii)  Amount of backlog

               Because of the nature of the Company's business,
               the backlog of orders at year end is not a
               significant indication of the Company's activity
               for the current or upcoming year.

         (ix)  Business subject to renegotiation

               The Company has no business with the government
               that is subject to renegotiation.

          (x)  Competitive conditions

               Markets for the Company's products are highly
               price competitive and sensitive to product
               substitution.  No single company competes with
               the Company in all of its markets; however, a
               number of large companies compete in one or more
               markets.  Major competitors in one or more
               markets include, but are not limited to, Cargill,
               Inc., ConAgra, Inc., CPC International, Eridania
               Beghin-Say and Tate & Lyle.

               (xi)                        Research and
               development expenditures

              Practically all of the Company's technical
               efforts and expenditures are concerned with food
               and feed ingredient products. Special efforts are
               being made to find improvements in food
               technology to alleviate the protein malnutrition
               throughout the world, utilizing the three largest
               United States crops-corn, soybeans and wheat.

               The need to successfully market new or improved
               food and feed ingredients developed in the
               Company's research laboratories led to the
               concept of technical support.  The Company is
               staffed with technical representatives  who work
               closely with customers and potential customers on
               the development of food and feed products which
               incorporate Company produced ingredients.  These
               technical representatives are an adjunct to both
               the research and sales functions.

               The Company maintains a research laboratory in
               Decatur, Illinois where product and process
               development activities are conducted.  Enzyme
               development and production are an important part
               of these activities. Protein research is
               conducted at facilities in Decatur where meat and
               dairy pilot plants support application research.
               Research to support sales and development for
               bakery products is done at a laboratory in
               Olathe, Kansas.
               PAGE 9
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

               The amounts spent during the three years ended
               June 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993 for such technical
               efforts were approximately $16.5, $20.1 and $14.8
               million, respectively.  In addition, the Company
               maintains separate quality control departments
               which are supervised by research personnel.

               (xii)                       Material effects of
               capital expenditures for environmental protection

               During 1995, $21 million was spent for equipment,
               facilities and programs for pollution control and
               compliance with the requirements of various
               environmental agencies.

                                           There have been no
               material effects upon the earnings and
               competitive position of the Company resulting
               from compliance with federal, state and local
               laws or regulations enacted or adopted relating
               to the protection of the environment.

               The Company expects that expenditures for
               environmental facilities and programs will
               continue at approximately the present rate with
               no unusual amounts anticipated for the next two
               years.

       (xiii)  Number of employees

               The number of persons employed by the Company was
               14,833 at June 30, 1995.

           (d)Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic
           Operations and Export Sales

              The Company's foreign operations are principally
           in developed countries and do not entail any undue
           or unusual business risks. Geographic financial
           information is set forth in "Note 10 to Notes to
           Consolidated Financial Statements" of the annual
           shareholders' report for the year ended June 30,
           1995 and is incorporated herein by reference.
        PAGE 10
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

              Export sales by classes of products for the last
           three fiscal years were as follows:

                                       1995    1994   1993
                                    ______________________

           Oilseed products              8%      5%     5%
           Corn products                  7       6      6
           Wheat and other milled
             products                     1       1      2
           Other products and services    -       -      1
                                         __      __     __

                                        16%     12%    14%
                                         ==      ==     ==

        (e) Executive Officers

           Name                       Title                 Age

           Dwayne O. Andreas   Chairman of the Board of      77
                               Directors from 1972.
                               Chief Executive Officer.

           James R. Randall    President from 1975.          70

           G. Allen Andreas    Vice President from 1988.     52
                               Counsel to the Executive
                               Committee from September 1994.

           Michael D. Andreas  Vice Chairman of the Board    46
                               of Directors from October 1992.
                               Executive Vice President
                               from 1988.

           Martin L. Andreas   Senior Vice President from 1988.
                               Executive Assistant to the
                               Chief Executive.

           Charles P. Archer   Treasurer from October 1992.  39
                               Assistant Treasurer from 1988.

           Charles T. Bayless  Group Vice President from     60
                               January 1993.  Vice President
                               from 1992.  President of ADM
                               Processing Division since 1980.

           Dale F. Benson      Vice President from 1969.     69
        PAGE 11
Item 1. Business--Continued

           Howard E. Buoy      Group Vice President from     68
                               January 1993.  Vice President
                               of ADM Processing Division
                               from 1979.

           William H. Camp     Vice President from April 1993.46
                               Vice President of ADM Processing
                               Division from 1990 to 1993.

           Larry H. Cunningham Vice President and President  51
                               of Protein Specialties
                               Division since July 1993.
                               Formerly President of
                               A. E. Staley Manufacturing Co.

           Craig Hamlin        Group Vice President from     49
                               October 1994.  President of
                               ADM Milling from 1989.

           Edward A. Harjehausen    Vice President from October
                               1992.  Vice President of
                               ADM Corn Processing Division
                               from 1988.

           Burnell D Kraft     Group Vice President from     63
                               January 1993.  Vice President
                               from 1984.  President of
                               ADM/Growmark, Collingwood
                               Grain and Tabor Grain Co.
                               subsidiaries.

           Paul L. Krug, Jr.   Vice President from 1991 and  51
                               President of ADM Investor
                               Services.  Formerly a Vice
                               President of Continental Grain.

           Jack Mc Donald      Vice President from October 1994.
                               President of Southern Cotton Oil
                               Division from 1990.

           Steven R. Mills     Controller from October 1994. 40
                               Various senior treasury and
                               accounting positions from 1979.

           Raymond V. Preiksaitis   Vice President - Management
                               Information Systems from 1988.

           John G. Reed        Vice President from 1982.     65
                               Chief Executive-Europe from
September 1994.
        PAGE 12
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

           Richard P. Reising  Vice President, Secretary and 51
                               General Counsel from 1991.
                               Secretary and Assistant General
                               Counsel since 1988.

           John D. Rice        Vice President from 1993.     41
                               Vice President of ADM Processing
                               Division from 1992.  Various
                               merchandising positions from
                               1988 to 1992.

           Douglas J. Schmalz  Vice President and Chief      49
                               Financial Officer from 1986.
           Terrance S. Wilson  Group Vice President from     57
                               January 1993.  Officer of
                               ADM Corn Processing Division
                               since 1988.

           Officers of the registrant are elected by the Board
           of Directors for terms of one year and until their
           successors are duly elected and qualified.

           Lowell W. Andreas and Dwayne O. Andreas, directors
           of the registrant, are brothers.  Michael D. Andreas
           is the son of Dwayne O. Andreas.  G. Allen Andreas
           and Martin L. Andreas are nephews of Dwayne O.
           Andreas and Lowell W. Andreas.  Charles P. Archer is
           the son of S. M. Archer, Jr., a director of the
           registrant.

Item 2.   PROPERTIES

       (a) Processing Facilities

       The Company owns, leases, or has a 50% or greater
       interest in the following processing plants:

                   United
                   States         Foreign        Total
                   _________________________________________

       Owned       131             39            170
       Leased        4              -              4
       Joint Venture73             22             95
                   ___             __            ___
                   208             61            269
                   ===             ==            ===
       PAGE 13
Item 2.PROPERTIES--Continued

       The Company's operations are such that most products are
       efficiently processed near the source of raw materials.
       Consequently, the Company has many plants located
       strategically in grain producing areas.  The annual
       volume processed will vary depending upon availability
       of raw material and demand for the finished products.

       The Company operates thirty-five domestic and seven
       foreign oilseed crushing plants with a daily processing
       capacity of approximately 79,000 tons.  The domestic
       plants are located in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia,
       Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota,
       Missouri, Mississippi, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio,
       South Carolina, Tennessee and Texas.  The foreign plants
       are located in Canada, England, Germany and the
       Netherlands.

       The Company operates four wet corn milling and two dry
       corn milling plants with a daily grind capacity of
       approximately 1,600,000 bushels. These plants and other
       related properties, including corn germ extraction and
       corn gluten pellet plants, are located in Illinois,
       Iowa, New York and North Dakota.  The Company also has
       interests, through joint ventures, in corn milling
       plants in Mexico, Bulgaria, Hungary, Slovakia and
       Turkey.

       The Company operates twenty-nine domestic wheat and
       durum flour mills, a domestic bulgur plant, six Canadian
       flour mills and one Mexican flour mill with a total
       daily capacity of approximately 363,000 cwt. of flour.
       The Company also operates seven corn flour mills, two
       milo mills, two pasta plants and five starch and gluten
       plants.  These plants and other related properties are
       strategically located across North America in
       California, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky,
       Louisiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New York,
       North Carolina, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania,
       Tennessee, Texas, Washington, Wisconsin, Canada and
       Mexico.  The Company also has an interest, through a
       joint venture, in rice milling plants in Arkansas and
       Louisiana.

       The Company operates ten domestic oilseed refineries in
       Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Georgia, Nebraska, Tennessee
       and Texas as well as five foreign refineries in Canada,
       Germany and the Netherlands.  The Company has an
       interest, through a joint venture, in an oilseed
       refinery in Texas.  The Company produces packaged oils
       in Illinois, California and Germany and soy protein
       specialty products in Illinois and the Netherlands.
       Lecithin products are produced in Illinois, Iowa,
       Nebraska and the Netherlands.

       The Company produces feed and food additives at seven
       bioproduct plants located in Illinois, North Carolina
       and Ireland.  The Company also operates formula feed,
       animal health and nutrition and pet food plants in
       Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, North Carolina, Ohio,
       Tennessee, Texas, Washington, Canada, England, Ireland
       and Puerto Rico.  The Company also has interests,
       through joint ventures, in formula feed and pet food
       plants in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia,
Item 2.   PROPERTIES--Continued

       Illinois, Iowa, Indiana, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota,
       Missouri, Nebraska, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina,
       Tennessee, Vermont, Wisconsin, Canada, Puerto Rico and
       Trinidad.

       The Company operates five North American barley malting
       plants located in Illinois, Minnesota, Wisconsin and
       Canada.

       The Company operates various other food ingredient
       plants in Iowa, Kansas, Washington, England and France.

       (b)Procurement Facilities

       The Company operates one hundred sixty-eight domestic
       terminal, country and river elevators covering the
       Midwest, West and South Central states, including one
       hundred twelve country elevators and fifty-six terminal
       and river loading facilities including three grain
       export elevators in Louisiana.  Elevators are located in
       Arkansas, Colorado, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa,
       Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana,
       Nebraska, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina,
       Tennessee and Texas.  Domestic grain terminals,
       elevators and processing plants have an aggregate
       storage capacity of approximately 360,000,000 bushels.
       The Company also operates eleven foreign grain elevators
       in Canada, Ireland and Germany.  Thirteen cotton gins
       are located in Texas and serve the cottonseed crushing
       plants in that area.

Item 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

       In 1993, the State of Illinois Environmental Protection
       Agency brought administrative enforcement proceedings
       arising out of the Company's failure to obtain permits
       for certain pollution control equipment at certain of
       the Company's processing facilities in Illinois.  The
       Company believes it has meritorious defenses.  In
       management's opinion these proceedings will not, either
       individually or in the aggregate, have a material
       adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or
       results of operations.
       
       The Company is involved in approximately 24
       administrative and judicial proceedings in which it has
       been identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP)
       under the federal Superfund law and its state analogs
       for the study and clean-up of sites contaminated by
       material discharged into the environment.  In all of
       these matters, there are numerous PRPs.  Due to various
       factors such as the required level of remediation and
       participation in the clean-up effort by others, the
       Company's future clean-up costs at these sites cannot be
       reasonably estimated.  However, in management's opinion
       these proceedings will not, either individually or in
       the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the
       Company's financial condition or results of operations.
       PAGE 14
Item 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS--Continued

       In April, 1994, the Illinois State Police served
       warrants upon the La Salle barge cleaning operation to
       inspect barges being cleaned and fleeted at the site.
       The investigation continued with interviews of employees
       of the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, ARTCO, and
       seizure of documents relating to the LaSalle/Hennepin
       operations.  On June 15, 1994, employees of ARTCO were
       called before a La Salle County Grand Jury and all but
       one invoked their Fifth Amendment rights.  On July 6,
       1995, ARTCO received a summons to appear in Circuit
       Court on various criminal charges relating to
       barge cleaning operations.  ARTCO entered a not guilty
       plea on July 21, 1995.  The maximum potential fine is
       $25,000 per day of violation.
       
       The Company, along with a number of other domestic and
       foreign companies, is the subject of an investigation,
       being conducted by a grand jury in the Northern District
       of Illinois in Chicago, into possible violations of
       federal antitrust laws and possible related crimes in
       the food additives industry.  The investigation is
       directed towards possible price-fixing with respect to
       lysine, citric acid and high fructose corn syrup.
       Neither the Company nor any director, officer or
       employee has been charged in connection with the
       investigation.
       
       Following public announcement in June 1995 of the
       investigation, the Company and certain of its directors
       and executive officers were named as defendants in a
       putative class action on behalf of all purchasers of
       securities of the Company during the period from July
       10, 1992 through July 10, 1995.  The action is E. M.
       Lawrence Limited Frozen Retirement Trust v. Archer-
       Daniels-Midland Co., et al., United States District
       Court, Northern District of Illinois, Civil Action No.
       95C 3979, filed on July 10, 1995.  The complaint alleges
       that the defendants made material misrepresentations and
       omissions with respect to the Company and its operations
       and with respect to actions of the Company and its
       officers regarding antitrust laws, as a result of which
       market prices of the Company's securities were
       artificially inflated during the putative class period.
       The complaint alleges that the conduct complained of
       violates federal securities laws.  The plaintiff
       requests unspecified compensatory and punitive damages,
       costs (including legal, accounting and expert fees),
       expenses and unspecified relief on behalf of the
       putative class.  In addition to such action, at least
       fourteen similar putative class actions against the
       Company and others have been filed, in the United States
       District Courts for the Northern District of Illinois
       and for the Central District of Illinois and possibly
       other courts.  The Company, along with other companies,
       has been named as a defendant in a civil action filed on
       July 21, 1995 in the Superior Court for the County of
       Los Angeles, California, on behalf of a putative class
       of indirect purchasers of products made with high
       fructose corn syrup.  The complaint alleges that the
       defendants violated California antitrust
         PAGE 15
       and unfair competition laws with respect to the sale of
       high fructose corn syrup and seeks treble damages in an
       unspecified
Item 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS--Continued

       amount, attorneys fees and costs.  A similar putative
       class action has been filed in the Superior Court for
       Orange County, California.  The Company, along with
       other companies, has been named as a defendant in a
       civil action filed on July 25, 1995 in the United States
       District Court for the Northern District of Alabama on
       behalf of a putative class of direct purchasers of high
       fructose corn syrup who made purchases during the period
       from January 1, 1990 to the present.  The complaint
       alleges that, in violation of federal antitrust law, the
       defendants agreed to fix, stabilize and
       maintain at artificially high levels the prices of corn
       sweeteners and seeks an injunction against continued
       illegal conduct as well as treble damages in an
       unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs.  Two
       similar putative class actions have been filed in the
       United States District Court for the Northern District
       of Alabama and the United States District Court for the
       Central District of Illinois, the latter case relating
       to lysine.  The Company and the individuals named as
       defendants intend to vigorously defend these various
       class actions.
       
       These matters could result in the Company being subject
       to monetary damages, fines, penalties and other
       sanctions and expenses.  However, because of the early
       stage of the investigation, the ultimate outcome of the
       investigation and the putative class actions cannot
       presently be determined.  Accordingly, no provision for
       any liability that may result therefrom has been made in
       the consolidated financial statements.
       
       Also following such public announcement, a shareholder
       derivative action was filed against certain of the
       Company's directors and executive officers and nominally
       against the Company.  The action is Johnson v. Andreas,
       et al., Delaware Court of Chancery, New Castle County,
       Civil Action No. 14403, filed on July 12, 1995.  The
       complaint alleges that the individuals named as
       defendants breached their fiduciary duties and committed
       a waste of corporate assets and seeks to recover
       monetary damages and other relief on behalf of the
       Company from the individuals named as defendants.  At
       least twelve similar shareholder derivative actions have
       been filed, in the Delaware Court of Chancery, The
       Chancery Division of the Circuit Court of Cook County,
       Illinois, the United States District Court for the
       Northern District of Illinois and possibly other courts.
       The Company intends to seek dismissal of these
       derivative actions on the ground that they cannot be
       maintained unless the plaintiffs first brought their
       complaints to the Company's Board of Directors, which
       they did not.
       
       The Company from time to time, in the ordinary course of
       business, is named as a defendant in various other
       lawsuits.  In management's opinion, the gross liability
       from such other lawsuits, including environmental
       exposure, with or without insurance recoveries is not
       considered to be material to the Company's financial
       condition or results of operations.
       
Item 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

       None.

PART II

Item 5.MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
       STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

       Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
       "Common Stock Market Prices and Dividends" of the annual
       shareholders' report for the year ended June 30, 1995
       and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

       Information responsive to this Item is set forth in the
       "Ten-Year Summary of Operating, Financial and Other
       Data" of the annual shareholders' report for the year
       ended June 30, 1995 and is incorporated herein by
       reference.

Item 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
       CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

       Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
       "Management's Discussion of Operations and Financial
       Condition" of the annual shareholders' report for the
       year ended June 30, 1995 and is incorporated herein by
       reference.

Item 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

       The following financial statements and supplementary
       data included in the annual shareholders' report for the
       year ended June 30, 1995 are incorporated herein by
       reference:

       Consolidated balance sheets--June 30, 1995 and 1994
       Consolidated statements of earnings--Years ended
        June 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993
       Consolidated statements of shareholders' equity--Years
ended
        June 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993
       Consolidated statements of cash flows--Years ended
        June 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993
       Notes to consolidated financial statements--June 30, 1995
       Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
       Report of Independent Auditors
       Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
       PAGE 16
Item 9.CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
       ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

       None.

PART III

Item 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        Information with respect to directors and executive
        officers is set forth in "Election of Directors"
        and "Rule 405 Disclosure" of the definitive proxy
        statement for 1995 and is incorporated herein by
        reference.  Certain information with respect to
        executive officers is included in Item 1 (e) of
        this report.

Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Executive Compensation" and "Salary and Stock
        Option Committee's Report" of the definitive proxy
        statement for 1995 and is incorporated herein by
        reference.

Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Principal Holders of Voting Securities" of the
        definitive proxy statement for 1995 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Certain Relationsips and Related Transactions" of
        the definitive proxy statement for 1995 and is
        incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
          FORM 8-K

        (a)(1)The following consolidated financial statements
              and other financial data of the registrant and
              its subsidiaries, included in the annual report
              of the registrant to its shareholders for the
              year ended June 30, 1995, are incorporated by
              reference in Item 8, and are also incorporated
              herein by reference:

              Consolidated balance sheets--June 30, 1995 and

              Consolidated statements of earnings--Years ended
                June 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993
              PAGE 17
              Consolidated statements of shareholders' equity--
                Years ended June 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993

              Consolidated statements of cash flows--Years ended
                June 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993

              Notes to consolidated financial statements--June
              30, 1995

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
          FORM 8-K
       --Continued

              Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

              Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

        (a)(2)Schedules are not applicable and therefore not
              included in this report.
            
             Financial statements of affiliates accounted
              for by the equity method have been omitted
              because they do not, considered individually,
              constitute significant subsidiaries.
       
 (a)(3) LIST OF EXHIBITS

                (3)  Composite Certificate of Incorporation and
                Bylaws filed on November 7, 1986 as Exhibits
                3(a) and 3(b), respectively, to Post Effective
                Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on
                Form S-3, Registration No. 33-6721, are
                incorporated herein by reference.

                (4)  Instruments defining the rights of security
                holders, including:

                     (i)  Indenture dated May 15, 1981,
                     between the registrant and Morgan
                     Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as
                     Trustee (incorporated by reference to
                     Exhibit 4(b) to Amendment No. 1 to
                     Registration Statement No. 2-71862),
                     relating to the $250,000,000 - 7%
                     Debentures due May 15, 2011;

                     (ii) Indenture dated May 1, 1982,
                     between the registrant and Morgan
                     Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as
                     Trustee (incorporated by reference to
                     Exhibit 4(c) to Registration Statement
                     No. 2-77368), relating to the
                     $400,000,000 Zero Coupon Debentures due
                     May 1, 2002;

                     (iii)     Indenture dated as of March 1,
                     1984 between the registrant and Chemical
                     Bank, as Trustee (incorporated by
                     reference to Exhibit 4 to the
                     registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K
                     dated August 3, 1984 (File No. 1-44)),
                     as supplemented by the Supplemental
                     Indenture dated as of  January 9, 1986,
                     between the registrant and Chemical
                     Bank, as Trustee (incorporated by
                     reference to Exhibit 4 to the
                     registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K
                     dated January 9, 1986 (File No. 1-44)),
                     relating to the $100,000,000 - 10 1/4%
                     Debentures due January 15, 2006;

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
          FORM 8-K
       --Continued

                     (iv) Indenture dated June 1, 1986
                     between the registrant and Chemical
                     Bank, (as successor to Manufacturers
                     Hanover Trust Company), as Trustee
                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                     4(a) to Registration Statement No. 33-
                     6721), and Supplemental Indenture dated
                     as of August 1, 1989 between the
                     registrant and Chemical Bank (as
                     successor to Manufacturers Hanover Trust
                     Company), as Trustee (incorporated by
                     reference to Exhibit 4(c) to Post-
                     Effective Amendment No. 3 to
                     Registration Statement No. 33-6721),
                     relating to the $300,000,000  -  8 7/8%
                     Debentures due April 15, 2011, the
                     $300,000,000  -  8 3/8% Debentures due
                     April 15, 2017, the $300,000,000  -  8
                     1/8% Debentures due June 1, 2012, the
                     $250,000,000  -  6 1/4% Notes due May
                     15, 2003, and the $250,000,000  -  7
                     1/8% Debentures due  March 1, 2013.

                     Copies of constituent instruments
                     defining rights of holders of long-term
                     debt of the Company and Subsidiaries,
                     other than the Indentures specified
                     herein, are not filed herewith, pursuant
                     to Instruction (b)(4) (iii)(A) to Item
                     601 of Regulation S-K, because the total
                     amount of securities authorized under
                     any such instrument does not exceed 10%
                     of the total assets of the Company and
                     Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
                     The registrant hereby agrees that it
                     will, upon request by the Commission,
                     furnish to the Commission a copy of each
                     such instrument.
                  
           (10)Material Contracts--Copies of the Company's
                stock option plans and its savings and
                investment plans, pursuant to Instruction
                (10)(iii)(A) to Item 601 of Regulation S-K, are
                incorporated herein by reference as follows:
                
                (i)  Registration Statement No. 2-91811 on Form
                     S-8 dated June 22, 1984 (definitive
                     Prospectus dated July 16, 1984) relating
                     to the Archer Daniels Midland 1982
                     Incentive Stock Option Plan.
                
                     (ii) Registration Statement No. 33-49409
                     on Form S-8 dated March 15, 1993 relating
                     to the Archer Daniels Midland 1991
                     Incentive Stock Option Plan and Archer
                     Daniels Midland Company Savings and
                     Investment Plan.
                
        PAGE 18
Item 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
        --Continued

                (iii)     Registration Statement No. 33-58387
                     on Form S-8 dated April 3, 1995 relating
                     to the ADM Savings and Investment Plan for
                     Salaried Employees and the ADM Savings and
                     Investment Plan for Hourly Employees.
                
            (13) Portions of annual report to shareholders
                 incorporated by reference

            (21) Subsidiaries of the registrant

            (23) Consent of independent auditors

            (24) Powers of attorney

            (27) Financial Data Schedule

        (b) Reports on Form 8-K

            A Form 8-K was not filed during the quarter ended
            June 30, 1995.
            PAGE 19
                           SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  August 17, 1995


                              
                                ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY
                                   /s/ R. P. Reising
                                   R. P. Reising
                                   Vice President, Secretary
                                   and General Counsel

                                   /s/ D. J. Schmalz
                                   D. J. Schmalz
                                   Vice President, Controller
                                   and
                                   Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below on August 17, 1995, by
the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities indicated.

     D. O. Andreas*, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive and
     Director
                    (Principal Executive Officer)
     L. W. Andreas*, Director
     M. D. Andreas*, Director
     M. L. Andreas*, Director
     S. M. Archer, Jr.*, Director
     Ralph Bruce*, Director
     G. O. Coan*, Director
     J. H. Daniels*, Director
     R. A. Goldberg*, Director
     H. D. Hale*, Director
     F. R. Johnson*, Director
     M. B. Mulroney*, Director
     J. R. Randall*, Director
     Mrs. N. A. Rockefeller*, Director
     R. S. Strauss*, Director
     J. K. Vanier*, Director
     O. G. Webb*, Director


                                   R. P. Reising
                                   Attorney-in-Fact
*Powers of Attorney authorizing R. P. Reising, D. J. Schmalz and
D. J. Smith and each of them, to sign the Form 10-K on behalf of
the above-named officers and directors of the Company are being
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


