
10-K
10K630



PAGE 1
                            FORM 10-K

               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                    WASHINGTON, D. C.  20549

[X]ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1999

                               OR

[  ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from              to
Commission file number 1-44

                 ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY
     (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

         Delaware                                  41-0129150
(State or other jurisdiction of                (I. R. S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                Identification No.)

4666 Faries Parkway   Box 1470   Decatur, Illinois   62525
(Address of principal executive offices)           (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code217-424-5200

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                        Name of each exchange on
   Title of each class                     which registered

Common Stock, no par value              New York Stock Exchange
                                        Chicago Stock Exchange
                                        Swiss Exchange
                                        Tokyo Stock Exchange
                                        Frankfurt Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X     No  ____
PAGE 2
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge,
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-
affiliates of the registrant.

          Common Stock, no par value--$7.3 billion
(Based on the closing price of the New York Stock Exchange on
August 23, 1999)

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
registrant's classes of common stock, as of the latest
practicable date.

          Common Stock, no par value-580,565,821 shares
                    (August 31, 1999)

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the annual shareholders' report for the year ended
June 30, 1999 are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and
IV.

Portions of the annual proxy statement for the year ended June
30, 1999 are incorporated by reference into Part III.
PAGE 3
PART I

Item 1. BUSINESS

        (a)    General Development of Business

              Archer Daniels Midland Company was incorporated
           in Delaware in 1923, successor to the Daniels
           Linseed Co. founded in 1902.

              During the last five years, the Company has
           experienced significant growth, spending
           approximately $4.6 billion for construction of new
           plants, expansions of existing plants and the
           acquisitions of plants and transportation equipment.
           There have been no significant dispositions during
           this period. However, during this period, the
           Company has disposed of its Supreme Sugar subsidiary
           and its British Arkady bakery ingredient business.
           In addition, the Company has contributed malting
           operations, formula feed operations, rice milling
           operations, Mexican wheat flour mills and masa corn
           flour operations to various unconsolidated joint
           ventures.

        (b)    Financial Information About Industry Segments

              The Company is in one business segment--
           procuring, transporting, storing, processing and
           merchandising agricultural commodities and products.

        (c)    Narrative Description of Business

                                        (i)Principal products
               produced and principal markets for and methods of
               distribution of such products:

                                           The Company is
               engaged in the business of procuring,
               transporting, storing, processing and
               merchandising agricultural commodities and
               products. It is one of the world's largest
               processors of oilseeds, corn and wheat. The
               Company also processes cocoa beans, milo, oats,
               barley and peanuts. Other operations include
               transporting, merchandising and storing
               agricultural commodities and products. These
               operations and processes produce products which
               have primarily two end uses: food or feed
               ingredients. Each commodity processed is in
               itself a feed ingredient as are the by-products
               produced during the processing of each commodity.

               Production processes of all commodities are
               capital intensive and similar in nature. These
               processes involve grinding, crushing or milling
               with further value added through extraction,
               refining and fermenting. Generally, each
               commodity can be processed by any of these
               methods to generate additional value-added
               products.
PAGE 4
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

               All commodities and related processed products
               share the same network of commodity procurement
               facilities, transportation services (including
               rail, barge, truck and ocean vessels) and storage
               facilities. The geographic areas, customers and
               marketing methods are basically the same for all
               commodities and their related further processed
               products. Feed ingredient products and by-
               products are sold to farmers, feed dealers and
               livestock producers, all of whom purchase
               products from across the entire commodity chain.
               Food ingredient products are also sold to one
               basic group of customers: food and beverage
               processors. Any single customer may purchase
               products produced from all commodities, and any
               single food or feed product could include
               ingredients produced from all commodities
               processed.

               Oilseed Products

                                           Soybeans, cottonseed,
               sunflower seeds, canola, peanuts, flaxseed and
               corn germ are processed to provide vegetable oils
               and meals principally for the food and feed
               industries. Crude vegetable oil is sold "as is"
               or is further processed by refining and
               hydrogenating into margarine, shortening, salad
               oils and other food products. Partially refined
               oil is sold for use in chemicals, paints and
               other industrial products. Lecithin, an
               emulsifier produced in the vegetable oil refining
               process, is marketed as a food and feed
               ingredient. Natural source Vitamin E, an
               antioxidant, and distilled monoglycerides, an
               emulsifier, are produced from soybeans and other
               oilseeds.

                                           Oilseed meals supply
               more than one-half of the high protein
               ingredients used in the manufacture of commercial
               livestock and poultry feeds. Soybean meal is
               further processed into soy flour and grits, used
               in both food and industrial products, and into
               value-added soy protein products. Textured
               vegetable protein (TVP), a soy protein product
               developed by the Company, is sold primarily to
               the institutional food market and, through
               others, to the food consumer market. The Company
               also produces a wide range of other edible soy
               protein products including isolated soy protein,
               soy protein concentrate, soy-based milk products,
               soy flours and soy protein meat substitutes
               (Harvest Burgers and Harvest Burgers for
               Recipes). The Company produces and markets a wide
               range of consumer and institutional health foods
               based on the Company's various soy protein
               products, including soy-derived isoflavones. The
               Company produces cottonseed flour which is sold
               primarily to the pharmaceutical industry. Cotton
               cellulose pulp is manufactured and sold to the
               chemical, paper and filter markets.
PAGE 5
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

               Corn Products

                                           The Company is
               engaged in dry milling and wet milling corn
               operations. Products produced for use by the food
               and beverage industry include syrup, starch,
               glucose, dextrose, crystalline dextrose, high
               fructose sweeteners, crystalline fructose and
               grits. Corn gluten feed and distillers grains are
               produced for use as feed ingredients. Ethyl
               alcohol is produced to beverage grade or for
               industrial use as ethanol. In gasoline, ethanol
               increases octane and is used as an extender and
               oxygenate. Corn germ, a by-product of the milling
               process, is further processed as an oilseed.

                                           By fermentation of
               dextrose, the Company produces citric and lactic
               acids, feed-grade amino acids and vitamins,
               lactates, sorbitol, xanthan gum, and food
               emulsifiers principally for the food and feed
               industries.

               Wheat and Other Milled Products

                                           Wheat flour is sold
               primarily to large bakeries, durum flour is sold
               to pasta manufacturers and bulgur, a gelatinized
               wheat food, is sold to both the export and the
               domestic food markets. The Company produces wheat
               starch and vital wheat gluten for the baking
               industry. The Company mills oats into oat bran
               and oat flour for institutional and consumer food
               customers. The Company also mills milo to produce
               industrial flour that is used in the
               manufacturing of wall board for the building
               industry.

               Other Products and Services

                                           The Company buys,
               stores and cleans agricultural commodities, such
               as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats and barley,
               for resale to other processors worldwide.

               The Company grinds cocoa beans and produces cocoa
               liquor, cocoa butter, cocoa powder, chocolate and
               various compounds for the food processing
               industry.

                                           The Company produces
               and distributes formula feeds and animal health
               and nutrition products to the livestock, dairy
               and poultry industries. Many of the feed
               ingredients and health and nutrition products are
               produced in the Company's other commodity
               processing operations.

                                           The Company produces
               bakery products and mixes which are sold to the
               baking industry.
PAGE 6
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

                                           The Company produces
               spaghetti, noodles, macaroni, and other consumer
               food products. The Company also produces lettuce,
               other fresh vegetables and herbs in its
               hydroponic greenhouse.

                                           The Company processes
               and distributes edible beans for use in many
               parts of the food industry.

                                           The Company raises
               fish in an aquaculture operation for distribution
               to consumer food customers.

                                           Hickory Point Bank
               and Trust Co. furnishes public banking and trust
               services, as well as cash management and
               securities safekeeping services for the Company.

                                           ADM Investor
               Services, Inc. is a registered futures commission
               merchant and a clearing member of all principal
               commodities exchanges. ADM Investor Services
               International, Ltd. specializes in futures,
               options and foreign exchange in the European
               marketplace.

                                           Agrinational
               Insurance Company acts as a direct insurer and
               reinsurer of a portion of the Company's domestic
               and foreign property and casualty insurance
               risks.

                                           The Company owns a
               57% interest in Heartland Rail Corporation.
               Heartland's 80% owned affiliate, Iowa Interstate
               Railroad, operates a regional railroad in Iowa
               and Illinois.

                                           Alfred C. Toepfer
               International (Germany) and affiliates, in which
               the Company has a 50% interest, is one of the
               world's largest, most respected trading companies
               specializing in agricultural commodities and
               processed products. Toepfer has forty-three sales
               offices worldwide.

                                           Compagnie
               Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces
               SA (Luxembourg) and affiliates, of which the
               Company has a 41.5% interest, owns European
               agricultural processing plants that are primarily
               engaged in wet corn milling and wheat starch
               production.

                                           Gruma S.A. de C.V.
               (Mexico) and affiliates, of which the Company has
               a 22% interest, is the world's largest producer
               and marketer of corn flour and tortillas with
               operations in the U.S., Mexico and Central
               America. Additionally, the Company has a 20%
               interest in a joint venture which consists of the
               combined U.S. corn flour operations of ADM
PAGE 7
                                            and Gruma. The
               Company also has a 40% share, through a joint
               venture with Gruma, in seven Mexican-based wheat
               flour mills.

PAGE 8
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued


               The Company owns a 30% non-voting equity interest
               in Minnesota Corn Processors (MCP). MCP operates
               wet corn milling plants in Minnesota and
               Nebraska.

               The Company formed a strategic alliance with
               United Grain Growers of Canada (UGG) which
               resulted in the Company having approximately 42%
               ownership of UGG. UGG, with 173 facilities
               located throughout Western Canada, is involved in
               grain merchandising, crop input marketing and
               distribution, livestock production services and
               farm business communications.

               Consolidated Nutrition, L.C., a joint venture
               between the Company and Ag Processing Inc., is a
               supplier of premium animal feeds and animal
               health products. The Company has a 50% ownership
               interest in this joint venture.

               The Company has a 45% interest in Kalama Export
               Company, a grain export elevator in Washington.

               The Company owns a 28% interest in Acatos &
               Hutchinson, a U.K. based company, that processes
               and markets edible oil.

               Eaststarch C.V. (Netherlands), of which the
               Company has a 50% interest, operates wet corn
               milling plants in Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania,
               Slovakia and Turkey.

               Almidones Mexicanos S.A. (Mexico), of which the
               Company has a 50% interest, operates a wet corn
               milling plant in Mexico.

               Golden Peanut Company, a joint venture between
               the Company, Gold Kist, Inc. and Alimenta
               Processing Corporation, is a major supplier of
               peanuts to both the domestic and export markets.
               The Company has a 33 1/3% ownership interest in
               this joint venture.

               ADM-Riceland Partnership, a joint venture between
               the Company and Riceland Foods, Inc., is a
               processor of rice and rice products for
               institutional and consumer food customers. The
               Company has a 50% ownership interest in this
               joint venture.

               The Company owns a 50% interest in Sociedad
               Aceitera Oriente, S.A., a Bolivian company that
               is in the oilseed crushing, refining and bottling
               business.

PAGE 9
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued


               International Malting Company, a joint venture
               between the Company and the LeSaffre Company,
               operates barley malting plants in the United
               States, Australia, Canada and France. The Company
               has a 40% ownership interest in this joint
               venture.

                                           The Company
               participates in various joint ventures that
               operate oilseed crushing facilities, oil
               refineries and related storage facilities in
               China and Indonesia.

                                           The Company is a
               limited partner in various private equity funds
               which invest primarily in emerging markets that
               have agri-processing potential.

                                           The percentage of net
               sales and other operating income by classes of
               products and services for the last three fiscal
               years were as follows:


               Methods of Distribution

               Since the Company's customers are principally
               other manufacturers and processors, its products
               are distributed mainly in bulk from processing
               plants or storage facilities directly to the
               customers' facilities. The Company owns a large
               number of trucks and trailers and owns or leases
               large numbers of railroad tank cars and hopper
               cars to augment those provided by the railroads.
               The Company uses the inland waterway systems of
               North and South America and functions as a
               contract carrier of commodities for its own
               operations as well as for other companies. The
               Company owns or leases approximately 2,250 river
               barges and 52 line-haul towboats.
PAGE 10
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

         (ii)  Status of new products

                                           The Company continues
               to expand its business through the development
               and production of new, value-added products.
               These new products include a wide-range of health
               and nutrition products known as nutraceuticals or
               functional foods. The Company has entered the
               vitamin market with the production of riboflavin
               and vitamin E and is currently expanding
               production facilities to produce vitamin C. The
               Company continues to develop its soy protein meat
               substitutes, Harvest Burgers and Harvest Burgers
               for Recipes, its soy protein powdered non-dairy
               beverage, Nutribev, and its non-dairy frozen
               dessert, Dairylike. The Company is developing and
               expanding production facilities to produce soy-
               derived isoflavones, sterols, granular lecithin,
               astaxathin, distilled monoglycerides and xanthan
               gum. Additionally, the Company is in the early
               stages of development of the antioxidants beta-
               carotene and tocotrienols.

        (iii)  Source and availability of raw materials

                                           Substantially all of
               the Company's raw materials are agricultural
               commodities. In any single year, the availability
               and price of these commodities are subject to
               wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors
               such as weather, plantings, government (domestic
               and foreign) farm programs, international trade
               policies, shifts in global demand created by
               population growth, changes in standard of living
               and worldwide production of similar and
               competitive crops.

         (iv)  Patents, trademarks and licenses

                                           The Company owns
               several valuable patents, trademarks and licenses
               but does not consider its business dependent upon
               any single or group of patents, trademarks or
               licenses.

          (v)  Extent to which business is seasonal

                                           Since the Company is
               so widely diversified in global agribusiness
               markets, there are no material seasonal
               fluctuations in the manufacture, sale and
               distribution of its products and services. There
               is a degree of seasonality in the growing season
               and procurement of the Company's principal raw
               materials:  oilseeds, wheat, corn and other
               grains. However, the actual physical movement of
               the millions of bushels of these crops through
               the Company's storage and processing facilities
               is reasonably constant
PAGE 11                                    throughout the year.
               The worldwide need for food is not

Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued


                                           seasonal and is ever
               expanding as is the world's population.

        (vi)  Working capital items

                                           Price variations and
               availability of grain at harvest often cause
               fluctuations in the Company's inventories and
               short-term borrowings.

        (vii) Dependence on single customer

                                           No material part of
               the Company's business is dependent upon a single
               customer or very few customers.

        (viii) Amount of backlog

                                           Because of the nature
               of the Company's business, the backlog of orders
               at year end is not a significant indication of
               the Company's activity for the current or
               upcoming year.

         (ix)  Business subject to renegotiation

                                           The Company has no
               business with the government that is subject to
               renegotiation.

          (x)  Competitive conditions

                                           Markets for the
               Company's products are highly price competitive
               and sensitive to product substitution. No single
               company competes with the Company in all of its
               markets. However, a number of large companies
               compete with the Company in one or more markets.
               Major competitors in one or more markets include,
               but are not limited to, Cargill, Inc., ConAgra,
               Inc., Corn Products International, Inc., Eridania
               Beghin-Say and Tate & Lyle.

         (xi)  Research and development expenditures

                                           Practically all of
               the Company's technical efforts and expenditures
               are concerned with food and feed ingredient
               products. Special efforts are being made to find
               improvements in food technology to alleviate the
               protein malnutrition throughout the world,
               utilizing the three largest United States crops:
               corn, soybeans and wheat.
PAGE 12
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

                                           The need to
               successfully market new or improved food and feed
               ingredients developed in the Company's research
               laboratories led to the concept of technical
               support. The Company is staffed with technical
               representatives who work closely with customers
               and potential customers on the development of
               food and feed products which incorporate Company-
               produced ingredients. These technical
               representatives are an adjunct to both the
               research and sales functions.

                                           The Company maintains
               a research laboratory in Decatur, Illinois where
               product and process development activities are
               conducted. To develop new bioproducts and to
               improve existing bioproducts, new cultures are
               developed using classical mutation and genetic
               engineering. Protein research is conducted at
               facilities in Decatur where meat and dairy pilot
               plants support application research. Starch and
               amyolitic enzyme research is done at a laboratory
               in Clinton, Iowa. Research to support sales and
               development for bakery products is done at a
               laboratory in Olathe, Kansas. Research to support
               sales and development for cocoa and chocolate
               products is done in Milwaukee, Wisconsin and the
               Netherlands. The Company maintains research
               centers in Quincy, Illinois that conduct swine
               and cattle feeding trials to test new formula
               feed products and to develop improved feeding
               efficiencies.

               The amounts spent during the three years ended
               June 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997 for such technical
               efforts were approximately $22.0 million, $17.1
               million and $12.2 million, respectively.

                                      (xii)Material effects of
               capital expenditures for environmental protection

                                           During 1999, $16.2
               million was spent for equipment, facilities and
               programs for pollution control and compliance
               with the requirements of various environmental
               agencies.

                                           There have been no
               material effects upon the earnings and
               competitive position of the Company resulting
               from compliance with federal, state and local
               laws or regulations enacted or adopted relating
               to the protection of the environment.

                                           The Company expects
               that expenditures for environmental facilities
               and programs will continue at approximately the
               present rate with no unusual amounts anticipated
               for the next two years.
PAGE 13
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

        (xiii) Number of employees

                                           The number of persons
               employed by the Company was 23,603 at June 30,
               1999.

           (d)Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic
           Operations and Export Sales

           The Company's foreign operations are principally in
           developed countries and do not entail any undue or
           unusual business risks. Geographic financial
           information is set forth in "Note 10 of Notes to
           Consolidated Financial Statements" of the annual
           shareholders' report for the year ended June 30,
           1999 and is incorporated herein by reference.

PAGE 14
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

        (e)    Executive Officers and Certain Significant
Employees

           Name                       Title                 Age

           G. Allen Andreas    Chairman of the Board of
Directors  56
                               from January 1999. Chief
Executive
                               Officer from July 1997. President
                               from July 1997 to February 1999.
                               Counsel to the Executive
Committee
                               from September 1994 to July 1997.
                               Vice President from 1988 to July
                               1997.

           Martin L. Andreas   Senior Vice President from 1989.60
                               Assistant to the Chief Executive
                               from 1989.

           Charles P. Archer   Treasurer from October 1992.  43

           Ronald S. Bandler   Assistant Treasurer from January38
                               1998. Manager of Treasury
Operations
                               from 1989 to January 1998.

           Lewis W. Batchelder Group Vice President from     54
                               July 1997. Senior Vice President
                               of ADM/Growmark. Various grain
                               merchandising positions since
1971.

           Charles T. Bayless  Executive Vice President from 64
                               July 1997. Special Assistant to
                               the Chief Executive Officer from
                               February 1999. Group Vice
President
                               from January 1993 to July 1997.

           Howard E. Buoy      Group Vice President from     73
                               January 1993.

           William H. Camp     Group Vice President and
President, 50
                               South American Oilseed Processing
                               Division from March 1999. Vice
                               President from April 1993 to
          March
                               1999.

           Mark J. Cheviron    Vice President from July 1997.50
                               Vice President of Corporate
                               Security and Administrative
                               Services since May 1997. Director
                               of Security since 1980.
PAGE 15
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

           Larry H. Cunningham Group Vice President and      55
                               President of ADM Corn Processing
                               Division from October 1996.
                               President of ADM Food Additives
                               Division from October 1998.
                               Vice President from July 1993 to
                               October 1996.

           Dennis C. Garceau   Vice President from April 1999.52
                               President of ADM Technical
Services
                               Department. Various senior
engineering
                               positions from 1969.

           Craig L. Hamlin     Group Vice President from     53
                               October 1994. President of
                               ADM Milling from 1989.

           Edward A. Harjehausen    Vice President from October49
                               1992.

           Burnell D Kraft     Senior Vice President from    68
                               July 1997. Group Vice President
                               from January 1993 to July 1997.
                               President of ADM/Growmark,
                               ADM/Countrymark and Tabor Grain
Co.

           Paul L. Krug, Jr.   Vice President from 1991 and  55
                               President of ADM Investor
                               Services.

           John E. Long        Vice President from July 1996.70
                               President of ADM Research
                               Division from 1992. Various
                               senior research positions from
                               1975.

           Claudia M. Madding  Executive Assistant to the
Chairman   48
                               and Chairman Emeritus from
          January
                               1999. Secretary to the Executive
                               Committee from September 1997.
                               Executive Assistant to the
Chairman
                              from July 1997 to January 1999.
                              Assistant Secretary from 1993.
                              Administrative Assistant to the
                              Chairman from 1984 to 1997.
PAGE 16
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

           John D. McNamara    President from February 1999. 51
                               Group Vice President and
                               President of North American
                               Oilseed Processing Division from
                               July 1997 to February 1999.
                               President of ADM Agri-Industries
                               since 1992.

           Steven R. Mills     Controller from October 1994. 44
                               Various senior treasury and
                               accounting positions from 1979.

           Stephen W. Minder   Corporate Compliance Officer from
                               July 1997. Various senior
internal
                               audit positions since 1990.

           Paul B. Mulhollem   Group Vice President from     50
                               July 1997. Vice President from
                               January 1996 to July 1997.
Managing
                               Director of ADM International,
Ltd.,
                               from 1993.

           Brian F. Peterson   Vice President from January 1996.
                               President of ADM Protein
Specialties
                               Division from February 1999.
                               President of ADM BioProducts
                               Division from 1995. Various
                               merchandising positions from
1980.

           Raymond V. Preiksaitis     Group Vice President from47
                               July 1997. Vice President -
                               Management Information Systems
                               from 1988 to July 1997.

           John G. Reed        Vice President from 1982.     69

           Richard P. Reising  Senior Vice President from July55
                               1997. Vice President, Secretary
                               and General Counsel from 1991 to
1997.

           John D. Rice        Group Vice President and
President, 45
                               North American Oilseed Processing
                               Division from February 1999.
                               Vice President from 1993 to 1999.
                               President of ADM Food Oils
                               Division since December 1996.

PAGE 17
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

           Scott A. Roberts    Assistant Secretary and Assistant
                               General Counsel from July 1997.
                               Member of the Law Department
                               since 1985.

           Kenneth A. Robinson Vice President from January 1996.
                               Vice President of ADM Processing
                               Division from 1985.

           Douglas J. Schmalz  Vice President and Chief      53
                               Financial Officer from 1986.
                               Controller from 1985 to 1994.

           David J. Smith      Vice President, Secretary and 44
                               General Counsel from July 1997.
                               Assistant General Counsel from
                               1995 to 1997. Assistant Secretary
                               from 1988 to 1997. Member of the
Law
                               Department since 1981.

           Stephen H. Yu       Vice President from January 1996.
                               Managing Director of ADM
                               Asia-Pacific, Ltd., from 1993.


                              Officers of the registrant are
           elected by the Board of Directors for terms of one
           year and until their successors are duly elected and
           qualified.



PAGE 18
Item 2. PROPERTIES

        (a)                    Processing Facilities

        The Company owns, leases, or has a 50% or greater
        interest in the following processing plants:

        The Company's operations are such that most products
        are efficiently processed near the source of raw
        materials.  Consequently, the Company has many plants
        located strategically in grain producing areas.  The
        annual volume processed will vary depending upon
        availability of raw material and demand for finished
        products.

        The Company operates thirty-nine domestic and sixteen
        foreign oilseed crushing plants with a daily processing
        capacity of approximately 105,000 metric tons (3.9
        million bushels).  The domestic plants are located in
        Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa,
        Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Mississippi,
        Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, South Carolina, Tennessee
        and Texas.  The foreign plants are located in Brazil,
        Canada, England, Germany, India, Mexico, the
        Netherlands and Poland. The Company also has an
        interest, through a joint venture, in an oilseed
        crushing plant in Bolivia.

        The Company operates four wet corn milling and two dry
        corn milling plants with a daily grind capacity of
        approximately 41,700 metric tons (1.6 million bushels).
        These plants and other related properties, including
        corn germ extraction and corn gluten pellet plants, are
        located in Illinois, Iowa, New York and North Dakota.
        The Company also has interests, through joint ventures,
        in corn milling plants in Bulgaria, Hungary, Mexico,
        Romania, Slovakia and Turkey.

        The Company operates twenty-nine domestic wheat and
        durum flour mills, a domestic bulgur plant, three
        domestic corn flour mills, two domestic milo mills, one
        foreign oat mill, and sixteen foreign flour mills with
        a total daily milling capacity of approximately 30,800
        metric tons (1.1 million bushels).  The Company also
        operates seven bakery mix and specialty ingredient
        plants, two pasta plants, and two starch and gluten
        plants.  These plants and other related properties are
        located in California, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas,
        Louisiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska,

PAGE 19
Item 2. PROPERTIES

        New York, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Oregon,
        Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, Washington, Wisconsin,
        Barbados, Belize, Canada, England and Jamaica.  The
        Company also has an interest, through a joint venture,
        in rice milling plants in Arkansas and Louisiana.

        The Company operates sixteen domestic oilseed
        refineries in Arkansas, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana,
        Iowa, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota,
        Tennessee and Texas as well as twelve foreign
        refineries in Brazil, Canada, Germany, India, the
        Netherlands and Poland.  The Company also has
        interests, through joint ventures, in oilseed
        refineries in Texas, Bolivia and England.  The Company
        produces packaged oils in California, Georgia,
        Illinois, Brazil and Germany and has interests, through
        joint ventures, in packaged oils plants in Bolivia and
        England.  Soy protein specialty products are produced
        in Illinois and the Netherlands, lecithin products are
        produced in Arkansas, Illinois, Iowa, Nebraska, Canada,
        Germany and the Netherlands, and Vitamin E is produced
        in Illinois.  Cotton linter pulp is produced in
        Tennessee and cottonseed flour is produced in Texas.

        The Company produces feed and food additives at seven
        bioproducts plants located in Illinois, North Carolina,
        China and Ireland. The Company also operates thirteen
        domestic and nine foreign formula feed and animal
        health and nutrition plants.  The domestic plants are
        located in Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Nebraska,
        Ohio, Texas and Washington.  The foreign plants are
        located in Barbados, Belize, Canada, China, Ireland and
        Puerto Rico.  The Company also has interests, through
        joint ventures, in formula feed plants in Arkansas,
        Colorado, Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Indiana, Kansas,
        Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska,
        Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Wisconsin, Canada,
        China, Puerto Rico and Trinidad.

        The Company operates five domestic and eleven foreign
        chocolate and cocoa bean processing plants.  The
        domestic plants are located in Georgia, Massachusetts,
        New Jersey, North Carolina and Wisconsin, and the
        foreign plants are located in Brazil, Canada, China,
        England, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland and
        Singapore.

        The Company operates forty-nine domestic and four
        foreign edible bean processing facilities located in
        California, Colorado, Idaho, Kansas, Michigan,
        Minnesota, North Dakota, Wyoming and Canada.

        The Company operates various other food and food
        ingredient plants in England, France, Germany and
        Jamaica.

PAGE 20
Item 2. PROPERTIES

        Procurement Facilities

        The Company operates two hundred twenty-four domestic
        terminal, country, and river elevators covering the
        major grain producing states, including one hundred
        fifty-seven country elevators and sixty-six terminal
        and river loading facilities including four grain
        export elevators in Louisiana and Maryland.  Elevators
        are located in Arkansas, Colorado, Georgia, Illinois,
        Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland,
        Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North
        Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina,
        Tennessee and Texas.  Domestic grain terminals,
        elevators and processing plants have an aggregate
        storage capacity of approximately 475 million bushels.

        The Company also has interests, through joint ventures,
        in seven domestic grain elevators located in Minnesota
        and South Dakota. Domestic joint venture grain
        terminals and elevators have an aggregate storage
        capacity of approximately 5.8 million bushels.

        The Company also operates one hundred sixty-four
        foreign grain elevators with an aggregate storage
        capacity of approximately 136 million bushels,
        including four export facilities located in Brazil.
        These elevators are located in Argentina, Barbados,
        Brazil, Canada, Germany, Paraguay and Uruguay. The
        Company also has an interest, through a joint venture,
        in fifteen grain elevators in Bolivia with an aggregate
        storage capacity of approximately 6.4 million bushels.

        Six cotton gins are located in Texas and serve the
        cottonseed crushing plants in that area.

PAGE 21
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     In  1993,  the  State of Illinois Environmental  Protection
     Agency  ("Illinois EPA") brought administrative enforcement
     proceedings arising out of the Company's alleged failure to
     obtain   proper  permits  for  certain  pollution   control
     equipment at one of the Company's processing facilities  in
     Illinois.    The  Company  and  Illinois  EPA  executed   a
     agreement  which is currently before the Illinois Pollution
     Control  Board  for  approval.  In June  1999,  the  United
     States  Environmental Protection Agency issued a Notice  of
     Violations  involving  matters covered  under  the  pending
     State  settlement.   In  1998, the Illinois  EPA  filed  an
     administrative  enforcement  proceeding  arising   out   of
     certain alleged permit exceedances relating to one  of  the
     Company's production facilities located in Illinois.   Also
     in  1998,  the Company voluntarily reported to the Illinois
     EPA certain permit exceedances relating to another Illinois
     production facility operated by the Company.  Also in 1998,
     the  State of Illinois filed a civil administrative  action
     alleging   violations   of   the   Illinois   Environmental
     Protection  Act,  and  regulations promulgated  thereunder,
     arising from a one time release of denatured ethanol at one
     of  its  Illinois distribution facilities.  In management's
     opinion the settlements and the remaining proceedings,  all
     seeking  compliance  with applicable environmental  permits
     and  regulations, will not, either individually or  in  the
     aggregate, have a material adverse affect on the  Company's
     financial condition or results of operations.

     The  Company is involved in approximately 30 administrative
     and judicial proceedings in which it has been identified as
     a  potentially  responsible party (PRP) under  the  federal
     Superfund law and its state analogs for the study and clean-
     up  of  sites contaminated by material discharged into  the
     environment.   In all of these matters, there are  numerous
     PRPs.  Due to various factors such as the required level of
     remediation  and  participation in the clean-up  effort  by
     others, the Company's future clean-up costs at these  sites
     cannot  be  reasonably estimated.  However, in management's
     opinion, these proceedings will not, either individually or
     in  the  aggregate, have a material adverse affect  on  the
     Company's financial condition or results of operations.

     LITIGATION REGARDING ALLEGED ANTICOMPETITIVE PRACTICES

     The Company and certain of its current and former officers
     and directors are currently defendants in various lawsuits
     related to alleged anticompetitive practices by the
     Company as described in more detail below. The Company and
     the individual defendants named in these actions intend to
     vigorously defend the actions unless they can be settled
     on terms deemed acceptable to the parties. The Company has
     paid and intends to continue to pay the legal expenses of
     its current and former officers and directors and to
     indemnify these persons with respect to these actions in
     accordance with Article X of the Bylaws of the Company.

     PAGE 22
     GOVERNMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS

     Federal grand juries in the Northern Districts of Illinois,
     California and Georgia, under the direction of the United
     States Department of Justice ("DOJ"), have been
     investigating possible violations by the Company and others
     with respect to the sale of lysine, citric acid and high
     fructose corn syrup, respectively. In connection with an
     agreement with the DOJ in fiscal 1997, the Company paid the
     United States fines of $100 million. This agreement
     constitutes a global resolution of all matters between the
     DOJ and the Company and brought to a close all DOJ
     investigations of the Company. The federal grand juries in
     the Northern Districts of Illinois (lysine) and Georgia
     (high fructose corn syrup) have been closed.

     The Company has received notice that certain foreign
     governmental entities were commencing investigations to
     determine whether anticompetitive practices occurred in
     their jurisdictions. Except for the investigations being
     conducted by the Commission of the European Communities and
     the Mexican Federal Competition Commission as described
     below, all such matters have been resolved as previously
     reported.  In June 1997, the Company and several of its
     European subsidiaries were notified that the Commission of
     the European Communities had initiated an investigation as
     to possible anticompetitive practices in the amino acid
     markets, in particular the lysine market, in the European
     Union. On October 29, 1998, the Commission of the European
     Communities initiated formal proceedings against the
     Company and others and adopted a Statement of Objections.
     The reply of the Company was filed on February 1, 1999 and
     the hearing was held on March 1, 1999.  On August 8, 1999,
     the Commission of the European Communities adopted a
     supplementary Statement of Objections expanding the period
     of involvement as to certain other companies.  In September
     1997, the Company received a request for information from
     the Commission of the European Communities with respect to
     an investigation being conducted by that Commission into
     the possible existence of certain agreements and/or
     concerted practices in the citric acid market in the
     European Union. In November 1998, a European subsidiary of
     the Company received a request for information from the
     Commission of the European Communities with respect to an
     investigation being conducted by that Commission into the
     possible existence of certain agreements and/or concerted
     practices in the sodium gluconate market in the European
     Union.  On February 11, 1999 a Mexican subsidiary of the
     Company was notified that the Mexican Federal Competition
     Commission had initiated an investigation as to possible
     anticompetitive practices in the citric acid market in
     Mexico.  The ultimate outcome and materiality of the
     proceedings of the Commission of the European Communities
     cannot presently be determined. The Company may become the
     subject of similar antitrust investigations conducted by
     the applicable regulatory authorities of other countries.
     PAGE 23
     HIGH FRUCTOSE CORN SYRUP ACTIONS

     The Company, along with other companies, has been named as
     a defendant in thirty-one antitrust suits involving the
     sale of high fructose corn syrup.  Thirty of these actions
     have been brought as putative class actions.

     FEDERAL ACTIONS.    Twenty-two of these putative class
     actions allege violations of federal antitrust laws,
     including allegations that the defendants agreed to fix,
     stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels the
     prices of high fructose corn syrup, and seek injunctions
     against continued alleged illegal conduct, treble damages
     of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs, and
     other unspecified relief. The putative classes in these
     cases comprise certain direct purchasers of high fructose
     corn syrup during certain periods in the 1990s. These
     twenty-two actions have been transferred to the United
     States District Court for the Central District of Illinois
     and consolidated under the caption In Re High Fructose
     Corn Syrup Antitrust Litigation, MDL No. 1087 and Master
     File No. 95-1477. The parties are  currently appealing
     certain discovery rulings to the United States Court of
     Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.

     On January 14, 1997, the Company, along with other
     companies, was named a defendant in a non-class action
     antitrust suit involving the sale of high fructose corn
     syrup and corn syrup. This action which is encaptioned
     Gray & Co. v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al, No. 97-69-
     AS, and was filed in federal court in Oregon, alleges
     violations of federal antitrust laws and Oregon and
     Michigan state antitrust laws, including allegations that
     defendants conspired to fix, raise, maintain and stabilize
     the price of corn syrup and high fructose corn syrup, and
     seeks treble damages, attorneys' fees and costs of an
     unspecified amount. This action was transferred for
     pretrial proceedings to the United States District Court
     for the Central District of Illinois.

     STATE ACTIONS. The Company, along with other companies,
     also has been named as a defendant in  seven putative
     class action antitrust suits filed in California state
     court involving the sale of high fructose corn syrup.
     These California actions allege violations of the
     California antitrust and unfair competition laws,
     including allegations that the defendants agreed to fix,
     stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels the
     prices of high fructose corn syrup, and seek treble
     damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and
     costs, restitution and other unspecified relief. One of
     the California putative classes comprises certain direct
     purchasers of high fructose corn syrup in the State of
     California during certain periods in the 1990s. This
     action was filed on October 17, 1995 in Superior Court for
     the County of Stanislaus, California and encaptioned
     Kagome Foods, Inc. v Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. et al.,
     Civil Action No. 37236. This action has been removed to
     federal court and consolidated with the federal class
     action litigation pending in the Central District of
     Illinois referred to above. The other six California
     putative classes comprise certain indirect purchasers of
     high fructose corn syrup and dextrose in the State of
     California during certain periods in the 1990s. One such
     action was filed on July 21, 1995 in the Superior Court of
     the County of Los Angeles, California and is encaptioned
     Borgeson v.
     PAGE 24
     Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No.
     BC131940. This action and four other indirect purchaser
     actions have been coordinated before a single court in
     Stanislaus County, California under the caption, Food
     Additives (HFCS) cases, Master File No. 39693. The other
     four actions are encaptioned, Goings v. Archer Daniels
     Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 750276 (Filed on
     July 21, 1995, Orange County Superior Court); Rainbow
     Acres v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al., Civil Action
     No. 974271 (Filed on November 22, 1995, San Francisco
     County Superior Court); Patane v. Archer Daniels Midland
     Co., et al., Civil Action No. 212610 (Filed on January 17,
     1996, Sonoma County Superior Court); and St. Stan's
     Brewing Co. v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al., Civil
     Action No. 37237 (Filed on October 17, 1995, Stanislaus
     County Superior Court). On October 8, 1997, Varni Brothers
     Corp. filed a complaint in intervention with respect to
     the coordinated action pending in Stanislaus County
     Superior Court, asserting the same claims as those
     advanced in the consolidated class action. The parties are
     in the midst of discovery in the coordinated action.

     The Company, along with other companies, also has been
     named a defendant in a putative class action antitrust
     suit filed in Alabama state court. The Alabama action
     alleges violations of the Alabama, Michigan and Minnesota
     antitrust laws, including allegations that defendants
     agreed to fix, stabilize and maintain at artificially high
     levels the prices of high fructose corn syrup, and seeks
     an injunction against continued illegal conduct, damages
     of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs, and
     other unspecified relief. The putative class in the
     Alabama action comprises certain indirect purchasers in
     Alabama, Michigan and Minnesota during the period March
     18, 1994 to March 18, 1996. This action was filed on March
     18, 1996 in the Circuit Court of Coosa County, Alabama,
     and is encaptioned Caldwell v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co.,
     et al., Civil Action No. 96-17. On April 23, 1997, the
     court granted the defendants' motion to sever and dismiss
     the non-Alabama claims. The remaining parties are in the
     midst of discovery in this action.

     LYSINE ACTIONS

     The Company, along with other companies, had been named as
     a defendant in twenty-two putative class action antitrust
     suits involving the sale of lysine. Except for the actions
     specifically described below, all such suits have been
     settled, dismissed or withdrawn.

     CANADIAN ACTION.  The Company, along with other companies,
     has been named as a defendant in one putative class action
     antitrust suit filed in Ontario Court (General Division) in
     which the plaintiffs allege the defendants reached
     agreements with one another as to the price at which each
     of them would sell lysine to customers in Ontario and as to
     the total volume of lysine that each company would supply
     in Ontario in violation of Sections 45 (1)(c) and
     61(1)(b)of the Competition Act.  The plaintiffs seek
     C$25,000,000 for violations of the Competition Act,
     C$10,000,000 in punitive, exemplary and aggravated damages,
     interest and costs of the action.  This action was served
     upon the Company on June 11, 1999 and is encaptioned Rein
     Minnema and Minnema Farms Ltd. v. Archer-Daniels-Midland
     Company, et al., Court File No. G23495-99.

     PAGE 25
     STATE ACTION. The Company has been named as a defendant,
     along with other companies, in one putative class action
     antitrust suit alleging violations of the Alabama
     antitrust laws, including allegations that the defendants
     agreed to fix, stabilize and maintain at artificially high
     levels the prices of lysine, and seeking an injunction
     against continued alleged illegal conduct, damages of an
     unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs, and other
     unspecified relief. The putative class in this action
     comprises certain indirect purchasers of lysine in the
     State of Alabama during certain periods in the 1990s. This
     action was filed on August 17, 1995 in the Circuit Court
     of DeKalb County, Alabama, and is encaptioned Ashley v.
     Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 95-
     336.  On March 13, 1998, the court denied plaintiff's
     motion for class certification. Subsequently, the
     plaintiff amended his complaint to add approximately 300
     individual plaintiffs.

     CITRIC ACID ACTIONS

     The Company, along with other companies, had been named as
     a defendant in eleven putative class action antitrust suits
     and two non-class action antitrust suits involving the sale
     of citric acid. Except for the action specifically
     described below, all such suits have been settled or
     dismissed.

     STATE ACTIONS. The Company, along with other companies,
     has been named as a defendant in one putative class action
     antitrust suit filed in Alabama state court involving the
     sale of citric acid. This action alleges violations of the
     Alabama antitrust laws, including allegations that the
     defendants agreed to fix, stabilize and maintain at
     artificially high levels the prices of citric acid, and
     seeks an injunction against continued alleged illegal
     conduct, damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees
     and costs, and other unspecified relief. The putative
     class in the Alabama action comprises certain indirect
     purchasers of citric acid in the State of Alabama from
     July 1993 until July 1995. This action was filed on July
     27, 1995 in the Circuit Court of Walker County, Alabama
     and is encaptioned Seven Up Bottling Co. of Jasper, Inc.
     v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 95-
     436. On June 25, 1999, the Alabama Supreme Court reversed
     the lower court's denial of defendants' motion to dismiss,
     and held that the Alabama antitrust laws apply only to
     intrastate commerce.  Plaintiff subsequently filed a
     motion for reconsideration of this decision and that
     motion currently is pending before the Alabama Supreme
     Court.

     HIGH FRUCTOSE CORN SYRUP/CITRIC ACID STATE CLASS ACTIONS

     The Company, along with other companies, has been named as
     a defendant in five putative class action antitrust suits
     involving the sale of both high fructose corn syrup and
     citric acid. Two of these actions allege violations of the
     California antitrust and unfair competition laws,
     including allegations that the defendants agreed to fix,
     stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels the
     prices of high fructose corn syrup and citric acid, and
     seek treble damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys
     fees and costs, restitution and other unspecified relief.
     The putative class in one of these California cases
     PAGE 26
     comprises certain direct purchasers of high fructose corn
     syrup and citric acid in the State of California during
     the period January 1, 1992 until at least October 1995.
     This action was filed on October 11, 1995 in the Superior
     Court of Stanislaus County, California and is entitled
     Gangi Bros. Packing Co. v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et
     al., Civil Action No. 37217. The putative class in the
     other California case comprises certain indirect
     purchasers of high fructose corn syrup and citric acid in
     the state of California during the period October 12, 1991
     until November 20, 1995. This action was filed on November
     20, 1995 in the Superior Court of San Francisco County and
     is encaptioned MCFH, Inc. v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co.,
     et al., Civil Action No. 974120. The California Judicial
     Council has bifurcated the citric acid and high fructose
     corn syrup claims in these actions and coordinated them
     with other actions in San Francisco County Superior Court
     and Stanislaus County Superior Court.  As noted in prior
     filings, the Company accepted a settlement agreement with
     counsel for the citric acid plaintiff class. This
     settlement received final court approval and the case was
     dismissed on September 30, 1998. The Company, along with
     other companies, also has been named as a defendant in at
     least one putative class action antitrust suit filed in
     West Virginia state court involving the sale of high
     fructose corn syrup and citric acid. This action also
     alleges violations of the West Virginia antitrust laws,
     including allegations that the defendants agreed to fix,
     stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels the
     prices of high fructose corn syrup and citric acid, and
     seeks treble damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys
     fees and costs, and other unspecified relief. The putative
     class in the West Virginia action comprises certain
     entities within the State of West Virginia that purchased
     products containing high fructose corn syrup and/or citric
     acid for resale from at least 1992 until 1994. This action
     was filed on October 26, 1995, in the Circuit Court for
     Boone County, West Virginia, and is encaptioned Freda's v.
     Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 95-C-
     125. The Company, along with other companies, also has
     been named as a defendant in a putative class action
     antitrust suit filed in the Superior Court for the
     District of Columbia involving the sale of high fructose
     corn syrup and citric acid. This action alleges violations
     of the District of Columbia antitrust laws, including
     allegations that the defendants agreed to fix, stabilize
     and maintain at artificially high levels the prices of
     high fructose corn syrup and citric acid, and seeks treble
     damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and
     costs, and other unspecified relief. The putative class in
     the District of Columbia action comprises certain persons
     within the District of Columbia that purchased products
     containing high fructose corn syrup and/or citric acid
     during the period January 1, 1992 through December 31,
     1994. This action was filed on April 12, 1996 in the
     Superior Court for the District of Columbia, and is
     encaptioned Holder v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al.,
     Civil Action No. 96-2975. On November 13, 1998,
     plaintiff's motion for class certification was granted.
     The Company, along with other companies, has been named as
     a defendant in a putative class action antitrust suit
     filed in Kansas state court involving the sale of high
     fructose corn syrup and citric acid. This action alleges
     violations of the Kansas antitrust laws, including
     allegations that the defendants agreed to fix, stabilize
     and maintain at artificially high levels the prices of
     high fructose corn syrup and citric acid, and seeks treble
     damages of an unspecified amount, court

     PAGE 27
     costs and other unspecified relief. The putative class in
     the Kansas action comprises certain persons within the
     State of Kansas that purchased products containing high
     fructose corn syrup and/or citric acid during at least the
     period January 1, 1992 through December 31, 1994. This
     action was filed on May 7, 1996 in the District Court of
     Wyandotte County, Kansas and is encaptioned Waugh v.
     Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Case No. 96-C-2029.
     Plaintiff's motion for class certification is currently
     pending.

     HIGH FRUCTOSE CORN SYRUP/CITRIC ACID/LYSINE STATE CLASS
     ACTIONS

     The Company, along with other companies, has been named as
     a defendant in six putative class action antitrust suits
     filed in California state court involving the sale of high
     fructose corn syrup, citric acid and/or lysine. These
     actions allege violations of the California antitrust and
     unfair competition laws, including allegations that the
     defendants agreed to fix, stabilize and maintain at
     artificially high levels the prices of high fructose corn
     syrup, citric acid and/or lysine, and seek treble damages
     of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs,
     restitution and other unspecified relief. One of the
     putative classes comprises certain direct purchasers of
     high fructose corn syrup, citric acid and/or lysine in the
     State of California during a certain period in the 1990s.
     This action was filed on December 18, 1995 in the Superior
     Court for Stanislaus County, California and is encaptioned
     Nu Laid Foods, Inc. v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al.,
     Civil Action No. 39693. The other five putative classes
     comprise certain indirect purchasers of high fructose corn
     syrup, citric acid and/or lysine in the State of
     California during certain periods in the 1990s. One such
     action was filed on December 14, 1995 in the Superior
     Court for Stanislaus County, California and is encaptioned
     Batson v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action
     No. 39680. The other actions are encaptioned Nu Laid
     Foods, Inc. v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al., No
     39693 (Filed on December 18, 1995, Stanislaus County
     Superior Court); Abbott v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et
     al., No. 41014 (Filed on December 21, 1995, Stanislaus
     County Superior Court); Noldin v. Archer Daniels Midland
     Co., et al., No. 41015 (Filed on December 21, 1995,
     Stanislaus County Superior Court); Guzman v. Archer
     Daniels Midland Co., et al., No. 41013 (Filed on December
     21, 1995, Stanislaus County Superior Court) and Ricci v.
     Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al., No. 96-AS-00383 (Filed
     on February 6, 1996, Sacramento County Superior Court). As
     noted in prior filings, the plaintiffs in these actions
     and the lysine defendants have executed a settlement
     agreement that has been approved by the court and the
     California Judicial Council has bifurcated the citric acid
     and high fructose corn syrup claims and coordinated them
     with other actions in San Francisco County Superior Court
     and Stanislaus County Superior Court.

     SODIUM GLUCONATE ACTIONS

     The Company, along with other companies, has been named as
     a defendant in three federal antitrust class actions
     involving the sale of sodium gluconate.  These actions
     allege violations of federal antitrust laws, including
     allegations that the defendants agreed to fix, raise and
     maintain at artificially high levels the prices of sodium
     gluconate, and seek various relief, including treble
     damages of an unspecified
     PAGE 28
     amount, attorneys fees and costs, and other unspecified
     relief.  The putative classes in these cases comprise
     certain direct purchasers of sodium gluconate during
     periods in the 1990s.  One such action was filed on
     December 2, 1997, in the United States District Court for
     the Northern District of California and is encaptioned
     Chemical Distribution, Inc, v. Akzo Nobel Chemicals BV, et
     al., No. C -97-4141 (CW).  The second action was filed on
     December 31, 1997, in the United States District Court for
     the District of Massachusetts and is encaptioned Stetson
     Chemicals, Inc. v. Akzo Nobel Chemicals BV, 97-CV-1285
     RCL. The third action, which was amended on February 12,
     1998 to name the Company as a defendant, was filed in the
     United States District Court for the Northern District of
     Illinois.  On April 9, 1998, the Judicial Panel on
     Multidistrict Litigation transferred all three sodium
     gluconate actions to the United States District Court for
     the Northern District of California for coordinated or
     consolidated pretrial proceedings.  On October 29, 1998,
     the Company executed a Settlement Agreement with counsel
     for the plaintiff class in which, among other things, the
     Company agreed to pay $69,600 to the plaintiff class. On
     May 28, 1999, the court granted final approval of the
     settlement and dismissed the action.

     MONOSODIUM GLUTAMATE ACTION

     The Company, along with a least one other company, has
     been named as a defendant in one putative class action
     antitrust suit filed in California state court involving
     the sale of monosodium glutamate.  This action alleges
     violations of California antitrust and unfair competition
     laws, including allegations that the defendants agreed to
     fix, stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels
     the price of monosodium glutamate, and seeks treble
     damages of an unspecified amount, restitution, attorneys'
     fees and costs, and other unspecified relief.  The
     putative class in this action comprises certain indirect
     purchasers of monosodium glutamate in the State of
     California from January 1, 1993 until July 1999.  This
     action originally was filed on June 25, 1999 in the
     Superior Court of San Francisco County and is encaptioned
     Fu's Garden Restaurant v. Ajinomoto U.S.A., Inc., et al,
     Civil Action No. 304471.

     OTHER

     The Company has made provisions to cover certain legal
     proceedings and related costs and expenses as described in
     the notes to the consolidated financial statements and
     Management's Discussion of Operations and Financial
     Condition. However, because of the early stage of other
     putative class actions and proceedings described above,
     including those related to high fructose corn syrup, the
     ultimate outcome and materiality of these matters cannot
     presently be determined. Accordingly, no provision for any
     liability that may result therefrom has been made in the
     consolidated financial statements.
PAGE 29
Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     None.

PART II

Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
        STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Common Stock Market Prices and Dividends" of the
        annual shareholders' report for the year ended June 30,
        1999 and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in the
        "Ten-Year Summary of Operating, Financial and Other
        Data" of the annual shareholders' report for the year
        ended June 30, 1999 and is incorporated herein by
        reference.

Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
        CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Management's Discussion of Operations and Financial
        Condition" of the annual shareholders' report for the
        year ended June 30, 1999 and is incorporated herein by
        reference.

Item 7A.QUANTITIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
        RISK

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Management's Discussion of Operations and Financial
        Condition" of the annual shareholders' report for the
        year ended June 30, 1999 and is incorporated herein by
        reference.

Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

        The following financial statements and supplementary
        data included in the annual shareholders' report for
        the year ended June 30, 1999 are incorporated herein by
        reference:

        Consolidated balance sheets--June 30, 1999 and 1998
        Consolidated statements of earnings--Years ended
          June 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997
        Consolidated statements of shareholders' equity--Years
ended
          June 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997
        Consolidated statements of cash flows--Years ended
          June 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997
        Notes to consolidated financial statements--June 30,
        Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
        Report of Independent Auditors
        Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
PAGE 30
Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

        None.

PART III

Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        Information with respect to directors and executive
        officers is set forth in "Election of Directors" and
        "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
        Compliance" of the definitive proxy statement for the
        Company's annual meeting of Stockholders to be held on
        October 21,1999 and is incorporated herein by
        reference. Certain information with respect to
        executive officers is included in Item 1(e) of this
        report.

Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Executive Compensation" and "Compensation Committee
        Report" of the definitive proxy statement for the
        Company's annual meeting of Stockholders to be held on
        October 21,1999 and is incorporated herein by
        reference.

Item 12.SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
        MANAGEMENT

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Principal Holders of Voting Securities" and "Election
        of Directors" of the definitive proxy statement for the
        Company's annual meeting of Stockholders to be held on
        October 21,1999 and is incorporated herein by
        reference.

Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" of the
        definitive proxy statement for the Company's annual
        meeting of Stockholders to be held on October 21,1999
        and is incorporated herein by reference.
PART IV

Item 14.EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
        FORM 8-K

             (a)(1)           The following consolidated
             financial statements and other financial data of
             the registrant and its subsidiaries, included in
             the annual report of the registrant to its
             shareholders for the year ended June 30, 1999, are
             incorporated by reference in Item 8, and are also
             incorporated herein by reference:

             Consolidated balance sheets--June 30, 1999 and 1998

             Consolidated statements of earnings--Years ended
              June 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997

             Consolidated statements of shareholders' equity--
              Years ended June 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997
PAGE 31
Item 14.EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
        FORM 8-K
`       --Continued

             Consolidated statements of cash flows--Years ended
              June 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997

                              Notes to consolidated financial
             statements--June 30, 1999

             Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

             Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

              (a)(2)          Schedules are not applicable and
              therefore not included in this report.


 Financial statements of affiliates accounted for
              by the equity method have been omitted because
              they do not, considered individually, constitute
              significant subsidiaries.

             (a)(3)           LIST OF EXHIBITS

                 (3)          (i)Composite Certificate of
              Incorporation, as amended.


 (ii)Bylaws filed on May 14, 1999 as Exhibit 3(ii)
              to Form
                     10Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1999,
              are
                     incorporated herein by reference.

                 (4)          Instruments defining the rights
              of security holders, including:

                 (i)Indenture dated May 1, 1982, between the re
                 gistrant and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of
                 New York, as Trustee (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 4(c) to Registration Statement No. 2-
                 77368), relating to the $400,000,000 Zero
                 Coupon Debentures due May 1, 2002;

                 (ii)Indenture dated as of March 1, 1984 between
                 the registrant and The Chase Manhattan Bank,
                 formerly known as Chemical Bank, as Trustee
                 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the
                 registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
                 August 3, 1984 (File No. 1-44)), as
                 supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture
                 dated as of January 9, 1986, between the
                 registrant and Chemical Bank, as Trustee
                 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the
                 registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
                 January 9, 1986 (File No. 1-44)), relating to
                 the $100,000,000 - 10 1/4% Debentures due
                 January 15, 2006;
PAGE 32
Item 14.EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
        FORM 8-K
        --Continued

                 (iii)Indenture dated June 1, 1986 between the
                 registrant and The Chase Manhattan Bank, formerly
                 known as Chemical Bank, (as successor to
                 Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company), as Trustee
                 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to
                 Registration Statement No. 33-6721), and
                 Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 1, 1989
                 between the registrant and Chemical Bank (as
                 successor to Manufacturers Hanover Trust
                 Company), as Trustee (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 4(c) to Post-Effective Amendment No. 3
                 to Registration Statement No. 33-6721), relating
                 to
                  the $300,000,000 - 8 7/8% Debentures due April
                 15, 2011,
                  the $300,000,000 - 8 3/8% Debentures due April
                 15, 2017, the $300,000,000 - 8 1/8% Debentures
                 due June 1, 2012,
                  the $250,000,000 - 6 1/4% Notes due May 15,
                 2003,
                  the $250,000,000 - 7 1/8% Debentures due March
                 1, 2013,
                  the $350,000,000 - 7 1/2% Debentures due March
                 15, 2027, the $200,000,000 - 6 3/4% Debentures
                 due December 15, 2027,
                 the $250,000,000 - 6 7/8% Debentures due December
                                  15, 2097,
                 the $196,210,000 - 5 7/8% Debentures due November
                                  15, 2010,
                 and the $300,000,000 - 6 5/8% Debentures due May
                                  1, 2029.

                  Copies of constituent instruments defining
                 rights of holders of long-term debt of the
                 Company and
                  Subsidiaries, other than the Indentures
                 specified herein, are not filed herewith,
                 pursuant to Instruction (b)(4) (iii)(A) to Item
                 601 of Regulation S-K, because the total amount
                 of securities authorized under any such
                 instrument does not exceed 10% of the total
                 assets of the Company and Subsidiaries on a
                 consolidated basis. The registrant
                  hereby agrees that it will, upon request by the
                  Commission, furnish to the Commission a copy of
                 each such instrument.

                              (10)
              Material Contracts--Copies of the Company's stock
              option
              and stock unit plans and its savings and investment
                            plans,
              pursuant to Instruction (10)(iii)(A) to Item 601 of
              Regulation S-K, each of which is a management
              contract or compensation plan or arrangement
              required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item
              14(c) of Form 10-K, are incorporated herein by
              reference as follows:

                (i)Registration Statement No. 2-91811 on Form S-8
                dated June 22, 1984 (definitive Prospectus dated
                July 16, 1984) relating to the Archer Daniels
                Midland 1982 Incentive
                                            Stock Option Plan.

                (ii)Registration Statement No. 33-49409 on Form S-
                8 dated
                March 15, 1993 relating to the Archer Daniels M
                idland
                1991 Incentive Stock Option Plan and Archer Dan
                iels
                  Midland Company Savings and Investment Plan.
        PAGE 33
Item 14.EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
        FORM 8-K
        --Continued

                (iii)Registration Statement No. 333-39605 on Fo
                rm S-8 dated November 5, 1997 relating to the
                ADM Savings and Investment Plan for Salaried
                Employees and the ADM Savings and Investment
                Plan for Hourly Employees.

                (iv)Registration Statement No. 333-51381 on For
                m S-8 dated April 30, 1998 relating to the
                Archer-Daniels-Midland Company 1996 Stock
                Option Plan.

                (v)The Archer-Daniels-Midland Company Stock Uni
                t Plan for Nonemployee Directors (incorporated
                by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company's
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                ended December 31, 1997).

                (vi)Registration Statement No. 333-75073 on For
                m S-8 dated March 26, 1999 relating to the ADM
                Employee Stock Ownership Plan for Salaried
                Employees and the ADM Employee Stock Ownership
                Plan for Hourly Employees.

                              (13)Portions of annual report to
              shareholders incorporated by reference

                              (21)Subsidiaries of the registra
              nt

                              (23)Consent of independent audit
              ors

                              (24)          Powers of attorney

                              (27)     Financial Data Schedule

        (b) Reports on Form 8-K


A Form 8-K was not filed during the quarter ended
           June 30, 1999.
PAGE 34
                           SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: September 22, 1999

                 ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY


By:  /s/ D. J. Smith
D. J. Smith
Vice President, Secretary
and General Counsel


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below on September 22, 1999,
by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in
the capacities indicated.



     /s/ G. A. Andreas                /s/ M. B. Mulroney
     G. A. Andreas*,                  M. B. Mulroney*,
     Chief Executive and Director     Director
     (Principal Executive Officer)
                                      /s/ R. S. Strauss
     /s/D. J. Schmalz                 R. S. Strauss*,
     D. J. Schmalz                    Director
     Vice President and
     Chief Financial Officer          /s/ J. K. Vanier
     (Principal Financial Officer)    J. K. Vanier*,
                                      Director
     /s/S. R. Mills
     S. R. Mills                      /s/ O. G. Webb
     Controller                       O. G. Webb*,
     (Controller                      Director

     /s/ D. O. Andreas                /s/ A. Young
     D. O. Andreas*                   A. Young*,
     Director                         Director

     /s/ J. R. Block                  /s/ D. J. Smith
     J. R. Block*,                    Attorney-in-Fact
     Director

     /s/ R. R. Burt
     R. R. Burt*,
     Director

     /s/ Mrs. M. H. Carter
     Mrs. M. H. Carter*,
     Director

     /s/ G. O. Coan
     G. O. Coan*,
     Director

     /s/ F. R. Johnson
     F. R. Johnson*,
     Director


*Powers of Attorney authorizing R. P. Reising, D. J. Schmalz and
D. J. Smith and each of them, to sign the Form 10-K on behalf of
the above-named officers and directors of the Company copies of
which are being filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.


