
10-K
1997 10K-ANNUAL REPORT


                                
     PAGE 1
                            FORM 10-K
                                
               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                                
                    WASHINGTON, D. C.  20549

[X]ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997

                               OR

[  ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from --------------------- to --------
- -----------
Commission file number 1-44

                 ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY
     (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

         Delaware                                  41-0129150
(State or other jurisdiction of                (I. R. S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                Identification No.)

4666 Faries Parkway   Box 1470   Decatur, Illinois   62525
(Address of principal executive offices)           (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code217-424-5200

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                        Name of each exchange on
   Title of each class                     which registered

Common Stock, no par value              New York Stock Exchange
                                        Chicago Stock Exchange
                                        Swiss Exchange
                                        Tokyo Stock Exchange
                                        Frankfurt Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes _X__ No __
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-
affiliates of the registrant.

          Common Stock, no par value--$10.2 billion
(Based on the closing price of the New York Stock Exchange on
August 18, 1997)

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
registrant's classes of common stock, as of the latest
practicable date.

          Common Stock, no par value--531,196,269 shares
                    (August 31, 1997)


DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the annual shareholders' report for the year ended
June 30, 1997 are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and
IV.

Portions of the annual proxy statement for the year ended June
30, 1997 are incorporated by reference into Part III.
       PAGE 2
PART I

Item 1. BUSINESS

        (a)    General Development of Business

              Archer Daniels Midland Company was incorporated
           in Delaware in 1923, successor to the Daniels
           Linseed Co. founded in 1902.

              During the last five years, the Company has
           experienced significant growth, spending
           approximately $3.8 billion for construction of new
           plants, expansions of existing plants and the
           acquisitions of plants and transportation equipment.
           There have been no significant dispositions during
           this period. However, during this period, the
           Company has disposed of its Supreme Sugar subsidiary
           and its British Arkady bakery ingredient business.
           In addition, the Company has contributed its formula
           feed operations, its rice milling operations, its
           Mexican wheat flour mills and its masa corn flour
           business to various unconsolidated joint ventures.

        (b)    Financial Information About Industry Segments

              The Company is in one business segment--
           procuring, transporting, storing, processing and
           merchandising agricultural commodities and products.

        (c)    Narrative Description of Business

                                        (i)Principal products
               produced and principal markets for and methods of
               distribution of such products.

                                           The Company is
               engaged in the business of procuring,
               transporting, storing, processing and
               merchandising agricultural commodities and
               products. It is one of the world's largest
               processors of oilseeds, corn and wheat. The
               Company also processes cocoa beans, milo, oats,
               barley and peanuts. Other operations include
               transporting, merchandising and storing
               agricultural commodities and products. These
               operations and processes produce products which
               have primarily two end uses: food or feed
               ingredients. Each commodity processed is in
               itself a feed ingredient as are the by-products
               produced during the processing of each commodity.

                                           Production processes
               of all commodities are capital intensive and
               similar in nature. These processes involve
               grinding, crushing or milling with further value
               added through extraction, refining and
               fermenting. Generally, each commodity can be
               processed by any of these methods to generate
               additional value-added products. All commodities
               and related processed products share the same
               network of commodity procurement facilities,
               transportation services
        PAGE 3
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

                                           (including rail,
               barge, truck and ocean vessels) and storage
               facilities.

                                           The geographic areas,
               customers and marketing methods are basically the
               same for all commodities and their related
               further processed products. Feed ingredient
               products and by-products are sold to farmers,
               feed dealers and livestock producers, all of whom
               purchase products from across the entire
               commodity chain. Food ingredient products are
               also sold to one basic group of customers: food
               and beverage processors. Any single customer may
               purchase products produced from all commodities,
               and any single food or feed product could include
               ingredients produced from all commodities
               processed.

               Oilseed Products
                                           Soybeans, cottonseed,
               sunflower seeds, canola, peanuts, flaxseed and
               corn germ are processed to provide vegetable oils
               and meals principally for the food and feed
               industries. Crude vegetable oil is sold "as is"
               or is further processed by refining and
               hydrogenating into margarine, shortening, salad
               oils and other food products. Partially refined
               oil is sold for use in chemicals, paints and
               other industrial products. Lecithin, an
               emulsifier produced in the vegetable oil refining
               process, is marketed as a food and feed
               ingredient. Natural source Vitamin E, an
               antioxidant, and distilled monoglycerides, an
               emulsifier, are produced from soybeans and other
               oilseeds.

                                           Oilseed meals supply
               more than one-half of the high protein
               ingredients used in the domestic manufacture of
               commercial livestock and poultry feeds. Soybean
               meal is further processed into soy flour and
               grits, used in both food and industrial products,
               and into value-added soy protein products.
               Textured vegetable protein (TVP), a soy protein
               product developed by the Company, is sold
               primarily to the institutional food market and,
               through others, to the food consumer market. The
               Company also produces a wide range of other
               edible soy protein products including isolated
               soy protein, soy protein concentrate, soy-based
               milk products, soy flours and vegetable patties
               (Harvest Burgers). The Company produces and
               markets a wide range of consumer and
               institutional health foods based on the Company's
               various soy protein products. The Company
               produces cottonseed flour which is sold primarily
               to the pharmaceutical industry. Cotton cellulose
               pulp is manufactured and sold to the chemical,
               paper and filter markets.
      PAGE 4
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

               Corn Products

                                           The Company is
               engaged in dry milling and wet milling corn
               operations. Products produced for use by the food
               and beverage industry include syrup, starch,
               glucose, dextrose, crystalline dextrose, high
               fructose sweeteners, crystalline fructose and
               grits. Corn gluten feed and distillers grains are
               produced for use as feed ingredients. Ethyl
               alcohol is produced to beverage grade or for
               industrial use as ethanol. In gasoline, ethanol
               increases octane, and is used as an extender and
               oxygenate. Corn germ, a by-product of the milling
               process, is further processed as an oilseed.

                                           By fermentation of
               dextrose, the Company produces citric and lactic
               acids, feed-grade amino acids and vitamins,
               lactates, sorbitol, and food emulsifiers
               principally for the food and feed industries.

               Wheat and Other Milled Products

                                           Wheat flour is sold
               primarily to large bakeries, durum flour is sold
               to pasta manufacturers and bulgur, a gelatinized
               wheat food, is sold to both the export and the
               domestic food markets. The Company produces wheat
               starch and vital wheat gluten for the baking
               industry. The Company mills oats into oat bran
               and oat flour for institutional and consumer food
               customers. The Company also mills milo to produce
               industrial flour that is used in the
               manufacturing of wall board for the building
               industry.

               Other Products and Services

                                           The Company buys,
               stores and cleans agricultural commodities, such
               as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats and barley,
               for resale to other processors worldwide.

               The Company grinds cocoa beans and produces cocoa
               liquor, cocoa butter, cocoa powder, chocolate and
               various compounds for the food processing
               industry.

                                           The Company produces
               and distributes formula feeds and animal health
               and nutrition products to the livestock, dairy
               and poultry industries. Many of the feed
               ingredients and health and nutrition products are
               produced in our other commodity processing
               operations.


               PAGE 5

                                           The Company produces
               bakery products and mixes which are sold to the
               baking industry.

Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

                                           The Company produces
               spaghetti, noodles, macaroni, and other consumer
               food products. The Company also produces lettuce,
               other fresh vegetables and herbs in its
               hydroponic greenhouse.

                                           Malt products are
               produced for use by the food and beverage
               industries.

                                           The Company raises
               fish for distribution to consumer food customers.

                                           Hickory Point Bank
               and Trust Co. furnishes public banking services,
               except commercial loans, as well as cash
               management and securities safekeeping services
               for the Company.

                                           ADM Investor
               Services, Inc. is a registered futures commission
               merchant and a clearing member of all principal
               commodities exchanges. ADM Securities Inc. is a
               securities broker-dealer registered with the
               Securities and Exchange Commission and a member
               of the National Association of Securities
               Dealers, Inc.

                                           Agrinational
               Insurance Company acts as a direct insurer and
               reinsurer of a portion of the Company's domestic
               and foreign property and casualty insurance
               risks.

                                           Alfred C. Toepfer
               International (Germany) and affiliates, of which
               the Company has a 50% interest, is one of the
               world's largest, most respected trading companies
               specializing in processed agricultural products.
               Toepfer has forty-one sales offices worldwide.

                                           Compagnie
               Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces
               SA (Luxembourg) and affiliates, of which the
               Company has a 41.5% interest, owns European
               agricultural processing plants that are primarily
               engaged in wet corn milling and wheat starch
               production.

                                           Gruma S.A. de C.V.
               (Mexico) and affiliates, of which the Company has
               a 22% interest, is the world's largest producer
               and marketer of corn flour and tortillas with
               operations in the U.S., Mexico and Central
               America.
               PAGE 6
                                           Additionally, the
               Company has a 20% interest in a joint venture
               which consists of the combined U.S. corn flour
               operations of ADM and Gruma. The Company also has
               a 40% share, through a joint venture with Gruma,
               of four Mexican-based wheat flour mills.

Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued
               
               The Company owns a 30% non-voting equity interest
               in Minnesota Corn Processors (MCP). MCP operates
               wet corn milling plants in Minnesota and
               Nebraska.
               
               The Company formed a strategic alliance with
               United Grain Growers of Canada (UGG) which
               resulted in the Company having approximately 45%
               ownership of UGG. UGG, with more than 165
               locations throughout Western Canada, is involved
               in grain merchandising, crop input marketing and
               distribution, livestock production services and
               farm business communications.
               
               Consolidated Nutrition, L.C., a joint venture
               between the Company and Ag Processing Inc., is a
               supplier of premium animal feeds and animal
               health products. The Company has a 50% ownership
               interest in this joint venture.

               ADM/Countrymark, LLC, a joint venture between the
               Company and Countrymark Cooperative Inc.,
               operates a grain business in Indiana, Kentucky,
               Maryland, Michigan and Ohio. The Company has a
               50% ownership interest in this joint venture.
               
               The Company owns a 25% interest in Acatos &
               Hutchinson, a U.K. based company, that processes
               and markets edible oil.

               Almidones Mexicanos S.A. (Mexico), of which the
               Company has a 50% interest, operates a wet corn
               milling plant in Mexico.
               
               Golden Peanut Company, a joint venture between
               the Company, Gold Kist, Inc. and Alimenta
               Processing Corporation, is a major supplier of
               peanuts to both the domestic and export markets.
               The Company has a 33 1/3% ownership interest in
               this joint venture.
               
                                           ADM-Riceland
               Partnership, a joint venture between the Company
               and Riceland Foods, Inc., is a processor of rice
               and rice products for institutional and consumer
               food customers. The Company has a 50% ownership
               interest in this joint venture.

                                           The Company owns a
               48% interest in Heartland Rail Corporation.
               Heartland's 81% owned affiliate, Iowa Interstate
               Railroad, operates a regional railroad in Iowa
               and Illinois.

                                           The Company
               participates in various joint ventures that
               operate oilseed crushing facilities, oil
               refineries and related storage facilities in
               China and Indonesia.
       PAGE 7
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

                                           The percentage of net
               sales and other operating income by classes of
               products and services for the last three fiscal
               years were as follows:

               Methods of Distribution

               Since the Company's customers are principally
               other manufacturers and processors, its products
               are distributed mainly in bulk from processing
               plants or storage facilities directly to the
               customers' facilities. The Company owns a large
               number of trucks and trailers and owns or leases
               large numbers of railroad tank cars and hopper
               cars to augment those provided by the railroads.
               The Company uses the inland waterway system and
               functions as a contract carrier of commodities
               for its own operations as well as for other
               companies. The Company owns and leases
               approximately 2,000 river barges and 27
               line-haul towboats.

         (ii)  Status of new products

                                           The Company continues
               to expand its business through the development
               and production of new, value-added products. The
               Company has entered the vitamin market with the
               production of riboflavin and vitamin E and is
               currently expanding production facilities to
               produce biotin and vitamin C. The Company
               continues to develop its soy protein meat
               substitutes, Harvest Burgers and Harvest Burgers
               for Recipes, its soy protein powdered non-dairy
               beverage, Nutribev, and its non-dairy frozen
               dessert, Dairylike. Additionally, the Company is
               developing and expanding production facilities to
               produce emulsifiers, distilled monoglycerides,
               astaxanthan and isoflavones.
     PAGE 8
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

        (iii)  Source and availability of raw materials

                                           Substantially all of
               the Company's raw materials are agricultural
               commodities. In any single year, the availability
               and price of these commodities are subject to
               wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors
               such as weather, plantings, government (domestic
               and foreign) farm programs and policies, changes
               in global demand created by population growth and
               higher standards of living and worldwide
               production of similar and competitive crops.

         (iv)  Patents, trademarks and licenses

                                           The Company owns
               several valuable patents, trademarks and licenses
               but does not consider its business dependent upon
               any single or group of patents, trademarks and
               licenses.

          (v)  Extent to which business is seasonal

                                           Since the Company is
               so widely diversified in global agribusiness
               markets, there are no material seasonal
               fluctuations in the manufacture, sale and
               distribution of its products and services. There
               is a degree of seasonality in the growing season
               and procurement of the Company's principal raw
               materials:  oilseeds, wheat, corn and other
               grains. However, the actual physical movement of
               the millions of bushels of these crops through
               the Company's storage and processing facilities
               is reasonably constant throughout the year. The
               worldwide need for food is not seasonal and is
               ever expanding as is the world's population.

        (vi)  Working capital items

                                           Price variations and
               availability of grain at harvest often cause wide
               fluctuations in the Company's inventories and
               short-term borrowings.

        (vii) Dependence on single customer

                                           No material part of
               the Company's business is dependent upon a single
               customer or very few customers.

        (viii) Amount of backlog

                                           Because of the nature
               of the Company's business, the backlog of orders
               at year end is not a significant indication of
               the Company's activity for the current or
               upcoming year.
      PAGE 9
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

         (ix)  Business subject to renegotiation

                                           The Company has no
               business with the government that is subject to
               renegotiation.

          (x)  Competitive conditions

                                           Markets for the
               Company's products are highly price competitive
               and sensitive to product substitution. No single
               company competes with the Company in all of its
               markets; however, a number of large companies
               compete in one or more markets. Major competitors
               in one or more markets include, but are not
               limited to, Cargill, Inc., ConAgra, Inc., CPC
               International, Eridania Beghin-Say and Tate &
               Lyle.

         (xi)  Research and development expenditures

                                           Practically all of
               the Company's technical efforts and expenditures
               are concerned with food and feed ingredient
               products. Special efforts are being made to find
               improvements in food technology to alleviate the
               protein malnutrition throughout the world,
               utilizing the three largest United States crops:
               corn, soybeans and wheat.

                                           The need to
               successfully market new or improved food and feed
               ingredients developed in the Company's research
               laboratories led to the concept of technical
               support. The Company is staffed with technical
               representatives who work closely with customers
               and potential customers on the development of
               food and feed products which incorporate Company-
               produced ingredients. These technical
               representatives are an adjunct to both the
               research and sales functions.

                                           The Company maintains
               a research laboratory in Decatur, Illinois where
               product and process development activities are
               conducted. To develop new bioproducts and to
               improve existing bioproducts, new cultures are
               developed using classical mutation and genetic
               engineering. Protein research is conducted at
               facilities in Decatur where meat and dairy pilot
               plants support application research. Research to
               support sales and development for bakery products
               is done at a laboratory in Olathe, Kansas.
               Research to support sales and development for
               cocoa and chocolate products is done in
               Milwaukee, Wisconsin and the Netherlands.
     PAGE 10
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

                                           The amounts spent
               during the three years ended June 30, 1997, 1996
               and 1995 for such technical efforts were
               approximately $12.2, $11.5 and $11.3 million,
               respectively.

                                      (xii)Material effects of
               capital expenditures for environmental protection

                                           During 1997, $21
               million was spent for equipment, facilities and
               programs for pollution control and compliance
               with the requirements of various environmental
               agencies.

                                           There have been no
               material effects upon the earnings and
               competitive position of the Company resulting
               from compliance with federal, state and local
               laws or regulations enacted or adopted relating
               to the protection of the environment.

                                           The Company expects
               that expenditures for environmental facilities
               and programs will continue at approximately the
               present rate with no unusual amounts anticipated
               for the next two years.

        (xiii) Number of employees

                                           The number of persons
               employed by the Company was 17,160 at June 30,
               1997.

           (d)Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic
           Operations and Export Sales

              The Company's foreign operations are principally
           in developed countries and do not entail any undue
           or unusual business risks. Geographic financial
           information is set forth in "Note 10 of Notes to
           Consolidated Financial Statements" of the annual
           shareholders' report for the year ended June 30,
           1997 and is incorporated herein by reference.
      PAGE 11
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued
        (e)    Executive Officers and Certain Significant
Employees

           Name                       Title                 Age

           G. Allen Andreas    President and Chief Executive 54
                               Officer from 1997. Counsel to
                               the Executive Committee from
                               September 1994. Vice President
                               from 1988.

           Michael D. Andreas  Currently on a temporary      48
                               administrative leave from the
                               Company. Vice Chairman of the
Board
                               of Directors from October 1992 to
                               October 1996. Executive Vice
                               President from 1988 to October
                               1996.

           Martin L. Andreas   Senior Vice President from 1988.58
                               Assistant to the Chairman.

           Charles P. Archer   Treasurer from October 1992.  42
                               Assistant Treasurer from 1988
                               to 1992.

           Lewis W. Batchelder Group Vice President from     52
                               July 1997. Senior Vice President
                               of ADM/Growmark. Various grain
                               merchandising positions since
1971.

           Charles T. Bayless  Executive Vice President from 62
                               July 1997. Group Vice President
                               from January 1993. Vice President
                               from 1992. President of ADM
                               Processing Division since 1980.

           Howard E. Buoy      Group Vice President from     70
                               January 1993. Vice President
                               of ADM Processing Division
                               from 1979.

           William H. Camp     Vice President from April 1993.48
                               Vice President of ADM Processing
                               Division from 1990 to 1993.

           Mark J. Cheviron    Vice President from July 1997.48
                               Vice President of Corporate
                               Security and Administrative
                               Services since May 1997. Director
                               of Security since 1980.
     PAGE 12
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

           Barrie R. Cox       Vice President from January 1996.
                               President of ADM Food Additives
                               Division from 1994. Vice
President
                               of ADM Corn Processing Division
                               from 1990 to 1995.

           Larry H. Cunningham Group Vice President and      53
                               President of ADM Corn Processing
                               Division from October 1996.
                               Vice President and President
                               of Protein Specialties
                               Division since July 1993.
                               Formerly President of
                               A. E. Staley Manufacturing Co.

           Craig L. Hamlin     Group Vice President from     51
                               October 1994. President of
                               ADM Milling from 1989.

           Edward A. Harjehausen    Vice President from October46
                               1992. Vice President of ADM
                               Corn Processing Division from
                               1988.

           James C. Ielase     Group Vice President since    56
                               July 1997. President of Golden
                               Peanut Company from April 1995
                               to June 1997. Private investments
                               from 1992 to April 1995.

           Burnell D Kraft     Senior Vice President from    66
                               July 1997. Group Vice President
                               from January 1993. Vice President
                               from 1984. President of
                               ADM/Growmark, Collingwood Grain
                               and Tabor Grain Co. subsidiaries.

           Paul L. Krug, Jr.   Vice President from 1991 and  53
                               President of ADM Investor
                               Services.

           John E. Long        Vice President from July 1996.68
                               President of ADM Research
                               Division from 1992. Various
                               senior research positions from
                               1975.
     PAGE 13
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

           Jack McDonald       Vice President from October 1994.
                               President of Southern Cotton Oil
                               Division from 1990.

           John D. McNamara    Group Vice President and      49
                               President of North American
                               Oilseed Processing Division from
                               July 1997. President of ADM Agri-
                               Industries since 1992.
                               International merchandising
                               positions since 1984.

           Steven R. Mills     Controller from October 1994. 42
                               Various senior treasury and
                               accounting positions from 1979.

           Paul B. Mulhollem   Group Vice President from     48
                               July 1997. Vice President from
                               January 1996. Managing Director
                               of ADM International, Ltd., from
                               1993. International merchandising
                               positions since 1992.

           Brian F. Peterson   Vice President from January 1996.
                               President of ADM BioProducts
                               Division from 1995. Various
                               merchandising positions from
1980.

           Raymond V. Preiksaitis     Group Vice President from44
                               July 1997. Vice President -
                               Management Information Systems
                               from 1988.

           John G. Reed        Vice President from 1982.     67

           Richard P. Reising  Senior Vice President from July53
                               1997. Vice President, Secretary
                               and General Counsel from
                               1991 to 1997.

           John D. Rice        Vice President from 1993 and  43
                               President of ADM Food Oils
                               Division since December 1996.
                               Vice President of ADM Processing
                               Division from 1992.

           Kenneth A. Robinson Vice President from January 1996.
                               Vice President of ADM Processing
                               Division from 1985.
     PAGE 14
Item 1. BUSINESS-Continued

           Douglas J. Schmalz  Vice President and Chief      51
                               Financial Officer from 1986.
                               Controller from 1986 to 1994.

           David J. Smith      Vice President, Secretary and 42
                               General Counsel from July, 1997.
                               Assistant General Counsel from
                               1995. Assistant Secretary from
                               1988 to July 1997. Member of the
Law
                               Department since 1981.

           Stephen H. Yu       Vice President from January 1996.
                               Managing Director of ADM
                               Asia-Pacific, Ltd., from 1993.
                               Various merchandising positions
                               with Continental Grain Company
                               from 1986.


                              Officers of the registrant are
           elected by the Board of Directors for terms of one
           year and until their successors are duly elected and
           qualified.

                              G. Allen Andreas and Martin L.
           Andreas are nephews of Dwayne O. Andreas, a director
           of the registrant. Michael D. Andreas is the son of
           Dwayne O. Andreas. Charles P. Archer is the son of
           S. M. Archer, Jr., a director of the registrant.
     PAGE 15
Item 2. PROPERTIES

        (a)                    Processing Facilities

                              The Company owns, leases, or has
           a 50% or greater interest in the following
           processing plants:


        The Company's operations are such that most products
        are efficiently processed near the source of raw
        materials. Consequently, the Company has many plants
        located strategically in grain producing areas. The
        annual volume processed will vary depending upon
        availability of raw materials and demand for finished
        products.

        The Company operates thirty-seven domestic and nine
        foreign oilseed crushing plants with a daily processing
        capacity of approximately 84,000 metric tons. The
        domestic plants are located in Alabama, Arkansas,
        Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana,
        Minnesota, Missouri, Mississippi, Nebraska, North
        Dakota, Ohio, South Carolina, Tennessee and Texas. The
        foreign plants are located in Canada, England, Germany,
        Mexico and the Netherlands.

        The Company operates four wet corn milling and two dry
        corn milling plants with a daily grind capacity of
        approximately 1,600,000 bushels. These plants and other
        related properties, including corn germ extraction,
        corn gluten pellet, and alcohol bottling plants, are
        located in Illinois, Iowa, New York, and North Dakota.
        The Company also has interests, through joint ventures,
        in corn milling plants in Mexico, Bulgaria, Hungary,
        Slovakia, and Turkey.

        The Company operates twenty-nine domestic wheat and
        durum flour mills, a domestic bulgur plant, and
        thirteen foreign flour mills with a total daily
        capacity of approximately 408,000 cwt. of flour. The
        Company also operates seven bakery mix and specialty
        ingredient plants, three corn flour mills, two milo
        mills, two pasta plants, and two starch and gluten
        plants. These plants and other related properties are
        strategically located across North and Central America
        in California, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas,
        Louisiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New York,
        North Carolina, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania,
        Tennessee, Texas, Washington, Wisconsin, Canada,
        Barbados, Belize and Jamaica.
     PAGE 16
Item 2. PROPERTIES

        The Company also has an interest, through a joint
        venture, in rice milling plants in Arkansas and
        Louisiana.
        
        The Company operates eleven domestic oilseed refineries
        in Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Nebraska,
        Tennessee and Texas as well as eight foreign refineries
        in Canada, England, Germany, and the Netherlands. The
        Company also has an interest, through a joint venture,
        in an oilseed refinery in Texas. The Company produces
        packaged oils in California, Georgia, Illinois and
        Germany. The Company also has an interest, through a
        joint venture, in a packaged oils plant in England. Soy
        protein specialty products are produced in Illinois and
        the Netherlands, lecithin products are produced in
        Illinois, Iowa, Nebraska, Canada, Germany and the
        Netherlands, and Vitamin E is produced in Illinois.
        Cotton linter pulp is produced in Tennessee and
        cottonseed flour is produced in Texas.

        The Company produces feed and food additives at seven
        bioproducts plants located in Illinois, North Carolina,
        and Ireland. The Company also operates formula feed and
        animal health and nutrition plants in Georgia,
        Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota, Ohio, Texas, Washington,
        Canada, Ireland, Barbados, Belize, China and Puerto
        Rico. The Company also has an interest, through a joint
        venture, in formula feed and pet food plants in
        Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Indiana,
        Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri,
        Nebraska, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Wisconsin,
        Canada, Puerto Rico and Trinidad.
        
        The Company operates three domestic and seven foreign
        chocolate and cocoa bean processing plants located in
        Massachusetts, North Carolina, Wisconsin, Canada,
        China, France, Germany, the Netherlands and Singapore.
        
        The Company operates five North American barley malting
        plants located in Illinois, Minnesota, Wisconsin and
        Canada.
        
        The Company operates various other food ingredient
        plants in England, France and Germany.
       PAGE 17
Item 2. PROPERTIES--Continued
        
        (b)                   Procurement Facilities
        
        The Company operates one hundred ninety domestic
        terminal, country and river elevators covering the
        major grain producing states, including one hundred
        twenty-eight country elevators and sixty-two terminal
        and river loading facilities including three grain
        export elevators in Louisiana. Elevators are located in
        Colorado, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas,
        Louisiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska,
        North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Carolina,
        Tennessee, and Texas. Domestic grain terminals,
        elevators and processing plants have an aggregate
        storage capacity of approximately 401,000,000 bushels.
        The Company also has an interest, through a joint
        venture, in fourteen grain terminals and elevators
        located in Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, and
        Ohio with an aggregate storage capacity of
        approximately 58,000,000 bushels. The Company also
        operates forty-six foreign grain elevators in Barbados,
        Brazil, Canada, Ireland and Germany. Thirteen cotton
        gins are located in Texas and serve the cottonseed
        crushing plants in that area.

Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

        ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

        In 1993, the State of Illinois Environmental Protection
        Agency ("IEPA") brought administrative enforcement
        proceedings arising out of the Company's alleged
        failure to obtain permits for certain pollution control
        equipment at certain of the Company's processing
        facilities in Illinois. The Company and IEPA have
        executed a settlement agreement with respect to one of
        these proceedings. That agreement is currently before
        the Illinois Pollution Control Board for approval. The
        Company believes it has meritorious defenses to the
        remaining proceeding. In management's opinion this
        settlement and the remaining proceeding will not either
        individually or in the aggregate, have a material
        adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or
        results of operations.

        The Company is involved in approximately 35
        administrative and judicial proceedings in which it has
        been identified as a potentially responsible party
        (PRP) under the federal Superfund law and its state
        analogs for the study and clean-up of sites
        contaminated by material discharged into the
        environment. In all of these matters, there are
        numerous PRPs. Due to various factors such as the
        required level of remediation and participation in the
        clean-up effort by others, the Company's future clean-
        up costs at these sites cannot be reasonably estimated.
        However, in management's opinion these proceedings will
        not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a
        material adverse effect on the Company's financial
        condition or results of operations.
     PAGE 18
        LITIGATION REGARDING ALLEGED ANTICOMPETITIVE PRACTICES

        The Company and certain of its current and former
        officers and directors are currently defendants in
        various lawsuits related to alleged anticompetitive
        practices by the Company as described in more detail
        below. The Company and the individual defendants named
        in these actions intend to vigorously defend the
        actions unless they can be settled on terms deemed
        acceptable to the parties. The Company has paid and
        intends to continue to pay the legal expenses of its
        current and former officers and directors and to
        indemnify these persons with respect to these actions
        in accordance with Article X of the Bylaws of the
        Company.

        GOVERNMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS

        Federal grand juries in the Northern Districts of
        Illinois, California and Georgia, under the direction
        of the United States Department of Justice ("DOJ"),
        have been investigating possible violations by the
        Company and others with respect to the sale of lysine,
        citric acid and high fructose corn syrup, respectively.
        In connection with an agreement with the DOJ, the
        Company has paid the United States a fine of $100
        million. This agreement constitutes a global resolution
        of all matters between the DOJ and the Company
        and  brought  to a close all DOJ investigations  of  the
        Company.

        The Company received notice that certain foreign
        governmental entities were commencing investigations to
        determine whether anticompetitive practices occurred in
        their jurisdictions. In February 1997, the Company's
        three Mexican subsidiaries were notified that the
        Mexican Federal Competition Commission commenced an
        investigation as to whether the Company's marketing and
        sale of lysine in Mexico resulted in violations of that
        country's federal antitrust laws. In June 1997, the
        Company and several of its European subsidiaries were
        notified that the Commission of the European
        Communities initiated an investigation as to their
        possible anticompetitive practices in the amino acid
        markets, in particular the lysine market, in the
        European Union. In September 1997, the Company received
        a request for information from the Commission of the
        European Communities with respect to an investigation
        being conducted by that Commission into the possible
        existence of certain agreements and/or concerted
        practices in the citric acid market within the European
        Union. Each of these investigations is in the early
        stages and, accordingly, their ultimate outcome and
        materiality cannot presently be determined.
   
        HIGH FRUCTOSE CORN SYRUP ACTIONS
   
        The Company, along with other companies, has been named
        as a defendant in thirty antitrust suits involving the
        sale of high fructose corn syrup. Twenty-nine of these
        actions have been brought as putative class actions.

        PAGE 19
   
        FEDERAL ACTIONS.    Twenty-two of these putative class
        actions allege violations of federal antitrust laws,
        including allegations that the defendants agreed to
        fix, stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels
        the prices of high fructose corn syrup, and seek
        injunctions against continued alleged illegal conduct,
        treble damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees
        and costs, and other unspecified relief. The putative
        classes in these cases comprise certain direct
        purchasers of high fructose corn syrup during certain
        periods in the 1990s. These twenty-two actions have
        been transferred to the United States District Court
        for the Central District of Illinois and consolidated
        under the caption In Re High Fructose Corn Syrup
        Antitrust Litigation, MDL No. 1087 and Master File No.
        95-1477. The parties are in the midst of discovery in
        this action.

        On January 14, 1997, the Company, along with other
        companies, was named a defendant in a non-class action
        antitrust suit involving the sale of high fructose corn
        syrup and corn syrup. This action which is encaptioned
        Gray & Co. v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al, No. 97-
        69-AS and was filed in federal court in Oregon, alleges
        violations of federal antitrust laws and Oregon and
        Michigan state antitrust laws, including allegations
        that defendants conspired to fix, raise, maintain and
        stabilize the price of corn syrup and
        high fructose corn syrup, and seeks treble damages,
        attorneys' fees and costs of an unspecified amount. The
        parties are in the midst of discovery in this action.

        STATE ACTIONS. The Company, along with other companies,
        also has been named as a defendant in six putative
        class action antitrust suits filed in California state
        court involving the sale of high fructose corn syrup.
        These California actions allege violations of the
        California antitrust and unfair competition laws,
        including allegations that the defendants agreed to
        fix, stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels
        the prices of high fructose corn syrup, and seek treble
        damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and
        costs, restitution and other unspecified relief. One of
        the California putative classes comprises certain
        direct purchasers of high fructose corn syrup in the
        State of California during certain periods in the
        1990s. This action was filed on October 17, 1995 in
        Superior Court for the County of Stanislaus, California
        and encaptioned Kagome Foods, Inc. v Archer-Daniels-
        Midland Co. et al., Civil Action No. 37236. This action
        has been removed to federal court and consolidated with
        the federal class action litigation pending in the
        Central District of Illinois referred to above. The
        other five California putative classes comprise certain
        indirect purchasers of high fructose corn syrup and
        dextrose in the State of California during certain
        periods in the 1990s. One such action was filed on July
        21, 1995 in the Superior Court of the County of Los
        Angeles, California and is encaptioned Borgeson v.
        Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No.
        BC131940. This action and the other four indirect
        purchases actions have been coordinated before a single
        court in Stanislaus County, California under the
        caption, Food Additives (HFCS) cases, Master File No.
        39693. The other four actions are encaptioned, Goings
        v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No.
        750276 (Filed on July 21, 1995, Orange County Superior
        Court); Rainbow Acres v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et
        al., Civil Action No. 974271 (Filed on November 22,
        1995, San Francisco County Superior Court); Patane v.
        Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No.
        212610 (Filed on January 17, 1996, Sonoma County
        Superior Court); and St. Stan's Brewing Co. v. Archer
        Daniels Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 37237
        (Filed on October 17, 1995, Stanislaus County Superior
        Court). The parties are in the midst of discovery in
        this action.

        The Company, along with other companies, also has been
        named a defendant in a putative class action antitrust
        suit filed in Alabama state court. The Alabama action
        alleges violations of the Alabama, Michigan and
        Minnesota antitrust laws, including allegations that
        defendants agreed to fix, stabilize and maintain at
        artificially high levels the prices of high fructose
        corn syrup, and seeks an injunction against continued
        illegal conduct, damages of an unspecified amount,
        attorneys fees and costs, and other unspecified relief.
        The putative class in the Alabama action
        comprises certain indirect purchasers in Alabama,
        Michigan and Minnesota during the period March 18, 1994
        to March 18, 1996. This action was filed on March 18,
        1996 in the Circuit Court of Coosa County, Alabama, and
        is encaptioned Caldwell v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co.,
        et al., Civil Action No. 96-17. On April 23, 1997, the
        court granted the defendants' motion to sever and
        dismiss
        the non-Alabama claims. The remaining parties are in
        the midst of discovery in this action.

        LYSINE ACTIONS

        The  Company, along with other companies, had been named
        as  a  defendant  in  twenty-one putative  class  action
        antitrust  suits  involving the sale of  lysine.  Except
        for  several  plaintiffs that opted out of  the  federal
        class  action  settlement and the  actions  specifically
        described  below,  all  such suits  have  been  settled,
        dismissed or withdrawn.

     PAGE 20
        STATE ACTIONS.  The Company has been named as a
        defendant, along with other companies, in two putative
        class action antitrust suits and one non-class action
        suit filed in Alabama state court, one putative class
        action antitrust suit filed in Tennessee state court
        and one putative class action antitrust suit filed in
        Michigan state court involving the sale of lysine. The
        two putative Alabama class actions allege violations of
        the Alabama antitrust laws, including allegations that
        the defendants agreed to fix, stabilize and maintain at
        artificially high levels the prices of lysine, and seek
        an injunction against continued alleged illegal
        conduct, damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys
        fees and costs, and other unspecified relief. The two
        putative classes in the Alabama actions comprise
        certain indirect purchasers of lysine in the State of
        Alabama during certain periods in the 1990s. One such
        action was filed on August 17, 1995 in the Circuit
        Court of DeKalb County, Alabama, and is encaptioned
        Ashley v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil
        Action No. 95-336. The parties are in the midst of
        discovery in this action. The other Alabama action,
        encaptioned Bailey v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et
        al., Civil Action No. 95-165, and filed on December 11,
        1995 in the Circuit Court of Tallapoosa County, has
        been placed on the court's administrative docket
        pending the outcome of the Ashley action. The non-class
        action, encaptioned Kent v. Archer Daniels Midland Co.,
        et al, No. CV 9701108, and filed on February 21, 1997
        in the Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Alabama,
        includes allegations that are similar to these
        contained in the putative class actions and seeks
        monetary relief in the amount of $670,000, injunctive
        relief against alleged illegal conduct, attorneys fees
        and costs, punitive damages and other unspecified
        relief. The Tennessee action, encaptioned McCormack
        Farms v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al., Civil
        Action No. 96C-2190, and filed on June 11, 1996 in
        Davidson County Circuit Court, alleges a restraint of
        trade in violation of the Tennessee Trade Practices Act
        and Tennessee Consumer Protection Act. This action
        includes
        allegations that defendants conspired to fix, maintain
        or stabilize the prices of lysine and seeks an
        injunction against continued illegal conduct, treble
        damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys' fees and
        costs, and other unspecified relief. The putative class
        in this case comprises certain indirect purchasers of
        lysine within the State of Tennessee during the period
        June 10, 1992 through June 10, 1996. The Company has
        not yet filed a responsive pleading. The Michigan
        action alleges a restraint of trade in violation of the
        Michigan Antitrust Reform Act and include allegations
        that defendants conspired to fix, raise, maintain and
        stabilize the price of lysine and seeks an injunction
        against continued illegal conduct, treble damages of an
        unspecified amount, attorneys' fees and costs, and
        other unspecified relief. The putative class in this
        case comprises certain indirect purchasers of lysine
        within the State of Michigan during certain periods in
        the 1990s. This action, encaptioned Michigan Pork
        Producers Assn, et al. v. Archer Daniels Midland Co.,
        et al., No. 906-10696-CZ, was filed on September 25,
        1996 in Kent County Circuit Court. The Company has not
        yet filed a responsive pleading in either action.

        CITRIC ACID ACTIONS
   
        The Company, along with other companies, had been named
        as a defendant in eleven putative class action
        antitrust suits and two non-class action antitrust
        suits involving the sale of citric acid. Except for
        several plaintiffs that opted out of the federal class
        action settlement and the actions specifically
        described below, all such suits have been settled or
        dismissed.

        FEDERAL ACTIONS.    Seven of these actions alleged
        violations of federal antitrust laws, including
        allegations that the defendants agreed to fix,
        stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels the
        prices of citric acid, and sought injunctions against
        continued alleged illegal conduct, treble damages of an
        unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs, and other
        unspecified relief. The putative classes in these cases
        comprise certain direct purchasers of citric acid for
        certain periods in the 1990s. These six actions were
        transferred to the United States District Court for the
        Northern District of California and consolidated as In
        Re Citric Acid Antitrust Litigation, MDL No. 1092,
        Master File No. C-95-2963(FMS). On September 27, 1996
        the Company entered into an agreement with counsel for
        the plaintiff class in this consolidated action in
        which among other things, the Company agreed to pay $35
        million to members of the class, without admitting the
        alleged violations of law. On March 3, 1997, the court
        preliminarily approved the settlement and final
        approval was granted on July 23, 1997. On February 4,
        1997, a class action complaint, encaptioned Galavan
        Supplements Ltd. v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al.,
        No. 97-0704 JGD (VAPx), was filed in the United States
        District Court for the Central District of California.
        The Company, along with other companies, was named a
        defendant in this putative class
        action brought on behalf of a class consisting of all
        persons and entities outside of the United States who
        purchased citric acid directly from any defendants
        through their foreign facilities during the time period
        July 1, 1991 through June 30, 1995. This action alleges
        violations of the federal antitrust laws, including
        allegations that the defendants conspired to fix,
        maintain and stabilize the price of citric acid and to
        allocate amongst themselves their major citric acid
        customers, accounts and market shares on a worldwide
        basis. The Company, along with other defendants, has
        moved to dismiss this action. The Company, along with
        other companies, also has been named as a defendant in
        two non-class action federal antitrust suits involving
        the sale of citric acid. One action was filed on June
        9, 1997 in the United States District Court for the
        Northern District of California and is encaptioned The
        Proctor & Gamble Manufacturing Co., et al. v. Archer-
        Daniels-Midland Company, et al., Civil Action No. 97-
        2155 (VRW). The other action was filed on June 26, 1997
        in the United States District Court for the Northern
        District of California and is encaptioned Conopco,
        Inc., et al. v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Company, et al.,
        Civil Action No. 97-2407 (MMC). Both actions
     PAGE 21
        allege violations of federal antitrust laws, including
        allegations that defendants agreed to fix, raise and
        maintain the price of citric acid, and seek an
        injunction against continued alleged illegal conduct,
        treble damages of an unspecified amount, attorney's
        fees and costs, and other unspecified relief. These
        actions, which have been brought by entities that opted
        out of the federal class action, have been coordinated
        with In Re Citric Acid Antitrust Litigation that also
        is pending in the United States District Court for the
        Northern District of California. The Company and the
        plaintiffs in Conopco have reached a tentative
        settlement agreement which provides for consideration
        to be paid by the Company in the form of cash and
        product in amounts not deemed material. The parties are
        in the midst of discovery in the remaining action.

        STATE ACTIONS. The Company, along with other companies,
        also has been named as a defendant in one putative
        class action antitrust suit filed in Alabama state
        court involving the sale of citric acid. This action
        alleges violations of the Alabama antitrust laws,
        including allegations that the defendants agreed to
        fix, stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels
        the prices of citric acid, and seeks an injunction
        against continued alleged illegal conduct, damages of
        an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs, and
        other unspecified relief. The putative class in the
        Alabama action comprises certain indirect purchasers of
        citric acid in the State of Alabama from July 1993
        until July 1995. This action was filed on July 27, 1995
        in the Circuit Court of Walker County, Alabama and is
        encaptioned Seven Up Bottling Co. of Jasper, Inc. v.
        Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 95-
        436. The Company currently is seeking appellate review
        of the denial of its motion to dismiss this action. The
        Company, along with other companies, also has been
        named as a defendant in
        two putative class action antitrust suits filed in
        California state court involving the sale of citric
        acid. These actions allege violations of the California
        antitrust and unfair competition laws, including
        allegations that the defendants
        conspired to fix, maintain or stabilize the price of
        citric acid, and seek injunctions against continued
        illegal conduct, treble damages of an unspecified
        amount, attorneys fees and costs, and other unspecified
        relief. The putative classes in these cases comprise
        certain indirect purchasers of citric acid within the
        State of California during certain periods in the
        1990s. One such action was filed on June 12, 1996 in
        the Superior Court of the County of San Francisco,
        California and is encaptioned Bianco v. Archer Daniels
        Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 978912. The
        second action was filed on June 28, 1996 in San
        Francisco County Superior Court and is encaptioned
        Wignall v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al., Civil
        Action No. 979360. These actions recently have been
        coordinated before a single court in San Francisco,
        County, California under the caption, Food Additives
        (Lysine/Citric Acid) cases, Coordination Proceeding No.
        3265. The Company, along with other companies, also has
        been named as a defendant in one putative class action
        antitrust suit filed in Wisconsin state court involving
        the sale of citric acid. This action alleges violations
        of the laws of Wisconsin, Minnesota, Alabama, Arizona,
        California, District of Columbia, Florida, Tennessee,
        West Virginia, Mississippi, New Mexico, North Carolina,
        South Dakota, North Dakota, Kansas, Louisiana, Michigan
        and Maine, including allegations that defendants
        conspired to maintain the price of citric acid at
        artificially high levels and seeks injunctive relief,
        treble damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees
        and costs and other unspecified relief. The putative
        class in this case comprises certain indirect
        purchasers of citric acid in the above referenced
        states during the period July 1, 1991 through June 27,
        1995. This action was filed on December 20, 1996 in the
        Circuit Court for Milwaukee County, Wisconsin and is
        encaptioned Raz, et al. v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co.,
        et al., No. 96-CV-9729. The Company has moved to
        dismiss this action and that motion is set for hearing
        in October, 1997.

        HIGH FRUCTOSE CORN SYRUP/CITRIC ACID STATE CLASS
        ACTIONS

        The Company, along with other companies, has been named
        as a defendant in six putative class action antitrust
        suits involving the sale of both high fructose corn
        syrup and citric acid. Two of these actions allege
        violations of the California antitrust and unfair
        competition laws, including allegations that the
        defendants agreed to fix, stabilize and maintain at
        artificially high levels the prices of high fructose
        corn syrup and citric acid, and seek treble damages of
        an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs,
        restitution and other unspecified relief. The putative
        class in one of these California cases comprises
        certain direct purchasers of high fructose corn syrup
        and citric acid in the State of
        California during the period January 1, 1992 until at
        least October 1995. This action was filed on October
        11, 1995 in the Superior Court of Stanislaus County,
        California and is entitled Gangi Bros. Packing Co. v.
        Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No.
        37217. The putative class in the other California
   
        case comprises certain indirect purchasers of high
        fructose corn syrup and citric acid in the state of
        California during the period October 12, 1991 until
        November 20, 1995. This action was filed on November
        20, 1995 in the Superior Court of San Francisco County
        and is encaptioned MCFH, Inc. v. Archer-Daniels-Midland
        Co., et al., Civil Action No. 974120. The California
        Judicial Council has bifurcated the citric acid and
        high fructose corn syrup claims in these actions and
        coordinated them with other actions in San Francisco
        County Superior Court and Stanislaus County Superior
        Court. The Company, along with other companies, also
        has been named as a defendant in at least one putative
        class action antitrust suit filed in West Virginia
        state court involving the sale of high fructose corn
        syrup and citric acid. This action also alleges
        violations of the West Virginia antitrust laws,
        including allegations that the defendants agreed to
        fix, stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels
        the prices of high fructose corn syrup and citric acid,
        and seeks treble damages of an unspecified amount,
        attorneys fees and costs, and other unspecified relief.
        The putative class in the West Virginia action
        comprises certain entities within the State of West
        Virginia that purchased products containing high
        fructose corn syrup and/or citric acid for resale from
        at least 1992 until 1994. This action was filed on
        October 26, 1995, in the Circuit Court for Boone
        County, West Virginia, and is encaptioned Freda's v.
        Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 95-
        C-125. The parties are in the midst of discovery in
        this action. The Company, along with other companies,
        also has been named as defendant in a putative class
        action antitrust suit filed in Michigan state court
        involving the sale of high fructose corn syrup and
        citric acid. This action alleges violations of the
        Michigan antitrust laws, including allegations that the
        defendants agreed to fix, stabilize and maintain at
        artificially high levels the prices of high fructose
        corn syrup and citric acid, and seeks treble damages of
        an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs, and
        other unspecified relief. The putative class in the
        Michigan action comprises certain persons within the
        State of Michigan that purchased products containing
        high fructose corn syrup and/or citric acid during the
        period January 1993 through June 27, 1995. This action
        was filed on February 26, 1996 in the Circuit Court for
        Ingham County, Michigan, and is encaptioned Wilcox v.
        Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 96-
        82473-CP. The parties are in the midst of discovery in
        this action. The Company, along with other companies,
        also has been named as a defendant in a putative class
        action antitrust suit filed in the Superior Court for
        the District of Columbia involving the sale of high
        fructose corn syrup and citric acid. This action
        alleges violations of the District of Columbia
        antitrust laws, including allegations that the
        defendants agreed to fix, stabilize and maintain at
        artificially high levels the prices of high fructose
        corn syrup and citric acid, and seeks treble damages of
        an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs, and
        other unspecified relief. The putative class in the
        District of Columbia action comprises certain persons
        within the District of Columbia that purchased products
        containing high fructose corn syrup and/or citric acid
        during the period January 1, 1992 through December 31,
        1994. This action was filed on April 12, 1996 in the
        Superior Court for the District of Columbia, and is
        encaptioned Holder v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et
        al., Civil Action No. 96-2975. The parties are in the
        midst of discovery in this action. The Company, along
        with other companies, has been named as a defendant in
        a putative class action antitrust suit filed in Kansas
        state court involving the sale of high fructose corn
        syrup and citric acid. This action alleges violations
        of the Kansas antitrust laws, including allegations
        that the defendants agreed to fix, stabilize and
        maintain at artificially high levels the prices of high
        fructose corn syrup and citric acid, and seeks treble
        damages of an unspecified amount, court costs and other
        unspecified relief. The putative class in the Kansas
        action comprises certain persons within the State of
        Kansas that purchased products containing high fructose
        corn syrup and/or citric acid during at least the
        period January 1, 1992 through December 31, 1994. This
        action was filed on May 7, 1996 in the District Court
        of Wyandotte County, Kansas and is encaptioned Waugh v.
        Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Case No. 96-C-2029.
        The parties are in the midst of discovery in this
        action.
       PAGE 22
        HIGH FRUCTOSE CORN SYRUP/CITRIC ACID/LYSINE STATE CLASS
        ACTIONS

        The Company, along with other companies, has been named
        as a defendant in six putative class action antitrust
        suits filed in California state court involving the
        sale of high fructose corn syrup, citric acid and/or
        lysine. These actions allege violations of the
        California antitrust and unfair competition laws,
        including allegations that the defendants agreed to
        fix, stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels
        the prices of high fructose corn syrup, citric acid
        and/or lysine, and seek treble damages of an
        unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs,
        restitution and other unspecified relief. One of the
        putative classes comprises certain direct purchasers of
        high fructose corn syrup, citric acid and/or lysine in
        the State of California during a certain period in the
        1990s. This action was filed on December 18, 1995 in
        the Superior Court for Stanislaus County, California
        and is encaptioned Nu Laid Foods, Inc. v. Archer-
        Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 39693.
        The other five putative classes comprise certain
        indirect purchasers of high fructose corn syrup, citric
        acid and/or lysine in the State of California during
        certain periods in the 1990s. One such action was filed
        on
        December 14, 1995 in the Superior Court for Stanislaus
        County, California and is encaptioned Batson v. Archer-
        Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 39680.
        The other actions are encaptioned Nu Laid Foods, Inc.
        v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al., No 39693 (Filed
        on December 18, 1995 Stanislaus County Superior Court);
        Abbott v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al., No. 41014
        (Filed on December 21, 1995, Stanislaus County Superior
        Court); Noldin v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al.,
        No. 41015 (Filed on December 21, 1995, Stanislaus
        County Superior Court); Guzman v. Archer Daniels
        Midland Co., et al., No. 41013 (Filed on December 21,
        1995, Stanislaus County Superior Court) and Ricci v.
        Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al., No. 96-AS-00383
        (Filed on February 6, 1996, Sacramento County Superior
        Court). As noted above, the plaintiffs in these actions
        and the lysine defendants have executed a settlement
        agreement that has been approved by the court and the
        California Judicial Council has bifurcated the citric
        acid and high fructose corn syrup claims and
        coordinated them with other actions in San Francisco
        County Superior Court and Stanislaus County Superior
        Court.

        SHAREHOLDER DERIVATIVE ACTIONS

              Following  the public announcement  of  the  grand
        jury  investigations in June 1995 discussed above, three
        shareholder derivative suits were filed against  certain
        of  the  Company's then current directors and  executive
        officers  and  nominally  against  the  Company  in  the
        United  States District Court for the Northern  District
        of  Illinois and fourteen similar shareholder derivative
        suits were filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery.  The
        derivative  suits  filed in federal  court  in  Illinois
        were  consolidated  under the name  Felzen,  et  al.  v.
        Andreas,  et al., Civil Action No. 95-C-4006, 95-C-4535,
        and  a  consolidated  amended derivative  complaint  was
        filed  on  September 29, 1995. This complaint names  all
        then  current directors of the Company (except Mr. Coan)
        and  one  former director as defendants  and  names  the
        Company  as  a nominal defendant. It alleges  breach  of
        fiduciary  duty,  waste of corporate  assets,  abuse  of
        control  and gross mismanagement, based on the antitrust
        allegations  described above, as well as  other  alleged
        wrongdoing.  On October 31, 1995, the Court granted  the
        defendants'    motion   to   transfer    the    Illinois
        consolidated  derivative action to the Central  District
        of  Illinois, wherein it now bears the case  number  95-
        2279.  On  April 26, 1996, the court dismissed the  suit
        without  prejudice and permitted the plaintiffs  twenty-
        one  days  to  refile  it.  The plaintiffs  refiled  the
        complaint  on May 17, 1996. The defendants  again  moved
        to  dismiss  the  complaint on June 1, 1996.  Plaintiffs
        have   supplemented  the  complaint   to   include   the
        antitrust  settlements and guilty plea described  above.
        The  fourteen shareholder derivative suits filed in  the
        Delaware Court of Chancery have been consolidated as  In
        Re   Archer   Daniels  Midland  Derivative   Litigation,
        Consolidated  No.  14403.  An amended  and  consolidated
        complaint was filed on November 19, 1996. ADM  moved  to
        dismiss  the complaint on December 12, 1996. On May  29,
        1997,    the   Company   executed   a   Memorandum    of
        Understanding  with counsel for both  the  Illinois  and
        Delaware   shareholder   derivative   plaintiffs.   This
        Memorandum  of Understanding provides for,  among  other
        things,  $8  million  to be paid  by  or  on  behalf  of
        certain  defendants in these actions to the Company  and
        certain  changes  in the structure and policies  of  the
        Company's  Board  of Directors. On  May  30,  1997,  the
        United  States  District Court for the Central  District
        of  Illinois preliminarily approved this settlement  and
        on  July  7,  1997  final approval was granted.  Certain
        entities  appealed the final settlement  approval  order
        to  the  United States Court of Appeals for the  Seventh
        Circuit  and that appeal is pending. Provided the  order
        approving  the Memorandum of Understanding is  affirmed,
        the  parties  have agreed to jointly seek  dismissal  of
        the Delaware actions with prejudice.

        DELAWARE STATE LAW/FEDERAL SECURITIES LAWS ACTIONS

        The Company and certain of its current and former
        directors also have been named as defendants in a
        putative class action suit encaptioned Loudon v. Archer-
        Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 14638,
        filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery on October 20,
        1995. This action alleges violations of Delaware state
        law and seeks invalidation of the 1995 election of the
        Company's directors on the basis of alleged omissions
        from the proxy statement issued by the Company prior to
        its October 19, 1995 annual meeting of shareholders.
        The Delaware Court of Chancery dismissed this action on
        February 20, 1996. On September 17, 1997, the Supreme
        Court of Delaware affirmed the lower court's judgment
        and remanded the case to provide the plaintiff's an
        opportunity to replead.

     PAGE 23
        OTHER

        As described in the notes to the consolidated financial
        statements and management's discussion of operations
        and financial condition, the Company has made
        provisions to cover assessed fines, litigation
        settlements and related costs and expenses described
        above. However, because of the early stage of other
        putative class actions and proceedings described above,
        including those related to high fructose corn syrup,
        the ultimate outcome and materiality of these matters
        cannot presently be determined. Accordingly, no
        provision for any liability that may result therefrom
        has been made in the consolidated financial statements.

Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

        None.

PART II

Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
        STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Common Stock Market Prices and Dividends" of the
        annual shareholders' report for the year ended June 30,
        1997 and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in the
        "Ten-Year Summary of Operating, Financial and Other
        Data" of the annual shareholders' report for the year
        ended June 30, 1997 and is incorporated herein by
        reference.

Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
        CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Management's Discussion of Operations and Financial
        Condition" of the annual shareholders' report for the
        year ended June 30, 1997 and is incorporated herein by
        reference.

Item 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
        RISK

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Management's Discussion of Operations and Financial
        Condition" of the annual shareholders' report for the
        year ended June 30, 1997 and is incorporated herein by
        reference.
     PAGE 24
Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

        The following financial statements and supplementary
        data included in the annual shareholders' report for
        the year ended June 30, 1997 are incorporated herein by
        reference:

        Consolidated balance sheets--June 30, 1997 and 1996
        Consolidated statements of earnings--Years ended
          June 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995
        Consolidated statements of shareholders' equity--Years
ended
          June 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995
        Consolidated statements of cash flows--Years ended
          June 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995
        Notes to consolidated financial statements--June 30,
        Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
        Report of Independent Auditors
        Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
ACCOUNTING AND                 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

        None.

PART III
Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        Information with respect to directors and executive
        officers is set forth in "Election of Directors" and
        "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
        Compliance" of the definitive proxy statement for 1997
        and is incorporated herein by reference. Certain
        information with respect to executive officers is
        included in Item 1(e) of this report.

Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Executive Compensation" and "Compensation and Stock
        Option Committee Report" of the definitive proxy
        statement for 1997 and is incorporated herein by
        reference.

Item 12.SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
        MANAGEMENT

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Principal Holders of Voting Securities" of the
        definitive proxy statement for 1997 and is incorporated
        herein by reference.

Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

        Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
        "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" of the
        definitive proxy statement for 1997 and is incorporated
        herein by reference.
     PAGE 25
PART IV

Item 14.EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
        FORM 8-K

             (a)(1)           The following consolidated
             financial statements and other financial data of
             the registrant and its subsidiaries, included in
             the annual report of the registrant to its
             shareholders for the year ended June 30, 1997, are
             incorporated by reference in Item 8, and are also
             incorporated herein by reference:

             Consolidated balance sheets--June 30, 1997 and 1996

             Consolidated statements of earnings--Years ended
              June 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995

             Consolidated statements of shareholders' equity--
              Years ended June 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995

Item 14.EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
        FORM 8-K
        --Continued

             Consolidated statements of cash flows--Years ended
              June 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995

                              Notes to consolidated financial
             statements--June 30,

             Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

             Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

             (a)(2)           Schedules are not applicable and
             therefore not included in            this report.

 
 Financial statements of affiliates accounted for
              by the equity method have been omitted because
              they do not, considered individually, constitute
              significant subsidiaries.

             (a)(3)           LIST OF EXHIBITS

                               (3)
              Composite Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws
              filed on November 7, 1986 as Exhibits 3(a) and
              3(b), respectively, to Post Effective Amendment
              No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-3,
              Registration No. 33-6721, are incorporated herein
              by reference.

                               (4)
              Instruments defining the rights of security
              holders, including:
 
      PAGE 26
                 (i)Indenture dated May 15, 1981, between the r
                 egistrant and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of
                 New York, as Trustee (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 4(b) to Amendment No. 1 to
                 Registration Statement No. 2-71862), relating
                 to the $250,000,000 - 7% Debentures due May 15,
                 2011;

                 (ii)Indenture dated May 1, 1982, between the r
                 egistrant and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of
                 New York, as Trustee (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 4(c) to Registration Statement No. 2-
                 77368), relating to the $400,000,000 Zero
                 Coupon Debentures due May 1, 2002;

Item 14.EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
        FORM 8-K
        --Continued

                 (iii)Indenture dated as of March 1, 1984 betwe
                 en the registrant and Chemical Bank, as Trustee
                 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the
                 registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
                 August 3, 1984 (File No. 1-44)), as
                 supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture
                 dated as of January 9, 1986, between the
                 registrant and Chemical Bank, as Trustee
                 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the
                 registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
                 January 9, 1986 (File No. 1-44)), relating to
                 the $100,000,000 - 10 1/4% Debentures due
                 January 15, 2006;

                 (iv)Indenture dated June 1, 1986 between the r
                 egistrant and Chemical Bank, (as successor to
                 Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company), as
                 Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                 4(a) to Registration Statement No. 33-6721),
                 and Supplemental Indenture dated as of August
                 1, 1989 between the registrant and Chemical
                 Bank (as successor to Manufacturers Hanover
                 Trust Company), as Trustee (incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 4(c) to Post-Effective
                 Amendment No. 3 to Registration Statement No.
                 33-6721), relating to the $300,000,000 - 8 7/8%
                  Debentures due April 15, 2011, the
                 $300,000,000 - 8 3/8%
                  Debentures due April 15, 2017, the
                 $300,000,000 - 8 1/8%
                  Debentures due June 1, 2012, the $250,000,000
                 - 6 1/4%
                  Notes due May 15, 2003, the $250,000,000 - 7
                 1/8%
                  Debentures due March 1, 2013, and the
                 $350,000,000 -
                  7 1/2% Debentures due March 15, 2027.

                  Copies of constituent instruments defining
                 rights of holders of long-term debt of the
                 Company and Subsidiaries, other than the
                 Indentures specified herein, are not filed
                 herewith, pursuant to Instruction (b)(4)
                 (iii)(A) to Item 601 of Regulation S-K, because
                 the total amount of securities authorized under
                 any such instrument does not exceed 10% of the
                 total assets of the Company and Subsidiaries on
                 a consolidated basis. The registrant hereby
                 agrees that it will, upon request by the
                 Commission, furnish to the Commission a copy of
                 each such instrument.

                              (10)
              Material Contracts--Copies of the Company's stock
              option plans and its savings and investment
              plans, pursuant to Instruction (10)(iii)(A) to
              Item 601 of Regulation S-K, are incorporated
              herein by reference as follows:
 
                (i)Registration Statement No. 2-91811 on Form S
                -8 dated June 22, 1984 (definitive Prospectus
                dated July 16, 1984) relating to the Archer
                Daniels Midland 1982 Incentive Stock Option
                Plan.
     PAGE 27
Item 14.EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
        FORM 8-K
        --Continued

                (ii)Registration Statement No. 33-49409 on Form
                S-8 dated March 15, 1993 relating to the Archer
                Daniels Midland 1991 Incentive Stock Option
                Plan and Archer Daniels Midland Company Savings
                and Investment Plan.
 
                (iii)Registration Statement No. 33-58387 on For
                m S-8 dated April 3, 1995 relating to the ADM
                Savings and Investment Plan for Salaried
                Employees and the ADM Savings and Investment
                Plan for Hourly Employees.

                              (13)Portions of annual report to
              shareholders incorporated by reference

                              (21)Subsidiaries of the registra
              nt

                              (23)Consent of independent audit
              ors

                              (24)          Powers of attorney

                              (27)     Financial Data Schedule

        (b) Reports on Form 8-K


A Form 8-K was not filed during the quarter ended
           June 30, 1997.
     PAGE 28
                           SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  September 26, 1997

                 ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY
                                

/s/ D. J. Smith        /s/ D. J. Schmalz     /s/ S. R. Mills
D. J. Smith            D. J. Schmalz         S. R. Mills
Vice President, Secretary                    Vice President
and                    Controller
and General Counsel    Chief Financial Officer



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below on September 26, 1997,
by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in
the capacities indicated.



*Powers of Attorney authorizing R. P. Reising, D. J. Schmalz and
D. J. Smith and each of them, to sign the Form 10-K on behalf of
the above-named officers and directors of the Company are being
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


