
10-K
1994 10K - ANNUAL REPORT


                                
          PAGE 1
                            FORM 10-K
                                
               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                    Washington, D. C.  20549

[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994
                               OR

[ ]TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from             to

Commission file number 1-44

                 ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY
     (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

         Delaware                                  41-0129150
(State or other jurisdiction of              (I. R. S. Employer
incorporation or organization)              Identification No.)

4666 Faries Parkway   Box 1470   Decatur, Illinois   62525
(Address of principal executive offices)           (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code217-424-5200

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                        Name of each exchange on
   Title of each class                   which registered

Common Stock, no par value              New York Stock Exchange
                                        Chicago Stock Exchange
                                        Stock Exchange of Basle,
                                             Switzerland
                                        Stock Exchange of
Zurich,
                                             Switzerland
                                        Stock Exchange of
Geneva,
                                             Switzerland
                                        Tokyo Stock Exchange
                                        Frankfurt Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes X       No ___
State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-
affiliates of the registrant.

          Common Stock, no par value--$7.3 billion
(Based on the closing price of the New York Stock Exchange on
August 22, 1994)

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
registrant's classes of common stock, as of the latest
practicable date.

          Common Stock, no par value--327,306,990 shares
                    (August 22, 1994)


DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the annual shareholders' report for the year ended
June 30, 1994 are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and
IV.

Portions of the annual proxy statement for the year ended June
30, 1994 are incorporated by reference into Part III.

             PAGE 2
PART I

Item 1. BUSINESS

        (a)    General Development of Business

           Archer Daniels Midland Company was incorporated in
           Delaware in 1923, successor to the Daniels Linseed
           Co. founded in 1902.

           During the last five years, the Company has
           experienced significant growth, spending
           approximately $3.3 billion for construction of new
           plants, expansions of existing plants and the
           acquisitions of plants and transportation equipment.
           There have been no significant dispositions during
           this period.

        (b)    Financial Information About Industry Segments

           The Company is in one business segment--procuring,
           transporting, storing, processing and merchandising
           agricultural commodities and products.

        (c)    Narrative Description of Business

           (i) Principal products produced and principal markets
               for and methods of distribution of such products

               The Company is engaged in the business of
               procuring, transporting, storing, processing and
               merchandising agricultural commodities and
               products.  It is one of the world's largest
               processors of oilseeds, corn and wheat.  The
               Company also processes rice, milo, oats, barley,
               peanuts and cane sugar.  Other operations include
               transporting, merchandising and storing
               agricultural commodities and products.  These
               operations and processes produce products which
               have primarily two end uses, either food or feed
               ingredients.  Each commodity processed is in
               itself a feed ingredient as are the by-products
               produced during the processing of each commodity.

               Production processes of all commodities are
               capital intensive and similar in nature. These
               processes involve grinding, crushing or milling
               with further value added through extraction,
               refining and fermenting.  Generally, each
               commodity can be processed by any of these
               methods to generate additional value added
               products.  All commodities and related processed
               products share the same network of commodity
               procurement facilities, transportation services
               (including rail, barge, truck and ocean vessels)
               and storage facilities.


            PAGE 3
               The geographic areas, customers and marketing
               methods are basically the same for all
               commodities and their related further processed
               products.  Feed ingredient products and by-
               products are sold to farmers, feed dealers and
               livestock producers, all of which can and will
               purchase products from across the entire
               commodity chain.  Food ingredient products are
               also sold to one basic group of customers, food
               processors.  Any single customer may purchase
               products produced from all commodities and any
               single food or feed product could include
               ingredients produced from all commodities we
               process.

           Oilseed Products

           Soybeans, cottonseed, sunflower seeds, canola,
           peanuts, flaxseed and corn germ are processed to
           provide vegetable oils and meals principally for the
           food and feed industries.  Crude vegetable oil is
           sold as is or is further processed by refining and
           hydrogenating into margarine, shortening, salad oils
           and other food products.  Partially refined oil is
           sold for use in chemicals, paints and other
           industrial products. Lecithin, an emulsifier
           produced in the vegetable oil refining process, is
           marketed as a food and feed ingredient.

           Oilseed meals supply more than one-half of the high
           protein ingredients used in the domestic manufacture
           of commercial livestock and poultry feeds. Soybean
           meal is further processed into soy flour and grits,
           used in both food and industrial products, and into
           value-added soy protein products.  Textured
           vegetable protein (TVP R), a soy protein product
           developed by the Company, is sold primarily to the
           institutional food market and, through others, to
           the food consumer market.  The Company also produces
           a wide range of other edible soy protein products
           including isolated soy protein, soy protein
           concentrate, soy-based milk products, soy flours and
           vegetable patties (Harvest Burgers R).  The Company
           produces and markets a wide range of consumer and
           institutional health foods based on the Company's
           various soy protein products.

           Corn Products

           The Company is engaged in dry milling and wet milling
           corn operations. Products produced for use by the
           food and beverage industry include syrup, starch,
           glucose, dextrose, crystalline dextrose, high
           fructose sweeteners, crystalline fructose and grits.
           Corn gluten feed and distillers grains are produced
           for use as feed ingredients. Ethyl alcohol is
           produced to beverage grade or for industrial use as
           ethanol.  Ethanol is used to increase octane, and as
           an extender and oxygenate in gasoline.  Corn germ, a
           byproduct of the milling process, is further
           processed as an oilseed.
            PAGE 4
ITEM 1. BUSINESS--Continued

           The Company produces by fermentation, from dextrose,
           citric and lactic acids, feed-grade amino acids and
           vitamins, lactates, sorbitol, monosodium glutamate,
           nematodes and food emulsifiers principally for the
           food and feed industries.

           Wheat and Other Milled Products

           Wheat flour is sold primarily to large bakeries,
           durum flour is sold to pasta manufacturers and
           bulgur, a gelatinized wheat food, is sold to both
           the export and the domestic food markets. Masa corn
           flour is sold primarily to specialty food producers
           to be used in the production of tortillas, taco
           shells and tortilla chips.

           The Company mills long, medium and short grain rice
           and mills oats into oat bran and oat flour for
           institutional and consumer food customers.  The
           Company also mills milo to produce industrial flour
           that is used in the manufacturing of wall board for
           the building industry.

           Other Products and Services

           The Company buys, stores and cleans agricultural
           commodities, such as corn, wheat, soybeans, canola,
           milo, sunflower seeds, rice, oats and barley, for
           resale to other processors worldwide.

           The Company produces and distributes formula feeds
           and animal health and nutrition products to the
           livestock, dairy and poultry industries.  Many of
           the feed ingredients and health and nutrition
           products can be, and in many cases are, produced in
           our other commodity processing operations.

           The Company produces bakery products and mixes which
           are sold to the baking industry.

           The Company produces spaghetti, noodles, macaroni,
           and other consumer food products.  The Company also
           produces lettuce, other fresh vegetables and herbs
           in its hydroponic greenhouse.

           Malt products are produced for use by the food and
           beverage industries.

           The Company produces from cane sugar granulated and
           liquid refined sugars principally for the food and
           beverage industries.
            PAGE 5
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

           Hickory Point Bank and Trust Co. furnishes public
           banking services, except commercial loans, as well
           as cash management and securities safekeeping
           services for the Company.

           Agrinational Insurance Company and Agrinational Ltd.,
           Vermont and Cayman Island subsidiaries,
           respectively, act as direct insurers and reinsurers
           of a portion of the Company's domestic and foreign
           property and casualty insurance risks.

           Alfred C. Toepfer International (Germany) and
           affiliates, of which the Company has a 50% interest,
           is one of the world's largest, most respected
           trading companies specializing in processed
           agricultural products.  Toepfer has thirty-nine
           sales offices worldwide.  Compagnie Industrielle et
           Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (Luxembourg) and
           affiliates, of which the Company has a 41.5%
           interest, owns European agricultural processing
           plants that are primarily engaged in corn wet
           milling and wheat starch production.

           The Company, through its partnership with Gold Kist,
           Inc. and Alimenta Processing Corporation d/b/a
           Golden Peanut Company, is a major supplier of
           peanuts to both the domestic and export markets.
           These peanuts are used in peanut butter, snacks,
           cereals and many other foods.

           The percentage of net sales and other operating
           income by classes of products and services for the
           last three fiscal years were as follows:
                                       1994    1993   1992

           Oilseed products             50%     50%    51%
           Corn products                 26      28     29
           Wheat and other
             milled products             13      13     10
           Other products and services   11       9     10

                                       100%    100%   100%
           Methods of Distribution

           Since the Company's customers are principally other
           manufacturers and processors, its products are
           distributed mainly in bulk from processing plants or
           storage facilities directly to the customers'
           facilities.  The Company owns a large number of
           trucks and trailers and owns or leases large numbers
           of railroad tank cars and hopper cars to augment
           those provided by the railroads.  The Company uses
           the inland waterway system and functions as a
           contract carrier of commodities for its own
           operations as well as for other companies.
            PAGE 6
Item 1. BUSINESS--continued

           The Company owns, leases or manages under operating
           agreements approximately 1,900 river barges and 25
           line-haul towboats.

          (ii)  Status of new products

                The Company continues to expand its bioproducts.
                The Company is currently producing, from
                dextrose, the feed-grade amino acids lysine and
                threonine, and expects to be producing
                tryptophan during the coming year.  The Company
                has entered the vitamin market with the
                production of riboflavin and biotin, and is
                currently expanding production facilities to
                produce vitamins C and E.  The Company is also
                producing, from dextrose fermentation, citric
                acid, monosodium glutamate (MSG) and lactic
                acid and is scheduled to begin to produce, in
                the next year, the food additive, xanthan gum.

         (iii)  Source and availability of raw materials

                Substantially all of the Company's raw materials
                are agricultural commodities.  In any single
                year, the availability and price of these
                commodities are subject to wide fluctuations
                due to unpredictable factors such as weather,
                plantings, government (domestic and foreign)
                farm programs and policies, changes in global
                demand created by population growth and higher
                standards of living and worldwide production of
                similar and competitive crops.  The Company
                follows a policy of hedging commodity
                transactions, including certain anticipated
                production requirements, to minimize price risk
                due to market fluctuations and risk of crop
                failure.

          (iv)  Patents, trademarks and licenses

                The Company owns several valuable patents,
                trademarks and licenses but does not consider
                its business dependent upon any single or group
                of patents, trademarks and licenses.




        (v)  Extent to which business is seasonal

                Since the Company is so widely diversified in
                global agribusiness markets, there are no
                material seasonal fluctuations in the
                manufacture, sale and distribution of its
                products and services.  There is a degree of
                seasonality in the growing season and
                procurement of the Company's principal raw
                materials, oilseeds, wheat, corn and other
                grains.  However, the actual physical movement
                of the millions of bushels of these crops
                through the Company's storage and processing
                facilities is reasonably constant throughout
                the year.  The worldwide need for food is not
                seasonal and is ever expanding as is the
                world's population.
            PAGE 7
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

         (vi)         Working capital items

               Price variations and availability of grain at
               harvest often cause wide fluctuations in the
               Company's inventories and short-term borrowings.

        (vii)  Dependence on single customer

               No material part of the Company's business is
               dependent upon a single customer or very few
               customers.

        (viii)            Amount of backlog

               Because of the nature of the Company's business,
               the backlog of orders at year end is not a
               significant indication of the Company's activity
               for the current or upcoming year.

         (ix)  Business subject to renegotiation

               The Company has no business with the government
               that is subject to renegotiation.

          (x)        Competitive conditions

               Markets for the Company's products are highly
               competitive and sensitive to product
               substitution.  No single company competes with
               the Company in all of its markets; however, a
               number of large companies compete in one or more
               markets.  Major competitors in one or more
               markets include, but are not limited to,
               Cargill, Inc., ConAgra, Inc., CPC International,
               Eridania Beghin-Say and Tate & Lyle.

         (xi)  Research and development expenditures

               Practically all of the Company's technical
               efforts and expenditures are concerned with food
               and feed ingredient products. Special efforts
               are being made to find improvements in food
               technology to alleviate the protein malnutrition
               throughout the world, utilizing the three
               largest United States crops-wheat, soybeans and
               corn.

               The need to successfully market new or improved
               food and feed ingredients developed in the
               Company's research laboratories led to the
               concept of technical support.  The Company is
               staffed with technical representatives  who work
               closely with customers and potential customers
               on the development of food and feed products
               which incorporate Company produced ingredients.

            PAGE 8
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

               These technical representatives are an adjunct to
               both the research and sales functions.

               The Company maintains a research laboratory in
               Decatur, Illinois where product and process
               development activities are conducted.  Enzyme
               development and production are an important part
               of these activities. Protein research is
               conducted at facilities in Decatur where meat
               and dairy pilot plants support application
               research. Research to support sales and product
               development for bakery products is done at a
               laboratory in Olathe, Kansas.  Additional
               research activities are conducted at the
               Decatur, Indiana feed research facility and at
               the British Arkady plant in Manchester, England.

               The amount spent during the three years ended
               June 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992 for such technical
               efforts were approximately $20.1, $14.8, and
               $14.6 million, respectively. In addition, the
               Company maintains separate quality control
               departments which are supervised by research
               personnel.

        (xii)  Material effects of capital expenditures for
               environmental protection

               During 1994, $22 million was spent for equipment,
               facilities and programs for pollution control
               and compliance with the requirements of various
               environmental agencies.

               There have been no material effects upon the
               earnings and competitive position of the Company
               resulting from compliance with federal, state
               and local laws or regulations enacted or adopted
               relating to the protection of the environment.

               The Company expects that expenditures for
               environmental facilities and programs will
               continue at approximately the present rate with
               no unusual amounts anticipated for the next two
               years.

        (xiii)          Number of employees

               The number of persons employed by the Company was
               16,013 at June 30, 1994.
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

        (d)    Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic
           Operations and Export Sales

           The Company's foreign operations are principally in
           developed countries and do not entail any undue or
           unusual business risks. Geographic financial
           information is set forth in Note 9 to the audited
           financial statements included in the Company's 1994
           Annual Report to Shareholders.

           Export sales by classes of products for the last
           three fiscal years were as follows:

                                       1994    1993   1992

           Oilseed products              5%      5%     5%
           Corn products                 6%       6      7
           Wheat and other milled
             products                     1       2      1
           Other products and services    -       1      1

                                        12%     14%    14%
            PAGE 9
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

        (e) Executive Officers

          Name                        Title                 Age

          Dwayne O. Andreas    Chairman of the Board of      76
                               Directors from 1972.
                               Chief Executive Officer

          James R. Randall     President from 1975.          69

          G. Allen Andreas     Vice President from 1988.     51
                               Counsel to the Executive
                               Committee from September 1994

          Michael D. Andreas   Vice Chairman of the Board    45
                               of Directors from October 1992.
                               Executive Vice President
                               from 1988.

          Martin L. Andreas    Senior Vice President from 1988.
                               Executive Assistant to the
                               Chief Executive.

          Charles P. Archer    Treasurer from October 1992.  38
                               Assistant Treasurer from 1988.

          Charles T. Bayless   Group Vice President from
                               January 1993.  Vice President 59
                               from 1992.  President of ADM
                               Processing Division since 1980.

          Dale F. Benson       Vice President from 1969.     68

          Howard G. Buffett    Vice President and Assistant  39
                               to the Chairman from 1992.
                               Chairman of Douglas County,
                               Nebraska Board of Commissioners
                               from 1988 to 1992.  President of
                               Buffett Farms Inc. since 1984.

          Howard E. Buoy       Group Vice President from     67
                               January 1993.  Vice President
                               of ADM Processing Division
                               from 1979.

          William H. Camp      Vice President from April 1993.45
                               Vice President of ADM Processing
                               Division from 1990 to 1993.
                               Various merchandising positions
                               from 1988 to 1990.
            PAGE 10
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

          Larry H. Cunningham  Vice President and President  50
                               of Protein Specialties
                               Division since July 1993.
                               Formerly President of
                               A. E. Staley Manufacturing Co.

          Thomas A. Duffield   Vice President from 1975.     69

          Edward A. Harjehausen     Vice President from October
                               1992.  Vice President of
                               ADM Corn Processing Division
                               from 1988.

          Burnell D Kraft      Group Vice President from     62
                               January 1993.  Vice President
                               from 1984.  President of
                               ADM/Growmark, Collingwood
                               Grain and Tabor Grain Co.
                               subsidiaries.

          Paul L. Krug, Jr.    Vice President from 1991 and  50
                               President of ADM Investor
                               Services.  Formerly a Vice
                               President of Continental Grain.

          Raymond V. Preiksaitis    Vice President - Management
                               Information Systems from 1988.

          John G. Reed         Vice President from 1982.     64
                               Chief Executive-Europe from
September 1994

          Richard P. Reising   Vice President, Secretary and 50
                               General Counsel from 1991.
                               Secretary and Assistant General
                               Counsel since 1988.

          John D. Rice         Vice President from April 1993.40
                               Vice President of ADM Processing
                               Division from 1992.  Various
                               merchandising positions from
                               1988 to 1992.

          Douglas J. Schmalz   Vice President, Controller and48
                               Chief Financial Officer from
1986.

Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

          Mark E. Whitacre     Vice President from October   37
                               1992.  President of ADM Bio-
products Division from 1989.

          Terrance S. Wilson   Group Vice President from     56
                               January 1993.  Officer of
                               ADM Corn Processing Division
                               since 1988.

          Officers of the registrant are elected by the Board of
          Directors for terms of one year and until their
          successors are duly elected and qualified.

          Michael D. Andreas is the son of Dwayne O. Andreas. G.
          Allen Andreas and Martin L. Andreas are nephews of
          Dwayne O. Andreas. Lowell W. Andreas and Dwayne O.
          Andreas, directors of the registrant are brothers.
          Charles P. Archer is the son of S. M. Archer, Jr., a
          director of the registrant.
            PAGE 11
Item 2.   PROPERTIES

       (a) Processing Facilities

       The Company has one hundred sixty-three processing plants
       in the United States of which one hundred fifty-six are
       owned and the balance are leased. The Company also owns
       or has a 50% or greater ownership interest in fifty-four
       foreign processing plants.  The Company's operations are
       such that most products are efficiently processed near
       the source of raw materials.  Consequently, the Company
       has many plants located strategically in grain producing
       areas.  The annual volume processed will vary depending
       upon availability of raw material and demand for the
       finished products.

       The Company operates thirty-five domestic and seven
       foreign oilseed crushing plants with a daily processing
       capacity of approximately 73,000 tons.  The domestic
       plants are located in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia,
       Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota,
       Missouri, Mississippi, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio,
       South Carolina, Tennessee and Texas.  The foreign plants
       are located in Canada, England, Germany and the
       Netherlands.

       The Company  operates four wet corn milling and two dry
       corn milling plants with a daily grind capacity of
       approximately 1,590,000 bushels. These plants and other
       related properties, including corn germ extraction and
       corn gluten pellet plants, are located in Illinois,
       Iowa, New York, North Dakota and Texas.  The Company
       also has interests, through joint ventures, in corn
       milling plants in Mexico, Bulgaria, Hungary and
       Slovakia.

       The Company operates twenty-nine domestic wheat and
       durum flour mills, a domestic bulgur plant, six Canadian
       flour mills and one Mexican flour mill with a total
       daily capacity of approximately 355,000 cwt. of flour.
       The Company also operates six corn flour mills, three
       rice mills, two milo mills, two pasta plants and four
       starch and gluten plants. These plants and other related
       properties are strategically located across North
       America in California, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas,
       Kentucky, Louisiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New
       York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon,
       Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, Washington, Wisconsin,
       Canada and Mexico.

       The Company operates ten domestic oilseed refineries in
       Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Georgia, Nebraska, Tennessee
       and Texas as well as five foreign refineries in Canada,
       Germany and the Netherlands.  The Company produces
       packaged oils in Illinois, California and Germany and
       soy protein specialty products in Illinois, England, and
       the Netherlands.  Lecithin products are produced in
       Illinois, Iowa, Nebraska, Germany and the Netherlands.
          PAGE 12
       The Company produces feed and food additives at seven
       bioproduct plants located in Illinois, North Carolina
       and Ireland.  The Company also operates formula feed,
       animal health and nutrition and pet food plants in
       Arkansas, Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky,
       Michigan, Missouri, Nebraska, North Carolina, Ohio,
       Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas,
       Washington, Wisconsin, Vermont, England and Ireland.

       The Company operates five North American barley malting
       plants located in Illinois, Minnesota, Wisconsin and
       Canada plus a cane sugar refinery in Louisiana.

        The Company operates various other food ingredient
       plants in Iowa, Kansas, Washington, England, France,
       Germany, Italy, Portugal and Spain.

(b)    Procurement Facilities

       The Company operates one hundred sixty-nine domestic
       terminal, country and river elevators covering the
       Midwest, West and South Central states, including one
       hundred-thirteen country elevators and fifty-six
       terminal and river loading facilities including three
       grain export elevators in Louisiana.  Elevators are
       located in Arkansas, Colorado, Georgia, Illinois,
       Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana,
       Nebraska, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina,
       Tennessee and Texas.  Domestic grain terminals,
       elevators and processing plants have an aggregate
       storage capacity of approximately 355,000,000 bushels.
       The Company also operates ten foreign grain elevators in
       Canada, Ireland and Germany.  Thirteen cotton gins are
       located in Texas and serve the cottonseed crushing
       plants in that area.
          PAGE 13
Item 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

       In 1993, the State of Illinois Environmental Protection
       Agency brought administrative enforcement proceedings
       arising out of the Company's failure to obtain permits
       for certain pollution control equipment at certain of
       the Company's processing facilities in Illinois.  The
       Company believes it has meritorious defenses.  While the
       Company cannot reasonably estimate the amount of the
       sanctions which may be imposed in these matters, in
       management's opinion, they will not, either individually
       or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on
       the Company's financial condition or results of
       operations.
       
       The Company is involved in approximately 20
       administrative and judicial proceedings in which it has
       been identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP)
       under the federal Superfund law and its state analogs
       for the study and clean-up of sites contaminated by
       material discharged into the environment.  In all of
       these matters, there are numerous PRP's.  Due to various
       factors such as the required level of remediation and
       participation in the clean-up effort by others, the
       Company's future clean-up at these sites cannot be
       reasonably estimated.  However, in management's opinion,
       these proceedings will not, either individually or in
       the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the
       Company's financial condition or results of operations.
       
       The Company from time to time, in the ordinary course of
       business, is named as a defendant in various lawsuits.
       In management's opinion, the gross liability from
       litigation, including environmental exposure, with or
       without insurance recoveries is not considered to be
       material to the Company's financial condition or results
       of operations.
          PAGE 14
Item 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

       None.


PART II

Item 5.MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
       STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

       Common Stock Market Prices and Dividends on page 37 of
       the annual shareholders' report for the year ended June
       30, 1994 is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

       Years 1990 through 1994 included in the Ten-Year Summary
       of Operating, Financial and Other Data on pages 38 and
       39 of the annual shareholders' report for the year ended
       June 30, 1994 is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
       CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

       Management's Discussion of Operations and Financial
       Condition on pages 24 and 25 of the annual shareholders'
       report for the year ended June 30, 1994 is incorporated
       herein by reference.

Item 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

       The following financial statements and supplementary data
       included in the annual shareholders' report for the year
       ended June 30, 1994 are incorporated herein by
       reference:

                                          Page(s) in the Annual
                                           Shareholders' Report

         Consolidated Financial Statements,
         Summary Significant Accounting Policies
         and Notes to Consolidated Financial
         Statements                           Pages 26 through

         Report of Independent Auditors       Page 35

         Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)     Page 36

Item 9.CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
       ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

       None.

          PAGE 15
PART III


       The following items of Part III, included in the
       definitive proxy statement for 1994, are incorporated
       herein by reference:
                                               Page(s) in the
Definitive Proxy                                  Statement

Item 10.                                       DIRECTORS AND
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE                      Pages 2 through 6
        REGISTRANT                             Page 13
        Information with respect to executive officers
        is included in Item 1 (e) of this report.

Item 11.                                       EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION                                   Pages 7 through

Item 12.                                       SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL                Page 2
        OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Item 13.                                       CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS         Page 12

          PAGE 16
PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
FORM 8-K

        (a)(1)The following consolidated financial statements
              and other financial data of the registrant and
              its subsidiaries, included in the annual report
              of the registrant to its shareholders for the
              year ended June 30, 1994, are incorporated by
              reference in Item 8, and are also incorporated
              herein by reference:

              Consolidated balance sheets--June 30, 1994 and

              Consolidated statements of earnings--Years ended
                June 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992

              Consolidated statements of shareholders' equity--
                Years ended June 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992

              Consolidated statements of cash flows--Years ended
                June 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992

              Notes to consolidated financial statements--June
30,

              Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

       (a)(2)The following consolidated financial schedules of
              the registrant and its subsidiaries are included
              in this report:

                Schedule I--Marketable securities--other
                 investments ...................................

                Schedule V--Property, plant and equipment ......

                Schedule VI--Accumulated depreciation, depletion
                 and amortization of property, plant and
                 equipment .....................................

                Schedule IX--Short-term borrowings
..............     27

                Schedule X--Supplementary income statement
                 information
....................................                       28

            All other schedules are not applicable and
            therefore not included in this report.
            
            Financial statements of affiliates accounted for
            by the equity method have been omitted because
            they do not, considered individually, constitute
            significant subsidiaries.
          PAGE 17
Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
FORM 8-K
       --Continued

       (a)(3) LIST OF EXHIBITS

            (3) Composite Certificate of Incorporation and
                Bylaws filed on November 7, 1986 as Exhibits
                3(a) and 3(b), respectively, to Post Effective
                Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on
                Form S-3, Registration No. 33-6721, are
                incorporated herein by reference.

            (4) Instruments defining the rights of security
                holders, including:

                (i)  Indenture dated May 15, 1981, between
                     the registrant and Morgan Guaranty Trust
                     Company of New York, as Trustee
                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                     4(b) to Amendment No. 1 to Registration
                     Statement No. 2-71862), relating to the
                     $250,000,000 - 7% Debentures due May 15,
                     2011;

                (ii) Indenture dated May 1, 1982, between the
                     registrant and Morgan Guaranty Trust
                     Company of New York, as Trustee
                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                     4(c) to registration Statement No. 2-
                     77368), relating to the $400,000,000
                     Zero Coupon Debentures due May 1, 2002;

                (iii)Indenture dated as of March 1, 1984
                     between the registrant and Chemical
                     Bank, as Trustee (incorporated by
                     reference to Exhibit 4 to the
                     registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K
                     dated August 3, 1984 (File No. 1-44)),
                     as supplemented by the Supplemental
                     Indenture dated as of  January 9, 1986,
                     between the registrant and Chemical
                     Bank, as Trustee (incorporated by
                     reference to Exhibit 4 to the
                     registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K
                     dated January 9, 1986 (File No. 1-44)),
                     relating to the $100,000,000 - 10 1/4%
                     Debentures due January 15, 2006;

                (iv) Indenture dated June 1, 1986 between the
                     registrant and Chemical Bank, (as
                     successor to Manufacturers Hanover Trust
                     Company), as Trustee (incorporated by
                     reference to Exhibit 4(a) to
                     Registration Statement No. 33-6721), and
                     Supplemental Indenture dated as of
                     August 1, 1989 between the registrant
                     and Chemical Bank (as successor to
                     Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company), as
                     Trustee (incorporated by reference to
                     Exhibit 4(c) to Post-Effective Amendment
                     No. 3 to Registration Statement No. 33-
                     6721), relating to the $300,000,000  -
                     8 7/8%
          PAGE 18
Item 14.            EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND
REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
        --Continued

                     Debentures due April 15, 2011, the
                     $300,000,000  -  8 3/8% Debentures due
                     April 15, 2017, the $300,000,000  -  8
                     1/8% Debentures due June 1, 2012, the
                     $250,000,000  -  6 1/4% Notes due May
                     15, 2003, and the $250,000,000  -  7
                     1/8% Debentures due  March 1, 2013.

                    Copies of constituent instruments
                     defining rights of holders of long-term
                     debt of the Company and Subsidiaries,
                     other than the Indentures specified
                     herein, are not filed herewith, pursuant
                     to Instruction (b)(4) (iii)(A) to Item
                     601 of Regulation S-K, because the total
                     amount of securities authorized under
                     any such instrument does not exceed 10%
                     of the total assets of the Company and
                     Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
                     The registrant hereby agrees that it
                     will, upon request by the Commission,
                     furnish to the Commission a copy of each
                     such instrument.
                  
           (10)Material Contracts--Copies of the Company's
                stock option plans and its savings and
                investment plans, pursuant to Instruction
                (10)(iii)(A) to Item 601 of Regulation S-K, are
                incorporated herein by reference as follows:
                
                (i) Registration Statement No. 2-91811 on Form
                     S-8 dated June 22, 1984 (definitive
                     Prospectus dated July 16, 1984) relating
                     to the Archer Daniels Midland 1982
                     Incentive Stock Option Plan.
                
                (ii)Registration Statement No. 33-27331 on Form
                     S-8 dated February 27, 1989 relating to
                     the Archer Daniels Midland Company Savings
                     and Investment Plan for Hourly Employees.
                
                (iii)     Registration Statement No. 33-49409
                     on Form S-8 dated March 15, 1993 relating
                     to the Archer Daniels Midland 1991
                     Incentive Stock Option Plan and Archer
                     Daniels Midland Company Savings and
                     Investment Plan.
                
            (13) Annual report to security holders

            (21) Subsidiaries of the registrant
          PAGE 19
Item 14.            EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND
REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
        --Continued

            (23) Consent of independent auditors

            (24) Powers of attorney

            (27) Financial Data Schedule

        (b) Reports on Form 8-K

            A Form 8-K was not filed during the quarter ended
            June 30, 1994.
            PAGE 20
                           SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: September 27, 1994
                                
                                          ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND
COMPANY

                                   R. P. Reising
                                   Vice President, Secretary
                                   and General Counsel

                                   D. J. Schmalz
                                   Vice President, Controller
and
                                   Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below on September 27, 1994,
by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in
the capacities indicated.

     D. O. Andreas*, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive and
     Director
                    (Principal Executive Officer)
     L. W. Andreas*, Director
     M. D. Andreas*, Director
     M. L. Andreas*, Director
     S. M. Archer, Jr.*, Director
     Ralph Bruce*, Director
     H. G. Buffett*, Director
      J. H. Daniels*, Director
     R. A. Goldberg*, Director
     H. D. Hale*, Director
     F. R. Johnson*, Director
     J. R. Randall*, Director
     Mrs. N. A. Rockefeller*, Director
     R. S. Strauss*, Director
     J. K. Vanier*, Director
     O. G. Webb*, Director


                                   R. P. Reising
                                   Attorney-in-Fact

*Powers of Attorney authorizing R. L. Erickson, R. P. Reising,
D. J. Schmalz and D. J. Smith and each of them, to sign the Form
10-K on behalf of the above-named officers and directors of the
Company are being filed with the
and Exchange Commission.
          PAGE 21

          PAGE 22

            PAGE 23
NOTES TO SCHEDULE V--PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

June 30, 1994

(1)  Additions consist principally of:

     1994--Bioproduct facility and expansions at Decatur,
          Illinois, and Southport, North Carolina.  Corn
          processing expansions at Cedar Rapids and Clinton,
          Iowa, Decatur and Peoria, Illinois and Walhalla,
          North Dakota.  Flour milling facility at Beech Grove,
          Indiana.  Rice processing expansion at Weiner,
          Arkansas.  Transportation equipment consisting
          primarily of railroad cars.
     
     1993--Bioproduct facility and expansions at Decatur,
          Illinois, Southport, North Carolina and Ringaskiddy,
          Ireland.  Corn processing expansions at Cedar Rapids
          and Clinton, Iowa and Decatur and Peoria, Illinois.
          Flour milling facility at Beech Grove, Indiana.
          Transportation equipment consisting primarily of
          railroad cars and barges.
     
     1992--Bioproduct facility and expansion, antibiotic plant,
          expansions in corn processing, sorbitol and soy
          protein isolate at Decatur, Illinois.  Soy protein
          concentrate plant, second gas turbine system and oil
          refinery at Europoort, Netherlands.  Corn processing
          and cogeneration expansions at Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
          Citric acid expansion and cogeneration plant at
          Southport, North Carolina.  Corn processing expansion
          and oil refinery at Clinton, Iowa.  Softseed
          extraction plant at Erith, England.  Cogeneration
          facility at Spyck, Germany.  Oil refinery at
          Frankfort, Indiana.  Transportation equipment
          consisting primarily of railroad cars.
     
(2)Other changes relate to assets of acquired companies and
   changes due to foreign currency translation.

(3)The annual provisions for depreciation have been computed
   principally in accordance with the following ranges of asset
   lives:

     Buildings                          10 to 50 years
     Machinery and equipment             3 to 20 years

               PAGE 24

            PAGE 25

               PAGE 26



