
10-K
1996 10K-ANNUAL REPORT









          PAGE 1
                            FORM 10-K
                                
               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                                
                    WASHINGTON, D. C.  20549

[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES
   EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1996

                               OR

[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from ______________________ to
______________

Commission file number 1-44

                 ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY
     (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

         Delaware                                  41-0129150
(State or other jurisdiction of               (I. R. S. Employer
incorporation or organization)               Identification No.)

4666 Faries Parkway   Box 1470   Decatur, Illinois   62525
(Address of principal executive offices)           (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code217-424-5200

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                        Name of each exchange on
   Title of each class                   which registered

Common Stock, no par value              New York Stock Exchange
                                        Chicago Stock Exchange
                                        Swiss Exchange
                                        Tokyo Stock Exchange
                                        Frankfurt Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes _X_     No ___


Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-
affiliates of the registrant.

          Common Stock, no par value--$8.7 billion
(Based on the closing price of the New York Stock Exchange on
August 19, 1996)

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
registrant's classes of common stock, as of the latest
practicable date.

          Common Stock, no par value--518,975,939 shares
                    (August 19, 1996)


DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the annual shareholders' report for the year ended
June 30, 1996 are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and
IV.

Portions of the annual proxy statement for the year ended June
30, 1996 are incorporated by reference into Part III.
          PAGE 2
PART I

Item 1. BUSINESS
        (a)    General Development of Business

              Archer Daniels Midland Company was incorporated
           in Delaware in 1923, successor to the Daniels
           Linseed Co. founded in 1902.

              During the last five years, the Company has
           experienced significant growth, spending
           approximately $3.3 billion for construction of new
           plants, expansions of existing plants and the
           acquisitions of plants and transportation equipment.
           There have been no significant dispositions during
           this period. However, during this period, the
           Company has disposed of its Supreme Sugar subsidiary
           and its British Arkady bakery ingredient business.
           In addition, the Company has contributed its formula
           feed operations, its rice milling operations, its
           Mexican wheat flour mills and its masa corn flour
           business to various unconsolidated joint ventures.

        (b)    Financial Information About Industry Segments

              The Company is in one business segment--
           procuring, transporting, storing, processing and
           merchandising agricultural commodities and products.

        (c)    Narrative Description of Business

                                        (i)Principal products
               produced and principal markets for and methods of
               distribution of such products.

               The Company is engaged in the business of
               procuring, transporting, storing, processing and
               merchandising agricultural commodities and
               products.  It is one of the world's largest
               processors of oilseeds, corn and wheat.  The
               Company also processes milo, oats, barley and
               peanuts. Other operations include transporting,
               merchandising and storing agricultural
               commodities and products.  These operations and
               processes produce products which have primarily
               two end uses: food or feed ingredients.  Each
               commodity processed is in itself a feed
               ingredient as are the by-products produced during
               the processing of each commodity.

               Production processes of all commodities are
               capital intensive and similar in nature.  These
               processes involve grinding, crushing or milling
               with further value added through extraction,
               refining and fermenting.  Generally, each
               commodity can be processed by any of these
               methods to generate additional value added
               products.  All commodities and related processed
               products share the same network of commodity
               procurement facilities, transportation services
               (including rail, barge, truck and ocean vessels)
               and storage facilities.
          PAGE 3
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

               The geographic areas, customers and marketing
               methods are basically the same for all
               commodities and their related further processed
               products.  Feed ingredient products and by-
               products are sold to farmers, feed dealers and
               livestock producers, all of whom purchase
               products from across the entire commodity chain.
               Food ingredient products are also sold to one
               basic group of customers: food and beverage
               processors.  Any single customer may purchase
               products produced from all commodities, and any
               single food or feed product could include
               ingredients produced from all commodities
               processed.

               Oilseed Products

               Soybeans, cottonseed, sunflower seeds, canola,
               peanuts, flaxseed and corn germ are processed to
               provide vegetable oils and meals principally for
               the food and feed industries.  Crude vegetable
               oil is sold "as is" or is further processed by
               refining and hydrogenating into margarine,
               shortening, salad oils and other food products.
               Partially refined oil is sold for use in
               chemicals, paints and other industrial products.
               Lecithin, an emulsifier produced in the vegetable
               oil refining process, is marketed as a food and
               feed ingredient. Natural source Vitamin E, an
               antioxidant, and distilled monoglycerides, an
               emulsifier, are produced from soybeans and other
               oilseeds.

               Oilseed meals supply more than one-half of the
               high protein ingredients used in the domestic
               manufacture of commercial livestock and poultry
               feeds. Soybean meal is further processed into soy
               flour and grits, used in both food and industrial
               products, and into value-added soy protein
               products.  Textured vegetable protein (TVP R), a
               soy protein product developed by the Company, is
               sold primarily to the institutional food market
               and, through others, to the food consumer market.
               The Company also produces a wide range of other
               edible soy protein products including isolated
               soy protein, soy protein concentrate, soy-based
               milk products, soy flours and vegetable patties
               (Harvest Burgers R).  The Company produces and
               markets a wide range of consumer and
               institutional health foods based on the Company's
               various soy protein products.  The Company
               produces cottonseed flour which is sold primarily
               to the pharmaceutical industry.  Cotton cellulose
               pulp is manufactured and sold to the chemical,
               paper and filter markets.
                    PAGE 4
Item 1.        BUSINESS--Continued

               Corn Products

                         The Company is engaged in dry milling
               and wet milling corn operations.  Products
               produced for use by the food and beverage
               industry include syrup, starch, glucose,
               dextrose, crystalline dextrose, high fructose
               sweeteners, crystalline fructose and grits.  Corn
               gluten feed and distillers grains are produced
               for use as feed ingredients.  Ethyl alcohol is
               produced to beverage grade or for industrial use
               as ethanol.  In gasoline, ethanol increases
               octane, and is used as an extender and oxygenate.
               Corn germ, a by-product of the milling process,
               is further processed as an oilseed.

                         By fermentation of dextrose, the
               Company produces citric and lactic acids, feed-
               grade amino acids and vitamins, lactates,
               sorbitol, monosodium glutamate, nematodes and
               food emulsifiers principally for the food and
               feed industries.

                         Wheat and Other Milled Products

                         Wheat flour is sold primarily to large
               bakeries, durum flour is sold to pasta
               manufacturers and bulgur, a gelatinized wheat
               food, is sold to both the export and the domestic
               food markets. The Company mills oats into oat
               bran and oat flour for institutional and consumer
               food customers. The Company also mills milo to
               produce industrial flour that is used in the
               manufacturing of wall board for the building
               industry.

                         Other Products and Services

                         The Company buys, stores and cleans
               agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn,
               wheat, milo, oats and barley, for resale to other
               processors worldwide.

                         The Company produces and distributes
               formula feeds and animal health and nutrition
               products to the livestock, dairy and poultry
               industries.  Many of the feed ingredients and
               health and nutrition products are produced in our
               other commodity processing operations.

                         The Company produces bakery products
               and mixes which are sold to the baking industry.
               PAGE 5
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

                         The Company produces spaghetti,
               noodles, macaroni, and other consumer food
               products.  The Company also produces lettuce,
               other fresh vegetables and herbs in its
               hydroponic greenhouse.

                         Malt products are produced for use by
               the food and beverage industries.

                         The Company raises fish for
               distribution to consumer food customers.

               Hickory Point Bank and Trust Co. furnishes public
               banking services, except commercial loans, as
               well as cash management and securities
               safekeeping services for the Company.

               ADM Investor Services, Inc. is a registered
               futures commission merchant and a clearing member
               of all principal commodities exchanges.  ADM
               Securities Inc. is a securities broker-dealer
               registered with the Securities and Exchange
               Commission and a member of the National
               Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.

                                           Agrinational
               Insurance Company, a Vermont subsidiary, acts as
               a direct insurer and reinsurer of a portion of
               the Company's domestic and foreign property and
               casualty insurance risks.

                                           Alfred C. Toepfer
               International (Germany) and affiliates, of which
               the Company has a 50% interest, is one of the
               world's largest, most respected trading companies
               specializing in processed agricultural products.
               Toepfer has forty-one sales offices worldwide.

                                           Compagnie
               Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces
               SA (Luxembourg) and affiliates, of which the
               Company has a 41.5% interest, owns European
               agricultural processing plants that are primarily
               engaged in corn wet milling and wheat starch
               production.

                         The Company, through its partnership
               with Gold Kist, Inc. and Alimenta Processing
               Corporation d/b/a Golden Peanut Company, is a
               major supplier of peanuts to both the domestic
               and export markets. These peanuts are used in
               peanut butter, snacks, cereals and many other
               foods.

                         The Company, through its partnership
               with Ag Processing Inc. d/b/a Consolidated
               Nutrition, is a supplier of premium animal feeds
               and animal health products.

               The Company, through its partnership with
               Riceland Foods, Inc., is a processor of rice and
               rice products for institutional and consumer food
               customers.

               Gruma S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) and affiliates, of
               which the Company has a 22% interest, is the
               world's largest producer and marketer of corn
               flour and tortillas with operations in the U.S.,
               Mexico and Central America. Additionally, the
               Company has a 20% interest in the combined U.S.
               corn flour operations of ADM and Gruma. The
               Company also has a 40% share, through a joint
               venture with Gruma, of two Mexican-based wheat
               flour mills.

               The Company owns a 48% interest in Heartland Rail
               Corporation. Heartland's 81% owned affiliate,
               Iowa Interstate Railroad, operates a regional
               railroad in Iowa and Illinois.
        PAGE 6
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

               The Company participates in various joint
               ventures that operate oilseed crushing
               facilities, oil refineries and related storage
               facilities in China and Indonesia.

               The percentage of net sales and other operating
               income by classes of products and services for
               the last three fiscal years were as follows:

                                       1996    1995   1994
                                        ________________________
               Oilseed products         61%     60%    59%
               Corn products            19      20     20
               Wheat and other
                 milled products        12      11     12
               Other products and services8      9      9
                                       ___     ___    ___
                                       100%    100%   100%
                                       ===     ===     ===
               Methods of Distribution

               Since the Company's customers are principally
               other manufacturers and processors, its products
               are distributed mainly in bulk from processing
               plants or storage facilities directly to the
               customers' facilities.  The Company owns a large
               number of trucks and trailers and owns or leases
               large numbers of railroad tank cars and hopper
               cars to augment those provided by the railroads.
               The Company uses the inland waterway system and
               functions as a contract carrier of commodities
               for its own operations as well as for other
               companies.  The Company owns and leases
               approximately 2,000 river barges and 27 line-haul
               towboats.

         (ii)  Status of new products

               The Company continues to expand its business
               through the development and production of new,
               value-added products. From dextrose, the Company
               is currently producing the feed-grade amino acids
               lysine, threonine and tryptophan and food
               additives citric acid, monosodium glutamate
               (MSG), lactic acid, xanthan gum and sorbitol. The
               Company has entered the vitamin market with the
               production of riboflavin and vitamin E and is
               currently expanding production facilities to
               produce biotin and vitamin C. The Company
               continues to develop its soy protein meat
               substitutes, Harvest Burgers R and Harvest
               Burgers R for Recipes TM and its soy protein
               powdered non-dairy beverage, Nutribev R.
               Additionally, the Company is developing and
               expanding production facilities to produce
               emulsifiers, distilled monoglycerides,
               astaxanthan and isoflavones.
          PAGE 7
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

        (iii)  Source and availability of raw materials

               Substantially all of the Company's raw materials
               are agricultural commodities.  In any single
               year, the availability and price of these
               commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due
               to unpredictable factors such as weather,
               plantings, government (domestic and foreign)
               farm programs and policies, changes in global
               demand created by population growth and higher
               standards of living and worldwide production of
               similar and competitive crops.

         (iv)  Patents, trademarks and licenses

               The Company owns several valuable patents,
               trademarks and licenses but does not consider its
               business dependent upon any single or group of
               patents, trademarks and licenses.

          (v)  Extent to which business is seasonal

               Since the Company is so widely diversified in
               global agribusiness markets, there are no
               material seasonal fluctuations in the
               manufacture, sale and distribution of its
               products and services.  There is a degree of
               seasonality in the growing season and procurement
               of the Company's principal raw materials:
               oilseeds, wheat, corn and other grains.  However,
               the actual physical movement of the millions of
               bushels of these crops through the Company's
               storage and processing facilities is reasonably
               constant throughout the year.  The worldwide need
               for food is not seasonal and is ever expanding as
               is the world's population.

        (vi)  Working capital items

               Price variations and availability of grain at
               harvest often cause wide fluctuations in the
               Company's inventories and short-term borrowings.

        (vii) Dependence on single customer

               No material part of the Company's business is
               dependent upon a single customer or very few
               customers.
        PAGE 8
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

        (viii) Amount of backlog

               Because of the nature of the Company's business,
               the backlog of orders at year end is not a
               significant indication of the Company's activity
               for the current or upcoming year.

         (ix)  Business subject to renegotiation

               The Company has no business with the government
               that is subject to renegotiation.

          (x)  Competitive conditions

               Markets for the Company's products are highly
               price competitive and sensitive to product
               substitution.  No single company competes with
               the Company in all of its markets; however, a
               number of large companies compete in one or more
               markets.  Major competitors in one or more
               markets include, but are not limited to, Cargill,
               Inc., ConAgra, Inc., CPC International, Eridania
               Beghin-Say and Tate & Lyle.

         (xi)  Research and development expenditures

               Practically all of the Company's technical
               efforts and expenditures are concerned with food
               and feed ingredient products. Special efforts are
               being made to find improvements in food
               technology to alleviate the protein malnutrition
               throughout the world, utilizing the three largest
               United States crops-corn, soybeans and wheat.

               The need to successfully market new or improved
               food and feed ingredients developed in the
               Company's research laboratories led to the
               concept of technical support.  The Company is
               staffed with technical representatives who work
               closely with customers and potential customers on
               the development of food and feed products which
               incorporate Company produced ingredients.  These
               technical representatives are an adjunct to both
               the research and sales functions.

               The Company maintains a research laboratory in
               Decatur, Illinois where product and process
               development activities are conducted. To develop
               new bioproducts and to improve existing
               bioproducts, new cultures are developed using
               classical mutation and genetic engineering.
               Protein research is conducted at facilities in
               Decatur where meat and dairy pilot plants support
               application research.  Research to support sales
               and development for bakery products is done at a
               laboratory in Olathe, Kansas.
          PAGE 9
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

               The amounts spent during the three years ended
               June 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994 for such technical
               efforts were approximately $17.1, $16.5 and $20.1
               million, respectively.  In addition, the Company
               maintains separate quality control departments
               which are supervised by research personnel.

               (xii)Material effects of capital expenditures for
               environmental protection

               During 1996, $25 million was spent for equipment,
               facilities and programs for pollution control and
               compliance with the requirements of various
               environmental agencies.

              There have been no material effects upon the
               earnings and competitive position of the Company
               resulting from compliance with federal, state and
               local laws or regulations enacted or adopted
               relating to the protection of the environment.

               The Company expects that expenditures for
               environmental facilities and programs will
               continue at approximately the present rate with
               no unusual amounts anticipated for the next two
               years.

        (xiii) Number of employees

               The number of persons employed by the Company was
               14,811 at June 30, 1996.

           (d)Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic
           Operations and Export Sales

              The Company's foreign operations are principally
           in developed countries and do not entail any undue
           or unusual business risks. Geographic financial
           information is set forth in "Note 10 of Notes to
           Consolidated Financial Statements" of the annual
           shareholders' report for the year ended June 30,
           1996 and is incorporated herein by reference.
           PAGE 10
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

              Export sales by classes of products for the last
           three fiscal years were as follows:

                                       1996    1995   1994
                                  ________________________

           Oilseed products              7%      8%     5%
           Corn products                 7       7      6
           Wheat and other milled
             products                    1       1      1
           Other products and services   1       -      -
                                         __      __    ___

                                        16%     16%    12%
                                        ===     ===    ===

        (e) Executive Officers

           Name                       Title                  Age

           Dwayne O. Andreas   Chairman of the Board of       78
                               Directors from 1972.
                               Chief Executive Officer.

           James R. Randall    President from 1975.           71

           G. Allen Andreas    Vice President from 1988.      53
                               Counsel to the Executive
                               Committee from September 1994.

           Michael D. Andreas  Vice Chairman of the Board     47
                               of Directors from October 1992.
                               Executive Vice President
                               from 1988.

           Martin L. Andreas   Senior Vice President from 1988.57
                               Executive Assistant to the
                               Chief Executive.

           Charles P. Archer   Treasurer from October 1992.   41
                               Assistant Treasurer from 1988.

           Charles T. Bayless  Group Vice President from      61
                               January 1993.  Vice President
                               from 1992.  President of ADM
                               Processing Division since 1980.
          PAGE 11
Item 1. Business--Continued

           Howard E. Buoy      Group Vice President from      69
                               January 1993.  Vice President
                               of ADM Processing Division
                               from 1979.

           William H. Camp     Vice President from April 1993.47
                               Vice President of ADM Processing
                               Division from 1990 to 1993.

           Barrie R. Cox       Vice President from January 1996.

President of ADM Food Additives
                               Division from 1994. Vice
                               President of ADM Corn Processing
Division from 1990.

           Larry H. Cunningham Vice President and President   52
                               of Protein Specialties
                               Division since July 1993.
                               Formerly President of
                               A. E. Staley Manufacturing Co.

           Craig L. Hamlin     Group Vice President from      50
                               October 1994.  President of
                               ADM Milling from 1989.

           Edward A. Harjehausen     Vice President from October 45
                               1992.  Vice President of
                               ADM Corn Processing Division
                               from 1988.

           Burnell D Kraft     Group Vice President from      65
                               January 1993.  Vice President
                               from 1984.  President of
                               ADM/Growmark, Collingwood
                               Grain and Tabor Grain Co.
                               subsidiaries.

           Paul L. Krug, Jr.   Vice President from 1991 and   52
                               President of ADM Investor
                               Services.  Formerly a Vice
                               President of Continental Grain
                               Company.

           John E. Long        Vice President from July 1996. 67
                               President of ADM Research
                               Division from 1992. Various
senior                            research positions from 1975.

          PAGE 12
Item 1. BUSINESS--Continued

           Jack McDonald       Vice President from October 1994.
                               President of Southern Cotton Oil
                               Division from 1990.

           Steven R. Mills     Controller from October 1994.  41
                               Various senior treasury and
                               accounting positions from 1979.

           Paul B. Mulhollem   Vice President from January 1996.
                               Managing Director of ADM
                               International, Ltd., from 1993.
                               International merchandising
                               positions since 1992. Formerly
                               Group President of Continental
                               Grain Company.

           Brian F. Peterson   Vice President from January 1996.
                               President of ADM BioProducts
                               Division from 1995. Various
                               merchandising positions from
1980.

           Raymond V. Preiksaitis    Vice President - Management 43
                               Information Systems from 1988.

           John G. Reed        Vice President from 1982.      66
                               Chief Executive-Europe from
                               September 1994.

           Richard P. Reising  Vice President, Secretary and  52
                               General Counsel from 1991.
                               Secretary and Assistant General
                               Counsel since 1988.

           John D. Rice        Vice President from 1993.      42
                               Vice President of ADM Processing
                               Division from 1992.  Various
                               merchandising positions from
                               1988 to 1992.

           Kenneth A. Robinson Vice President from January 1996.
                               Vice President of ADM Processing
                               Division from 1985.

           Douglas J. Schmalz  Vice President and Chief       50
                               Financial Officer from 1986.






           Terrance S. Wilson  Group Vice President from      58
                               January 1993.  Officer of
                               ADM Corn Processing Division
                               since 1988.

           Stephen H. Yu       Vice President from January 1996.
                               Managing Director of ADM
                               Asia-Pacific, Ltd., from 1993.
                               Various merchandising positions
                               with Continental Grain Company
                               from 1986.

           Officers of the registrant are elected by the Board
           of Directors for terms of one year and until their
           successors are duly elected and qualified.

           Lowell W. Andreas and Dwayne O. Andreas, directors
           of the registrant, are brothers.  Michael D. Andreas
           is the son of Dwayne O. Andreas.  G. Allen Andreas
           and Martin L. Andreas are nephews of Dwayne O.
           Andreas and Lowell W. Andreas.  Charles P. Archer is
           the son of S. M. Archer, Jr., a director of the
           registrant.
          PAGE 13
Item 2. PROPERTIES

        (a)    Processing Facilities

        The Company owns, leases, or has a 50% or greater
        interest in the following processing plants:

                   United
                   States         Foreign        Total

______________________________________________
       Owned       127             47            174
       Leased        3              -              3
       Joint Venture59             22             81
                   ___             __            ___
                   189             69            258
                   ===             ==            ===

        The Company's operations are such that most products
        are efficiently processed near the source of raw
        materials.  Consequently, the Company has many plants
        located strategically in grain producing areas.  The
        annual volume processed will vary depending upon
        availability of raw material and demand for the
        finished products.

        The Company operates thirty-three domestic and seven
        foreign oilseed crushing plants with a daily processing
        capacity of approximately 82,000 tons.  The domestic
        plants are located in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia,
        Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota,
        Missouri, Mississippi, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio,
        South Carolina, Tennessee and Texas.  The foreign
        plants are located in Canada, England, Germany and the
        Netherlands.

        The Company operates four wet corn milling and two dry
        corn milling plants with a daily grind capacity of
        approximately 1,600,000 bushels. These plants and other
        related properties, including corn germ extraction and
        corn gluten pellet plants, are located in Illinois,
        Iowa, New York and North Dakota.  The Company also has
        interests, through joint ventures, in corn milling
        plants in Mexico, Bulgaria, Hungary, Slovakia and
        Turkey.

        The Company operates twenty-nine domestic wheat and
        durum flour mills, a domestic bulgur plant, six
        Canadian flour mills and one flour mill each in Belize
        and Barbados with a total daily capacity of
        approximately 346,000 cwt. of flour. The Company also
        operates three corn flour mills, two milo mills, two
        pasta plants and two starch and gluten plants. These
        plants and other related properties are strategically
        located across North America in California, Illinois,
        Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Minnesota,
        Missouri, Nebraska, New York, North Carolina, Oklahoma,
        Oregon, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, Washington,
        Wisconsin, Canada, Barbados and Belize.  The Company
        also has an interest, through a joint venture, in rice
        milling plants in Arkansas and Louisiana.
          PAGE 14
Item 2. PROPERTIES--Continued

        The Company operates ten domestic oilseed refineries in
        Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Georgia, Nebraska, Tennessee
        and Texas as well as seven foreign refineries in
        England, Canada, Germany and the Netherlands.  The
        Company has an interest, through a joint venture, in an
        oilseed refinery in Texas.  The Company produces
        packaged oils in Georgia, Illinois, California and
        Germany and soy protein specialty products in Illinois
        and the Netherlands.  Lecithin products are produced in
        Illinois, Iowa, Nebraska, Canada, Germany and the
        Netherlands. Cotton linter pulp is produced in
        Tennessee and cottonseed flour is produced in Texas.

        The Company produces feed and food additives at eight
        bioproduct plants located in Illinois, North Carolina
        and Ireland.  The Company also operates formula feed,
        animal health and nutrition and pet food plants in
        Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Ohio, Texas, Washington,
        Canada, England, Ireland, Barbados, Belize, China and
        Puerto Rico.  The Company also has interests, through
        joint ventures, in formula feed and pet food plants in
        Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Indiana,
        Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, Ohio,
        Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Vermont, Wisconsin, Canada,
        Puerto Rico and Trinidad.

        The Company operates five North American barley malting
        plants located in Illinois, Minnesota, Wisconsin and
        Canada.

        The Company operates various other food ingredient
        plants in Iowa, Kansas, Nebraska, Washington, Germany,
        England and France.

        (b)    Procurement Facilities

        The Company operates one hundred sixty-eight domestic
        terminal, country and river elevators covering the
        Midwest, West and South Central states, including one
        hundred five country elevators and sixty-three terminal
        and river loading facilities including three grain
        export elevators in Louisiana.  Elevators are located
        in Colorado, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas,
        Louisiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska,
        North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee and
        Texas.  Domestic grain terminals, elevators and
        processing plants have an aggregate storage capacity of
        approximately 372,000,000 bushels. The Company has an
        interest, through a joint venture, in sixteen grain
        terminals and elevators located in Illinois, Indiana,
        Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan and Ohio. The Company also
        operates twelve foreign grain elevators in Barbados,
        Canada, Ireland and Germany.  Thirteen cotton gins are
        located in Texas and serve the cottonseed crushing
        plants in that area.
          PAGE 15
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

        In 1993, the State of Illinois Environmental Protection
        Agency brought administrative enforcement proceedings
        arising out of the Company's failure to obtain permits
        for certain pollution control equipment at certain of
        the Company's processing facilities in Illinois.  The
        Company believes it has meritorious defenses.  In
        management's opinion these proceedings will not, either
        individually or in the aggregate, have a material
        adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or
        results of operations.

        The Company is involved in approximately 24
        administrative and judicial proceedings in which it has
        been identified as a potentially responsible party
        (PRP) under the federal Superfund law and its state
        analogs for the study and clean-up of sites
        contaminated by material discharged into the
        environment.  In all of these matters, there are
        numerous PRPs.  Due to various factors such as the
        required level of remediation and participation in the
        clean-up effort by others, the Company's future clean-
        up costs at these sites cannot be reasonably estimated.
        However, in management's opinion these proceedings will
        not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a
        material adverse effect on the Company's financial
        condition or results of operations.

        The Company is the target of an investigation being
        conducted by a grand jury in the Northern District of
        Illinois into possible violations of federal antitrust
        laws and related crimes in the food additives industry.
        This investigation in Chicago is focused on antitrust
        violations with respect to lysine.  A federal grand
        jury in San Francisco is investigating antitrust
        violations with respect to citric acid and a federal
        grand jury in Atlanta is investigating antitrust
        violations with respect to high fructose corn syrup.
        The Company and two of its executive officers - Michael
        D. Andreas and Terrance S. Wilson - have been informed
        that they are targets of the lysine investigation and
        indictments are being considered against them.

        Following public announcement in June 1995 of the
        investigation, the Company and certain of its directors
        and executive officers were named as defendants in at
        least seventeen putative class action suits on behalf
        of all purchasers of securities of the Company during
        the period between certain dates in 1992 and 1995.
        Fourteen of these suits were consolidated under the
        name In Re Archer-Daniels-Midland Company Securities
        Litigation, United States District Court, Northern
        District of Illinois, Civil Action No. 95-C-3979, and a
        consolidated complaint was filed on September 22, 1995.
        The consolidated complaint alleges that the defendants
        made material misrepresentations and omissions with
        respect to the Company and its operations and with
        respect to actions of the Company and its officers
        regarding  antitrust violations, as a result of which
        market prices of the Company's securities were
        artificially inflated during the putative class period.
        The consolidated complaint alleges that the conduct
        complained of violates federal securities laws. The
        plaintiffs request unspecified compensatory damages,
        costs (including attorneys and expert fees), expenses
        and other unspecified relief on behalf of the putative
        class. On October 31, 1995, the Court granted the
        defendants' motion to transfer the consolidated action
        to the Central District of Illinois (wherein it now
        bears the caption E. M. Lawrence Limited Frozen
        Retirement Trust Dated September 1, 1992, et al. v.
        Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Case Number 95-
        2287) where it was further consolidated with three
        similar actions also pending in the Central District.
        The Company and the
        individual defendants have moved to dismiss this
        consolidated complaint. On September 27, 1996 the
        Company entered into an agreement with counsel for the
        plaintiff class in which among other things, the
        Company agreed to pay $30 million to members of the
        class, without admitting the alleged violations of law.
        Formal papers seeking court approval of the settlement
        are expected to be filed soon.
        PAGE 16
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS--Continued

        The Company, along with other companies, has been named
        as a defendant in at least twenty-nine putative class
        action antitrust suits involving the sale of high
        fructose corn syrup. At least twenty-two of those
        actions allege violations of federal antitrust laws,
        including allegations that the defendants agreed to
        fix, stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels
        the prices of high fructose corn syrup, and seek
        injunctions against continued alleged illegal conduct,
        treble damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees
        and costs, and other unspecified relief. The putative
        classes in these cases comprise certain direct
        purchasers of high fructose corn syrup during certain
        periods in the 1990s. One such action was filed on July
        21, 1995 in the United States District Court for the
        Northern District of Alabama and is encaptioned Golden
        Eagle, Inc. v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al.,
        Civil Action No. 95-B-1888-J. This and other similar
        actions have been transferred to the United States
        District Court for the Central District of Illinois and
        consolidated under the caption In Re High Fructose Corn
        Syrup Antitrust Litigation, MDL No. 1087 and Master
        File No. 95-1477. The Company, along with other
        companies, also has been named as a defendant in at
        least six putative class action antitrust suits filed
        in California state court and at least one putative
        class action antitrust suit filed in Alabama state
        court involving the sale of high fructose corn syrup.
        The California actions allege violations of the
        California antitrust and unfair competition laws,
        including allegations that the defendants agreed to
        fix, stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels
        the prices of high fructose corn syrup, and seek treble
        damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and
        costs, restitution and other unspecified relief. Two of
        the California putative classes comprise certain direct
        purchasers of high fructose corn syrup in the State of
        California during certain periods in the 1990s. One
        such action was filed on October 17, 1995 in Superior
        Court for the County of Stanislaus, California and
        encaptioned St. Stan's Brewing Co. v Archer-Daniels-
        Midland Co. et al., Civil Action No. 37237. The other
        four California putative classes comprise certain
        indirect purchasers of high fructose corn syrup in the
        State of California during certain periods in the
        1990s. One such action was filed on July 21, 1995 in
        the Superior Court of the County of Los Angeles,
        California and is encaptioned Borgeson v. Archer-
        Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. BC131940.
        The Alabama action alleges violations of the Alabama,
        Michigan and Minnesota antitrust laws, including
        allegations that defendants agreed to fix, stabilize
        and maintain at artificially high levels the prices of
        high fructose corn syrup, and seeks an injunction
        against continued illegal conduct, damages of an
        unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs, and other
        unspecified relief. The putative class in the Alabama
        action comprises certain indirect purchasers in
        Alabama, Michigan and
        Minnesota during the period March 18, 1994 to March 18,
        1996. This action was filed on March 18, 1996 in the
        Circuit Court of Coosa
        County, Alabama, and is encaptioned Caldwell v. Archer-
        Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 96-17.

        PAGE 17
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS--Continued

        The Company was named as a defendant in at least
        seventeen putative class action antitrust suits
        involving the sale of lysine. Six of these actions
        allege violations of federal antitrust laws, including
        allegations that certain entities agreed to fix,
        stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels the
        price of lysine, and seek injunctions against continued
        alleged illegal conduct, treble damages of an
        unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs, and other
        unspecified relief. The putative classes in these cases
        comprise certain direct purchasers of lysine for
        certain periods in the 1990s. One such action was filed
        on August 9, 1995 in the United States District for the
        Northern District of Illinois and is encaptioned K&L
        Feeds v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., Civil Action No.
        95-C-4587. This and other similar actions have been
        transferred to the United States District Court for the
        Northern District of Illinois and consolidated as In Re
        Amino Acid Lysine Antitrust Litigation, MDL No. 1083
        and Master File No. 95-7679. On April 4, 1996, the
        Company executed a settlement agreement with counsel
        for the plaintiff class in which, among other things,
        the Company agreed to pay $25 million to members of the
        class, without admitting the alleged violations of law.
        This settlement agreement has been approved by the
        court and certain objectors to the settlement have
        appealed the final order of approval to the United
        States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.  The
        Company also has been named as a defendant in at least
        one non-class action federal antitrust suit involving
        the sale of lysine. This action was filed on November
        13, 1995 in the United States District Court for the
        Eastern District of Missouri and is encaptioned Purina
        Mills, Inc., et al. v Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., Civil
        Action No. 95-CV-2227. It alleges violations of federal
        antitrust laws, including allegations that certain
        entities agreed to fix, stabilize and maintain at
        artificially high levels the price of lysine, and seeks
        an injunction against continued alleged illegal
        conduct, treble damages of an unspecified amount,
        attorneys fees and costs, and other unspecified relief.
        The Company also has been named as a defendant in at
        least six putative class action antitrust suits filed
        in California state court, at least two putative class
        action antitrust suits filed in Alabama state court, at
        least two putative class action antitrust suits filed
        in Minnesota state court, at least one putative class
        action antitrust suit filed in Georgia state court and
        at least one putative class action antitrust suit filed
        in Tennessee state court involving the sale of lysine.
        The California actions allege violations of the
        California antitrust and unfair competition laws,
        including allegations that the defendants agreed to
        fix, stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels
        the prices of lysine, and
        seek treble damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys
        fees and costs, restitution and other unspecified
        relief. The putative classes in the California actions
        comprise certain indirect purchasers of lysine in the
        State of California during certain periods in the
        1990s. One such action was filed on September 29, 1995
        in the Superior Court of the County of San Diego,
        California, and is encaptioned Equine Competition
        Products, Inc. v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., Civil
        Action No. 693014. The Company has entered into an
        agreement with counsel for the indirect purchasers
        class in which among other things, the Company agreed
        to pay $500,000 to members of the class, without
        admitting the alleged violations of law.  This
        settlement received preliminary court approval on
        September 20 and will be mailed to class members for a
        final hearing on November 21, 1996. The Alabama actions
        allege violations of the Alabama antitrust laws,
        including  allegations that the defendants agreed to
        fix, stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels
        the prices of lysine, and seek an injunction against
        continued alleged illegal conduct, damages of an
        unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs, and other
        unspecified relief. The putative classes in the Alabama
        actions comprise certain indirect purchasers of lysine
        in the State of Alabama during certain periods in the
        1990s. One such action was filed on August 17, 1995 in
        the Circuit Court of DeKalb County, Alabama, and is
        encaptioned Ashley v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et
        al., Civil Action No. 95-336. One Minnesota action
        alleges violations of the Minnesota, Tennessee,
        Wisconsin, South Dakota, North Dakota, Kansas,
        Louisiana, Michigan and Maine antitrust laws, including
        allegations that defendants conspired to maintain the
        price of lysine at artificially high levels, and seeks
        treble damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees
        and costs, and other unspecified relief. The putative
        class in this action comprises certain indirect
        purchasers in the aforementioned states of lysine
        during the period June 1, 1992 through April 19, 1996.
        This action was filed on April 10, 1996 in the District
        Court for Renville County, Minnesota and is encaptioned
        Big Valley Milling, Inc. v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co.,
        et al., No. C7-96-260. The other Minnesota action,
        encaptioned, United Mills v. Archer-Daniels-Midland
        Co., et al., No. 65-C2-96-215, and filed in the same
        court, seeks identical relief on behalf of certain
        indirect purchasers of lysine in all of the
        aforementioned states except Tennessee. The Georgia
        action, encaptioned Long v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co.,
        et al., Civil Action No. E-43829, and filed in Fulton
        County Superior Court, alleges a restraint of trade in
        violation of Georgia common law and the Georgia state
        RICO act. This action includes allegations that the
        defendants conspired to maintain the price of lysine at
        artificially high levels and seeks an injunction
        against continued illegal conduct, treble damages of an
        unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs, and other
        unspecified relief. The putative class in the action
        comprises certain indirect purchasers of lysine in the
        state of Georgia during the period January 1, 1990
        until the present. The Company has moved to dismiss
        this action. The Tennessee action, encaptioned
        McCormack Farms v. Archer Daniels Midland Co., et al.,
        Civil Action No. 96C-2190, and filed in Davidson County
        Circuit Court, alleges a restraint of trade in
        violation of the Tennessee Trade Practices Act and
        Tennessee Consumer Protection Act. This action includes
        allegations that defendants conspired to fix, maintain
        or stabilize the prices of lysine and seeks an
        injunction against continued illegal conduct, treble
        damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys' fees and
        costs, and other unspecified relief. The putative class
        in this case comprises certain indirect purchasers of
        lysine within the State of Tennessee during the period
        June 10, 1992 through June 10, 1996.
        PAGE 18
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS--Continued
        The Company, along with other companies, has been named
        as a defendant in at least nine putative class action
        antitrust suits involving the sale of citric acid. Six
        of these actions allege violations of federal antitrust
        laws, including allegations that the defendants agreed
        to fix, stabilize and maintain at artificially high
        levels the prices of citric acid, and seek injunctions
        against continued alleged illegal conduct, treble
        damages of an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and
        costs, and other unspecified relief. The putative
        classes in these cases comprise certain direct
        purchasers of citric acid for certain periods in the
        1990s. One such action was filed on August 18, 1995, in
        the United States District Court for the Northern
        District of California, and is encaptioned 7-Up
        Bottling Co. of Philadelphia, Inc. v. Archer-Daniels-
        Midland Co., et al, Civil Action No. 95-2963. Other
        similar actions have been transferred to this same
        court and consolidated as In Re Citric Acid Antitrust
        Litigation, MDL No. 1092, Master File No. C-95-2963FMS.
        On September 27, 1996 the Company entered into an
        agreement with counsel for the plaintiff class in which
        among other things, the Company agreed to pay $35
        million to members of the class, without admitting the
        alleged violations of law.  Formal papers seeking court
        approval of the settlement are expected to be filed
        soon. The Company, along with other companies, also has
        been named as a defendant in at least one putative
        class action antitrust suit filed in Alabama state
        court involving the sale of citric acid. This action
        alleges violations of the Alabama antitrust laws,
        including allegations that the defendants agreed to
        fix, stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels
        the prices of citric acid, and seeks an injunction
        against continued alleged illegal conduct, damages of
        an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs, and
        other unspecified relief. The putative class in the
        Alabama action comprises certain indirect purchasers of
        citric acid in the State of Alabama from July 1993
        until July 1995. This action was filed on July 27, 1995
        in the Circuit Court of Walker County, Alabama and is
        encaptioned Seven Up Bottling Co. of Jasper, Inc. v.
        Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 95-
        436.  The Company has moved to dismiss this action.
        The Company, along with other companies, also has been
        named as a defendant in at least two putative class
        action antitrust suits filed in California state court
        involving the sale of citric acid. These actions allege
        violations of the California antitrust and unfair
        competition laws, including allegations that the
        defendants conspired to fix, maintain or stabilize the
        price of citric acid, and seek injunctions against
        continued illegal conduct, treble damages of an
        unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs, and other
        unspecified relief. The putative classes in these cases
        comprise certain indirect purchasers of citric acid
        within the State of California during certain periods
        in the 1990s. One such action was filed on June 12,
        1996 in the Superior Court of the County of Los
        Angeles, California and is encaptioned Bianco v. Archer
        Daniels Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 978912.
        PAGE 19
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS--Continued

        The Company, along with other companies, has been named
        as a defendant in at least six putative class action
        antitrust suits involving the sale of both high
        fructose corn syrup and citric acid. Two of these
        actions allege violations of the California antitrust
        and unfair competition laws, including allegations that
        the defendants agreed to fix, stabilize and maintain at
        artificially high levels the prices of high fructose
        corn syrup and citric acid, and seek treble damages of
        an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs,
        restitution and other unspecified relief. The putative
        class in one of these California cases comprises
        certain direct purchasers of high fructose corn syrup
        and citric acid in the State of California during the
        period January 1, 1992 until at least October 1995.
        This action was filed on October 11, 1995 in the
        Superior Court of Stanislaus County, California and is
        entitled Gangi Bros. Packing Co. v. Archer-Daniels-
        Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 37217. The
        putative class in the other California case comprises
        certain indirect purchasers of high fructose corn syrup
        and citric acid in the state of California during the
        period October 12, 1991 until November 20, 1995. This
        action was filed on November 20, 1995 in the Superior
        Court of San Francisco County and is encaptioned MCFH,
        Inc. v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil
        Action No. 974120. The Company, along with other
        companies, also has been named as a defendant in at
        least one putative class action antitrust suit filed in
        West Virginia state court involving the sale of high
        fructose corn syrup and citric acid. This action
        alleges violations of the West Virginia antitrust laws,
        including allegations that the defendants agreed to
        fix, stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels
        the prices of high fructose corn syrup and citric acid,
        and seeks treble damages of an unspecified amount,
        attorneys fees and costs, and other unspecified relief.
        The putative class in the West Virginia action
        comprises certain entities within the State of West
        Virginia that purchased products containing high
        fructose corn syrup and/or citric acid for resale from
        at least 1992 until 1994. This action was filed on
        October 26, 1995, in the Circuit Court for Boone
        County, West Virginia, and is encaptioned Freda's v.
        Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 95-
        C-125. The Company, along with other companies, also
        has been named as defendant in at least one putative
        class action antitrust suit filed in Michigan state
        court involving the sale of high fructose corn syrup
        and citric acid. This action alleges violations of the
        Michigan antitrust laws, including allegations that the
        defendants agreed to fix, stabilize and maintain at
        artificially high levels the prices of high fructose
        corn syrup and citric acid, and seeks treble damages of
        an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs, and
        other unspecified relief. The putative class in the
        Michigan action comprises certain persons within the
        State of Michigan that purchased products containing
        high fructose corn syrup and/or citric acid during the
        period January 1992 through February 26, 1996. This
        action was filed on February 26, 1996 in the Circuit
        Court for Ingham County, Michigan, and is encaptioned
        Wilcox v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil
        Action No. 96-82473-CF. The Company, along with other
        companies, also has been named as a
        defendant in at least one putative class action
        antitrust suit filed in the Superior Court for the
        District of Columbia involving the sale of high
        fructose corn syrup and citric acid. This action
        alleges violations of the District of Columbia
        antitrust laws, including allegations that the
        defendants agreed to fix, stabilize and maintain at
        artificially high levels the prices of high fructose
        corn syrup and citric acid, and seeks treble damages of
        an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs, and
        other unspecified relief. The putative class in the
        District of Columbia action comprises certain persons
        within the District of Columbia that purchased products
        containing high fructose corn syrup and/or citric acid
        during the period January 1, 1992 through December 31,
        1994. This action was filed on April 12, 1996 in the
        Superior Court for the District of Columbia, and is
        encaptioned Holder v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et
        al., Civil Action No. 96-2975. The Company, along with
        other companies, has been named as a defendant in at
        least one putative class action antitrust suit filed in
        Kansas state court involving the sale of high fructose
        corn syrup and citric acid. This action alleges
        violations of the Kansas antitrust laws, including
        allegations that the defendants agreed to fix,
        stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels the
        prices of high fructose corn syrup and citric acid, and
        seeks treble damages of an unspecified amount, court
        costs and other unspecified relief. The putative class
        in the Kansas action comprises certain persons within
        the State of Kansas that purchased products containing
        high fructose corn syrup and/or citric acid during at
        least the period January 1, 1992 through December 31,
        1994. This action was filed on May 7, 1996 in the
        District Court of Wyandotte County, Kansas and is
        encaptioned Waugh v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et
        al., Case No. 96-C-2029.
        PAGE 20
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS--Continued

        The Company, along with other companies, also has been
        named as a defendant in at least six putative class
        action antitrust suits filed in California state court
        involving the sale of high fructose corn syrup, citric
        acid and/or lysine.  These actions allege violations of
        the California antitrust and unfair competition laws,
        including allegations that the defendants agreed to
        fix, stabilize and maintain at artificially high levels
        the prices of high fructose corn syrup, citric acid
        and/or lysine, and seek treble damages of an
        unspecified amount, attorneys fees and costs,
        restitution and other unspecified relief. One of the
        putative classes comprises certain direct purchasers of
        high fructose corn syrup, citric acid and/or lysine in
        the State of California during a certain period in the
        1990s. This action was filed on December 18, 1995 in
        the Superior Court for Stanislaus County, California
        and is encaptioned Nu Laid Foods, Inc. v. Archer-
        Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 39693.
        The other five putative classes comprise certain
        indirect purchasers of high fructose corn syrup, citric
        acid and/or lysine in the State of California during
        certain periods in the 1990s. One such action was filed
        on December 14, 1995 in the Superior Court for
        Stanislaus County, California and is encaptioned Batson
        v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No.
        39680.

        Also following the public announcement of the grand
        jury investigation in June 1995, three shareholder
        derivative suits were filed against certain of the
        Company's directors and executive officers and
        nominally against the Company in the United States
        District Court for the Northern District of Illinois
        and at least fourteen similar shareholder derivative
        suits were filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery. The
        derivative suits filed in federal court in Illinois
        were consolidated under the name Felzen, et al. v.
        Andreas, et al., Civil Action No. 95-C-4006, 95-C-4535,
        and a consolidated amended derivative complaint was
        filed on September 29, 1995. This complaint names all
        current directors of the Company (except Mr. Coan) and
        one former director as defendants and names the Company
        as a nominal defendant. It alleges breach of fiduciary
        duty, waste of corporate assets, abuse of control and
        gross mismanagement, based on the antitrust allegations
        described above as well as other alleged wrongdoing. On
        October 31, 1995, the Court granted the defendants'
        motion to transfer the Illinois consolidated derivative
        action to the Central District of Illinois, wherein it
        now bears the case number 95-2279. On April 26, 1996,
        the court dismissed the suit without prejudice and
        permitted the plaintiffs twenty-one days to refile it.
        The plaintiffs refiled the complaint on May 17, 1996.
        The defendants again moved to dismiss the complaint on
        June 7, 1996.
        PAGE 21
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS--Continued

        The Company and its directors also have been named as
        defendants in a putative class action suit encaptioned
        Loudon v. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., et al., Civil
        Action No. 14638, filed in the Delaware Court of
        Chancery on October 20, 1995. This action alleges
        violations of Delaware state law and seeks invalidation
        of the election of the Company's directors on the basis
        of alleged omissions from the proxy statement issued by
        the Company prior to its October 19, 1995 annual
        meeting. The Court of Chancery dismissed this action on
        February 20, 1996, and the case is now on appeal in the
        Supreme Court of Delaware. The Company and its
        directors also have been named as defendants in a
        similar suit filed on November 1, 1995 in the United
        States District Court for the Central District of
        Illinois, and encaptioned Buckley v. Archer-Daniels-
        Midland Co., et al., Civil Action No. 95-C-2269,
        alleging violations of analogous provisions of federal
        securities law. The defendants moved to dismiss this
        action. The Court granted the motion to dismiss on June
        6, 1996, and the case is now on appeal.

        The Company and the individual defendants named in the
        actions described above intend to vigorously defend
        them unless they can be settled on terms deemed
        acceptable to the parties.

        The Company from time to time, in the ordinary course
        of business, is named as a defendant in various other
        lawsuits.  In management's opinion, the gross liability
        from such other lawsuits, including environmental
        exposure, with or without insurance recoveries is not
        considered to be material to the Company's financial
        condition or results of operations.

Item 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

       None.

PART II

Item 5.MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
       STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

       Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
       "Common Stock Market Prices and Dividends" of the annual
       shareholders' report for the year ended June 30, 1996
       and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

       Information responsive to this Item is set forth in the
       "Ten-Year Summary of Operating, Financial and Other
       Data" of the annual shareholders' report for the year
       ended June 30, 1996 and is incorporated herein by
       reference.
       PAGE 22
Item 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
       CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

       Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
       "Management's Discussion of Operations and Financial
       Condition" of the annual shareholders' report for the
       year ended June 30, 1996 and is incorporated herein by
       reference.

Item 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

       The following financial statements and supplementary
       data included in the annual shareholders' report for the
       year ended June 30, 1996 are incorporated herein by
       reference:

       Consolidated balance sheets--June 30, 1996 and 1995
       Consolidated statements of earnings--Years ended
        June 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994
       Consolidated statements of shareholders' equity--Years
ended
        June 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994
       Consolidated statements of cash flows--Years ended
        June 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994
       Notes to consolidated financial statements--June 30, 1996
       Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
       Report of Independent Auditors
       Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

       Recent Developments:
       See Item 3 of this Form 10-K report for an update of
       recent developments related to the antitrust
       investigation and related litigation including the
       Company's agreement to settle a consolidated securities
       class action lawsuit for $30 million and a class action
       lawsuit involving the sale of citric acid for $35
       million.


Item 9.CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
       ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

       None.

PART III

Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

       Information with respect to directors and executive
       officers is set forth in "Election of Directors" and
       "Rule 405 Disclosure" of the definitive proxy statement
       for 1996 and is incorporated herein by reference.
       Certain information with respect to executive officers
       is included in Item 1 (e) of this report.



Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

       Information responsive to this Item is set forth
       in "Executive Compensation" and "Salary and Stock
       Option Committee's Report" of the definitive
       proxy statement for 1996 and is incorporated
       herein by reference.
       PAGE 23
Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
MANAGEMENT

       Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
       "Principal Holders of Voting Securities" of the
       definitive proxy statement for 1996 and is incorporated
       herein by reference.

Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

       Information responsive to this Item is set forth in
       "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" of the
       definitive proxy statement for 1996 and is incorporated
       herein by reference.

PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
FORM 8-K

             (a)(1)    The following consolidated financial
             statements and other financial data of the
             registrant and its subsidiaries, included in the
             annual report of the registrant to its
             shareholders for the year ended June 30, 1996, are
             incorporated by reference in Item 8, and are also
             incorporated herein by reference:

             Consolidated balance sheets--June 30, 1996 and 1995

             Consolidated statements of earnings--Years ended
               June 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994

             Consolidated statements of shareholders' equity--
               Years ended June 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994

             Consolidated statements of cash flows--Years ended
               June 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994

             Notes to consolidated financial statements--June
30,

             Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

             Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

             (a)(2)    Schedules are not applicable and
             therefore not included in this report.

                 Financial statements of affiliates accounted
             for by the equity method have been omitted because
             they do not, considered individually, constitute
             significant subsidiaries.



       (a)(3) LIST OF EXHIBITS

              (3)Composite Certificate of Incorporation and
             Bylaws filed on November 7, 1986 as Exhibits 3(a)
             and 3(b), respectively, to Post Effective
             Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form
             S-3, Registration No. 33-6721, are incorporated
             herein by reference.
       PAGE 24
Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
FORM 8-K
       --Continued

              (4)Instruments defining the rights of security
             holders, including:

                                   (i)  Indenture dated May 15,
                    1981, between the registrant and Morgan
                    Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as
                    Trustee (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 4(b) to Amendment No. 1 to
                    Registration Statement No. 2-71862),
                    relating to the $250,000,000 - 7% Debentures
                    due May 15, 2011;

                                   (ii) Indenture dated May 1,
                    1982, between the registrant and Morgan
                    Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as
                    Trustee (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 4(c) to Registration Statement No. 2-
                    77368), relating to the $400,000,000 Zero
                    Coupon Debentures due May 1, 2002;

                                   (iii)     Indenture dated as
                    of March 1, 1984 between the registrant and
                    Chemical Bank, as Trustee (incorporated by
                    reference to Exhibit 4 to the registrant's
                    Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 3,
                    1984 (File No. 1-44)), as supplemented by
                    the Supplemental Indenture dated as of
                    January 9, 1986, between the registrant and
                    Chemical Bank, as Trustee (incorporated by
                    reference to Exhibit 4 to the registrant's
                    Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 9,
                    1986 (File No. 1-44)), relating to the
                    $100,000,000 - 10 1/4% Debentures due
                    January 15, 2006;

                                   (iv) Indenture dated June 1,
                    1986 between the registrant and Chemical
                    Bank, (as successor to Manufacturers Hanover
                    Trust Company), as Trustee (incorporated by
                    reference to Exhibit 4(a) to Registration
                    Statement No. 33-6721), and Supplemental
                    Indenture dated as of August 1, 1989 between
                    the registrant and Chemical Bank (as
                    successor to Manufacturers Hanover Trust
                    Company), as Trustee (incorporated by
                    reference to Exhibit 4(c) to Post-Effective
                    Amendment No. 3 to Registration Statement
                    No. 33-6721), relating to the $300,000,000
                    -  8 7/8% Debentures due April 15, 2011, the
                    $300,000,000  -  8 3/8% Debentures due April
                    15, 2017, the $300,000,000 - 8 1/8%
                    Debentures due June 1, 2012, the
                    $250,000,000 - 6 1/4% Notes due May 15,
                    2003, and the $250,000,000  -  7 1/8%
                    Debentures due  March 1, 2013.
       PAGE 25
Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
FORM 8-K
       --Continued
                                        Copies of constituent
                    instruments defining rights of holders of
                    long-term debt of the Company and
                    Subsidiaries, other than the Indentures
                    specified herein, are not filed herewith,
                    pursuant to Instruction (b)(4) (iii)(A) to
                    Item 601 of Regulation S-K, because the
                    total amount of securities authorized under
                    any such instrument does not exceed 10% of
                    the total assets of the Company and
                    Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.  The
                    registrant hereby agrees that it will, upon
                    request by the Commission, furnish to the
                    Commission a copy of each such instrument.

                    (10) Material Contracts--Copies of the
               Company's stock option plans and its savings and
               investment plans, pursuant to Instruction
               (10)(iii)(A) to Item 601 of Regulation S-K, are
               incorporated herein by reference as follows:

                                   (i)  Registration Statement
                    No. 2-91811 on Form S-8 dated June 22, 1984
                    (definitive Prospectus dated July 16, 1984)
                    relating to the Archer Daniels Midland 1982
                    Incentive Stock Option Plan.

                                   (ii) Registration Statement
                    No. 33-49409 on Form S-8 dated March 15,
                    1993 relating to the Archer Daniels Midland
                    1991 Incentive Stock Option Plan and Archer
                    Daniels Midland Company Savings and
                    Investment Plan.

                                   (iii)     Registration
                    Statement No. 33-58387 on Form S-8 dated
                    April 3, 1995 relating to the ADM Savings
                    and Investment Plan for Salaried Employees
                    and the ADM Savings and Investment Plan for
                    Hourly Employees.

                    (13) Portions of annual report to
               shareholders incorporated by reference

          (21) Subsidiaries of the registrant

          (23) Consent of independent auditors

          (24) Powers of attorney

          (27) Financial Data Schedule

       (b)   Reports on Form 8-K

                 A Form 8-K was filed on April 16, 1996 to
             report information pertaining to the Company's
             participation in an agreement to settle the
             federal class action lawsuits filed against
             several companies involving the sale of lysine.
     PAGE 26

                           SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  September 30, 1996

                               ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY


                              /s/ R. P. Reising
                              R. P. Reising
                              Vice President, Secretary
                              and General Counsel


                              /s/ D. J. Schmalz
                              D. J. Schmalz
                              Vice President and
                              Chief Financial Officer



                              /s/ S. R. Mills
                              S. R. Mills
                              Controller

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below on September 30, 1996,
by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in
the capacities indicated.

D. O. Andreas*, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive and
Director
               (Principal Executive Officer)
L. W. Andreas*, Director
M. D. Andreas*, Director
M. L. Andreas*, Director
Ralph Bruce*, Director
G. O. Coan*, Director
J. H. Daniels*, Director
R. A. Goldberg*, Director
F. R. Johnson*, Director
J. R. Randall*, Director
Mrs. N. A. Rockefeller*, Director
R. S. Strauss*, Director
J. K. Vanier*, Director
O. G. Webb*, Director



                                        D. J. Smith
                                        Attorney-in-Fact

*Powers of Attorney authorizing R. P. Reising, D. J. Schmalz and
D. J. Smith and each of them, to sign the Form 10-K on behalf of
the above-named officers and directors of the Company are being
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.




