Item 1.  Business.



Introduction



We are a leading international beverage alcohol company with many of our products recognized as leaders in their respective categories and geographic markets.  We are the third-largest producer and marketer of beer for the U.S. market and the world’s leading premium wine company with a leading market position in the U.S. and Canada.  Our wine portfolio is complemented by select premium spirits brands and other select beverage alcohol products.  We are the largest multi-category supplier (beer, wine and spirits) (“Multi-category Supplier”) of beverage alcohol in the U.S.  Our strong market positions make us a supplier of choice to many of our customers, who include wholesale distributors, retailers, on-premise locations and government alcohol beverage control agencies.



The Company is a Delaware corporation incorporated on December 4, 1972, as the successor to a business founded in 1945.  We have approximately9,000employees located primarily in the U.S., Canada and Mexico, with our corporate headquarters located in Victor, New York.  We conduct our business through entities we wholly own as well as through a variety of joint ventures and other entities.



Strategy



Certain key industry trends during the past decade have impacted our activities, results and strategy.  These include:



•consolidation of suppliers, wholesalers and retailers;

•high-end beer (primarily imported and craft) growing faster than total beer in the U.S.;

•an increase in North American wine consumption, with premium wines growing faster than value-priced wines; and

•volume of premium spirits growing faster than value-priced spirits in the U.S.



To capitalize on these trends, become more competitive and grow our business, we have generally employed a strategy focused on a combination of organic growth and acquisitions, with an increasing focus on the higher-growth, higher-margin premium categories of the beverage alcohol industry.  Key elements of our strategy include:



•leveraging our existing portfolio of leading brands;

•developing new products, new packaging and line extensions;

•strengthening relationships with wholesalers and retailers;

•expanding distribution of our product portfolio;

•enhancing and expanding production capabilities;

•realizing operating efficiencies and synergies; and

•maximizing asset utilization.



We completed the Beer Business Acquisition to solidify our position in the U.S. beer market over the long-term; diversify our profit base and enhance our margins, results of operations and cash flow; and provide new avenues for growth.  We enhanced our position in the high-end beer segment with the acquisition of Ballast Point, a highly-awarded craft brewer, which provides us with a high-growth premium platform to compete in the fast-growing craft beer category.  We have also acquired higher-margin premium and above wine growth brands as part of our efforts to increase our mix of premium brands, improve margins and create operating efficiencies.



For further information on our strategy, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“MD&A”).











Investments and Acquisitions



As part of our strategy to improve margins, enhance production capabilities and keep an increased focus on the higher-margin premium categories of the beverage alcohol industry, we have completed, or are in the process of completing, the following investments and acquisitions:

NamePeriodPrisoner acquisitionPendingBallast Point acquisitionDecember 2015Meiomi acquisitionAugust 2015Glass production plant acquisition through joint venture with Owens-IllinoisDecember 2014Casa Noble acquisitionSeptember 2014Beer Business AcquisitionJune 2013Mark West acquisitionJuly 2012Ruffino acquisitionOctober 2011



Pending Prisoner Acquisition



The pending acquisition of this portfolio of five fast-growing, higher-margin, super-luxury wine brands will complement our existing portfolio and strengthen our position in the super-luxury wine category.



Ballast Point Acquisition



The acquisition of this major, craft beer brewer has provided a high-growth premium platform that will allow us to compete in the fast-growing, craft beer category and further strengthen our position in the high-end of the U.S. beer market.



Meiomi Acquisition



The acquisition of this fast-growing, higher-margin, luxury brand has complemented our existing portfolio and further strengthened our position in the U.S. pinot noir category.



Glass Production Plant Acquisition



The formation of an equally-owned joint venture with Owens-Illinois, the world’s largest glass container manufacturer, and the acquisition of a state-of-the-art glass production plant that is located adjacent to our Nava Brewery in Mexico has solidified our long-term glass sourcing strategy under favorable terms.



Casa Noble Acquisition



The acquisition of this fast-growing, higher-margin, super-premium tequila brand has complemented our Mexican beer portfolio and has further strengthened both our on and off-premise presence as tequila and Mexican beer share similar target consumers and drinking occasions.  In addition, Casa Noble fits well into our existing wine and spirits distribution infrastructure.



Beer Business Acquisition



The acquisition of Modelo’s U.S. beer business included the remaining 50% interest in Crown Imports, which provides us with complete, independent control of our U.S. commercial beer business; the state-of-the-art Nava Brewery; and exclusive perpetual brand rights to import, market and sell Corona and the other Mexican Beer Brands in the U.S. market.  The transaction solidified our position in the U.S. beer market for the long term and made us the third-largest brewer and seller of beer for the U.S. market.  Combining this with our strong position in wine and spirits positions us as the largest Multi-category Supplier of beverage alcohol in the U.S.











Mark West



The acquisition of this higher-margin, premium wine growth brand has complemented our existing portfolio and further strengthened our position in the U.S. pinot noir category.



Ruffino



The acquisition of the remaining equity interest in this business has solidified our position in the Italian premium wine category in the U.S. and Canada.



For further information about ourFiscal 2016,Fiscal 2015andFiscal 2014transactions, refer to (i)  MD&A and (ii)  Note2of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Notes to the Financial Statements”).



Business Segments



We report our operating results in three segments:  (i)  Beer, (ii)  Wine and Spirits, and (iii)  Corporate Operations and Other.  The business segments reflect how our operations are managed, how resources are allocated, how operating performance is evaluated by senior management and the structure of our internal financial reporting.  We report net sales in two reportable segments, as follows:

For the Year EndedFebruary 29, 2016% of Total Segment Net SalesFor the Year EndedFebruary 28, 2015% of Total Segment Net SalesFor the Year EndedFebruary 28, 2014% of Total Segment Net Sales(in millions)Beer$3,622.655.3%$3,188.652.9%$2,835.649.9%Wine and Spirits:Wine2,591.439.6%2,523.441.9%2,554.245.0%Spirits334.45.1%316.05.2%291.35.1%Total Wine and Spirits2,925.844.7%2,839.447.1%2,845.550.1%Consolidation and Eliminations——(813.4)Consolidated Net Sales$6,548.4$6,028.0$4,867.7



Beer



We are the leader in the high-end segment of the U.S. beer market.  We sell a number of brands in the import and craft beer categories.



Within the imported beer category, we have the exclusive right to import, market and sell these Mexican Beer Brands in all 50 states of the U.S.:



•Corona Extra

•Corona Light

•Modelo Especial

•Pacifico

•Negra Modelo

•Victoria



In the U.S., we have five of the top-selling 15 imported beer brands.  Corona Extra is the best-selling imported beer and the fifth best-selling beer overall in the U.S.; Corona Light is the leading imported light beer; and Modelo Especial is the second-largest and one of the fastest-growing major imported beer brands.  During Fiscal 2014, we introduced Modelo Especial Chelada, a blend of beer with flavors of tomato, salt and lime, to further









capitalize on the strength of this growing brand.  Additionally, we are continuing efforts focused on increasing sales penetration of products in can and draft package formats.



Our craft beer products are primarily sold under the Ballast Point brand, which is one of the fastest-growing major craft brands in the U.S. beer market.  Ballast Point producesmore than 40 different styles of beer, led by its popular Sculpin IPA and Grapefruit Sculpin IPA.



The current capacity of our Nava Brewery is 15 million hectoliters, which includes completion of the first 5 million hectoliters of our previously-announced Nava Brewery capacity expansion.  We intend to expand the Nava Brewery’s capacity by an additional 12.5 million hectoliters to 27.5 million hectoliters of capacity with (i)  5 million hectoliters expected to be completed by June 2016, (ii)  5 million hectoliters expected to be completed by summer of calendar 2017 and (iii)  2.5 million hectoliters expected to be completed by early calendar 2018.



In January 2016, we announced details related to the construction of a new, state-of-the-art brewery in Mexicali, Baja California, Mexico (the “Mexicali Brewery”), located near California, which is our largest beer market in the U.S.  Initially, the Mexicali Brewery will be built to provide 10 million hectoliters production capacity with the ability to scale to 20 million hectoliters in the future.  We expect to complete construction of the 10 million hectoliters production capacity by calendar year-end 2020, with the first 5 million hectoliters production capacity expected to be completed by calendar year-end 2019.



Total spend related to these brewery capacity expansion activities, as well as expansion activities at the glass plant facility adjacent to the Nava Brewery (collectively, the “Mexico Beer Expansion Projects”), is estimated to be approximately $4.5 billion through fiscal 2021.  In total, we have invested approximately $1.5 billion for the Mexico Beer Expansion Projects, with approximately $775 million during Fiscal 2016 and the remainder during Fiscal 2015 and Fiscal 2014.



Prior to the Beer Business Acquisition, we and Modelo, indirectly, each had an equal interest in Crown Imports, which had the exclusive right to import, market and sell the Mexican Beer Brands.



Wine and Spirits



We are the world’s leading producer and marketer of premium wine.  We sell a large number of wine brands across all categories – table wine, sparkling wine and dessert wine –and across all price points – popular, premium and luxury categories, primarily within the $5 to $25 U.S. retail price range –and we have a leading market position in the U.S. and Canada.  Our portfolio of premium and luxury wines is supported by vineyard holdings in the U.S., Canada, New Zealand and Italy.  Our top premium spirits brands have leading positions in their respective categories.



Our wine produced in the U.S. is primarily marketed domestically and in Canada.  Wine produced in Canada is primarily marketed domestically.  Wine produced in New Zealand and Italy is primarily marketed in the U.S. and Canada.  In addition, we export our wine products to other major world markets.



In our spirits business, SVEDKA Vodka is imported from Sweden and is the largest imported vodka brand in the U.S.  Black Velvet Canadian Whisky is the second-largest Canadian whisky brand in the U.S.



In the U.S., we sell 16 of the top-selling 100 table wine brands and are a leading premium wine company.  Some of our well-known wine and spirits brands sold in the U.S., which comprise our U.S. Focus Brands (“Focus Brands”), include:

Wine BrandsSpirits BrandsBlack BoxKim CrawfordRuffinoSVEDKA VodkaClos du BoisMark WestSavedEstanciaMeiomiSimiFranciscan EstateMount VeederThe Dreaming TreeInniskillinRobert MondaviWild Horse











We dedicate a large share of sales and marketing resources to these brands as they represent a majority of our U.S. wine and spirits revenue and profitability, and generally have strong positions in their respective price categories.  Within the Focus Brands, we have been increasing brand building support behind certain key brands which we believe collectively provide the best opportunity for growth and operating margin enhancement for our wine and spirits business.  These brands include Black Box, Kim Crawford, Mark West, Meiomi, Robert Mondavi, Ruffino, SVEDKA Vodka and The Dreaming Tree.



We have been increasing resources in support of product innovation as we believe this is one of the key drivers of overall beverage alcohol category growth.  In wine, we have launched varietal line extensions behind many of our focus brands and introduced newer brands like Ravage and Tom Gore Vineyards.  In spirits, we have been introducing flavor extensions for SVEDKA Vodka and Paul Masson Brandy.



In Canada, we are the leading wine company and have eight of the top-selling 25 table wine brands.  In this market, Jackson-Triggs is the top-selling wine brand and Inniskillin is the leading icewine brand.  In addition to our domestic brands, we are targeting to increase our import brand presence in this market with offerings like Robert Mondavi, Kim Crawford and Ruffino.



Corporate Operations and Other



The Corporate Operations and Other segment includes traditional corporate-related items including executive management, corporate development, corporate finance, human resources, internal audit, investor relations, legal, public relations and information technology.



Further information regarding net sales, operating income and total assets of each of our business segments and information regarding geographic areas is set forth in Note20of the Notes to the Financial Statements.



Marketing and Distribution



To focus on their respective product categories, build brand equity and increase sales, our segments employ full-time, in-house marketing, sales and customer service functions.  These functions engage in a range of marketing activities and strategies, including market research, consumer and trade advertising, price promotions, point-of-sale materials, event sponsorship, on-premise promotions and public relations.  Where opportunities exist, particularly with national accounts in the U.S., we leverage our sales and marketing skills across the organization.



In North America, our products are primarily distributed by wholesale distributors, with separate distribution networks utilized for our beer portfolio and our wine and spirits portfolio, as well as state and provincial alcohol beverage control agencies.  As is the case with all other beverage alcohol companies, products sold through these agencies are subject to obtaining and maintaining listings to sell our products in that agency’s state or province.  State and provincial governments can affect prices paid by consumers of our products through the imposition of taxes or, in states and provinces in which the government acts as the distributor of our products through an alcohol beverage control agency, by directly setting the retail prices.



Trademarks and Distribution Agreements



Trademarks are an important aspect of our business.  We sell products under a number of trademarks, which we own or use under license.  Throughout our segments, we also have various licenses and distribution agreements for the sale, or the production and sale, of our products and products of third parties.  These licenses and distribution agreements have varying terms and durations.



Prior to the Beer Business Acquisition, all of our imported beer products were imported, marketed and sold through Crown Imports.  Crown Imports had entered into exclusive importation agreements with the suppliers of the imported beer products and had an exclusive sub-license to use certain trademarks related to the Mexican Beer Brands in the U.S. and Guam pursuant to a renewable sub-license agreement between Crown Imports and Marcas









Modelo, S.A. de C.V.  As a result of the Beer Business Acquisition, our sub-license agreement for the exclusive use of the trademarks for our Mexican Beer Brands is now perpetual.



Competition



The beverage alcohol industry is highly competitive.  We compete on the basis of quality, price, brand recognition and distribution strength.  Our beverage alcohol products compete with other alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages for consumer purchases, as well as shelf space in retail stores, restaurant presence and wholesaler attention.  We compete with numerous multinational producers and distributors of beverage alcohol products, some of which have greater resources than we do.  Our principal competitors include:

BeerAnheuser-Busch InBev, MillerCoors, Heineken, Pabst Brewing Company, The Boston Beer CompanyWineU.S.E&J Gallo Winery, The Wine Group, Trinchero Family Estates, Treasury Wine Estates, Ste. Michelle Wine Estates, Deutsch Family Wine & Spirits, Jackson Family WinesCanadaAndrew Peller, Treasury Wine Estates, E&J Gallo Winery, Kruger Wines and Spirits, Pernod RicardSpiritsDiageo, Beam Suntory, Brown-Forman, Sazerac Company, Pernod Ricard



Production



For Fiscal 2016, approximately 50% of our Mexican Beer Brands requirements were produced by our Nava Brewery, which is located in Mexico, approximately 10 miles from the Texas border.  The current capacity of the Nava Brewery is 15 million hectoliters and is expected to reach 20 million hectoliters by June 2016.  In total, we intend to expand the Nava Brewery’s capacity to 27.5 million hectoliters, with the subsequent Nava Brewery expansions from 20 million hectoliters to 27.5 million hectoliters targeted to be completed by early calendar 2018.



To meet our beer supply requirements above the current Nava Brewery capacity, we entered into a three-year interim supply agreement with Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV (“ABI”) in June 2013.  This agreement also provides for up to two one-year extensions.  However, the United States, acting through the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice (“DOJ”), has a right of approval, in its sole discretion, of any extension of the term of this interim supply agreement beyond three years.



While we remain on track with the Nava Brewery expansion activity, we have extended the interim supply agreement through June 2017 in order to support the robust growth levels of our Mexican beer portfolio and continue a smooth transition as we ramp up incremental capacity.



Additionally, the initial construction of the Mexicali Brewery to provide 10 million hectoliters of production capacity is targeted to be completed by calendar year-end 2020, with the first 5 million hectoliters targeted to be completed by calendar year-end 2019.



We currently operate four facilities in the greater San Diego, California area that produce our Ballast Point brand, including Miramar, which serves as the primary production site for the brand.  This facility was built in 2014 and may be expanded to accommodate future growth.



In the U.S., we operate19wineries using many varieties of grapes grown principally in the Napa, Sonoma, Monterey and San Joaquin regions of California.  We also operateeightwineries in Canada,fourwineries in New Zealand andfivewineries in Italy.  Grapes are crushed at most of our wineries and stored as wine until packaged for sale under our brand names or sold in bulk.  The inventories of wine are usually at their highest levels during and after the crush of each year’s grape harvest, and are reduced prior to the subsequent year’s crush.  Wine inventories are usually at their highest levels in September through November in the U.S., Canada and Italy, and in March through May in New Zealand.











Our Canadian whisky requirements are produced and aged at our Canadian distillery in Lethbridge, Alberta.  Our requirements for grains and bulk spirits used in the production of Canadian whisky are purchased from various suppliers.



Sources and Availability of Production Materials



The principal components in the production of our craft and Mexican Beer Brands include water; agricultural products, such as malt, hops, yeast and corn starch; and packaging materials, which include glass, aluminum and cardboard.



For our Mexican Beer Brands, packaging materials represent the largest cost component of production, with glass bottles representing the largest cost component of our packaging materials.  InFiscal 2016, the package format mix of our Mexican beer volume sold in the U.S. was 74% glass bottles, 24% aluminum cans and 2% in stainless steel kegs.



The Nava Brewery receives allotments of water originating from a mountain aquifer.  We believe we have adequate access to water allotments to support the Nava Brewery’s on-going and future requirements after completing the Nava Brewery expansion.  In connection with the Beer Business Acquisition, we entered into a transition services agreement with ABI for the supply of materials needed to produce and package beer for varying periods up to 36 months from the date of the acquisition.  Investments and efforts to establish stand-alone procurement systems and independent supply arrangements for the beer business operations have essentially been completed.



As part of our efforts to solidify our beer glass sourcing strategy over the long-term, we formed an equally-owned joint venture with Owens-Illinois, the world’s largest glass container manufacturer.  The joint venture acquired a state-of-the-art glass production plant that is located adjacent to our Nava Brewery in Mexico, in December 2014.  The glass plant currently has one operational glass furnace and the joint venture intends to scale it to four furnaces by early calendar 2018.  When fully operational with four furnaces, the glass plant is expected to supply approximately 50% of our glass requirements for the Nava Brewery.  We also entered into long-term glass supply agreements with other glass producers during Fiscal 2015.



The principal components in the production of our wine and spirits products are agricultural products, such as grapes and grain, and packaging materials (primarily glass).



Most of our annual grape requirements are satisfied by purchases from each year’s harvest which normally begins in August and runs through October in the U.S., Canada and Italy, and begins in February and runs through May in New Zealand.  We receive grapes from approximately960independent growers in the U.S. and approximately220independent growers located primarily in Canada and New Zealand.  We enter into purchase agreements with a majority of these growers with pricing that generally varies year-to-year and is generally based on then-current market prices.



As ofFebruary 29, 2016, we owned or leased approximately21,700acres of land and vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, primarily in the U.S., Canada, New Zealand and Italy.  This acreage supplies only a small percentage of our overall total grape needs for wine production.  However, most of this acreage is used to supply a large portion of the grapes used for the production of certain of our higher-end wines.  We continue to consider the purchase or lease of additional vineyards, and additional land for vineyard plantings, to supplement our grape supply.



We believe that we have adequate sources of grape supplies to meet our sales expectations.  However, when demand for certain wine products exceeds expectations, we look to source the extra requirements from the bulk wine markets around the world.



The distilled spirits manufactured and imported by us require various agricultural products, neutral grain spirits and bulk spirits which we fulfill through purchases from various sources by contractual arrangement and through purchases on the open market.  We believe that adequate supplies of the aforementioned products are available at the present time.











We utilize glass and polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) bottles and other materials such as caps, corks, capsules, labels, wine bags and cardboard cartons in the bottling and packaging of our wine and spirits products.  After grape purchases, glass bottle costs are the largest component of our cost of product sold.  In the U.S. and Canada, the glass bottle industry is highly concentrated with only a small number of producers.  We have traditionally obtained, and continue to obtain, our glass requirements from a limited number of producers under long-term supply arrangements.  Currently, one producer supplies most of our glass container requirements for our U.S. operations and a portion of our glass container requirements for our Canadian operations, with the remaining portion for our Canadian operations supplied by another producer.  We have been able to satisfy our requirements with respect to the foregoing and consider our sources of supply to be adequate at this time.



Government Regulation



We are subject to a range of laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate.  Where we produce products, we are subject to environmental laws and regulations, and may be required to obtain environmental and alcohol beverage permits and licenses to operate our facilities.  Where we market and sell products, we may be subject to laws and regulations on brand registration, packaging and labeling, distribution methods and relationships, pricing and price changes, sales promotions, advertising and public relations.  We are also subject to rules and regulations relating to changes in officers or directors, ownership or control.



We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable governmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate.  We also believe that the cost of administration and compliance with, and liability under, such laws and regulations does not have, and is not expected to have, a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.



Seasonality



The beverage alcohol industry is subject to seasonality in each major category.  As a result, in response to wholesaler and retailer demand which precedes consumer purchases, our beer sales are typically highest during the first and second quarters of our fiscal year, which correspond to the Spring and Summer periods in the U.S.  Our wine and spirits sales are typically highest during the third quarter of our fiscal year, primarily due to seasonal holiday buying.



Employees



As of the end of March 2016, we had approximately9,000employees.  Approximately4,100employees were in the U.S. and approximately4,900employees were outside of the U.S., primarily in Canada and Mexico.  We may employ additional workers during the grape crushing seasons.  We consider our employee relations generally to be good.



Executive Officers of the Company



Information with respect to our current executive officers is as follows:

NAMEAGEOFFICE OR POSITION HELDRichard Sands65Chairman of the BoardRobert Sands57President and Chief Executive OfficerWilliam F. Hackett64Executive Vice President and Chairman, Beer DivisionF. Paul Hetterich53Executive Vice President and President, Beer DivisionThomas M. Kane55Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources OfficerDavid Klein52Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThomas J. Mullin64Executive Vice President and General CounselWilliam A. Newlands57Executive Vice President and President, Wine & Spirits DivisionJohn A. (Jay) Wright57Executive Vice President and President, Canadian Business











Richard Sands, Ph.D., is the Chairman of the Board of the Company.  He has been employed by the Company in various capacities since 1979.  He has served as a director since 1982. In September 1999, Mr. Sands was elected Chairman of the Board.  He served as Chief Executive Officer from October 1993 to July 2007, as Executive Vice President from 1982 to May 1986, as President from May 1986 to December 2002 and as Chief Operating Officer from May 1986 to October 1993.  He is the brother of Robert Sands.



Robert Sandsis President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.  He was appointed Chief Executive Officer in July 2007 and appointed as President in December 2002.  He has served as a director since January 1990.  Mr. Sands also served as Chief Operating Officer from December 2002 to July 2007, as Group President from April 2000 through December 2002, as Chief Executive Officer, International from December 1998 through April 2000, as Executive Vice President from October 1993 through April 2000, as General Counsel from June 1986 through May 2000 and as Vice President from June 1990 through October 1993.  He is the brother of Richard Sands.



William F. Hacketthas served as an Executive Vice President of the Company since June 2013.  Since January 2016 he has performed the role of Chairman, Beer Division and from June 2013 through January 2016 he performed the role of President, Beer Division.  Crown Imports LLC was previously owned 50% by the Company, and as a result of the Beer Business Acquisition, it is now a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the Company.  Mr. Hackett is also Chairman of Crown Imports LLC since January 2016 and before that he served as President of Crown Imports LLC from January 2007 through January 2016.  Prior to that, he was President of Barton Beers, Ltd. (a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the Company now known as Constellation Beers Ltd.) having served in that role from 1993 until January 2007.  Prior to that, Mr. Hackett held several increasingly senior positions in Barton Beers, Ltd., having joined that company in 1984.



F. Paul Hetterichhas been an Executive Vice President of the Company since June 2003.  Since January 2016 Mr. Hetterich has performed the role of President, Beer Division and President of Crown Imports LLC, a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the Company.  From January 2015 through January 2016 he performed the role of Executive Vice President, Corporate Development & Beer Operations.  From June 2011 until January 2015 he served as Executive Vice President, Business Development and Corporate Strategy, from July 2009 until June 2011 he served as Executive Vice President, Business Development, Corporate Strategy and International and from June 2003 until July 2009 he served as Executive Vice President, Business Development and Corporate Strategy.  From April 2001 to June 2003 Mr. Hetterich served as the Company’s Senior Vice President, Corporate Development.  Prior to that, Mr. Hetterich held several increasingly senior positions in the Company’s marketing and business development groups.  Mr. Hetterich has been with the Company since 1986.



Thomas M. Kanejoined the Company in May 2013 as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer.  Mr. Kane previously served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Government Relations of Armstrong World Industries, Inc., a global producer of flooring products and ceiling systems, from February 2012 to May 2013, he served as its Senior Vice President, Human Resources from August 2010 to February 2012 and served as its Chief Compliance Officer from February 2011 to February 2012.  Prior to that, Mr. Kane served as Global Vice President, Human Resources for Black & Decker Power Tools, a manufacturer of power and hand tools, from 2002 to 2010.  From 1999 to 2002 Mr. Kane served as Global HR leader of GE Specialty Materials, a large manufacturer of silicone products.



David Kleinhas been the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since June 2015.  Prior to that, Mr. Klein served as the Company’s Senior Vice President Finance - Beer Division, having held that position from May 2014 until June 2015.  He served as the Company’s Senior Vice President and Treasurer from April 2009 to July 2014 and assumed the additional responsibilities of Controller in October 2013, also serving in that role to July 2014.  From March 2007 to March 2009 Mr. Klein served as chief financial officer for the Company’s former United Kingdom operations.  Mr. Klein joined the Company in 2004 as Vice President of Business Development.



Thomas J. Mullinjoined the Company as Executive Vice President and General Counsel in May 2000.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Mullin served as President and Chief Executive Officer of TD Waterhouse Bank, NA, a national banking association, since February 2000, of CT USA, F.S.B. since September 1998 and of CT USA,









Inc. since March 1997.  He also served as Executive Vice President, Business Development and Corporate Strategy of C.T. Financial Services, Inc. from March 1997 through February 2000.  From 1985 through 1997 Mr. Mullin served as Vice Chairman and Senior Executive Vice President of First Federal Savings and Loan Association of Rochester, New York and from 1982 through 1985 he was a partner in the law firm of Phillips Lytle LLP.



William A. Newlandshas been an Executive Vice President of the Company since he joined in January 2015.  Since January 2016 he has performed the role of President, Wine & Spirits Division and from January 2015 through January 2016 he performed the role of Chief Growth Officer.  Mr. Newlands served from October 2011 until August 2014 as Senior Vice President and President, North America of Beam Inc., as Senior Vice President and President, North America of Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. from December 2010 to October 2011 and as Senior Vice President and President, USA of Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. from February 2008 to December 2010.  Beam Inc., a producer and seller of branded distilled spirits products, merged with a subsidiary of Suntory Holding Limited, a Japanese company, in 2014.  Prior to October 2011, Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. was the spirits operating segment of Fortune Brands, Inc., which was a leading consumer products company that made and sold branded consumer products worldwide in the distilled spirits, home and security, and golf markets.



John A. (Jay) Wrighthas performed the role of the Company’s Executive Vice President and President, Canadian Business since January 2016.  From June 2013 through January 2016 he was the Company’s Executive Vice President and President, Wine & Spirits Division.  He served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company from June 2011 to June 2013 and served as President of the Company’s wholly-owned direct subsidiary Constellation Brands U.S. Operations, Inc. (formerly known as Constellation Wines U.S., Inc.) from December 2009 through January 2016.  Additionally, from December 2009 until June 2011 he served as President, Constellation Wines North America.  Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer of Constellation Wines U.S., Inc. from March 2009 until December 2009.  Mr. Wright joined the Company in June 2006 with the Company’s acquisition of Vincor International Inc. (now known as Constellation Brands Canada, Inc.)  Mr. Wright served as President of Vincor International Inc. from June 2006 until March 2009 and, prior to that, as President and Chief Operating Officer of Vincor International Inc.’s Canadian Wine Division from October 2001 until June 2006.  Before that, he held various positions of increasing responsibility with various other consumer project companies.



Executive officers of the Company are generally chosen or elected to their positions annually and hold office until the earlier of their removal or resignation or until their successors are chosen and qualified.



Company Information



Our Internet website is http://www.cbrands.com.  Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are accessible free of charge at http://www.cbrands.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.  The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as ourselves, that file electronically with the SEC.  The Internet address of the SEC’s site is http://www.sec.gov.  Also, the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-732-0330.



We have adopted a Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics that specifically applies to our chief executive officer, our principal financial officer and our controller, and is available on our Internet site.  This Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics meets the requirements as set forth in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Item 406 of Regulation S-K.



We also have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all employees, directors and officers, including each person who is subject to the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics.  The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on our Internet website, together with our Global Code of Responsible Practices for Beverage Alcohol Advertising and Marketing, our Board of Directors Corporate









Governance Guidelines and the Charters of the Board’s Audit Committee, Human Resources Committee (which serves as the Board’s compensation committee) and Corporate Governance Committee (which serves as the Board’s nominating committee).  All of these materials are accessible on our Internet website at http://www.cbrands.com/investors/corporate-governance.  Amendments to, and waivers granted to our directors and executive officers under our codes of ethics, if any, will be posted in this area of our website.  Copies of these materials are available in print to any shareholder who requests them.  Shareholders should direct such requests in writing to Investor Relations Department, Constellation Brands, Inc., 207 High Point Drive, Building 100, Victor, New York 14564, or by telephoning our Investor Center at 1-888-922-2150.



The information regarding our website and its content is for your convenience only.  The content of our website is not deemed to be incorporated by reference in this report or filed with the SEC.







