Item 1.Business.

Introduction

Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Company,” “we,” “our,” or “us” refer
to
Constellation Brands, Inc. and its subsidiaries, and all references to “net sales” refer to gross
sales less promotions, returns and allowances, and excise taxes to conform with the Company’s
method of classification. All references to “Fiscal 2010,” “Fiscal 2009,” and “Fiscal 2008” refer
to the Company’s fiscal year ended the last day of February of the indicated year. All references
to “Fiscal 2011” refer to the Company’s fiscal year ending February 28, 2011.

Market positions and industry data discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are as of
calendar 2009 and have been obtained or derived from industry and government publications and
Company estimates. The industry and government publications include: Beverage Information Group;
Impact Databank Review and Forecast; SymphonyIRI Group; Nielsen; Beer Marketer’s Insights;
Euromonitor International; International Wine and Spirit Record; Association for Canadian Distillers; and AZTEC.
The Company has not independently verified the data from the industry and government publications.
Unless otherwise noted, all references to market positions are based on equivalent unit volume.

The Company is a Delaware corporation incorporated on December 4, 1972, as the successor to a
business founded in 1945.  The Company has approximately 6,000 employees located throughout the
world and the corporate headquarters are located in Victor, New York. The Company conducts its
business through entities it wholly owns as well as through a variety of joint ventures with
various other entities, both within and outside the United States
(“U.S.”).

The Company is the world’s leading wine company with a leading market position in each of its
core markets, which include the U.S., Canada, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”),
Australia and New Zealand. The Company’s wine portfolio is complemented by select premium spirits
brands and other select beverage alcohol products.

The Company is the leading marketer of imported beer in the U.S. through its investment in
Crown Imports, a joint venture with Grupo Modelo, S.A.B. de C.V. (“Modelo”) pursuant to which
Modelo’s Mexican beer portfolio (the “Modelo Brands”) are imported, marketed and sold by the joint
venture in the U.S. along with certain other imported brands.

Many of the Company’s products are recognized leaders in their respective categories and
geographic markets. The Company’s strong market positions make the Company a supplier of choice to
many of its customers, who include wholesale distributors, retailers, on-premise locations and
government alcohol beverage control agencies.

The Company’s net sales by product category are summarized as follows:

For the YearFor the YearEndedEndedFebruary 28,% ofFebruary 28,% of2010Total2009Total(in millions)Branded wine$2,928.087%$3,015.383%Spirits223.97%418.711%Other212.96%220.66%Consolidated Net Sales$3,364.8100%$3,654.6100%





The Company’s geographic markets include North America (primarily the U.S. and Canada),
Europe (primarily the U.K.) and Australia/New Zealand (primarily Australia and New Zealand). Net
sales for spirits occurred in the North America market (primarily the U.S.). Branded wine net
sales by geographic area (based on the location of the selling company) are summarized as follows:

For the YearFor the YearEndedEndedFebruary 28,% ofFebruary 28,% of2010Total2009Total(in millions)North America$2,069.871%$2,154.772%Europe504.917%521.317%Australia/New Zealand353.312%339.311%Consolidated Net Sales$2,928.0100%$3,015.3100%

During the past 10 years, there have been certain key trends within the beverage alcohol
industry, which include:

•Consolidation of suppliers, wholesalers and retailers;•An increase in global wine consumption, with premium wines growing faster than
value-priced wines; and•In the U.S. within the beer category, high-end beer (imports and crafts) growing
faster than domestic beer.

To capitalize on these trends and become more competitive, the Company has generally employed
a strategy focused on a combination of organic growth, acquisitions and investments in joint
ventures, with an increasing focus on the higher-margin premium categories of the beverage alcohol
industry. Key elements of the Company’s strategy include:

•Leveraging its existing portfolio of leading brands;•Developing new products, new packaging and line extensions;•Strengthening relationships with wholesalers and retailers;•Expanding distribution of its product portfolio;•Enhancing production capabilities;•Realizing operating efficiencies and synergies; and•Maximizing asset utilization.

Over the last three fiscal years, the Company has complemented this strategy by divesting
certain businesses, brands, and assets as part of its efforts to increase its mix of premium
brands, improve margins, create operating efficiencies and reduce debt.

A challenging global economic environment contributed to some slowing of premium wine industry
growth during the calendar 2008 and the first half of calendar 2009.  Premium wine industry growth
began to show improvement in the second half of calendar 2009 and the Company believes consumers
will continue to trade up to premium wines over the long-term.

Recent Divestitures, Acquisitions and Equity Method Investments

In January 2010, the Company sold its U.K. cider business for £45.0 million
($73.2 million), net of direct costs to sell, subject to post-closing adjustments. This
transaction is part of the Company’s continued focus on higher-margin premium brands and efforts to
simplify and improve its international operations.





In March 2009, as part of its strategic focus on higher-margin premium brands in its
portfolio, the Company sold its value spirits business for $336.4 million, net of direct costs to
sell. The Company received $276.4 million, net of direct costs to sell, in cash proceeds and a
note receivable for $60.0 million. Subsequent to February 28, 2010, the Company received full
payment of the note receivable. The Company retained the SVEDKA Vodka and Black Velvet Canadian
Whisky premium spirit brands, which have marketplace scale and higher margins than the value
spirits brands that were sold. To achieve synergies and operating efficiencies, these brands were
consolidated into the Company’s North American wine operations
during Fiscal 2010.

In June 2008, the Company sold certain businesses consisting of several California wineries
and wine brands that had been acquired as part of the December 2007 acquisition of the Fortune
Brands U.S. wine business, as well as certain wineries and wine brands from the states of
Washington and Idaho (collectively, the “Pacific Northwest Business”) for cash proceeds of $204.2
million, net of direct costs to sell. This transaction contributed to the Company’s streamlining
of its U.S. wine portfolio by eliminating brand duplication and
reducing excess production capacity.

In February 2008, as part of ongoing efforts to increase focus on premium wine offerings in
the U.S., the Company sold its lower margin popular-priced wine brands, Almaden and Inglenook, and
certain other assets for cash proceeds of $133.5 million, net of direct costs to sell.

In December 2007, the Company acquired the Fortune Brands U.S. wine business, which includes
wineries and vineyards in California and produces, markets and sells super-premium and fine wines
including Clos du Bois and Wild Horse. This transaction expanded the Company’s portfolio of
super-premium plus wine brands and strengthened its position as the leading premium wine company in
the U.S.

In April 2007, the Company along with Punch Taverns plc (“Punch”), a leading pub company in
the U.K., commenced operations of Matthew Clark, a joint venture which owns and operates the U.K.
wholesale business formerly owned entirely by the Company (“Matthew Clark”). The Company and
Punch, directly or indirectly, each have a 50% voting and economic interest in Matthew Clark. On
April 17, 2007, the Company discontinued consolidation of the U.K. wholesale business and began
accounting for its investment in Matthew Clark under the equity method. Matthew Clark is the
leading independent (non-brewery-owned) drinks wholesaler to the on-premise trade in the U.K.,
providing a full range of beverage alcohol and soft drinks. The Company leverages Matthew Clark as
a strategic route-to-market for its branded product portfolio.

In March 2007, the Company acquired the SVEDKA Vodka brand (“SVEDKA”) and related business.
SVEDKA is produced in Sweden, and has become the fastest growing major premium spirits brand and
the fourth largest vodka brand in the U.S.

For more information about these transactions, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operation” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Business Segments

As a result of the Company’s divestiture of its value spirits business and the integration of
the retained spirits brands into the Constellation Wines business, the Company changed its internal
management financial reporting to consist of two business divisions: Constellation Wines and Crown
Imports. Accordingly, the Company now reports its operating results in three segments:
Constellation Wines (branded wine, spirits and other), Corporate Operations and Other, and Crown
Imports (imported beer). Prior to the divestiture of the value spirits business, the Company’s
internal management financial reporting included the Constellation Spirits business division. The
business segments, described more fully below, reflect how the Company’s operations are managed,
how operating performance within the Company is evaluated by senior management and the structure of
its internal financial reporting.





Information regarding net sales, operating income and total assets of each of the Company’s
business segments and information regarding geographic areas is set forth in Note 24 to the
Company’s consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Constellation Wines

Constellation Wines is the leading producer and marketer of wine in the world. It sells a
large number of wine brands across all categories – table wine, sparkling wine and dessert wine –
and across all price points – popular, premium, super-premium and fine wine. The portfolio of
super-premium and fine wines is supported by vineyard holdings in the U.S., Canada, Australia and
New Zealand. Constellation Wines is a leading producer and marketer of wine in the U.S., Canada,
Australia and New Zealand and the leading marketer of wine in the U.K. Wine produced by the
Company in the U.S. is primarily marketed domestically and in the U.K. and Canada. Wine produced
in Australia and New Zealand is primarily marketed domestically and in the U.S., Canada and U.K.,
while wine produced in Canada is primarily marketed domestically. In addition, Constellation Wines
exports its wine products to other major wine consuming markets of the world.

In the U.S., Constellation Wines sells 16 of the top-selling 100 table wine brands and is the
leading premium wine company. In Canada, it has wine across all price points, and has seven of the
top-selling 25 table wine brands and the leading icewine brand with Inniskillin. It has five of
the top-selling 25 table wine brands in the U.K. In Australia, it has wine brands across all price
points and varieties, and has five of the top-selling 25 wine brands and is the leading producer of
cask (box) wines.

Constellation Wines’ well-known wine brands include Robert Mondavi Brands, Franciscan Estate,
Wild Horse, Simi, Toasted Head, Estancia, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Ravenswood, Black Box,
Vendange, Arbor Mist, Inniskillin, Kim Crawford, Ruffino, Nobilo, Jackson-Triggs, Alice White,
Hardys, Banrock Station, Stowells, and Kumala. Constellation Wines also produces and sells Paul
Masson Grande Amber Brandy, a leading brand in the brandy/cognac category.

As discussed above, the SVEDKA and Black Velvet Canadian Whisky premium spirit brands, which
have a leading position in their respective categories, were consolidated into the Company’s North
American wine operations during Fiscal 2010.

In April 2007, the Company, along with Punch, completed the formation of the Matthew Clark
joint venture. Matthew Clark is a drinks wholesaler servicing on-premise trade accounts and
distributes wine, distilled spirits, cider, beer, RTDs and soft drinks. Those products include
Constellation Wines’ branded wine and products produced by other major drinks companies.

Constellation Wines is also a leading producer and marketer of wine kits and beverage alcohol
refreshment drinks in Canada.

In conjunction with its wine production, Constellation Wines produces and sells bulk wine and
other related products and services.





Crown Imports

In January 2007, the Company completed the formation of the Crown Imports joint venture with
Modelo. The Company and Modelo indirectly each have an equal interest in Crown Imports, which has
the exclusive right to import, market and sell the Modelo Brands, which include Corona Extra,
Corona Light, Coronita, Modelo Especial, Pacifico and Negra Modelo, as well as the St. Pauli Girl
and Tsingtao brands in all 50 states of the U.S. In the U.S., Crown Imports has six of the
top-selling 25 imported beer brands. Corona Extra is the best-selling imported beer and the sixth
best-selling beer overall and Corona Light is the leading imported light beer, while St. Pauli Girl
is the number two selling German Beer and Tsingtao is the number one selling Chinese Beer.

Prior to January 2007, the Company had the exclusive right to import, market and sell Modelo’s
Mexican beer portfolio in 25 primarily western U.S. states and was the exclusive U.S. national
importer, marketer and seller of the Tsingtao and St. Pauli Girl brands. After completing the
formation of Crown Imports, the Company discontinued consolidation of the imported beer business
and accounts for its investment in Crown Imports under the equity method.

Corporate Operations and Other

The Corporate Operations and Other segment includes traditional corporate-related items
including executive management, corporate development, corporate finance, human resources, internal
audit, investor relations, legal, public relations, global information technology and global supply
chain.

Marketing and Distribution

The Company’s segments employ full-time, in-house marketing, sales and customer service
organizations to maintain a high degree of focus on their respective product categories. The
organizations use a range of marketing strategies and tactics designed to build brand equity and
increase sales, including market research, consumer and trade advertising, price promotions,
point-of-sale materials, event sponsorship, on-premise promotions and public relations. Where
opportunities exist, particularly with national accounts in the U.S., the Company leverages its
sales and marketing skills across the organization and segments.

In North America, the Company’s products are primarily distributed by wholesale distributors
as well as state and provincial alcoholic beverage control agencies. As is the case with all other
beverage alcohol companies, products sold through state or provincial alcoholic beverage control
agencies are subject to obtaining and maintaining listings to sell the Company’s products in that
agency’s state or province. State and provincial governments can affect prices paid by consumers
of the Company’s products. This is possible either through the imposition of taxes or, in states
and provinces in which the government acts as the distributor of the Company’s products through an
alcohol beverage control agency, by directly setting retail prices for the Company’s products.

In the U.K., the Company’s products are distributed either directly to retailers or through
wholesalers and importers. Matthew Clark sells and distributes the Company’s branded products and
those of other major drinks companies to on-premise locations through a network of depots located
throughout the U.K. In Australia, New Zealand and other markets, the Company’s products are
primarily distributed either directly to retailers or through wholesalers and importers. In the
U.K., Australia and New Zealand, the distribution channels are dominated by a small number of
industry leaders.





Trademarks and Distribution Agreements

Trademarks are an important aspect of the Company’s business. The Company sells its products
under a number of trademarks, which the Company owns or uses under license. Throughout its
segments, the Company also has various licenses and distribution agreements for the sale, or the
production and sale, of its products and products of third parties. These licenses and
distribution agreements have varying terms and durations. At the end of the Company’s year
ended February 28, 2010, these agreements included, among others, a long-term license agreement
with the B. Manischewitz Company, which expires in 2042, for the Manischewitz brand, a distribution
and license agreement with Ruffino S.r.l. that expires in 2014 for the Ruffino brand, and a
distribution, importation and license agreement with Baron Phillippe Rothschild that expires in
December 2010 for the Mouton Cadet brand.

All of the Company’s imported beer products are imported, marketed and sold through Crown
Imports. Crown Imports has entered into exclusive importation agreements with the suppliers of the
imported beer products. These agreements have terms that vary and prohibit Crown Imports from
importing beer products from other producers from the same country. Crown Imports’ Mexican beer
portfolio, the Modelo Brands, currently consists of the Corona Extra, Corona Light, Coronita,
Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo and Pacifico brands and is marketed and sold in all 50 states of the
U.S., the District of Columbia and Guam. Crown Imports also has entered into license and
importation agreements with the owners of the German St. Pauli Girl and the Chinese Tsingtao brands
for their importation, marketing and sale within the U.S. With respect to the Modelo Brands, Crown
Imports has an exclusive sub-license to use certain trademarks related to Modelo Brands beer
products in the U.S. (including the District of Columbia and Guam) pursuant to a sub-license
agreement between Crown Imports and Marcas Modelo, S.A. de C.V. This sub-license agreement
continues for the duration of the Crown Imports joint venture.

Crown Imports and Extrade II S.A. de C.V. (“Extrade II”), an affiliate of Modelo, have entered
into an Importer Agreement, pursuant to which Extrade II granted to
Crown Imports the exclusive right to sell the Modelo Brands in the territories mentioned above.
The joint venture and the related importation arrangements provide that, subject to the terms and
conditions of those agreements, the joint venture and the related importation arrangements will
continue through 2016 for an initial term of 10 years, and renew in 10-year periods unless GModelo
Corporation, a Delaware corporation and subsidiary of Diblo, S.A. de C.V. (“Diblo”), gives notice
prior to the end of year seven of any term.

Competition

The beverage alcohol industry is highly competitive. The Company competes on the basis of
quality, price, brand recognition and distribution strength. The Company’s beverage alcohol
products compete with other alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages for consumer purchases, as well
as shelf space in retail stores, restaurant presence and wholesaler attention. The Company
competes with numerous multinational producers and distributors of beverage alcohol products, some
of which have greater resources than the Company.

Constellation Wines’ principal wine competitors include: E&J Gallo Winery, Foster’s Group, W.J.
 Deutsch & Sons, Ste. Michelle Wine Estates, Kendall-Jackson, Diageo and Brown-Forman in the U.S.; Andrew
Peller, Foster’s Group, Kruger and E&J Gallo Winery in Canada; Foster’s Group, Diageo, E&J Gallo
Winery and Pernod Ricard in the U.K.; and Foster’s Group and Pernod Ricard in Australia and New
Zealand. Constellation Wines’ principal distilled spirits competitors include: Diageo, Fortune
Brands, Bacardi, Pernod Ricard and Brown-Forman.

Crown Imports’ principal competitors include: Anheuser-Busch InBev, MillerCoors and Heineken.





Production

In the U.S., the Company operates 19 wineries where wine is produced from many varieties of
grapes grown principally in the Napa, Sonoma, Monterey and San Joaquin regions of California. In
Australia, the Company operates eight wineries where wine is produced from many varieties of grapes
grown in most of the major viticultural regions. The Company also operates nine wineries in
Canada, four wineries in New Zealand and one winery in South Africa. Grapes are crushed at most of
the Company’s wineries and stored as wine until packaged for sale under the Company’s brand names
or sold in bulk. In the U.S. and Canada, the Company’s inventories of wine are usually at their
highest levels in September through November during and after the crush of each year’s grape
harvest, and are reduced prior to the subsequent year’s crush. Similarly, in Australia and New
Zealand, the Company’s inventories of wine are usually at their highest levels in March through May
during and after the crush of each year’s grape harvest, and are reduced prior to the subsequent
year’s crush.

The Company’s Canadian whisky requirements are produced and aged at its Canadian distillery in
Lethbridge, Alberta.  The Company’s requirements of grains and bulk spirits it uses in the
production of Canadian whisky are purchased from various suppliers.

The Company operates one facility in the U.K. that bottles and packages wine imported in bulk
from various countries.

Sources and Availability of Production Materials

The principal components in the production of the Company’s branded beverage alcohol products
are agricultural products, such as grapes and grain, and packaging materials (primarily glass).

Most of the Company’s annual grape requirements are satisfied by purchases from each year’s
harvest which normally begins in August and runs through October in the U.S. and Canada, and begins
in February and runs through May in Australia and New Zealand. The Company believes that it has
adequate sources of grape supplies to meet its sales expectations. However, in the event that
demand for certain wine products exceeds expectations, the Company would seek to source the extra
requirements from the bulk wine markets, but could experience shortages.

The Company receives grapes from approximately 1,250 independent growers in the U.S.,
approximately 1,120 independent growers in Australia, approximately 120 independent growers in New
Zealand and approximately 90 independent growers in Canada. The Company enters into written
purchase agreements with a majority of these growers and pricing generally varies year-to-year and
is generally based on then-current market prices. In Australia, approximately 620 of the 1,120
growers belong to a grape growers’ cooperative. The Company purchases the majority of its
Australian grape requirements from this cooperative under a long-term arrangement. In the U.K.,
the Company bottles and packages wine that is purchased either on a contract basis or on the open
market.

At February 28, 2010, the Company owned or leased approximately 22,200 acres of land and
vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in California (U.S.), New York (U.S.),
Canada, Australia and New Zealand. This acreage supplies only a small percentage of the Company’s
overall total wine needs. However, most of this acreage is used to supply a large portion of the
grapes used for the production of the Company’s super-premium and fine wines. The Company
continues to consider the purchase or lease of additional vineyards, and additional land for
vineyard plantings, to supplement its grape supply.





The distilled spirits manufactured and imported by the Company require various agricultural
products, neutral grain spirits and bulk spirits. The Company fulfills its requirements through
purchases from various sources by contractual arrangement and through purchases on the open market.
The Company believes that adequate supplies of the aforementioned products are available at the
present time.

The Company utilizes glass and polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) bottles and other materials
such as caps, corks, capsules, labels, wine bags and cardboard cartons in the bottling and
packaging of its products. After grape purchases, glass bottle costs are the largest component of
the Company’s cost of product sold. In the U.S., Canada and Australia, the glass bottle industry
is highly concentrated with only a small number of producers. The Company has traditionally
obtained, and continues to obtain, its glass requirements from a limited number of producers under
long-term supply arrangements. Currently, one producer supplies most of the Company’s glass
container requirements for its U.S. operations and another producer supplies substantially all of
the Company’s glass container requirements for its Australian operations and an affiliate of that
producer supplies a majority of the Company’s glass container requirements for its Canadian
operations. The Company has been able to satisfy its requirements with respect to the foregoing
and considers its sources of supply to be adequate at this time. However, the inability of any of
the Company’s glass bottle suppliers to satisfy the Company’s requirements could adversely affect
the Company’s operations.

Government Regulation

The Company is subject to a range of regulations in the countries in which it operates. Where
it produces products, the Company is subject to environmental laws and regulations and may be
required to obtain permits and licenses to operate its facilities. Where it markets and sells
products, it may be subject to laws and regulations on trademark and brand registration, packaging
and labeling, distribution methods and relationships, pricing and price changes, sales promotions,
advertising and public relations. The Company is also subject to rules and regulations relating to
changes in officers or directors, ownership or control.

The Company believes it is in compliance in all material respects with all applicable
governmental laws and regulations in the countries in which it operates. The Company also believes
that the cost of administration and compliance with, and liability under, such laws and regulations
does not have, and is not expected to have, a material adverse impact on its financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.

Seasonality

The beverage alcohol industry is subject to seasonality in each major category. As a result,
in response to wholesaler and retailer demand which precedes consumer purchases, the Company’s wine
and spirits sales are typically highest during the third quarter of its fiscal year, primarily due
to seasonal holiday buying. Crown Imports’ imported beer sales are typically highest during the
first and second quarters of the Company’s fiscal year, which correspond to the Spring and Summer
periods in the U.S.

Employees

As of the end of March 2010, the Company had approximately 6,000 full-time employees
throughout the world. Approximately 2,800 full-time employees were in the U.S. and approximately
3,200 full-time employees were outside of the U.S., in countries including Australia, the U.K.,
Canada and New Zealand. Additional workers may be employed by the Company during the grape
crushing seasons. The Company considers its employee relations generally to be good.





Company Information

The Company’s internet address is http://www.cbrands.com. The Company’s filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are accessible
free of charge at http://www.cbrands.com as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company
electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an
Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The internet
address of the SEC’s site is http://www.sec.gov. Also, the public may read and copy any materials
that the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E.,
Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference
Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

The Company has adopted a Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of
Ethics that specifically applies to its chief executive officer, its principal financial officer,
and controller. This Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics meets
the requirements as set forth in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Item 406 of Regulation S-K.
The Company has posted on its internet website a copy of the Chief Executive Officer and Senior
Financial Executive Code of Ethics. It is located athttp://www.cbrands.com/CBI/constellationbrands/Investors/CorporateGovernance.

The foregoing information regarding the Company’s website and its content is for your
convenience only. The content of the Company’s website is not deemed to be incorporated by
reference in this report or filed with the SEC.







