Item 1.Business.

Introduction

Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Company,” “we,” “our,” or “us” refer to
Constellation Brands, Inc. and its subsidiaries, and all references to “net sales” refer to gross
sales less promotions, returns and allowances, and excise taxes to conform with the Company’s
method of classification. All references to “Fiscal 2011,”
“Fiscal 2010,” and “Fiscal 2009” refer
to the Company’s fiscal year ended the last day of February of the indicated year. All references
to “Fiscal 2012” refer to the Company’s fiscal year ending February 29, 2012.

Market positions and industry data discussed in this Annual Report onForm 10-Kare as of
calendar 2010 and have been obtained or derived from industry and government publications and
Company estimates. The industry and government publications include: Beverage Information Group;
Impact Databank Review and Forecast; SymphonyIRI Group; Nielsen; Beer Marketer’s Insights;
Euromonitor International; International Wine and Spirit Record; Association for Canadian
Distillers; and AZTEC. The Company has not independently verified the data from the industry and
government publications. Unless otherwise noted, all references to market positions are based on
equivalent unit volume.

The Company is a Delaware corporation incorporated on December 4, 1972, as the successor to a
business founded in 1945. The Company has approximately 4,300 employees located primarily in the
United States (“U.S.”) and Canada with the corporate headquarters located in Victor, New York. The
Company conducts its business through entities it wholly owns as well as through a variety of joint
ventures and other entities.

The Company is the world’s leading premium wine company with a leading market position in each
of its core markets, which include the U.S., Canada and New Zealand. Prior to January
31, 2011, the Company had a leading market position in both Australia and the United Kingdom
(“U.K.”) through its Australian and U.K. business. On January 31, 2011, the Company sold 80.1% of
its Australian and U.K. business as part of its efforts to premiumize its portfolio and improve
margins and return on invested capital (see additional discussion regarding this divestiture
below). The Company’s wine portfolio is complemented by select premium spirits brands and other
select beverage alcohol products.

The Company is the leading marketer of imported beer in the U.S. through its investment in
Crown Imports, a joint venture with Grupo Modelo, S.A.B. de C.V. (“Modelo”) pursuant to which
Modelo’s Mexican beer portfolio (the “Modelo Brands”) are imported, marketed and sold by the joint
venture in the U.S. along with certain other imported brands.

Many of the Company’s products are recognized leaders in their respective categories and
geographic markets. The Company’s strong market positions make the Company a supplier of choice to
many of its customers, who include wholesale distributors, retailers, on-premise locations and
government alcohol beverage control agencies.





The Company reports net sales in two reportable segments – Constellation Wines North America
and Constellation Wines Australia and Europe (see additional discussion regarding business segments
below). Net sales reported by these segments (based on the location of the selling company) are
summarized as follows:

For the YearFor the YearEndedEndedFebruary 28,% ofFebruary 28,% of2011Total2010Total(in millions)Constellation Wines North America$2,557.377%$2,434.772%Constellation Wines Australia
and Europe774.723%930.128%Consolidated Net Sales$3,332.0100%$3,364.8100%

During the past 10 years, there have been certain key trends within the beverage alcohol
industry, which include:

•Consolidation of suppliers, wholesalers and retailers;•An increase in global wine consumption, with premium wines growing faster than
value-priced wines;•Premium spirits growing faster than value-priced spirits; and•High-end beer (imports and crafts) growing faster than domestic beer in the U.S.

To capitalize on these trends and become more competitive, the Company has generally employed
a strategy focused on a combination of organic growth, acquisitions and investments in joint
ventures and other entities, with an increasing focus on the higher-margin premium categories of
the beverage alcohol industry. Key elements of the Company’s strategy include:

•Leveraging its existing portfolio of leading brands;•Developing new products, new packaging and line extensions;•Strengthening relationships with wholesalers and retailers;•Expanding distribution of its product portfolio;•Enhancing production capabilities;•Realizing operating efficiencies and synergies; and•Maximizing asset utilization.

Over the last four fiscal years, the Company has complemented this strategy by divesting
certain businesses, brands, and assets as part of its efforts to increase its mix of premium
brands, improve margins, create operating efficiencies and reduce debt.

A challenging global economic environment contributed to some slowing of premium wine industry
growth during calendar 2008 and the first half of calendar 2009. Premium wine industry growth
began to show improvement in the second half of calendar 2009 and this trend continued in calendar
2010. The Company believes consumers will continue to trade up to premium wines over the
long-term.

Recent Divestitures

In January 2011, the Company sold 80.1% of its Australian and U.K. business (the
“CWAE Divestiture”) at a transaction value of $266.9 million, subject to post-closing adjustments.
The Company received cash proceeds, net of cash divested of $15.8 million and direct costs paid of
$2.3 million, of $221.3 million, subject to post-closing adjustments, and retained a 19.9% interest
in the business. This transaction is consistent with the Company’s strategic focus on premiumizing
the Company’s portfolio and improving margins and return on invested capital.





In January 2010, the Company sold its U.K. cider business for cash proceeds of £43.9 million
($71.6 million), net of direct costs to sell. This transaction is consistent with the Company’s
strategic focus on premium higher-growth, higher-margin wine, beer and spirits brands.

In March 2009, as part of its strategic focus on higher-margin premium brands in its
portfolio, the Company sold its value spirits business for $336.4 million, net of direct costs to
sell. The Company received $276.4 million, net of direct costs to sell, in cash proceeds and a
note receivable for $60.0 million. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company received full
payment of the note receivable. The Company retained the SVEDKA Vodka and Black Velvet Canadian
Whisky premium spirit brands, which have marketplace scale and higher margins than the value
spirits brands that were sold. To achieve synergies and operating efficiencies, these brands were
consolidated into the Company’s North American wine operations during Fiscal 2010.

In June 2008, the Company sold certain businesses consisting of several California wineries
and wine brands that had been acquired as part of the December 2007 acquisition of the Fortune
Brands U.S. wine business, as well as certain wineries and wine brands from the states of
Washington and Idaho (collectively, the “Pacific Northwest Business”) for cash proceeds of $204.2
million, net of direct costs to sell. This transaction contributed to the Company’s streamlining
of its U.S. wine portfolio by eliminating brand duplication and reducing excess production
capacity.

For more information about these transactions, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Business Segments

Information regarding net sales, operating income and total assets of each of the Company’s
business segments and information regarding geographic areas is set forth in Note 23 to the
Company’s consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.





Constellation Wines North America

CWNA is the leading producer and marketer of premium wine in the world. It has a leading
market position in each of its core markets – U.S., Canada and New Zealand and sells a large
number of wine brands across all categories – table wine, sparkling wine and dessert wine – and
across all price points – popular, premium, super-premium and fine wine. The portfolio of
super-premium and fine wines is supported by vineyard holdings in the U.S., Canada and New Zealand.
Wine produced by the Company in the U.S. is primarily marketed domestically and in the U.K. and
Canada. Wine produced in New Zealand is primarily marketed domestically and in the U.S., Canada,
Australia and the U.K., while wine produced in Canada is primarily marketed domestically. In
addition, CWNA exports its wine products to other major wine consuming markets of the world.

In
the U.S., CWNA sells 14 of the top-selling 100 table wine brands and is the leading premium
wine company. In Canada, it has wine across all price points, and has seven of the top-selling 25
table wine brands and the leading icewine brand with Inniskillin.

CWNA’s well-known wine brands include Robert Mondavi Brands, Clos du Bois, Blackstone,
Estancia, Arbor Mist, Toasted Head, Simi, Black Box, Ravenswood, Rex Goliath, Kim Crawford,
Franciscan Estate, Wild Horse, Ruffino, Nobilo, Mount Veeder, Inniskillin and Jackson-Triggs.

Premium spirit brands in CWNA’s portfolio include SVEDKA Vodka, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky
and Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, all of which have a leading position in their respective
categories.

CWNA is also a leading producer and marketer of wine kits and beverage alcohol refreshment
drinks in Canada.

In conjunction with its wine production, CWNA produces and sells bulk wine and other related
products and services.

Constellation Wines Australia and Europe

Prior to the January 2011 CWAE Divestiture, the Company’s CWAE segment was a leading producer
and marketer of wine in Australia and a leading marketer of wine in the U.K. Wine produced by the
Company in Australia was primarily marketed domestically and in the U.K. CWAE had wine brands
across all price points and varieties, and was the leading producer of value-priced cask (box)
wines in Australia.

Crown Imports

In January 2007, the Company completed the formation of the Crown Imports joint venture with
Modelo. The Company and Modelo indirectly each have an equal interest in Crown Imports, which has
the exclusive right to import, market and sell the Modelo Brands, which include Corona Extra,
Corona Light, Coronita, Modelo Especial, Pacifico, Negra Modelo and Victoria, as well as the St.
Pauli Girl and Tsingtao brands in all 50 states of the U.S. In the U.S., Crown Imports has six of
the top-selling 25 imported beer brands. Corona Extra is the best-selling imported beer and the
sixth best-selling beer overall and Corona Light is the leading imported light beer, while St.
Pauli Girl is the number two selling German Beer and Tsingtao is the number one selling Chinese
Beer. The Company accounts for its investment in Crown Imports under the equity method.





Corporate Operations and Other

The Corporate Operations and Other segment includes traditional corporate-related items
including executive management, corporate development, corporate finance, human resources, internal
audit, investor relations, legal, public relations, global information technology and global supply
chain.

Marketing and Distribution

The Company’s segments employ full-time, in-house marketing, sales and customer service
organizations to maintain a high degree of focus on their respective product categories. The
organizations use a range of marketing strategies and tactics designed to build brand equity and
increase sales, including market research, consumer and trade advertising, price promotions,
point-of-sale materials, event sponsorship, on-premise promotions and public relations. Where
opportunities exist, particularly with national accounts in the U.S., the Company leverages its
sales and marketing skills across the organization and segments.

In North America, the Company’s products are primarily distributed by wholesale distributors
as well as state and provincial alcoholic beverage control agencies. As is the case with all other
beverage alcohol companies, products sold through state or provincial alcoholic beverage control
agencies are subject to obtaining and maintaining listings to sell the Company’s products in that
agency’s state or province. State and provincial governments can affect prices paid by consumers
of the Company’s products. This is possible either through the imposition of taxes or, in states
and provinces in which the government acts as the distributor of the Company’s products through an
alcohol beverage control agency, by directly setting retail prices for the Company’s products. In
New Zealand, the Company’s products are primarily distributed either directly to retailers or
through wholesalers and importers with the distribution channels dominated by a small number of
industry leaders.

Trademarks and Distribution Agreements

Trademarks are an important aspect of the Company’s business. The Company sells its products
under a number of trademarks, which the Company owns or uses under license. Throughout its
segments, the Company also has various licenses and distribution agreements for the sale, or the
production and sale, of its products and products of third parties. These licenses and
distribution agreements have varying terms and durations. At the end of the Company’s year ended
February 28, 2011, these agreements included, among others, a long-term license agreement with the
B. Manischewitz Company, which expires in 2042, for the Manischewitz brand, and a distribution,
importation and license agreement with Baron Philippe de Rothschild which expires in December 2016
for the Mouton Cadet brand. Additionally, in connection with the CWAE Divestiture, the Company
entered into distribution, importation and license agreements that expire in 2014 regarding the
distribution, importation and licensing of products owned by the divested business which include
various brands, such as, but not limited to, the Hardy’s brands.





All of the Company’s imported beer products are imported, marketed and sold through Crown
Imports. Crown Imports has entered into exclusive importation agreements with the suppliers of the
imported beer products. These agreements have terms that vary and prohibit Crown Imports from
importing beer products from other producers from the same country. Crown Imports’ Mexican beer
portfolio, the Modelo Brands, currently consists of the Corona Extra, Corona Light, Coronita,
Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, Pacifico and Victoria brands. Crown Imports has the right to market
and sell the Modelo Brands in all 50 states of the U.S., the District of Columbia and Guam. Crown
Imports also has entered into license and importation agreements with the owners of the German St.
Pauli Girl and the Chinese Tsingtao brands for their importation, marketing and sale within the
U.S. With respect to the Modelo Brands, Crown Imports has an exclusive sub-license to use certain
trademarks related to Modelo Brands beer products in the U.S. (including the District of Columbia
and Guam) pursuant to a sub-license agreement between Crown Imports and Marcas Modelo, S.A. de C.V.
This sub-license agreement continues for the duration of the Crown Imports joint venture.

Crown Imports and Extrade II S.A. de C.V. (“Extrade II”), an affiliate of Modelo,
have entered into an Importer Agreement, pursuant to which Extrade II granted to Crown Imports the
exclusive right to sell the Modelo Brands in the territories mentioned above. The joint venture
and the related importation arrangements provide that, subject to the terms and conditions of those
agreements, the joint venture and the related importation arrangements will continue through 2016
for an initial term of 10 years, and renew in 10-year periods unless GModelo Corporation, a
Delaware corporation and subsidiary of Diblo, S.A. de C.V. (“Diblo”), gives notice prior to the end
of year seven of any term.

Competition

The beverage alcohol industry is highly competitive. The Company competes on the basis of
quality, price, brand recognition and distribution strength. The Company’s beverage alcohol
products compete with other alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages for consumer purchases, as well
as shelf space in retail stores, restaurant presence and wholesaler attention. The Company
competes with numerous multinational producers and distributors of beverage alcohol products, some
of which have greater resources than the Company.

CWNA’s
principal wine competitors include: E&J Gallo Winery, The Wine
Group, Treasury Wine Estates, W.J.
Deutsch & Sons, Ste. Michelle Wine Estates, Kendall-Jackson and Diageo in the U.S.; Andrew Peller,
Treasury Wine Estates, Kruger and E&J Gallo Winery in Canada; and Pernod Ricard, Lion Nathan and
Treasury Wine Estates in New Zealand. CWNA’s principal distilled spirits competitors include:
Diageo, Fortune Brands, Pernod Ricard, Bacardi and Brown-Forman.

Crown Imports’ principal competitors include: Anheuser-Busch InBev, MillerCoors and Heineken.

Production

In the U.S., the Company operates 18 wineries where wine is produced from many varieties of
grapes grown principally in the Napa, Sonoma, Monterey and San Joaquin regions of California. The
Company also operates nine wineries in Canada and four wineries in New Zealand. Grapes are crushed
at most of the Company’s wineries and stored as wine until packaged for sale under the Company’s
brand names or sold in bulk. In the U.S. and Canada, the Company’s inventories of wine are usually
at their highest levels in September through November during and after the crush of each year’s
grape harvest, and are reduced prior to the subsequent year’s crush. Similarly, in New Zealand,
the Company’s inventories of wine are usually at their highest levels in March through May during
and after the crush of each year’s grape harvest, and are reduced prior to the subsequent year’s
crush.





The Company’s Canadian whisky requirements are produced and aged at its Canadian distillery in
Lethbridge, Alberta. The Company’s requirements of grains and bulk spirits it uses in the
production of Canadian whisky are purchased from various suppliers.

Sources and Availability of Production Materials

The principal components in the production of the Company’s branded beverage alcohol products
are agricultural products, such as grapes and grain, and packaging materials (primarily glass).

Most of the Company’s annual grape requirements are satisfied by purchases from each year’s
harvest which normally begins in August and runs through October in the U.S. and Canada, and begins
in February and runs through May in New Zealand. The Company believes that it has adequate sources
of grape supplies to meet its sales expectations. However, when demand for certain wine products
exceeds expectations, the Company sources the extra requirements from the bulk wine markets.
Depending upon overall demand, the Company could experience shortages.

The Company receives grapes from approximately 1,160 independent growers in the U.S.,
approximately 110 independent growers in New Zealand and approximately 110 independent growers in
Canada. The Company enters into written purchase agreements with a majority of these growers and
pricing generally varies year-to-year and is generally based on then-current market prices.

At February 28, 2011, the Company owned or leased approximately 17,900 acres of land and
vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in California (U.S.), New York (U.S.), Canada
and New Zealand. This acreage supplies only a small percentage of the Company’s overall total
grape needs for wine production. However, most of this acreage is used to supply a large portion
of the grapes used for the production of the Company’s super-premium and fine wines. The Company
continues to consider the purchase or lease of additional vineyards, and additional land for
vineyard plantings, to supplement its grape supply.

The distilled spirits manufactured and imported by the Company require various agricultural
products, neutral grain spirits and bulk spirits. The Company fulfills its requirements through
purchases from various sources by contractual arrangement and through purchases on the open market.
The Company believes that adequate supplies of the aforementioned products are available at the
present time.

The Company utilizes glass and polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) bottles and other materials
such as caps, corks, capsules, labels, wine bags and cardboard cartons in the bottling and
packaging of its products. After grape purchases, glass bottle costs are the largest component of
the Company’s cost of product sold. In the U.S. and Canada, the glass bottle industry is highly
concentrated with only a small number of producers. The Company has traditionally obtained, and
continues to obtain, its glass requirements from a limited number of producers under long-term
supply arrangements. Currently, one producer supplies most of the Company’s glass container
requirements for its U.S. operations and another producer supplies a majority of the Company’s
glass container requirements for its Canadian operations. The Company has been able to satisfy its
requirements with respect to the foregoing and considers its sources of supply to be adequate at
this time. However, the inability of any of the Company’s glass bottle suppliers to satisfy the
Company’s requirements could adversely affect the Company’s operations.





Government Regulation

The Company is subject to a range of regulations in the countries in which it operates. Where
it produces products, the Company is subject to environmental laws and regulations and may be
required to obtain permits and licenses to operate its facilities. Where it markets and sells
products, it may be subject to laws and regulations on trademark and brand registration, packaging
and labeling, distribution methods and relationships, pricing and price changes, sales promotions,
advertising and public relations. The Company is also subject to rules and regulations relating to
changes in officers or directors, ownership or control.

The Company believes it is in compliance in all material respects with all applicable
governmental laws and regulations in the countries in which it operates. The Company also believes
that the cost of administration and compliance with, and liability under, such laws and regulations
does not have, and is not expected to have, a material adverse impact on its financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.

Seasonality

The beverage alcohol industry is subject to seasonality in each major category. As a result,
in response to wholesaler and retailer demand which precedes consumer purchases, the Company’s wine
and spirits sales are typically highest during the third quarter of its fiscal year, primarily due
to seasonal holiday buying. Crown Imports’ imported beer sales are typically highest during the
first and second quarters of the Company’s fiscal year, which correspond to the Spring and Summer
periods in the U.S.

Employees

As of the end of March 2011, the Company had approximately 4,300 full-time employees.
Approximately 2,800 full-time employees were in the U.S. and approximately 1,500 full-time
employees were outside of the U.S., primarily in Canada and New Zealand. Additional workers may be
employed by the Company during the grape crushing seasons. The Company considers its employee
relations generally to be good.

Company Information

The Company’s internet address is http://www.cbrands.com. The Company’s filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are accessible
free of charge at http://www.cbrands.com as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company
electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an
Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The internet
address of the SEC’s site is http://www.sec.gov. Also, the public may read and copy any materials
that the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E.,
Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference
Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

The Company has adopted a Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of
Ethics that specifically applies to its chief executive officer, its principal financial officer,
and controller. This Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics meets
the requirements as set forth in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Item 406 of Regulation S-K.
The Company has posted on its internet website a copy of the Chief Executive Officer and Senior
Financial Executive Code of Ethics. It is located athttp://www.cbrands.com/investors/corporate-governance.





http://www.cbrands.com/investors/corporate-governance

The foregoing information regarding the Company’s website and its content is for your
convenience only. The content of the Company’s website is not deemed to be incorporated by
reference in this report or filed with the SEC.



