Item 1.  Business.



Introduction



Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Company,” “we,” “our,” or “us” refer to Constellation Brands, Inc. and its subsidiaries, and all references to “net sales” refer to gross sales less promotions, returns and allowances, and excise taxes to conform with the Company’s method of classification.  All references to “Fiscal 2013,” “Fiscal 2012” and “Fiscal 2011” refer to the Company’s fiscal year ended the last day of February of the indicated year.  All references to “Fiscal 2014” refer to the Company’s fiscal year ending February 28, 2014.



Market positions and industry data discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are as of calendar 2012 and have been obtained or derived from industry and government publications and Company estimates.  The industry and government publications include:  Beverage Information Group; Impact Databank Review and Forecast; SymphonyIRI Group; Aztec; Euromonitor International; International Wine and Spirit Record; Association for Canadian Distillers; Distilled Spirits Council of the United States; and Canadian Home Wine Trade Association.  The Company has not independently verified the data from the industry and government publications.  Unless otherwise noted, all references to market positions are based on equivalent unit volume.



The Company is a Delaware corporation incorporated on December 4, 1972, as the successor to a business founded in 1945.  The Company has approximately4,500employees located primarily in the United States (“U.S.”) and Canada with its corporate headquarters located in Victor, New York.  The Company conducts its business through entities it wholly owns as well as through a variety of joint ventures and other entities.



The Company is the world’s leading premium wine company with a leading market position in the U.S., Canada and New Zealand.  Prior to January 31, 2011, the Company had a leading market position in both Australia and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) through its Australian and U.K. business.  On January 31, 2011, the Company sold 80.1% of its Australian and U.K. business as part of its efforts to premiumize its portfolio and improve margins and return on invested capital (see additional discussion regarding this divestiture below).  The Company’s wine portfolio is complemented by select premium spirits brands and other select beverage alcohol products.



The Company is the leading marketer of imported beer in the U.S. through its investment in Crown Imports LLC (“Crown Imports”), a joint venture with Grupo Modelo, S.A.B. de C.V. (“Modelo”) pursuant to which Modelo’s Mexican beer portfolio (the “Modelo Brands”) are imported, marketed and sold by the joint venture in the U.S. on an exclusive basis.  As discussed in Recent Developments below, the Company has signed definitive agreements to acquire the remaining 50% equity interest in Crown Imports for approximately $1.85 billion, and the Piedras Negras brewery located in Nava, Coahuila, Mexico and the perpetual brand rights for the Modelo Brands currently sold in the U.S. and certain extensions for approximately $2.9 billion.  The combined $4.75 billion beer business transaction is expected to be completed around the end of the Company’s first quarter of fiscal 2014, or shortly thereafter.  The pending transaction is expected to position the Company as the third largest producer and marketer of beer for the U.S. market and the largest multi-category supplier (wine, spirits and beer) of beverage alcohol in the U.S.



Many of the Company’s products are recognized leaders in their respective categories and geographic markets.  The Company’s strong market positions make the Company a supplier of choice to many of its customers, who include wholesale distributors, retailers, on-premise locations and government alcohol beverage control agencies.











The Company currently reports net sales in one reportable segment, Constellation Wines and Spirits (formerly known as Constellation Wines North America through February 29, 2012).  Prior to the January 2011 CWAE Divestiture (as defined below), the Company reported its net sales in two reportable segments, Constellation Wines and Spirits and Constellation Wines Australia and Europe (see additional discussion regarding business segments below).  Net sales reported by segment (based on the location of the selling company) are summarized as follows:

For the Year Ended February 28, 2013% of TotalFor the Year Ended February 29, 2012% of TotalFor the YearEndedFebruary 28,2011% of Total(in millions)Constellation Wines and Spirits$2,796.1100%$2,654.3100%$2,557.377%Constellation Wines Australia and Europe————774.723%Consolidated Net Sales$2,796.1100%$2,654.3100%$3,332.0100%



During the past 10 years, there have been certain key trends within the beverage alcohol industry, which include:

•Consolidation of suppliers, wholesalers and retailers;

•An increase in global wine consumption, with premium wines growing faster than value-priced wines;

•Premium spirits growing faster than value-priced spirits; and

•High-end beer (imports and crafts) growing faster than domestic beer in the U.S.



To capitalize on these trends and become more competitive, the Company has generally employed a strategy focused on a combination of organic growth, acquisitions and investments in joint ventures and other entities, with an increasing focus on the higher-margin premium categories of the beverage alcohol industry.  Key elements of the Company’s strategy include:



•Leveraging its existing portfolio of leading brands;

•Developing new products, new packaging and line extensions;

•Strengthening relationships with wholesalers and retailers;

•Expanding distribution of its product portfolio;

•Enhancing production capabilities;

•Realizing operating efficiencies and synergies; and

•Maximizing asset utilization.



Over the four fiscal years ended February 28, 2011, the Company complemented this strategy by divesting certain businesses, brands, and assets as part of its efforts to increase its mix of premium brands, improve margins, create operating efficiencies and reduce debt.  Since completing that period of divestiture activity, the Company acquired the remaining interest in Ruffino S.r.l. (“Ruffino”) in Fiscal 2012 and acquired Mark West (as defined below) in Fiscal 2013.  The Ruffino and Mark West brands are higher-margin premium wine growth brands.



The pending beer business transaction, including the acquisition of the perpetual brand rights for the Modelo Brands currently sold in the U.S. and certain extensions and the Mexican brewery assets, is expected to solidify the Company’s position in the U.S. beer market over the long-term.  The transaction is also expected to diversify the Company’s profit base and enhance margins, earnings and cash flow.



Recent Developments



Crown Imports



In June 2012, the Company signed an agreement to acquire the remaining 50% equity interest in Crown Imports for approximately $1.85 billion (the “Initial Purchase Agreement”).  As discussed previously, Crown Imports has the exclusive right to import, market and sell primarily the Modelo Brands in the U.S. and Guam.  Crown Imports’ portfolio of brands includes Corona Extra, the best-selling imported beer and the sixth best-selling









beer overall in the U.S.; Corona Light, the leading imported light beer; and Modelo Especial, the third largest and one of the fastest growing major imported beer brands.



In February 2013, the Company signed an amended and restated agreement to acquire the remaining 50% equity interest in Crown Imports for the previously agreed amount of approximately $1.85 billion (the “February 2013 Crown Purchase Agreement”).  In addition, the Company signed an agreement to purchase (i)  all of the outstanding capital stock of Compañia Cervecera de Coahuila, S.A. de C.V., the company which owns the Piedras Negras brewery located in Nava, Coahuila, Mexico (the “Brewery”), (ii)  all of the outstanding capital stock of Servicios Modelo de Coahuila, S.A. de C.V. (the “Services Company”), and (iii)  the perpetual brand rights for the Modelo Brands currently sold in the U.S. and certain extensions (collectively, the “February 2013 Purchased Shares and Licensed Rights”) for approximately $2.9 billion, in aggregate, subject to a post-closing adjustment.  The February 2013 Crown Purchase Agreement and the February 2013 Purchased Shares and Licensed Rights are collectively referred to as the “February 2013 Beer Business Acquisition.”



In April 2013, the Company entered into amendments to the agreements regarding the February 2013 Beer Business Acquisition (the “First Amendments”), pursuant to which, among other things, the Company is required to build out and expand the Brewery to a nominal capacity of at least 20 million hectoliters of packaged beer annually by December 31, 2016.  In addition, the First Amendments provide, among other things, that the United States will have approval rights, in its sole discretion, for amendments or modifications to the amended agreements and the United States will have a right of approval, in its sole discretion, of any extension of the term of interim supply arrangements beyond three years.  The February 2013 Beer Business Acquisition together with the First Amendments is referred to as the “Beer Business Acquisition.”  The pending Beer Business Acquisition is expected to position the Company as the third largest producer and marketer of beer for the U.S. and the largest multi-category supplier of beverage alcohol in the U.S.



Recent Acquisitions and Divestitures



In July 2012, the Company acquired Mark West for$159.3 million.  The transaction primarily includes the acquisition of the Mark West trademark, related inventories and certain grape supply contracts (“Mark West”).  The acquisition of this higher-margin, premium wine growth brand complements the Company’s existing portfolio and further strengthens the Company’s focus on consumer-preferred premium wine brands.



In October 2011, the Company acquired the remaining 50.1% equity interest in Ruffino for€50.3 million($68.6 million).  The Company also assumed indebtedness of Ruffino, net of cash acquired, of€54.2 million($73.1 million).  Prior to this transaction, the Company had owned 49.9% of Ruffino and was the U.S. importer for the Ruffino wine brands.



In January 2011, the Company sold 80.1% of its Australian and U.K. business (the “CWAE Divestiture”) at a transaction value of$267.7 million.  The Company has received cash proceeds of$193.1 million, net of cash divested of$15.8 million, direct costs paid of$12.0 millionand post-closing adjustments paid of$18.5 million.  The Company has retained a less than 20% interest in the business.  This transaction is consistent with the Company’s strategic focus on premiumizing the Company’s portfolio and improving margins and return on invested capital.



For more information about these transactions, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Business Segments



Prior to January 31, 2011, the Company’s internal management financial reporting consisted of four business divisions:  Constellation Wines North America, Constellation Wines Australia and Europe, Constellation Wines New Zealand, and Crown Imports.  Due to a number of factors, including the size of the Constellation Wines New Zealand segment’s operations, the similarity of its economic characteristics and long-term financial performance with that of the Constellation Wines North America business, and the fact that the vast majority of the wine produced by the Constellation Wines New Zealand operating segment is sold in the U.S. and Canada, the Company had aggregated the results of this operating segment with its Constellation Wines North America









operating segment to form one reportable segment.  Accordingly, prior to January 31, 2011, the Company reported its operating results in four segments:  Constellation Wines and Spirits (wine and spirits) (formerly known as Constellation Wines North America through February 29, 2012), Constellation Wines Australia and Europe (wine) (“CWAE”), Corporate Operations and Other, and Crown Imports (imported beer).  As a result of the January 2011 CWAE Divestiture, as of February 1, 2011, the Company no longer reports operating results for the CWAE segment.



From February 1, 2011, through May 31, 2011, the Company’s internal management financial reporting consisted of three business divisions:  Constellation Wines North America, Constellation Wines New Zealand and Crown Imports.  As discussed above, the Company had aggregated the results of its Constellation Wines New Zealand operating segment with its Constellation Wines North America operating segment to form one reportable segment.  Accordingly, from February 1, 2011, through May 31, 2011, the Company reported its operating results in three segments:  Constellation Wines and Spirits, Corporate Operations and Other, and Crown Imports.



In connection with the Company’s changes on June 1, 2011, within its internal management structure for its wine and spirits business, the Company changed its internal management financial reporting to consist of two business divisions:  Constellation Wines North America and Crown Imports.  These organizational changes had no impact on the Company’s previously reported segment financial information as the Company continues to report its operating results in three segments: Constellation Wines and Spirits, Corporate Operations and Other, and Crown Imports.  The business segments, described more fully below, reflect how the Company’s operations are managed, how operating performance within the Company is evaluated by senior management and the structure of its internal financial reporting.



Information regarding net sales, operating income and total assets of each of the Company’s business segments and information regarding geographic areas is set forth in Note 21 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Constellation Wines and Spirits



Constellation Wines and Spirits is the leading producer and marketer of premium wine in the world.  It has a leading market position in the U.S., Canada and New Zealand and sells a large number of wine brands across all categories – table wine, sparkling wine and dessert wine – and across all price points – popular, premium, super-premium and fine wine.  The portfolio of super-premium and fine wines is supported by vineyard holdings in the U.S., Canada, New Zealand and Italy.  Wine produced by the Company in the U.S. is primarily marketed domestically and in Canada and the U.K.  Wine produced in Canada is primarily marketed domestically.  Wine produced in New Zealand is primarily marketed in the U.S., Canada, Australia, the U.K. and domestically.  Wine produced in Italy is primarily marketed in the U.S., Canada and domestically.  In addition, Constellation Wines and Spirits exports its wine products to other major wine consuming markets of the world.



In the U.S., Constellation Wines and Spirits sells 14 of the top-selling 100 table wine brands and is a leading premium wine company.  In Canada, it is the leading wine company and has six of the top-selling 25 table wine brands and the leading icewine brand with Inniskillin.



Constellation Wines and Spirits’ well-known wine brands include Robert Mondavi Brands, Clos du Bois, Estancia, Black Box, Arbor Mist, Blackstone, Rex Goliath, Simi, Toasted Head, Mark West, Ravenswood, Franciscan Estate, Ruffino, Wild Horse, Kim Crawford, Mount Veeder, Nobilo, Inniskillin and Jackson-Triggs.



Premium spirit brands in Constellation Wines and Spirits’ portfolio include SVEDKA Vodka, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, all of which have a leading position in their respective categories.



Constellation Wines and Spirits is also a leading producer and marketer of wine kits and beverage alcohol refreshment drinks in Canada.











In conjunction with its wine production, Constellation Wines and Spirits produces and sells bulk wine and other related products and services.



Constellation Wines Australia and Europe



Prior to the January 2011 CWAE Divestiture, the Company’s CWAE segment was a leading producer and marketer of wine in Australia and a leading marketer of wine in the U.K.  Wine produced by the Company in Australia was primarily marketed domestically and in the U.K.  CWAE sold wine brands across all price points and varieties, and was the leading producer of value-priced cask (box) wines in Australia.



Crown Imports



In January 2007, the Company completed the formation of Crown Imports.  The Company and Modelo indirectly each have an equal interest in Crown Imports, which has the exclusive right to import, market and sell primarily the Modelo Brands, which include Corona Extra, Corona Light, Modelo Especial, Pacifico, Negra Modelo and Victoria, in all 50 states of the U.S.  In the U.S., Crown Imports has five of the top-selling 25 imported beer brands.   Corona Extra is the best-selling imported beer and the sixth best-selling beer overall in the U.S.; Corona Light is the leading imported light beer; and Modelo Especial is the third largest and one of the fastest growing major imported beer brands.  The Company currently accounts for its investment in Crown Imports under the equity method.



Corporate Operations and Other



The Corporate Operations and Other segment includes traditional corporate-related items including executive management, corporate development, corporate finance, human resources, internal audit, investor relations, legal, public relations and global information technology.



Marketing and Distribution



The Company’s segments employ full-time, in-house marketing, sales and customer service organizations to maintain a high degree of focus on their respective product categories.  The organizations use a range of marketing strategies and tactics designed to build brand equity and increase sales, including market research, consumer and trade advertising, price promotions, point-of-sale materials, event sponsorship, on-premise promotions and public relations.  Where opportunities exist, particularly with national accounts in the U.S., the Company leverages its sales and marketing skills across the organization.



In North America, the Company’s products are primarily distributed by wholesale distributors as well as state and provincial alcoholic beverage control agencies.  As is the case with all other beverage alcohol companies, products sold through state or provincial alcoholic beverage control agencies are subject to obtaining and maintaining listings to sell the Company’s products in that agency’s state or province.  State and provincial governments can affect prices paid by consumers of the Company’s products.  This is possible either through the imposition of taxes or, in states and provinces in which the government acts as the distributor of the Company’s products through an alcohol beverage control agency, by directly setting retail prices for the Company’s products.



Trademarks and Distribution Agreements



Trademarks are an important aspect of the Company’s business.  The Company sells its products under a number of trademarks, which the Company owns or uses under license.  Throughout its segments, the Company also has various licenses and distribution agreements for the sale, or the production and sale, of its products and products of third parties.  These licenses and distribution agreements have varying terms and durations.  At the end of the Company’s year endedFebruary 28, 2013, these agreements included, among others, a long-term license agreement with the B. Manischewitz Company, which expires in 2042, for the Manischewitz brand, and a distribution and importation agreement with Baron Philippe de Rothschild S.A., which expires in December 2016, for the Mouton Cadet brand.  Additionally, in connection with the CWAE Divestiture, the Company entered into distribution, importation and license agreements, some of which may expire in 2014 regarding the production,









distribution, importation and licensing of products owned by the divested business which include various brands, such as, but not limited to, the Hardy’s brands in certain countries outside the U.S.



All of the Company’s imported beer products are imported, marketed and sold through Crown Imports.  Crown Imports has entered into exclusive importation agreements with the suppliers of the imported beer products.  These agreements have terms that vary and prohibit Crown Imports from importing beer products from other producers from the same country.  Crown Imports’ Mexican beer portfolio, the Modelo Brands, currently consists of the Corona Extra, Corona Light, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, Pacifico and Victoria brands.  Crown Imports has the right to market and sell the Modelo Brands in all 50 states of the U.S., the District of Columbia and Guam.  Crown Imports has an exclusive sub-license to use certain trademarks related to Modelo Brands beer products in the U.S. (including the District of Columbia and Guam) pursuant to a sub-license agreement between Crown Imports and Marcas Modelo, S.A. de C.V.  This sub-license agreement continues for the duration of the Crown Imports joint venture.



Crown Imports and Extrade II S.A. de C.V. (“Extrade II”), an affiliate of Modelo, have entered into an Importer Agreement, pursuant to which Extrade II granted to Crown Imports the exclusive right to sell the Modelo Brands in the territories mentioned above.  The joint venture and the related importation arrangements provide that, subject to the terms and conditions of those agreements, the joint venture and the related importation arrangements will continue through 2016 for an initial term of 10 years, and renew in 10-year periods unless GModelo Corporation, a Delaware corporation and subsidiary of Diblo, S.A. de C.V. (“Diblo”), gives notice prior to the end of year seven of any term.



Competition



The beverage alcohol industry is highly competitive.  The Company competes on the basis of quality, price, brand recognition and distribution strength.  The Company’s beverage alcohol products compete with other alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages for consumer purchases, as well as shelf space in retail stores, restaurant presence and wholesaler attention.  The Company competes with numerous multinational producers and distributors of beverage alcohol products, some of which have greater resources than the Company.



Constellation Wines and Spirits’ principal wine competitors include:  E&J Gallo Winery, The Wine Group, Treasury Wine Estates, W.J. Deutsch & Sons, Ste. Michelle Wine Estates and Kendall-Jackson in the U.S.; Andrew Peller, E&J Gallo Winery, Treasury Wine Estates and Kruger in Canada; and Pernod Ricard, Lion Nathan and Treasury Wine Estates in New Zealand.  Constellation Wines and Spirits’ principal distilled spirits competitors include:  Diageo, Beam, Pernod Ricard, Bacardi and Brown-Forman.



Crown Imports’ principal competitors include:  Anheuser-Busch InBev, MillerCoors and Heineken.



Production



In the U.S., the Company operates 18 wineries where wine is produced from many varieties of grapes grown principally in the Napa, Sonoma, Monterey and San Joaquin regions of California.  The Company also operates nine wineries in Canada, four wineries in New Zealand and five wineries in Italy.  Grapes are crushed at most of the Company’s wineries and stored as wine until packaged for sale under the Company’s brand names or sold in bulk.  In the U.S., Canada and Italy, the Company’s inventories of wine are usually at their highest levels in September through November during and after the crush of each year’s grape harvest, and are reduced prior to the subsequent year’s crush.  Similarly, in New Zealand, the Company’s inventories of wine are usually at their highest levels in March through May during and after the crush of each year’s grape harvest, and are reduced prior to the subsequent year’s crush.



The Company’s Canadian whisky requirements are produced and aged at its Canadian distillery in Lethbridge, Alberta.  The Company’s requirements of grains and bulk spirits it uses in the production of Canadian whisky are purchased from various suppliers.











Sources and Availability of Production Materials



The principal components in the production of the Company’s branded beverage alcohol products are agricultural products, such as grapes and grain, and packaging materials (primarily glass).



Most of the Company’s annual grape requirements are satisfied by purchases from each year’s harvest which normally begins in August and runs through October in the U.S., Canada and Italy, and begins in February and runs through May in New Zealand.  The Company believes that it has adequate sources of grape supplies to meet its sales expectations.  However, when demand for certain wine products exceeds expectations, the Company sources the extra requirements from the bulk wine markets.  Depending upon overall demand, the Company could experience shortages.



The Company receives grapes from approximately1,080independent growers in the U.S., approximately100independent growers in Canada, approximately80independent growers in New Zealand and approximately20independent growers in Italy.  The Company enters into written purchase agreements with a majority of these growers and pricing generally varies year-to-year and is generally based on then-current market prices.



AtFebruary 28, 2013, the Company owned or leased approximately19,200acres of land and vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in California (U.S.), New York (U.S.), Canada, New Zealand and Italy.  This acreage supplies only a small percentage of the Company’s overall total grape needs for wine production.  However, most of this acreage is used to supply a large portion of the grapes used for the production of the Company’s super-premium and fine wines.  The Company continues to consider the purchase or lease of additional vineyards, and additional land for vineyard plantings, to supplement its grape supply.



The distilled spirits manufactured and imported by the Company require various agricultural products, neutral grain spirits and bulk spirits.  The Company fulfills its requirements through purchases from various sources by contractual arrangement and through purchases on the open market.  The Company believes that adequate supplies of the aforementioned products are available at the present time.



The Company utilizes glass and polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) bottles and other materials such as caps, corks, capsules, labels, wine bags and cardboard cartons in the bottling and packaging of its products.  After grape purchases, glass bottle costs are the largest component of the Company’s cost of product sold.  In the U.S. and Canada, the glass bottle industry is highly concentrated with only a small number of producers.  The Company has traditionally obtained, and continues to obtain, its glass requirements from a limited number of producers under long-term supply arrangements.  Currently, one producer supplies most of the Company’s glass container requirements for its U.S. operations and a portion of the Company’s glass container requirements for its Canadian operations, with the remaining portion of the Company’s glass container requirements for its Canadian operations supplied by another producer.  The Company has been able to satisfy its requirements with respect to the foregoing and considers its sources of supply to be adequate at this time.  However, the inability of any of the Company’s glass bottle suppliers to satisfy the Company’s requirements could adversely affect the Company’s operations.



Government Regulation



The Company is subject to a range of regulations in the countries in which it operates.  Where it produces products, the Company is subject to environmental laws and regulations, and may be required to obtain environmental and alcohol beverage permits and licenses to operate its facilities.  Where it markets and sells products, it may be subject to laws and regulations on brand registration, packaging and labeling, distribution methods and relationships, pricing and price changes, sales promotions, advertising and public relations.  The Company is also subject to rules and regulations relating to changes in officers or directors, ownership or control.



The Company believes it is in compliance in all material respects with all applicable governmental laws and regulations in the countries in which it operates.  The Company also believes that the cost of administration and compliance with, and liability under, such laws and regulations does not have, and is not expected to have, a material adverse impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.











Seasonality



The beverage alcohol industry is subject to seasonality in each major category.  As a result, in response to wholesaler and retailer demand which precedes consumer purchases, the Company’s wine and spirits sales are typically highest during the third quarter of its fiscal year, primarily due to seasonal holiday buying.  Crown Imports’ imported beer sales are typically highest during the first and second quarters of the Company’s fiscal year, which correspond to the Spring and Summer periods in the U.S.



Employees



As of the end of March 2013, the Company had approximately4,500full-time employees.  Approximately2,700full-time employees were in the U.S. and approximately1,800full-time employees were outside of the U.S., primarily in Canada.  Additional workers may be employed by the Company during the grape crushing seasons.  The Company considers its employee relations generally to be good.



Company Information



The Company’s internet address is http://www.cbrands.com.  The Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are accessible free of charge at http://www.cbrands.com as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC.  The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.  The internet address of the SEC’s site is http://www.sec.gov.  Also, the public may read and copy any materials that the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



The Company has adopted a Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics that specifically applies to its chief executive officer, its principal financial officer, and controller.  This Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics meets the requirements as set forth in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Item 406 of Regulation S-K.  The Company has posted on its internet website a copy of the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics.  It is located athttp://www.cbrands.com/investors/corporate-governance.



The Company also has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all employees, directors and officers, including each person who is subject to the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics.  The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on the Company’s internet website, together with the Company’s Global Code of Responsible Practices for Beverage Alcohol Advertising and Marketing, its Board of Directors Corporate Governance Guidelines and the Charters of the Board’s Audit Committee, Human Resources Committee (which serves as the Board’s compensation committee) and Corporate Governance Committee (which serves as the Board’s nominating committee).  All of these materials are accessible on the Company’s internet website at

http://www.cbrands.com/investors/corporate-governance

.  Amendments to, and waivers granted to the Company’s directors and executive officers under the Company’s codes of ethics, if any, will be posted in this area of the Company’s website.  A copy of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Global Code of Responsible Practices for Beverage Alcohol Advertising and Marketing, Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics, and/or the Board of Directors Corporate Governance Guidelines and committee charters are available in print to any shareholder who requests it.  Shareholders should direct such requests in writing to Investor Relations Department, Constellation Brands, Inc., 207 High Point Drive, Building 100, Victor, New York 14564, or by telephoning the Company’s Investor Center at 1-888-922-2150.



The foregoing information regarding the Company’s website and its content is for your convenience only.  The content of the Company’s website is not deemed to be incorporated by reference in this report or filed with the SEC.















