Item 1.Business.

Introduction

Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Company,” “we,” “our,” or
“us” refer to Constellation Brands, Inc. and its subsidiaries, and all references to “net sales” refer to gross sales less promotions, returns and allowances, and excise taxes to conform with the Company’s method of
classification. All references to “Fiscal 2012,” “Fiscal 2011” and “Fiscal 2010” refer to the Company’s fiscal year ended the last day of February of the indicated year. All references to “Fiscal 2013”
refer to the Company’s fiscal year ending February 28, 2013.

Market positions and industry data discussed in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K are as of calendar 2011 and have been obtained or derived from industry and government publications and Company estimates. The industry and government publications include: Beverage Information Group; Impact Databank
Review and Forecast; SymphonyIRI Group; Nielsen; Beer Marketer’s Insights; Euromonitor International; International Wine and Spirit Record; Association for Canadian Distillers; Distilled Spirits Council of the United States; and Canadian Home
Wine Trade Association. The Company has not independently verified the data from the industry and government publications. Unless otherwise noted, all references to market positions are based on equivalent unit volume.

The Company is a Delaware corporation incorporated on December 4, 1972, as the successor to a business founded in 1945. The Company
has approximately 4,400 employees located primarily in the United States (“U.S.”) and Canada with the corporate headquarters located in Victor, New York. The Company conducts its business through entities it wholly owns as well as through
a variety of joint ventures and other entities.

The Company is the world’s leading premium wine company with a leading
market position in the U.S., Canada and New Zealand. Prior to January 31, 2011, the Company had a leading market position in both Australia and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) through its Australian and U.K. business. On January 31,
2011, the Company sold 80.1% of its Australian and U.K. business as part of its efforts to premiumize its portfolio and improve margins and return on invested capital (see additional discussion regarding this divestiture below). The Company’s
wine portfolio is complemented by select premium spirits brands and other select beverage alcohol products.

The Company is
the leading marketer of imported beer in the U.S. through its investment in Crown Imports, LLC (“Crown Imports”), a joint venture with Grupo Modelo, S.A.B. de C.V. (“Modelo”) pursuant to which Modelo’s Mexican beer portfolio
(the “Modelo Brands”) are imported, marketed and sold by the joint venture in the U.S.

Many of the Company’s
products are recognized leaders in their respective categories and geographic markets. The Company’s strong market positions make the Company a supplier of choice to many of its customers, who include wholesale distributors, retailers,
on-premise locations and government alcohol beverage control agencies.







The Company currently reports net sales in one reportable segment, Constellation Wines North
America. Prior to the January 2011 CWAE Divestiture (as defined below), the Company reported its net sales in two reportable segments, Constellation Wines North America and Constellation Wines Australia and Europe (see additional discussion
regarding business segments below). Net sales reported by these segments (based on the location of the selling company) are summarized as follows:



For the YearEndedFebruary 29,2012% ofTotalFor the YearEndedFebruary 28,2011% ofTotal(in millions)Constellation Wines North America$2,654.3100%$2,557.377%Constellation Wines Australia and Europe——774.723%Consolidated Net Sales$2,654.3100%$3,332.0100%

During the past 10 years, there have been certain key trends within the beverage alcohol industry, which
include:



•Consolidation of suppliers, wholesalers and retailers;



•An increase in global wine consumption, with premium wines growing faster than value-priced wines;



•Premium spirits growing faster than value-priced spirits; and



•High-end beer (imports and crafts) growing faster than domestic beer in the U.S.

To capitalize on these trends and become more competitive, the Company has generally employed a strategy focused on a combination of
organic growth, acquisitions and investments in joint ventures and other entities, with an increasing focus on the higher-margin premium categories of the beverage alcohol industry. Key elements of the Company’s strategy include:



•Leveraging its existing portfolio of leading brands;



•Developing new products, new packaging and line extensions;



•Strengthening relationships with wholesalers and retailers;



•Expanding distribution of its product portfolio;



•Enhancing production capabilities;



•Realizing operating efficiencies and synergies; and



•Maximizing asset utilization.

Over the prior four fiscal years ended February 28, 2011, the Company has complemented this strategy by divesting certain businesses, brands, and assets as part of its efforts to increase its mix of
premium brands, improve margins, create operating efficiencies and reduce debt.

Recent Acquisitions and Divestitures

In October 2011, the Company acquired the remaining 50.1% equity interest in Ruffino S.r.l. (“Ruffino”) for
€50.3 million ($68.6 million). The Company also assumed indebtedness of Ruffino, net of cash acquired, of €54.2 million ($73.1 million). Prior to this transaction, the Company had owned 49.9% of Ruffino and was the U.S. importer
for the Ruffino wine brands.

In January 2011, the Company sold 80.1% of its Australian and U.K. business (the “CWAE
Divestiture”) at a transaction value of $267.7 million. The Company has received cash proceeds of $193.7 million, net of cash divested of $15.8 million, direct costs paid of $11.4 million and post-closing adjustments paid of $18.5 million.







The Company has retained a less than 20% interest in the business. This transaction is consistent with the Company’s strategic focus on premiumizing the Company’s portfolio and
improving margins and return on invested capital.

In January 2010, the Company sold its U.K. cider business for cash proceeds
of £43.9 million ($71.6 million), net of direct costs to sell. This transaction is consistent with the Company’s strategic focus on premium higher-growth, higher-margin wine, beer and spirits brands.

In March 2009, as part of its strategic focus on higher-margin premium brands in its portfolio, the Company sold its value spirits
business for $336.4 million, net of direct costs to sell. The Company received $276.4 million, net of direct costs to sell, in cash proceeds and a note receivable for $60.0 million. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company received full
payment of the note receivable. The Company retained the SVEDKA Vodka and Black Velvet Canadian Whisky premium spirits brands, which have marketplace scale and higher margins than the value spirits brands that were sold. To achieve synergies and
operating efficiencies, these brands were consolidated into the Company’s North American wine operations during Fiscal 2010.

For more information about these transactions, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Business Segments

Prior to January 31, 2011, the Company’s internal management financial reporting consisted of four business divisions: Constellation Wines North America, Constellation Wines Australia and
Europe, Constellation Wines New Zealand, and Crown Imports. Due to a number of factors, including the size of the Constellation Wines New Zealand segment’s operations, the similarity of its economic characteristics and long-term financial
performance with that of the Constellation Wines North America business, and the fact that the vast majority of the wine produced by the Constellation Wines New Zealand operating segment is sold in the U.S. and Canada, the Company had aggregated the
results of this operating segment with its Constellation Wines North America operating segment to form one reportable segment. Accordingly, prior to January 31, 2011, the Company reported its operating results in four segments: Constellation
Wines North America (wine and spirits) (“CWNA”), Constellation Wines Australia and Europe (wine) (“CWAE”), Corporate Operations and Other, and Crown Imports (imported beer). As a result of the January 2011 CWAE Divestiture, as of
February 1, 2011, the Company no longer reports operating results for the CWAE segment.

From February 1, 2011,
through May 31, 2011, the Company’s internal management financial reporting consisted of three business divisions: Constellation Wines North America, Constellation Wines New Zealand and Crown Imports. As discussed above, the Company had
aggregated the results of its Constellation Wines New Zealand operating segment with its Constellation Wines North America operating segment to form one reportable segment. Accordingly, from February 1, 2011, through May 31, 2011, the
Company reported its operating results in three segments: CWNA, Corporate Operations and Other, and Crown Imports.

In
connection with the Company’s changes on June 1, 2011, within its internal management structure for its wine and spirits business, the Company changed its internal management financial reporting to consist of two business divisions:
Constellation Wines North America and Crown Imports. These organizational changes had no impact on the Company’s previously reported segment financial information as the Company continues to report its operating results in three segments: CWNA,
Corporate Operations and Other, and Crown Imports. The business segments, described more fully below, reflect how the Company’s operations are managed, how operating performance within the Company is evaluated by senior management and the
structure of its internal financial reporting.

Information regarding net sales, operating income and total assets of each of
the Company’s business segments and information regarding geographic areas is set forth in Note 23 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.







Constellation Wines North America

CWNA is the leading producer and marketer of premium wine in the world. It has a leading market position in the U.S., Canada and New
Zealand and sells a large number of wine brands across all categories – table wine, sparkling wine and dessert wine – and across all price points – popular, premium, super-premium and fine wine. The portfolio of super-premium and fine
wines is supported by vineyard holdings in the U.S., Canada, New Zealand and Italy. Wine produced by the Company in the U.S. is primarily marketed domestically and in Canada and the U.K. Wine produced in Canada is primarily marketed domestically.
Wine produced in New Zealand is primarily marketed in the U.S., Canada, Australia and the U.K. and domestically. Wine produced in Italy is primarily marketed in the U.S., Canada and domestically. In addition, CWNA exports its wine products to other
major wine consuming markets of the world.

In the U.S., CWNA sells 14 of the top-selling 100 table wine brands and is a
leading premium wine company. In Canada, it sells wine across all price points, and has six of the top-selling 25 table wine brands and the leading icewine brand with Inniskillin.

CWNA’s well-known wine brands include Robert Mondavi Brands, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Estancia, Arbor Mist, Toasted Head, Simi,
Black Box, Ravenswood, Rex Goliath, Kim Crawford, Franciscan Estate, Wild Horse, Ruffino, Nobilo, Mount Veeder, Inniskillin and Jackson-Triggs.

Premium spirit brands in CWNA’s portfolio include SVEDKA Vodka, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, all of which have a leading position in their respective categories.

CWNA is also a leading producer and marketer of wine kits and beverage alcohol refreshment drinks in Canada.

In conjunction with its wine production, CWNA produces and sells bulk wine and other related products and services.

Constellation Wines Australia and Europe

Prior to the January 2011 CWAE Divestiture, the Company’s CWAE segment was a leading producer and marketer of wine in Australia and a leading marketer of wine in the U.K. Wine produced by the Company
in Australia was primarily marketed domestically and in the U.K. CWAE sold wine brands across all price points and varieties, and was the leading producer of value-priced cask (box) wines in Australia.

Crown Imports

In January 2007, the Company completed the formation of Crown Imports. The Company and Modelo indirectly each have an equal interest in Crown Imports, which has the exclusive right to import, market and
sell primarily the Modelo Brands, which include Corona Extra, Corona Light, Modelo Especial, Pacifico, Negra Modelo and Victoria, in all 50 states of the U.S. In the U.S., Crown Imports has six of the top-selling 25 imported beer brands. Corona
Extra is the best-selling imported beer and the sixth best-selling beer overall and Corona Light is the leading imported light beer. The Company accounts for its investment in Crown Imports under the equity method.

Corporate Operations and Other

The Corporate Operations and Other segment includes traditional corporate-related items including executive management, corporate development, corporate finance, human resources, internal audit, investor
relations, legal, public relations and global information technology.

Marketing and Distribution

The Company’s segments employ full-time, in-house marketing, sales and customer service organizations to maintain a high degree of
focus on their respective product categories. The organizations use a range of marketing strategies and tactics designed to build brand equity and increase sales, including market research,







consumer and trade advertising, price promotions, point-of-sale materials, event sponsorship, on-premise promotions and public relations. Where opportunities exist, particularly with national
accounts in the U.S., the Company leverages its sales and marketing skills across the organization.

In North America, the
Company’s products are primarily distributed by wholesale distributors as well as state and provincial alcoholic beverage control agencies. As is the case with all other beverage alcohol companies, products sold through state or provincial
alcoholic beverage control agencies are subject to obtaining and maintaining listings to sell the Company’s products in that agency’s state or province. State and provincial governments can affect prices paid by consumers of the
Company’s products. This is possible either through the imposition of taxes or, in states and provinces in which the government acts as the distributor of the Company’s products through an alcohol beverage control agency, by directly
setting retail prices for the Company’s products.

Trademarks and Distribution Agreements

Trademarks are an important aspect of the Company’s business. The Company sells its products under a number of trademarks, which the
Company owns or uses under license. Throughout its segments, the Company also has various licenses and distribution agreements for the sale, or the production and sale, of its products and products of third parties. These licenses and distribution
agreements have varying terms and durations. At the end of the Company’s year ended February 29, 2012, these agreements included, among others, a long-term license agreement with the B. Manischewitz Company, which expires in 2042, for the
Manischewitz brand, and a distribution and importation agreement with Baron Philippe de Rothschild S.A., which expires in December 2016, for the Mouton Cadet brand. Additionally, in connection with the CWAE Divestiture, the Company entered into
distribution, importation and license agreements that expire in 2014 regarding the production, distribution, importation and licensing of products owned by the divested business which include various brands, such as, but not limited to, the
Hardy’s brands.

All of the Company’s imported beer products are imported, marketed and sold through Crown Imports.
Crown Imports has entered into exclusive importation agreements with the suppliers of the imported beer products. These agreements have terms that vary and prohibit Crown Imports from importing beer products from other producers from the same
country. Crown Imports’ Mexican beer portfolio, the Modelo Brands, currently consists of the Corona Extra, Corona Light, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, Pacifico and Victoria brands. Crown Imports has the right to market and sell the Modelo
Brands in all 50 states of the U.S., the District of Columbia and Guam. Crown Imports has an exclusive sub-license to use certain trademarks related to Modelo Brands beer products in the U.S. (including the District of Columbia and Guam) pursuant to
a sub-license agreement between Crown Imports and Marcas Modelo, S.A. de C.V. This sub-license agreement continues for the duration of the Crown Imports joint venture.

Crown Imports and Extrade II S.A. de C.V. (“Extrade II”), an affiliate of Modelo, have entered into an Importer Agreement, pursuant to which Extrade II granted to Crown Imports the exclusive
right to sell the Modelo Brands in the territories mentioned above. The joint venture and the related importation arrangements provide that, subject to the terms and conditions of those agreements, the joint venture and the related importation
arrangements will continue through 2016 for an initial term of 10 years, and renew in 10-year periods unless GModelo Corporation, a Delaware corporation and subsidiary of Diblo, S.A. de C.V. (“Diblo”), gives notice prior to the end of year
seven of any term.

Competition

The beverage alcohol industry is highly competitive. The Company competes on the basis of quality, price, brand recognition and distribution strength. The Company’s beverage alcohol products compete
with other alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages for consumer purchases, as well as shelf space in retail stores, restaurant presence and wholesaler attention. The Company competes with numerous multinational producers and distributors of beverage
alcohol products, some of which have greater resources than the Company.







CWNA’s principal wine competitors include: E&J Gallo Winery, The Wine Group,
Treasury Wine Estates, W.J. Deutsch & Sons, Ste. Michelle Wine Estates, Kendall-Jackson and Diageo in the U.S.; Andrew Peller, Treasury Wine Estates, Kruger and E&J Gallo Winery in Canada; and Pernod Ricard, Lion Nathan and Treasury
Wine Estates in New Zealand. CWNA’s principal distilled spirits competitors include: Diageo, Beam, Pernod Ricard, Bacardi and Brown-Forman.

Crown Imports’ principal competitors include: Anheuser-Busch InBev, MillerCoors and Heineken.

Production

In the U.S.,
the Company operates 18 wineries where wine is produced from many varieties of grapes grown principally in the Napa, Sonoma, Monterey and San Joaquin regions of California. The Company also operates nine wineries in Canada, four wineries in New
Zealand and six wineries in Italy. Grapes are crushed at most of the Company’s wineries and stored as wine until packaged for sale under the Company’s brand names or sold in bulk. In the U.S., Canada and Italy, the Company’s
inventories of wine are usually at their highest levels in September through November during and after the crush of each year’s grape harvest, and are reduced prior to the subsequent year’s crush. Similarly, in New Zealand, the
Company’s inventories of wine are usually at their highest levels in March through May during and after the crush of each year’s grape harvest, and are reduced prior to the subsequent year’s crush.

The Company’s Canadian whisky requirements are produced and aged at its Canadian distillery in Lethbridge, Alberta. The
Company’s requirements of grains and bulk spirits it uses in the production of Canadian whisky are purchased from various suppliers.

Sources and Availability of Production Materials

The principal components in the production of the Company’s branded beverage alcohol products are agricultural products, such as grapes and grain, and packaging materials (primarily glass).

Most of the Company’s annual grape requirements are satisfied by purchases from each year’s harvest which normally
begins in August and runs through October in the U.S., Canada and Italy, and begins in February and runs through May in New Zealand. The Company believes that it has adequate sources of grape supplies to meet its sales expectations. However, when
demand for certain wine products exceeds expectations, the Company sources the extra requirements from the bulk wine markets. Depending upon overall demand, the Company could experience shortages.

The Company receives grapes from approximately 1,020 independent growers in the U.S., approximately 100 independent growers in Canada,
approximately 80 independent growers in New Zealand and approximately 60 independent growers in Italy. The Company enters into written purchase agreements with a majority of these growers and pricing generally varies year-to-year and is generally
based on then-current market prices.

At February 29, 2012, the Company owned or leased approximately 19,100 acres of
land and vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in California (U.S.), New York (U.S.), Canada, New Zealand and Italy. This acreage supplies only a small percentage of the Company’s overall total grape needs for wine production.
However, most of this acreage is used to supply a large portion of the grapes used for the production of the Company’s super-premium and fine wines. The Company continues to consider the purchase or lease of additional vineyards, and additional
land for vineyard plantings, to supplement its grape supply.

The distilled spirits manufactured and imported by the Company
require various agricultural products, neutral grain spirits and bulk spirits. The Company fulfills its requirements through purchases from various sources by contractual arrangement and through purchases on the open market. The Company believes
that adequate supplies of the aforementioned products are available at the present time.







The Company utilizes glass and polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) bottles and
other materials such as caps, corks, capsules, labels, wine bags and cardboard cartons in the bottling and packaging of its products. After grape purchases, glass bottle costs are the largest component of the Company’s cost of product sold. In
the U.S. and Canada, the glass bottle industry is highly concentrated with only a small number of producers. The Company has traditionally obtained, and continues to obtain, its glass requirements from a limited number of producers under long-term
supply arrangements. Currently, one producer supplies most of the Company’s glass container requirements for its U.S. operations and another producer supplies a majority of the Company’s glass container requirements for its Canadian
operations. The Company has been able to satisfy its requirements with respect to the foregoing and considers its sources of supply to be adequate at this time. However, the inability of any of the Company’s glass bottle suppliers to satisfy
the Company’s requirements could adversely affect the Company’s operations.

Government Regulation

The Company is subject to a range of regulations in the countries in which it operates. Where it produces products, the Company is subject
to environmental laws and regulations, and may be required to obtain environmental and alcohol beverage permits and licenses to operate its facilities. Where it markets and sells products, it may be subject to laws and regulations on brand
registration, packaging and labeling, distribution methods and relationships, pricing and price changes, sales promotions, advertising and public relations. The Company is also subject to rules and regulations relating to changes in officers or
directors, ownership or control.

The Company believes it is in compliance in all material respects with all applicable
governmental laws and regulations in the countries in which it operates. The Company also believes that the cost of administration and compliance with, and liability under, such laws and regulations does not have, and is not expected to have, a
material adverse impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Seasonality

The beverage alcohol industry is subject to seasonality in each major category. As a result, in response to wholesaler and retailer demand
which precedes consumer purchases, the Company’s wine and spirits sales are typically highest during the third quarter of its fiscal year, primarily due to seasonal holiday buying. Crown Imports’ imported beer sales are typically highest
during the first and second quarters of the Company’s fiscal year, which correspond to the Spring and Summer periods in the U.S.

Employees

As of the end
of March 2012, the Company had approximately 4,400 full-time employees. Approximately 2,600 full-time employees were in the U.S. and approximately 1,800 full-time employees were outside of the U.S., primarily in Canada. Additional workers may be
employed by the Company during the grape crushing seasons. The Company considers its employee relations generally to be good.

Company
Information

The Company’s internet address is http://www.cbrands.com. The Company’s filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are accessible free of charge at http://www.cbrands.com as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site
that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The internet address of the SEC’s site is http://www.sec.gov. Also, the public may
read and copy any materials that the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC
at 1-800-SEC-0330.







The Company has adopted a Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of
Ethics that specifically applies to its chief executive officer, its principal financial officer, and controller. This Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics meets the requirements as set forth in the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Item 406 of Regulation S-K. The Company has posted on its internet website a copy of the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics. It is located athttp://www.cbrands.com/investors/corporate-governance.

http://www.cbrands.com/investors/corporate-governance

The foregoing information regarding the Company’s website and its content is for your convenience only. The content of the Company’s website is not deemed to be incorporated by reference in this
report or filed with the SEC.



