Item 1.Business.



(a) General Development of Business



General



Philip Morris International Inc. is a Virginia holding company incorporated in 1987. Our subsidiaries and affiliates and their licensees are engaged in
the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products in markets outside of the United States of America. Our products are sold in approximately 160 countries and, in many of these countries, they hold the number one or number two market
share position. We have a wide range of premium, mid-price and low-price brands. Our portfolio comprises both international and local brands.



Our portfolio of international and local brands is led byMarlboro, the world’s best selling international cigarette, which accounted for
approximately 35% of our total 2009 shipment volume.Marlborois complemented in the premium price category byMerit, ParliamentandVirginia Slims. Our leading mid-price brands areL&MandChesterfield. Other
leading international brands includeBond Street,Lark,Muratti, Next, Philip MorrisandRed & White.



We also own a number of important local brands, such asA Mild,Dji Sam SoeandA Hijauin Indonesia,Dianain Italy,OptimaandApollo-Soyuzin Russia,Morven Goldin Pakistan,Bostonin Colombia,Belmont, Canadian ClassicsandNumber 7in Canada,BestandClassicin Serbia,f6in Germany,Delicadosin Mexico,Assosin Greece andPetrain the Czech Republic and Slovakia. While there are a number of markets where local brands remain important, international brands are expanding their share in numerous markets. With
international brands contributing approximately 74% of our shipment volume in 2009, we are well positioned to continue to benefit from this trend.



Separation from Altria Group, Inc.



Prior to March 28, 2008, we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc. (“Altria”). On January 30, 2008, the Altria Board
of Directors announced Altria’s plans to spin off all of its interest in PMI to Altria’s stockholders in a tax-free transaction pursuant to Section 355 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. The distribution of all of our shares owned by
Altria (the “Spin-off”), was made on March 28, 2008 (the “Distribution Date”), to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 19, 2008 (the “Record Date”). Altria distributed one share of our
common stock for each share of Altria common stock outstanding on the Record Date.



Acquisitions and Other Business Arrangements



One element of our growth strategy is to strengthen our brand portfolio and/or expand our geographic reach through an active program of selective acquisitions and the development of strategic business relationships. We are constantly
evaluating potential acquisition opportunities and strategic projects. From time to time we may engage in confidential negotiations that are not publicly announced unless and until those negotiations result in a definitive agreement. During 2009,
2008 and 2007, we have expanded our business with the following transactions:



2009:



In
September 2009, we acquired Swedish Match South Africa (Proprietary) Limited, for ZAR 1.93 billion (approximately $256 million based on exchange rates prevailing at the time of the acquisition), including acquired cash.



-1-




In July 2009, we entered into an agreement to purchase 100% of the shares of privately-owned Colombian
cigarette manufacturer, Productora Tabacalera de Colombia, Protabaco Ltda., for $452 million. The transaction, which is subject to competition authority approval and final confirmatory due diligence, is expected to close in the first half of 2010.
We project this acquisition to be marginally accretive to our earnings per share immediately.



In February 2009, we purchased thePetterøestobacco business, which includes fine-cut trademarks primarily sold in Norway and Sweden.



In February 2009, we also entered into an agreement with Swedish Match AB (“SWMA”) to establish an exclusive
joint venture to commercialize Swedish style snus and other smoke-free tobacco products worldwide, outside of Scandinavia and the United States. We and SWMA will license exclusively to the joint venture an agreed list of trademarks and intellectual
property. The joint venture started operations on April 1, 2009. The effect of this agreement was not material to our 2009 consolidated financial position, results of operations or operating cash flows.



2008:



In October 2008, we completed the acquisition of Rothmans Inc.
(“Rothmans”), which is located in Canada, for CAD $2.0 billion (approximately $1.9 billion based on exchange rates prevailing at the time of the acquisition). Prior to our acquisition, Rothmans’ sole holding was a 60% interest in
Rothmans, Benson & Hedges Inc. (“RBH”). The remaining 40% interest in RBH was owned by us.



In June 2008, we purchased the fine cut trademarkIntervaland certain other trademarks in the other tobacco products category (“OTP”)
from Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for $407 million.



2007:



In November 2007, we acquired an
additional 30% interest in our Mexican tobacco business from Grupo Carso, S.A.B. de C.V. (“Grupo Carso”), which increased our ownership interest to 80%, for $1.1 billion. After this transaction was completed, Grupo Carso retained a 20%
interest in the business. A director of PMI has an affiliation with Grupo Carso. We also entered into an agreement with Grupo Carso which provides the basis for us to potentially acquire, or for Grupo Carso to potentially sell to us, Grupo
Carso’s remaining 20% interest in the future.



During
the first quarter of 2007, we acquired an additional 58.2% interest in a Pakistan cigarette manufacturer, Lakson Tobacco Company Limited (“Lakson Tobacco”), which increased our total ownership interest in Lakson Tobacco from 40% to
approximately 98%, for $388 million.



Other:



On February 25, 2010, our
affiliate, Philip Morris Philippines Manufacturing Inc. (“PMPMI”), and Fortune Tobacco Corporation (“FTC”) signed an agreement to unite their respective business activities by transferring selected assets and liabilities of PMPMI
and FTC to a new company, which will be called PMFTC Inc. (“PMFTC”). PMPMI and FTC will hold equal economic interests in PMFTC, while we will manage the day-to-day operations of PMFTC and have a majority of its Board of Directors.
Consequently, we will account for the contributed assets and liabilities of FTC as a business combination. The preliminary purchase price allocation has not been completed, and therefore we cannot describe assets acquired and liabilities assumed by
each major class. The establishment of PMFTC permits both parties to benefit from their respective, complementary brand portfolios, as well as cost synergies from the resulting integration of manufacturing, distribution and procurement, and the
further development and growth of tobacco growing in the Philippines.



As part of the transaction, FTC also received the right to sell its interest to us, except in certain circumstances, during the period from February 25, 2015 through February 24, 2018, at an agreed-upon value of
$1.17 billion, which will be reflected on our consolidated balance sheet as a redeemable noncontrolling interest. In future periods, if the fair value of 50% of PMFTC were to drop below $1.17 billion, the difference would be treated as a special
dividend to FTC and would be excluded from net earnings attributable to PMI for the calculation of earnings per share.



-2-






Source of
Funds — Dividends



We are a legal entity
separate and distinct from our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, our right, and thus the right of our creditors and stockholders, to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of any subsidiary is subject to the prior
claims of creditors of such subsidiary, except to the extent that claims of our company itself as a creditor may be recognized. As a holding company, our principal sources of funds, including funds to make payment on our debt securities, are from
the receipt of dividends and repayment of debt from our subsidiaries. Our principal wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries currently are not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other
distributions with respect to their common stock.



(b) Financial
Information About Segments



We divide our markets
into four geographic regions, which constitute our segments for financial reporting purposes:



•The European Union (“EU”) Region is headquartered in Lausanne, Switzerland and covers all the EU countries except for Slovenia, Bulgaria and Romania,
and also comprises Switzerland, Norway and Iceland, which are linked to the EU through trade agreements.



•The Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa (“EEMA”) Region is also headquartered in Lausanne and covers the Balkans (including Slovenia, Bulgaria and
Romania), the former Soviet Union (excluding Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania), Mongolia, Turkey, the Middle East and Africa and our international duty free business.



•The Asia Region is headquartered in Hong Kong and covers all other Asian countries as well as Australia, New Zealand, and the Pacific Islands.



•The Latin America & Canada Region is headquartered in New York and covers the South American continent, Central America, Mexico, the Caribbean and
Canada.



Net revenues and operating
companies income* (together with a reconciliation to operating income) attributable to each such segment for each of the last three years are set forth in Note 12.Segment Reportingto our consolidated financial statements, which is
incorporated herein by reference to the 2009 Annual Report. See Part II, Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsfor a discussion of our operating results by business segment.



The relative percentages of operating companies income
attributable to each reportable segment were as follows:



200920082007European Union43.9%45.4%46.9%Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa25.929.927.2Asia23.719.720.2Latin America & Canada6.55.05.7100.0%100.0%100.0%



*Our management evaluates segment performance and allocates resources based on operating companies income, which we define as operating income before general corporate expenses
and amortization of intangibles. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 2.Summary of Significant Accounting Policiesto our consolidated financial statements and are incorporated herein by
reference to the 2009 Annual Report.



-3-




We use the term net revenues to refer to our operating revenues from the sale of our products, net of
sales and promotion incentives. Our net revenues and operating income are affected by various factors, including the volume of products we sell, the price of our products, changes in currency exchange rates and the mix of products we sell. Mix is a
term used to refer to the proportionate value of premium price brands to mid-price or low-price brands in any given market (product mix). Mix can also refer to the proportion of volume in more profitable markets versus volume in less profitable
markets (geographic mix). We often collect excise taxes from our customers and then remit them to local governments, and, in those circumstances, we include excise taxes as a component of net revenues and as part of our cost of sales. Aside from
excise taxes, our cost of sales consists principally of tobacco leaf, non-tobacco raw materials, labor and manufacturing costs.



Our marketing, administration and research costs include the costs of marketing our products, other costs generally not related to the manufacture of
our products (including general corporate expenses), and costs incurred to develop new products. The most significant components of our marketing, administration and research costs are selling and marketing expenses, which relate to the cost of our
sales force as well as to the advertising and promotion of our products.



(c) Narrative Description of Business



Our subsidiaries and affiliates and their licensees manufacture, market and sell tobacco products outside the United States.



Our total cigarette shipments decreased 0.7% in 2009 to 864.0 billion units. We estimate that international cigarette market shipments were
approximately 5.6 trillion units in 2009, a 0.7% increase over 2008. We estimate that our share of the international cigarette market (which is defined as worldwide cigarette volume excluding the United States) was approximately 15.4%, 15.7% and
15.6% in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Excluding the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”), we estimate that our share of the international cigarette market was approximately 26.0%, 25.8% and 25.2% in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Shipments of our principal brand,Marlboro, decreased 2.8% in 2009, and represented approximately 9.1% of the international cigarette market, excluding PRC, in 2009 and 2008, and 9.2% in 2007.



We have a cigarette market share of at least 15%, and, in a number of
instances substantially more than 15%, in approximately 90 markets, including Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Colombia, the Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan,
Mexico, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey and Ukraine.



References to total international cigarette market, total cigarette market, total market and market shares in this Form 10-K are our estimates based on
a number of internal and external sources.



Distribution and Sales



The distribution and sales strategy for our products is
tailored to the characteristics of each market, including retailer needs and capabilities, the wholesale infrastructure, our competitive position, costs and the regulatory framework. Our goals are speed, efficiency and widespread availability of our
products, while at the same time contributing to the success of our direct and indirect trade partners. The four main types of distribution that we use across the globe are:



•Direct Sales and Distribution (“DSD”), where we have set up our own distribution directly to retailers.



•Single independent distributors who are responsible for distribution within a single market.



-4-




•Exclusive Zonified Distribution (“EZD”), where distributors have an exclusive territory within a country to enable them to obtain a suitable return on
their investment.



•Distribution through wholesalers, where we supply either national or regional wholesalers who then service the retail trade.



In many countries we also service key accounts, including gas stations,
retail chains and supermarkets, directly.



Our distribution
and sales systems are supported by sales forces that in the aggregate total approximately 16,800 employees worldwide. Our sales forces are well trained, recognized by trade surveys for their professionalism, and have developed a long lasting
relationship with the wholesale and retail trade, thus providing us with a superior presence at the point of sale, as evidenced by our leading market share position in many markets. In addition, our consumer engagement teams work together with the
sales forces to engage adult smokers in promotional activities and to support new product launches.



Our products are advertised and promoted through various media and channels, including, where permitted by law, point of sale communications, brand
events, access-controlled Web sites, print, new digital technologies and direct communication to verified adult smokers. Our direct communication with verified adult smokers utilizes mail, email and other electronic communication tools. Promotional
activities include, where permitted by law, competitions, invitation to events, interactive programs, consumer incentive items and price promotions. To support advertising and promotional activities in the markets, we have a dedicated consumer
engagement group that develops innovative engagement tools based on the latest technologies and consumer trends.



Competition



We are subject to highly competitive conditions in all aspects of our business. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality, brand
recognition, brand loyalty, taste, innovation, packaging, service, marketing, advertising and price. Our competitors include three large international tobacco companies and several regional and local tobacco companies and, in some instances,
government-owned tobacco enterprises, principally in China, Egypt, Thailand, Taiwan, Vietnam and Algeria. Industry consolidation and privatizations of governmental enterprises have led to an overall increase in competitive pressures. Some
competitors have different profit and volume objectives, and some international competitors are less susceptible to changes in currency exchange rates. We compete predominantly with American type blended cigarettes, such asMarlboro, L&MandChesterfield, which are the most popular across many of our markets. We seek to compete in all profitable price segments.



Procurement and Raw Materials



We purchase tobacco leaf of various grades and styles throughout the world, the majority through independent tobacco dealers. We also contract directly
with farmers in several countries including the United States, Argentina, Mexico, Indonesia, Ecuador, Dominican Republic, Poland, Colombia, and Portugal.



Our largest sources of supply are:



•The United States for Virginia (flue-cured) and Burley tobaccos, particularly higher quality varieties for use in leading international brands.



•Brazil, particularly for Virginia tobaccos but also for Burley.



•Indonesia, mostly for domestic use in kretek products.



•Turkey and Greece, mostly for Oriental.



•Argentina and Malawi, mostly for Burley.



-5-




We believe that there is an adequate supply of tobacco in the world markets to satisfy our current and
anticipated production requirements.



In addition to tobacco
leaf, we purchase a wide variety of other non-tobacco materials from a total of approximately 340 suppliers. Our top 10 suppliers of non-tobacco materials combined represent more than 54% of our total non-tobacco material purchases. The three most
significant non-tobacco materials that we purchase are printed paper board used in packaging, acetate tow used in filter making and fine paper used in cigarette manufacturing. In addition, the supply of cloves is of particular importance to our
Indonesian business.



Business Environment



Information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
to the paragraphs captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Operating Results by Business Segment–Business Environment” on pages 24 to 31 of the 2009 Annual
Report and made a part hereof.



Other Matters



Customers



None of our business segments are dependent upon a single customer or a
few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.



Employees



As of December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 77,300 people worldwide, including employees under temporary contracts and hourly paid part
time staff. Our businesses are subject to a number of laws and regulations relating to our relationship with our employees. Generally, these laws and regulations are specific to the location of each business. In addition, in accordance with European
Union requirements, we have established a European Works Council composed of management and elected members of our workforce. We believe that our relations with our employees and their representative organizations are excellent.



Executive Officers of the Registrant



The disclosure regarding executive officers is set forth under the
heading “Executive Officers as of February 26, 2010” in Item 10 of Part III of this Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.



Research and Development



Our research efforts are focused on understanding the mechanisms of tobacco-related diseases, and specifically the complex role of tobacco smoke
constituents in the development of tobacco-related diseases. This research serves as the cornerstone for our efforts to develop products that have the potential to reduce the risk of tobacco-related diseases. Those efforts currently focus on smoke
generation at lower temperatures, heat generation and mass transfer, biotechnology, material science and the removal of certain harmful compounds from the tobacco leaf using agronomic practices. We are undertaking research to enable us to predict
whether and to what extent a product has the potential to reduce the risk of a disease caused by smoking. This will be critical for making substantiated statements about the potential risk reduction of such products when commercializing them.



We also conduct research to support and reinforce our
conventional product business. We seek to be at the forefront of innovation. Significant investments have been made in new product development efforts for conventional products, resulting in a wide range of product enhancements and the launch of



-6-




innovative new products. Further, with the increase in product regulations, support for the conventional cigarette business has expanded and is expected to become more complex, requiring
additional capacity for analysis and testing in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.



Finally, we are conducting research and development on technology platforms that can potentially lead to the development of alternative uses of
tobacco.



The research and development expense for the years
ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is set forth in Note 14.Additional Informationto our financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2009 Annual Report.



Intellectual Property



Our trademarks are valuable assets and their protection and their
reputation are essential to us. We own the trademark rights to all of our principal brands, includingMarlboro, in all countries where we use them. Philip Morris USA Inc. (“PM USA”), a U.S. tobacco subsidiary of Altria, owns the
trademark rights to its brands, includingMarlboro, within the United States, its territories and possessions.



In addition, we own more than 1,900 patents worldwide, and our patent portfolio, as a whole, is material to our business; however, no one patent or
group of related patents is material to us. We also have proprietary secrets, technology, know-how, processes and other intellectual property rights that are not registered.



Effective as of January 1, 2008, PMI entered into an Intellectual Property Agreement with PM USA. The Intellectual
Property Agreement governs the ownership of intellectual property between PMI and PM USA. Ownership of the jointly funded intellectual property has been allocated as follows:



•PMI owns all rights to the jointly funded intellectual property outside the United States, its territories and possessions; and



•PM USA owns all rights to the jointly funded intellectual property in the United States, its territories and possessions.



Ownership of intellectual property related to patent applications and
resulting patents based solely on the jointly funded intellectual property, regardless of when filed or issued, will be exclusive to PM USA in the United States, its territories and possessions and exclusive to PMI everywhere else in the world.



The Intellectual Property Agreement contains provisions
concerning intellectual property that is independently developed by us or PM USA following the Distribution. For the first two years following the Distribution, if we or PM USA independently develop new intellectual property that satisfies certain
conditions and is incorporated into a new product or included in a patent application, the new intellectual property will be subject to the geographic allocation described above. For ten years following the Distribution, independently developed
intellectual property may be subject to rights under certain circumstances that would allow either us or PM USA a priority position to obtain the rights to the new intellectual property from the other party, with the price and other terms to be
negotiated.



In the event of a dispute between us and PM USA
under the Intellectual Property Agreement, we have agreed with PM USA to submit the dispute first, to negotiation between our and PM USA’s senior executives, and then, to binding arbitration.



Seasonality



Our business segments are not significantly affected by seasonality, although in certain markets cigarette consumption
trends rise during the summer months due to longer daylight time and tourism.



-7-




Environmental Regulation



We are subject to applicable international, national and local environmental laws and regulations in the countries in
which we do business. We have specific programs across our business units designed to meet applicable environmental compliance requirements and reduce wastage as well as water and energy consumption. We have developed and implemented a consistent
environmental and occupational health and safety (“EHS”) management system, which involves policies, standard practices and procedures at all our manufacturing centers. We also conduct regular safety assessments at our offices, warehouses
and car fleet organizations. Furthermore, we have engaged an external certification body to validate the effectiveness of our EHS management system at all our manufacturing centers around the world, in accordance with internationally recognized
standards. Our subsidiaries expect to continue to make investments in order to drive improved performance and maintain compliance with environmental laws and regulations. We assess and report the compliance status of all our legal entities on a
regular basis. Based on the management and controls we have in place environmental expenditures have not had, and are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position,
earnings or competitive position.



(d) Financial Information
About Geographic Areas



The amounts of net revenues
and long-lived assets attributable to each of our geographic segments for each of the last three fiscal years are set forth in Note 12.Segment Reporting.



(e) Available Information



We are required to file with the SEC annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information required by the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Investors may read and copy any document that we file, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.
Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet Web site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements,
and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, from which investors can electronically access our SEC filings.



We make available free of charge on or through our Web site (www.pmintl.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q,
Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the
SEC. Investors can access our filings with the SEC by visiting www.pmintl.com.



The information on our Web site is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC.



-8-




