Item 1.Business.



(a) General Development of Business



General



Philip Morris International Inc. is a Virginia holding company incorporated in 1987. Our subsidiaries and affiliates and their licensees are engaged
in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products in markets outside of the United States of America. Our products are sold in approximately 180 countries and, in many of these countries, they hold the number one or number two
market share position. We have a wide range of premium, mid-price and low-price brands. Our portfolio comprises both international and local brands.



Our portfolio of international and local brands is led byMarlboro, the world’s best selling international cigarette, which accounted
for approximately 33% of our total 2010 shipment volume.Marlborois complemented in the premium-price category byMerit, ParliamentandVirginia Slims. Our leading mid-price brands areL&MandChesterfield.
Other leading international brands includeBond Street,Lark,Muratti, Next, Philip MorrisandRed & White.



We also own a number of important local brands, such asSampoerna A,Dji Sam SoeandSampoerna Hijauin Indonesia,Fortune,ChampionandHopein the Philippines,Dianain Italy,OptimaandApollo-Soyuzin Russia,Morven Goldin Pakistan,Bostonin Colombia,Belmont, Canadian ClassicsandNumber
7in Canada,BestandClassicin Serbia,f6in Germany,Delicadosin Mexico,Assosin Greece andPetrain the Czech Republic and Slovakia. While there are a number of markets where local brands remain
important, international brands are expanding their share in numerous markets. With international brands contributing approximately 70% of our shipment volume in 2010, we are well positioned to continue to benefit from this trend.



Separation from Altria Group, Inc.



We were a wholly owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc.
(“Altria”) until the distribution of all of our shares owned by Altria (the “Spin-off”), was made on March 28, 2008 (the “Distribution Date”).



Acquisitions and Other Business Arrangements



One element of our growth strategy is to strengthen our brand
portfolio and/or expand our geographic reach through an active program of selective acquisitions and the development of strategic business relationships. We are constantly evaluating potential acquisition opportunities and strategic projects. From
time to time we may engage in confidential negotiations that are not publicly announced unless and until those negotiations result in a definitive agreement. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, we have expanded our business with the following transactions:



2010:



In February 2010, our affiliate, Philip Morris Philippines
Manufacturing Inc. (“PMPMI”), and Fortune Tobacco Corporation (“FTC”) combined their respective business activities by transferring selected assets and liabilities of PMPMI and FTC to a new company called PMFTC Inc.
(“PMFTC”). PMPMI and FTC hold equal economic interests in PMFTC, while we manage the day-to-day operations of PMFTC and have a majority of its Board of Directors. The establishment of PMFTC permits both parties to benefit from their
respective, complementary brand portfolios, as well as cost synergies from the



-1-




resulting integration of manufacturing, distribution and procurement, and the further development and advancement of tobacco growing in the Philippines.



In June 2010, we announced that our affiliate, Philip Morris Brasil
Industria e Comercio Ltda. (“PMB”), will begin directly sourcing tobacco leaf from approximately 17,000 tobacco farmers in Southern Brazil. This initiative enhances PMI’s direct involvement in the supply chain and is expected to
provide approximately 10% of PMI’s global leaf requirements. The vertically integrated structure was made possible following separate agreements with two current leaf suppliers in Brazil, Alliance One Brasil Exportadora de Tabacos Ltda.
(“AOB”) and Universal Leaf Tabacos Ltda. (“ULT”). These agreements resulted in AOB assigning approximately 9,000 contracts with tobacco farmers to PMB and ULT assigning approximately 8,000 contracts with tobacco farmers to PMB.
As a result, PMB offered employment to more than 200 employees, most of them agronomy specialists, and acquired related assets in Southern Brazil. The purchase price for the net assets and the contractual relationships was $83 million.



2009:



In September 2009, we acquired Swedish Match South Africa
(Proprietary) Limited, for ZAR 1.93 billion (approximately $256 million based on exchange rates prevailing at the time of the acquisition), including acquired cash.



In February 2009, we purchased thePetterøestobacco
business for $209 million, which includes fine-cut trademarks primarily sold in Norway and Sweden.



In February 2009, we also entered into an agreement with Swedish Match AB (“SWMA”) to establish an exclusive joint venture to
commercialize Swedish style snus and other smoke-free tobacco products worldwide, outside of Scandinavia and the United States. We and SWMA licensed an agreed list of trademarks and intellectual property exclusively to the joint venture. The joint
venture started operations on April 1, 2009.



2008:



In October
2008, we completed the acquisition of Rothmans Inc. (“Rothmans”), which is located in Canada, for CAD 2.0 billion (approximately $1.9 billion based on exchange rates prevailing at the time of the acquisition). Prior to our acquisition,
Rothmans’ sole holding was a 60% interest in Rothmans, Benson & Hedges Inc. (“RBH”). The remaining 40% interest in RBH was owned by us.



In June 2008, we purchased the fine cut trademarkIntervaland certain other trademarks in the other tobacco products category
(“OTP”) from Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for $407 million.



Other:



Effective January 1,
2011, we established a new business structure with Vietnam National Tobacco Corporation (“Vinataba”) in Vietnam. Under the terms of the agreement, we will further develop our existing joint venture with Vinataba through the licensing ofMarlboroand the establishment of a PMI-controlled branch for the business building of our brands. The Vietnamese cigarette market is the fourteenth largest in the world, excluding the USA, with an estimated 2010 volume of 77 billion
cigarettes.



-2-




Source of Funds — Dividends



We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our direct and
indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, our right, and thus the right of our creditors and stockholders, to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of any subsidiary is subject to the prior claims of creditors of such subsidiary,
except to the extent that claims of our company itself as a creditor may be recognized. As a holding company, our principal sources of funds, including funds to make payment on our debt securities, are from the receipt of dividends and repayment of
debt from our subsidiaries. Our principal wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries currently are not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions with respect to their common
stock.



(b) Financial Information About Segments



We divide our markets into four geographic
regions, which constitute our segments for financial reporting purposes:



•The European Union (“EU”) Region is headquartered in Lausanne, Switzerland and covers all the EU countries except for Slovenia, Bulgaria and Romania,
and also comprises Switzerland, Norway and Iceland, which are linked to the EU through trade agreements.



•The Eastern Europe, Middle East & Africa (“EEMA”) Region is also headquartered in Lausanne and covers the Balkans (including Slovenia,
Bulgaria and Romania), the former Soviet Union (excluding Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania), Mongolia, Turkey, the Middle East and Africa and our international duty free business.



•The Asia Region is headquartered in Hong Kong and covers all other Asian countries as well as Australia, New Zealand, and the Pacific Islands.



•The Latin America & Canada Region is headquartered in New York and covers the South American continent, Central America, Mexico, the Caribbean and
Canada.



Net revenues and operating
companies income* (together with a reconciliation to operating income) attributable to each such segment for each of the last three years are set forth in Note 12.Segment Reportingto our consolidated financial statements, which is
incorporated herein by reference to the 2010 Annual Report. See Part II, Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsfor a discussion of our operating results by business segment.



The relative percentages of operating companies income
attributable to each reportable segment were as follows:



201020092008European Union37.6%43.9%45.4%Eastern Europe, Middle East & Africa27.525.929.9Asia26.623.719.7Latin America & Canada8.36.55.0100.0%100.0%100.0%



*Our management evaluates segment performance and allocates resources based on operating companies income, which we define as operating income before general corporate expenses
and amortization of intangibles. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 2.Summary of Significant Accounting Policiesto our consolidated financial statements and are incorporated herein by
reference to the 2010 Annual Report.



-3-




We use the term net revenues to refer to our operating revenues from the sale of our products, net of
sales and promotion incentives. Our net revenues and operating income are affected by various factors, including the volume of products we sell, the price of our products, changes in currency exchange rates and the mix of products we sell. Mix is a
term used to refer to the proportionate value of premium-price brands to mid-price or low-price brands in any given market (product mix). Mix can also refer to the proportion of volume in more profitable markets versus volume in less profitable
markets (geographic mix). We often collect excise taxes from our customers and then remit them to local governments, and, in those circumstances, we include excise taxes in our net revenues and excise taxes on products. Our cost of sales consists
principally of tobacco leaf, non-tobacco raw materials, labor and manufacturing costs.



Our marketing, administration and research costs include the costs of marketing our products, other costs generally not related to the manufacture of our products (including general corporate expenses), and costs
incurred to develop new products. The most significant components of our marketing, administration and research costs are selling and marketing expenses, which relate to the cost of our sales force as well as to the advertising and promotion of our
products.



(c) Narrative Description of Business



Our subsidiaries and affiliates and their
licensees manufacture, market and sell tobacco products outside the United States.



Our total cigarette shipments increased 4.1% in 2010 to 899.9 billion units. We estimate that international cigarette market shipments were approximately 5.6 trillion units in 2010, a 0.1% increase over 2009.
We estimate that our reported share of the international cigarette market (which is defined as worldwide cigarette volume excluding the United States) was approximately 16.0%, 15.4%, and 15.7% in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Including the
business combination with FTC on a pro-forma basis, our total share of the international cigarette market was 16.2% and 16.5% in 2010 and 2009, respectively.



Excluding the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”), we estimate that our reported share of the international cigarette market was
approximately 27.6%, 25.9%, and 25.8% in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Including the business combination with FTC on a pro-forma basis, our total share of the international cigarette market, excluding the PRC, was 27.9% and 27.7% in 2010 and
2009, respectively.



Shipments of our principal brand,Marlboro, decreased 1.5% in 2010, and represented approximately 9.1% of the international cigarette market, excluding the PRC, in 2010, 9.0% in 2009 and 9.1% in 2008.



We have a cigarette market share of at least 15%, and, in a number of
instances substantially more than 15%, in approximately 90 markets, including Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Colombia, the Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan,
Mexico, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey and Ukraine.



References to total international cigarette market, total cigarette market, total market and market shares in this Form 10-K are our estimates based
on a number of internal and external sources.



-4-




Distribution and Sales



The distribution and sales strategy for our products is tailored to
the characteristics of each market, including retailer needs and capabilities, the wholesale infrastructure, our competitive position, costs and the regulatory framework. Our goal is to achieve speed, efficiency and widespread availability of our
products, while contributing to the success of our direct and indirect trade partners. The four main types of distribution that we use across the globe, often simultaneously in a given market, are:



•Direct Sales and Distribution (“DSD”), where we have set up our own distribution directly to retailers.



•Distribution through single independent distributors who are responsible for distribution in a single market.



•Exclusive Zonified Distribution (“EZD”), where distributors have an exclusive territory within a market to enable them to obtain a suitable return on
their investment.



•Distribution through wholesalers, where we supply either national or regional wholesalers that then service the retail trade.



In many countries we also directly service key accounts, including gas
stations, retail chains and supermarkets.



Our distribution
and sales systems are supported by sales forces that total approximately 16,400 employees worldwide. Our sales forces are well trained and recognized by trade surveys for their professionalism. They have over time developed a long lasting
relationship with the wholesale and retail trade, thus providing us with a superior presence at the point of sale, reflecting our leading market share position in many markets. In addition, our consumer engagement teams work together with the sales
forces to engage adult smokers in promotional activities and to support new product launches.



Our products are marketed and promoted through various media and channels, including, where permitted by law, point of sale communications, brand events, access-restricted Web sites, print, new digital technologies
and direct communication to verified adult smokers. Our direct communication with verified adult smokers utilizes mail, email and other electronic communication tools. Promotional activities include, where permitted by law, competitions, invitation
to events, interactive programs, consumer premiums and price promotions. To support advertising and promotional activities in the markets, we have a dedicated consumer engagement group that develops innovative engagement tools based on the latest
technologies and consumer trends.



Competition



We are subject to highly competitive conditions in all aspects of our
business. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, taste, innovation, packaging, service, marketing, advertising and price. Our competitors include three large international tobacco companies and
several regional and local tobacco companies and, in some instances, state-owned tobacco enterprises, principally in China, Egypt, Thailand, Taiwan, Vietnam and Algeria. Industry consolidation and privatizations of state-owned enterprises have led
to an overall increase in competitive pressures. Some competitors have different profit and volume objectives, and some international competitors are less susceptible to changes in currency exchange rates. We compete predominantly with American type
blended cigarettes, such asMarlboro, L&MandChesterfield, which are the most popular across many of our markets. We seek to compete in all profitable price segments.



-5-




Procurement and Raw Materials



We purchase tobacco leaf of various grades and styles throughout the
world, the majority through independent tobacco suppliers. We also contract directly with farmers in several countries including the United States, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, Indonesia, Ecuador, Dominican Republic, Poland, Colombia, the Philippines
and Pakistan.



As discussed above, in June 2010, we
announced that our affiliate, PMB, will begin directly sourcing tobacco leaf from tobacco farmers in Southern Brazil. This initiative enhances PMI’s direct involvement in the supply chain and is expected to provide approximately 10% of
PMI’s global leaf requirements.



Our largest sources of
supply are:



•The United States for Virginia (flue-cured) and Burley tobaccos, particularly higher quality varieties for use in leading international brands.



•Brazil, particularly for Virginia tobaccos but also for Burley.



•Indonesia, mostly for domestic use in kretek products.



•Turkey and Greece, mostly for Oriental.



•Argentina and Malawi, mostly for Burley.



We believe that there is an adequate supply of tobacco in the world markets to satisfy our current and anticipated production requirements.



In addition to tobacco leaf, we purchase a wide variety of
other non-tobacco materials from a total of approximately 400 suppliers. Our top 10 suppliers of non-tobacco materials combined represent more than 45% of our total non-tobacco material purchases. The three most significant non-tobacco materials
that we purchase are printed paper board used in packaging, acetate tow used in filter making and fine paper used in cigarette manufacturing. In addition, the supply of cloves is of particular importance to our Indonesian business.



Business Environment



Information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference to the paragraphs captioned
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Operating Results by Business Segment–Business Environment” on pages 24 to 32 of the 2010 Annual Report and made a part
hereof.



Other Matters



Customers



None of our business segments is dependent upon a single customer or a
few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.



Employees



As of
December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 78,300 people worldwide, including employees under temporary contracts and hourly paid part-time staff. Our businesses are subject to a number of laws and regulations relating to our relationship
with our employees. Generally, these laws and regulations are specific to the location of each business. In addition, in accordance with European



-6-




Union requirements, we have established a European Works Council composed of management and elected members of our workforce. We believe that our relations with our employees and their
representative organizations are excellent.



Executive Officers of the
Registrant



The disclosure regarding executive officers
is set forth under the heading “Executive Officers as of February 25, 2011” in Item 10 of Part III of this Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.



Research and Development



Our research efforts are focused on understanding the mechanisms of
tobacco-related diseases, and specifically the complex role of tobacco smoke constituents in the development of tobacco-related diseases. This research serves as the cornerstone for our efforts to develop products that have the potential to reduce
the risk of tobacco-related diseases. Those efforts currently focus on smoke generation at lower temperatures, heat generation and mass transfer, biotechnology, material science and the removal of certain harmful compounds from the tobacco leaf
using agronomic practices. We are undertaking research to enable us to predict whether and to what extent a product has the potential to reduce the risk of a disease caused by smoking. This will be critical for making substantiated statements about
the potential risk reduction of such products when commercializing them.



We also conduct research to support and reinforce our conventional product business. We seek to be at the forefront of innovation. Significant investments have been made in new product development efforts for
conventional products, resulting in a wide range of product enhancements and the launch of innovative new products. Further, with the increase in product regulations, support for the conventional cigarette business has expanded and is expected to
become more complex, requiring additional capacity for analysis and testing in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.



Finally, working through biotechnology partners, we are conducting research and development on technology platforms that can potentially lead to the
development of alternative uses of tobacco.



The research
and development expense for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 is set forth in Note 14.Additional Informationto our consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2010 Annual Report.



Intellectual Property



Our trademarks are valuable assets and their protection and their
reputation are essential to us. We own the trademark rights to all of our principal brands, includingMarlboro, or have the right to use them in all countries where we use them.



In addition, we own more than 2,200 patents worldwide, and our patent portfolio, as a whole, is material to our business;
however, no one patent or group of related patents is material to us. We also have proprietary secrets, technology, know-how, processes and other intellectual property rights that are not registered.



Effective January 1, 2008, PMI entered into an Intellectual
Property Agreement with Philip Morris USA Inc. (“PM USA”). The Intellectual Property Agreement governs the ownership of intellectual property between PMI and PM USA. Ownership of the jointly funded intellectual property has been allocated
as follows:



•PMI owns all rights to the jointly funded intellectual property outside the United States, its territories and possessions; and



-7-




•PM USA owns all rights to the jointly funded intellectual property in the United States, its territories and possessions.



Ownership of intellectual property related to patent applications and
resulting patents based solely on the jointly funded intellectual property, regardless of when filed or issued, will be exclusive to PM USA in the United States, its territories and possessions and exclusive to PMI everywhere else in the world.



The Intellectual Property Agreement contains provisions
concerning intellectual property that is independently developed by us or PM USA following the Distribution Date. For the first two years following the Distribution Date, if we or PM USA independently developed new intellectual property that
satisfied certain conditions and was incorporated into a new product or included in a patent application, the new intellectual property will be subject to the geographic allocation described above. For ten years following the Distribution Date,
independently developed intellectual property may be subject to rights under certain circumstances that would allow either us or PM USA a priority position to obtain the rights to the new intellectual property from the other party, with the price
and other terms to be negotiated.



In the event of a dispute
between us and PM USA under the Intellectual Property Agreement, we have agreed with PM USA to submit the dispute first, to negotiation between our and PM USA’s senior executives, and then, to binding arbitration.



Seasonality



Our business segments are not significantly affected by seasonality, although in certain markets cigarette consumption
trends rise during the summer months due to longer daylight time and tourism.



Environmental Regulation



We are subject to applicable international, national and local environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we do business. We have
specific programs across our business units designed to meet applicable environmental compliance requirements and reduce wastage as well as water and energy consumption. We have developed and implemented a consistent environmental and occupational
health and safety (“EHS”) management system, which involves policies, standard practices and procedures at all our manufacturing centers. We also conduct regular safety assessments at our offices, warehouses and car fleet organizations.
Furthermore, we have engaged an external certification body to validate the effectiveness of our EHS management system at all our manufacturing centers around the world, in accordance with internationally recognized standards. Our subsidiaries
expect to continue to make investments in order to drive improved performance and maintain compliance with environmental laws and regulations. We assess and report the compliance status of all our legal entities on a regular basis. Based on the
management and controls we have in place, environmental expenditures have not had, and are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position, earnings or competitive
position.



(d) Financial Information About Geographic Areas



The amounts of net revenues and long-lived assets
attributable to each of our geographic segments for each of the last three fiscal years are set forth in Note 12.Segment Reportingto our consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2010 Annual
Report.



-8-




(e) Available Information



We are required to file with the SEC annual, quarterly and current
reports, proxy statements and other information required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Investors may read and copy any document that we file, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the
SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet Web
site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, from which investors can electronically access our SEC filings.



We make available free of charge on or through our Web site
(www.pmi.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as
reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Investors can access our filings with the SEC by visiting www.pmi.com.



The information on our Web site is not, and shall not be deemed to be,
a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC.



-9-




