Item 1.Business.



(a) General Development of Business



General



Philip Morris International Inc. is a Virginia holding company incorporated in 1987. Our subsidiaries and affiliates and their licensees are engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes, other tobacco products and other nicotine-containing products in markets outside of the United States of America. Our products are sold in more than 180 markets and, in many of these markets, they hold the number one or number two market share position. We have a wide range of premium, mid-price and low-price brands. Our portfolio comprises both international and local brands.



Our portfolio of international and local brands is led byMarlboro, the world’s best-selling international cigarette, which accounted for approximately33%of our total 2014 shipment volume.Marlborois complemented in the premium-price category byMerit,ParliamentandVirginia Slims. Our leading mid-price brands areL&MandChesterfield. Other leading international brands includeBond Street,Lark,Muratti,Next,Philip MorrisandRed & White.



We also own a number of important local cigarette brands, such asSampoerna,Dji Sam SoeandU Mildin Indonesia,Fortune,ChampionandHopein the Philippines,Dianain Italy,OptimaandApollo-Soyuzin Russia,Morven Goldin Pakistan,Bostonin Colombia,Belmont, Canadian ClassicsandNumber 7in Canada,BestandClassicin Serbia,f6in Germany,Delicadosin Mexico,Assosin Greece andPetrain the Czech Republic and Slovakia. While there are a number of markets where local brands remain important, international brands are expanding their share in numerous markets. With international brands contributing approximately72%of our shipment volume in 2014, we are well positioned to continue to benefit from this trend.



Separation from Altria Group, Inc.



We were a wholly owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc. ("Altria") until the distribution of all of our shares owned by Altria (the “Spin-off”) was made on March 28, 2008 (the "Distribution Date").



Acquisitions and Other Business Arrangements



We enhanced our business with the following transactions:



In June 2014, we acquired 100% of Nicocigs Limited, a leading U.K.-based e-vapor company, for the final purchase price of $103 million, net of cash acquired, with additional contingent payments of up to $77 million, primarily relating to performance targets over a three-year period.  As of December 31, 2014, the additional contingent payments were projected to be up to $62 million over the remaining two-year period. For additional information, see Note 16.Fair Value Measurementsto our consolidated financial statements in Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Dataof this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("Item 8").



In the fourth quarter of 2013, as part of our initiative to enhance profitability and growth in North African and Middle Eastern markets, we decided to restructure our business in Egypt.  The new business model entails a new contract manufacturing agreement with our long-standing, strategic business partner, Eastern Company S.A.E., the creation of a new PMI affiliate in Egypt and a new distribution agreement with Trans Business for Trading and Distribution LLC.  To accomplish this restructuring and to ensure a smooth transition to the new model, we recorded, in the fourth quarter of 2013, a charge to our 2013 full-year reported diluted EPS of approximately $0.10 to reflect the discontinuation of existing contractual arrangements.



On December 20, 2013, we established a strategic framework with Altria under which Altria will make available its e-cigarette products exclusively to us for commercialization outside the United States, and we will make available two of our candidate reduced-risk tobacco products exclusively to Altria for commercialization in the United States. The agreements also provide for cooperation on the scientific assessment of these products and for the sharing of improvements to the existing generation of reduced-risk products.



On December 12, 2013, we acquired from Megapolis Investment BV a 20% equity interest in Megapolis Distribution BV, the holding company of CJSC TK Megapolis ("Megapolis"), PMI's distributor in Russia.  The purchase price of $760 million excludes an additional payment of up to $100 million, which is contingent on Megapolis's operational performance over the four fiscal years following the closing of the transaction.










On September 30, 2013, we acquired a 49% equity interest in United Arab Emirates-based Arab Investors-TA (FZC) ("AITA") for approximately $625 million.  As a result of this transaction, we hold an approximate 25% economic interest in Société des Tabacs Algéro-Emiratie ("STAEM"), an Algerian joint venture which is owned 51%  by AITA and 49% by the Algerian state-owned enterprise Société Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes SpA.  STAEM manufactures and distributes under license some of PMI's brands.



In September 2013, Grupo Carso, S.A.B. de C.V. ("Grupo Carso") sold to us its remaining 20% interest in our Mexican tobacco business for $703 million.  As a result, we own 100% of our Mexican tobacco business.  A director of PMI has an affiliation with Grupo Carso.  The final purchase price is subject to a potential adjustment based on the actual performance of the Mexican tobacco business over the three-year period ending two fiscal years after the closing of the purchase.



During 2012, we did not engage in any businesses development transactions.





Source of Funds — Dividends



We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, our right, and thus the right of our creditors and stockholders, to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of any subsidiary is subject to the prior rights of creditors of such subsidiary, except to the extent that claims of our company itself as a creditor may be recognized. As a holding company, our principal sources of funds, including funds to make payment on our debt securities, are from the receipt of dividends and repayment of debt from our subsidiaries. Our principal wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries currently are not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions with respect to their common stock.



(b) Financial Information About Segments



We divide our markets into four geographic regions, which constitute our segments for financial reporting purposes:



•The European Union (“EU”) Region is headquartered in Lausanne, Switzerland, and covers all the EU countries except for Slovenia, Bulgaria, Croatia and Romania, and also comprises Switzerland, Norway and Iceland, which are linked to the EU through trade agreements;

•The Eastern Europe, Middle East & Africa (“EEMA”) Region is also headquartered in Lausanne and includes Eastern Europe, the Balkans (including Slovenia, Bulgaria, Croatia and Romania), Turkey, the Middle East and Africa and our international duty free business;

•The Asia Region is headquartered in Hong Kong and covers all other Asian markets as well as Australia, New Zealand and the Pacific Islands; and

•The Latin America & Canada Region is headquartered in New York and covers the South American continent, Central America, Mexico, the Caribbean and Canada.



Net revenues and operating companies income*(together with a reconciliation to operating income) attributable to each segment for each of the last three years are set forth in Note 12.Segment Reportingto the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. See Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsof this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("Item 7") for a discussion of our operating results by business segment.










The relative percentages of operating companies income attributable to each reportable segment were as follows:



201420132012European Union30.9%30.8%29.6%Eastern Europe, Middle East & Africa34.227.426.3Asia26.433.636.7Latin America & Canada8.58.27.4100.0%100.0%100.0%

______________________________

*Our management evaluates segment performance and allocates resources based on operating companies income, which we define as operating income, excluding general corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles, plus equity (income)/loss in unconsolidated subsidiaries, net.  The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 2.Summary of Significant Accounting Policiesto the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.



We use the term net revenues to refer to our operating revenues from the sale of our products, net of sales and promotion incentives. Our net revenues and operating income are affected by various factors, including the volume of products we sell, the price of our products, changes in currency exchange rates and the mix of products we sell. Mix is a term used to refer to the proportionate value of premium-price brands to mid-price or low-price brands in any given market (product mix). Mix can also refer to the proportion of shipment volume in more profitable markets versus shipment volume in less profitable markets (geographic mix). We often collect excise taxes from our customers and then remit them to local governments, and, in those circumstances, we include excise taxes in our net revenues and excise taxes on products. Our cost of sales consists principally of tobacco leaf, non-tobacco raw materials, labor and manufacturing costs.



Our marketing, administration and research costs include the costs of marketing and selling our products, other costs generally not related to the manufacture of our products (including general corporate expenses), and costs incurred to develop new products. The most significant components of our marketing, administration and research costs are marketing and sales expenses and general and administrative expenses.



(c) Narrative Description of Business



Our subsidiaries and affiliates and their licensees are engaged in the manufacture, market and sale of cigarettes, other tobacco products and other nicotine-containing products in markets outside the United States of America.



Our total cigarette shipments decreased by2.8%in2014to856.0 billionunits. We estimate that international cigarette market shipments were approximately 5.5 trillion units in2014, a 0.9% decrease over2013. We estimate that our reported share of the international cigarette market (which is defined as worldwide cigarette volume, excluding the United States of America) was approximately 15.6% in2014, 15.7% in2013and 16.4% in2012. Excluding the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”), we estimate that our reported share of the international cigarette market was approximately 28.6%, 28.3%, and 29.0% in2014,2013and2012, respectively.



Shipments of our principal cigarette brand,Marlboro, decreased by2.8%in2014and represented approximately 9.4% of the international cigarette market, excluding the PRC, in2014, 9.3% in2013and 9.4% in2012.



We have a cigarette market share of at least 15% and, in a number of instances, substantially more than 15%, in 103 markets, including  Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Korea, Mexico, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey and Ukraine.



References to total international cigarette market, total cigarette market, total market and market shares in this Form 10-K reflect our best estimates based on a number of internal and external sources.










Consumer Focused Marketing & Sales



In 2014, we continued to deploy our new strategic framework that combines our marketing and sales expertise with our in-depth knowledge of various sales territories. This framework allows us not only to engage more effectively with our adult smokers but also to enhance the success of our direct and indirect trade partners.  The main benefits are:



•Improved effectiveness of direct adult smoker engagement activities;

•More effective communication with our retailers about our brands;

•Increased speed, efficiency and widespread availability of our products; and

•Distribution and sales strategies tailored to the individual characteristics of each market (namely, the needs and capabilities of  retailers, the wholesale infrastructure, distributors' networks, our competitive position, operating costs and the regulatory framework).



The four main types of distribution that we use globally, often simultaneously in a given market, are:



•Direct Sales and Distribution, where we have set up our own distribution directly to retailers;

•Distribution through single independent distributors who are responsible for distribution in a single market;

•Exclusive Zonified Distribution, where distributors are assigned an exclusive territory within a market to enable them to obtain a suitable return on their investment; and

•Distribution through national or regional wholesalers that then supply the retail trade.



In many markets we also directly supply key accounts, including gas stations, retail chains and supermarkets.



Our distribution and sales systems are supported by sales forces that total approximately 20,700 employees worldwide. Our sales forces are well trained and recognized by trade surveys for their professionalism.



Our products are marketed and promoted through various media and channels, including, where permitted by law, point of sale communications, brand events, access-restricted Web sites, print and direct communication to verified adult smokers. Our direct communication with verified adult smokers utilizes mail, e-mail and other electronic communication tools. Promotional activities include, where permitted by law, competitions, invitations to events, interactive programs, consumer premiums and price promotions. To support advertising and promotional activities in the markets, we have a dedicated consumer engagement group that develops innovative engagement tools for adult smokers based on the latest technologies and adult smoker trends.



Competition



We are subject to highly competitive conditions in all aspects of our business. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, taste, innovation, packaging, service, marketing, advertising and retail price. Our competitors include three large international tobacco companies and several regional and local tobacco companies and, in some instances, state-owned tobacco enterprises, principally in Algeria, Egypt, the PRC, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam. Industry consolidation and privatizations of state-owned enterprises have led to an overall increase in competitive pressures. Some competitors have different profit and volume objectives, and some international competitors are susceptible to changes in different currency exchange rates. We compete predominantly with American blend cigarette brands, such asMarlboro,L&M,ParliamentandChesterfield, which are the most popular across many of our markets. We seek to compete in all profitable retail price categories, although our brand portfolio is weighted towards the premium-price category.



Procurement and Raw Materials



We purchase tobacco leaf of various types, grades and styles throughout the world, the majority through independent tobacco suppliers. We also contract directly with farmers in several countries, including Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Italy, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Pakistan, the Philippines and Poland. Direct sourcing from farmers represents approximately 35% of PMI’s global leaf requirements. The largest supplies of tobacco leaf are sourced from Brazil, the United States, Indonesia (mostly for domestic use in kretek products), India, China, Turkey, Greece, Argentina, Mozambique, Tanzania and Malawi.



We believe that there is an adequate supply of tobacco leaf in the world markets to satisfy our current and anticipated production requirements.



In addition to tobacco leaf, we purchase a wide variety of direct materials from a total of approximately 450 suppliers. Our top ten suppliers of direct materials combined represent approximately 57% of our total direct materials purchases. The three most significant direct materials that we purchase are printed paper board used in packaging, acetate tow used in filter making and fine paper used in cigarette manufacturing. In addition, the adequate supply and procurement of cloves are of particular importance to our Indonesian business.










Business Environment



Information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference to the paragraphs in Item 7,Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Operating Results by Business Segment—Business Environment.





Other Matters



Customers



None of our business segments is dependent upon a single customer or a few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.



Employees



AtDecember 31, 2014, we employed approximately 82,500 people worldwide, including employees under temporary contracts and hourly paid part-time staff. Our businesses are subject to a number of laws and regulations relating to our relationship with our employees. Generally, these laws and regulations are specific to the location of each business. In addition, in accordance with European Union requirements, we have established a European Works Council composed of management and elected members of our workforce. We believe that our relations with our employees and their representative organizations are excellent.



Executive Officers of the Registrant



The disclosure regarding executive officers is set forth under the heading “Executive Officers as of February 20, 2015” in Item 10.Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governanceof this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("Item 10").



Research and Development



Reduced-Risk Products.One of our strategic priorities is to develop, assess and commercialize a portfolio of innovative products with the potential to reduce individual risk and population harm in comparison to smoking combustible cigarettes. We refer to these as reduced-risk products, or RRPs. The use of this term applies to tobacco-containing products and other nicotine-containing products that have the potential to reduce individual risk and population harm in comparison to smoking combustible cigarettes. Except foriQOS, which was launched for pilots in Nagoya (Japan) and Milan (Italy), our RRPs are in various stages of development. We are conducting extensive and rigorous scientific studies to determine whether we can support claims for such products of reduced exposure to harmful and potentially harmful constituents in smoke, and ultimately claims of reduced disease risk, when compared to smoking combustible cigarettes. Before making any such claims, we will need to rigorously evaluate the full set of data from the relevant scientific studies to determine whether they substantiate reduced risk.  Any such claims may also be subject to government review and approval, as is the case in the U.S. today.



We draw upon a team of world-class scientists from a broad spectrum of scientific disciplines, whose efforts are guided by the following three key objectives:



•to develop RRPs that provide adult smokers the taste, sensory experience, nicotine delivery profile and ritual characteristics that are similar to those currently provided by combustible cigarettes;



•to substantiate the reduction of risk for the individual adult smoker and the reduction of harm to the population as a whole, based on robust scientific evidence derived from well-established assessment processes; and



•to advocate for the development of science-based regulatory frameworks for the approval and commercialization of RRPs, including the communication of substantiated health benefits to adult smokers.



In addition toiQOS, we are developing three RRP platforms that are in various stages of commercialization readiness. We are commercializing an e-vapor product under theNicocigsbrand name in the U.K., are also developing other potential platforms and are working on developing the next generation of e-vapor technology.



Further information about our RRPs is set forth in Item 7,Business Environment - Taxes, Legislation, Regulation and Other Matters Regarding the Manufacture, Marketing, Sale and Use of Tobacco Products - Reduced-Risk Products.



Cigarette Products.We conduct research to support and reinforce our combustible cigarette product business. We seek to be at the forefront of innovation for product enhancements and launches of innovative new products. We have also increased support for the








combustible cigarette business because compliance with applicable laws and regulations is requiring additional capacity for analysis and testing.



Finally, working through biotechnology partners, we conduct research and development on technology platforms that can potentially lead to the development of alternative uses of tobacco, such as for the production of therapeutic molecules.



The research and development expense for the years endedDecember 31, 2014,2013and2012, is set forth in Item 8, Note 14.Additional Informationto the consolidated financial statements.





Intellectual Property



Our trademarks are valuable assets, and their protection and reputation are essential to us. We own the trademark rights to all of our principal brands, includingMarlboro, or have the right to use them in all countries where we use them.



In addition, we have more than 5,200 granted patents worldwide and approximately 4,400 pending patent applications. Our patent portfolio, as a whole, is material to our business. However, no one patent, or group of related patents, is material to us. We also have registered industrial designs and proprietary secrets, technology, know-how, processes and other intellectual property rights that are not registered.



Effective January 1, 2008, PMI entered into an Intellectual Property Agreement with Philip Morris USA Inc. (“PM USA”). The Intellectual Property Agreement governs the ownership of intellectual property between PMI and PM USA. Ownership of the jointly funded intellectual property has been allocated as follows:



•PMI owns all rights to the jointly funded intellectual property outside the United States, its territories and possessions; and

•PM USA owns all rights to the jointly funded intellectual property in the United States, its territories and possessions.



Ownership of intellectual property related to patent applications and resulting patents based solely on the jointly funded intellectual property, regardless of when filed or issued, will be exclusive to PM USA in the United States, its territories and possessions and exclusive to PMI everywhere else.



The Intellectual Property Agreement contains provisions concerning intellectual property that is independently developed by us or PM USA following the Distribution Date. For ten years following the Distribution Date, independently developed intellectual property may be subject to rights under certain circumstances that would allow either us or PM USA a priority position to obtain the rights to the new intellectual property from the other party, with the price and other commercial terms to be negotiated.



In the event of a dispute between us and PM USA under the Intellectual Property Agreement, we have agreed with PM USA to submit the dispute first to negotiation between our and PM USA’s senior executives and then to binding arbitration.



Seasonality



Our business segments are not significantly affected by seasonality, although in certain markets cigarette consumption trends rise during the summer months due to longer daylight time and tourism.



Environmental Regulation










risks (both physical and regulatory), environmental expenditures have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position, earnings or competitive position.





(d) Financial Information About Geographic Areas



The amounts of net revenues and long-lived assets attributable to each of our geographic segments for each of the last three fiscal years are set forth in Item 8, Note 12.Segment Reportingto the consolidated financial statements.



(e) Available Information



We are required to file with the SEC annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Investors may read and copy any document that we file, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet Web site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, from which investors can electronically access our SEC filings.



We make available free of charge on, or through, our Web site at www.pmi.com our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Investors can access our filings with the SEC by visiting www.pmi.com.



The information on our Web site is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC.







