
10-K



                                   


               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                     Washington, D.C.  20549
                                
                            FORM 10-K
(Mark One)

( X )      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
           EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

     For the fiscal year ended January 2, 1999

                               OR

(   )     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
          EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

     For the transition period from _____________ to ___________


                 Commission File Number 0-15386

                       CERNER CORPORATION
     (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

            Delaware                       43-1196944
   (State or other jurisdiction         (I.R.S. Employer
   of incorporation or organization)    Identification Number)

                2800 Rockcreek Parkway, Suite 601
                   Kansas City, Missouri 64117
                         (816) 221-1024
  (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code;
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code)


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  NONE
                                
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                
             Common Stock, par value $.01 per share
                 Preferred Stock Purchase Rights
                        (Title of Class)

      Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
all  reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d)  of  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding  12  months
(or  for such shorter period that the Registrant was required  to
file  such  reports),  and (2) has been subject  to  such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

                     Yes     X      No _____

      Indicate  by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers
pursuant  to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained  herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge,
in  definitive  proxy or information statements  incorporated  by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to  this
Form 10-K.    [ X ]

      At  March 15, 1999, there were 33,573,446 shares of  Common
Stock  outstanding,  of  which 7,884,975  shares  were  owned  by
affiliates.  The aggregate market value of the outstanding Common
Stock  of  the  Registrant held by non-affiliates, based  on  the
average of bid and asked prices of such stock on March 15,  1999,
was $340,372,241.

       Documents  incorporated  by  reference:  portions  of  the
Registrant's  Proxy  Statement for the  1999  Annual  Meeting  of
Stockholders are incorporated by reference in Part III hereof.




PART I

Item 1.  Business

General
- -------

     Cerner Corporation ("Cerner" or the "Company") is a Delaware
corporation  incorporated  in  1980.   The  Company's   principal
offices  are  located  at 2800 Rockcreek  Parkway,  Kansas  City,
Missouri 64117, and its telephone number is (816) 221-1024.

      Cerner  designs, develops, markets, installs  and  supports
person/member/patient-focused clinical and management information
systems  that are capable of being implemented on an  individual,
combined  or enterprise-wide basis.  Cerner systems are  designed
to  automate  the process of healthcare by accumulating  data  on
care  provided to members/patients, maintaining such  data  in  a
database  repository and providing access to such data for  users
of  clinical information across a healthcare system, including in
the home, at physician's offices and at ambulatory, inpatient and
intensive  care  settings.   Cerner's systems  are  designed  and
developed  using  the  Health Network Architecture  (''HNA''),  a
single  information  architecture.  HNA is a unified  system  for
combining clinical and management information applications.   HNA
allows   each   participating  facility  within   an   integrated
healthcare  enterprise to access an individual's clinical  record
at  the  point of care, to organize it for the specific needs  of
the   physician,  nurse,  laboratory  technician  or  other  care
provider  on  a  real-time basis, and to use the  information  in
management  decisions to improve the efficiency and  productivity
of  the  location and the entire enterprise. Cerner has developed
and  is  licensing and installing its newest generation  of   HNA
products  known as "Millennium".  See "Cerner's HNA Approach  and
HNA Millennium" for a discussion of Millennium.

Healthcare Industry
- -------------------

      The  dramatic  increase in healthcare costs in  the  United
States, which historically were based on a fee-for-service model,
has  caused  significant  changes  in  the  healthcare  industry.
Managed  care  organizations  and  other  payers  have  developed
alternative payment models to control costs, including procedure-
based   cost   limits,  contractually  approved   providers   and
capitation  (a  fixed monthly fee per member in payment  for  all
required  services).  The result has been a continuing  shift  of
financial risk from the payer to both the physician provider  and
the  institutional provider (hospitals, clinics, long-term  care,
subacute   providers  and  rehabilitative  care   centers).    In
response,  institutional providers are aligning with one  another
and  with  physician groups to form Integrated  Delivery  Systems
(''IDS's''),  and IDS's are aligning with payer organizations  to
form Integrated Health Organizations (''IHO's''), in each case to
reduce  costs  in  an effort to compete more effectively  in  the
changing healthcare environment.

     The  changes  occurring  in  the  healthcare  industry  have
resulted  in  changes  in the needs for clinical  and  management
information  systems  by  hospitals,  physicians,  managed   care
organizations  and  IDS's.   Hospitals' information  requirements
have  become  more  complex  as cost containment  pressures  have
driven the needs for efficiency and process automation while  the
increasing number of relationships they have with other providers
requires additional sophistication.  As physicians combine into a
variety  of  provider configurations, management  structures  and
incentive  plans, they are increasingly utilizing  member/patient
focused information systems to improve quality and efficiency for
their  growing practices and physician networks, to  develop  the
data  necessary to compete for contracts with payers  and  to  be
able  to  share  the  financial  risks  of  healthcare  delivery.
Managed care organizations are increasingly recognizing the value
of  process-oriented  and  clinically-driven  information  as  it
relates  to  understanding  and improving  the  health  of  their
members.   Information system requirements for  IDS's  and  IHO's
encompass  many  of the same needs as hospitals,  physicians  and
managed  care  organizations.  Many IDS's and IHO's are  becoming
aggressively involved with institutional providers and physicians
in  various  relationships where information sharing and  process
automation  are  paramount.  Many of these larger,  more  complex
organizations  are  seeking closer relationships  with  suppliers
that  can  provide  comprehensive information systems  solutions.
Information  system  requirements for  IDS's  and  IHO's 




include integrated  process-based  systems for clinical  domains,
data repositories and applications for physicians and  management
teams. Cerner is responding to the changing and increasing  needs
of  the  healthcare  industry for better information  systems  by
developing HNA Millennium, its latest generation of products. See
"Cerner's  HNA  Approach and HNA Millennium" for a discussion  of
Millennium.

Healthcare Information Systems Industry
- ---------------------------------------

      Healthcare  information systems are evolving  to  meet  the
needs  of  a  changing marketplace.  Initially, computer  systems
developed for use in healthcare were financially oriented, with a
focus  on  the  ability to capture charges and  generate  patient
bills.    Beginning  in  the  mid-1960s,  institutional  provider
organizations  began to use clinical information  systems,  which
automate  the  activities within clinical  departments,  such  as
laboratory,  pharmacy,  radiology  and  surgery  departments,  to
improve the productivity of resources and automate the production
and   use   of   significant  amounts  of  clinical  information.
Individual  departments  selected  systems  based  upon  specific
features  on  a  ''best of breed'' basis resulting  in  disparate
information systems within the institutional provider.

      More recently, there has been a shift from the purchase  of
disparate  clinical  systems  on a ''best  of  breed''  basis  to
systems  which  are  able to integrate communication  effectively
throughout   the  healthcare  enterprise.   The   two   principle
approaches to meet this need are a common architecture, in  which
systems  communicate through inherent design, and  point-to-point
interfaces,   in  which  systems  with  different   architectures
communicate  through  interface  linkages.   This  infrastructure
trend also affects the relationship between the health system and
the  suppliers  of  information  technology.   The  approach   of
interfacing disparate systems typically involves multiple  system
suppliers and the health system must act as the intermediary  and
integrator.  The common architecture approach relies  more  on  a
strategic  relationship with one or very few suppliers  dedicated
to  implementing a shared vision for the role of  information  in
the operation of the health system.

     The  same forces that are causing other healthcare providers
to  join  together are causing physicians to combine into  larger
organizations,   including  Independent   Practice   Associations
(''IPA's'') and Preferred Provider Organizations (''PPO's''), and
are  increasingly  supported administratively through  Management
Services  Organizations  ("MSO's")  which  offer  management  and
administrative  services  to physicians.   In  some  cases,  such
organizations  align with IDS's and IHO's.  Cerner believes  that
such physician groups require clinical and management information
systems  that  allow  them to participate in  the  community-wide
clinical and management information systems employed by the IDS's
and IHO's.

The Cerner Vision
- -----------------

      As  a  result of the rapid transformation of the healthcare
industry,  Cerner believes that a new center of  healthcare  will
emerge--the IHO, which is a combination of payers, physicians  and
institutional  providers affiliated to  service  a  community  or
defined  member  population. The  focus  of  the  IHO  is  to  be
accountable  for the health status of a defined population,  with
strong  financial incentives to manage health on a preventive  or
wellness basis and reduce costs.

     Cerner  believes that many large IHO's will  emerge  in  the
United  States  in  the next decade.  These IHO's  will  need  to
implement  information systems that manage the delivery  of  care
across  an  entire  community while simultaneously  managing  the
business side of health management.  Only through automating  the
core  process  of  healthcare  delivery  from  member  enrollment
through  the ordering and delivery of care will IHO's be able  to
actually manage and measure care.  Process automation will enable
healthcare  systems  interactively to affect  the  care  that  is
delivered throughout the entire system at each point of delivery.
Cerner believes that managing these integrated healthcare systems
will require the accumulation and refining of enormous amounts of
process-related  data  in  order to monitor  performance  against
plans  and  to  make informed business decisions.  This  process-
oriented  approach  will also provide the  information  basis  to
measure  health system performance, in values known as  outcomes,
from  clinical,  functional,  process,  member  satisfaction  and
economic perspectives.

                          

     When  all  of  the complex clinical processes that  comprise
care  delivery  in  IHO's  are automated using  fully  integrated
information systems, it becomes possible to extend automation  to
the management processes of healthcare.

Cerner's HNA Approach and HNA Millennium
- ----------------------------------------

     The cornerstone of Cerner's information systems strategy is
HNA, the single architecture around which each of Cerner's
products is developed. This highly scaleable architecture allows
Cerner to meet the clinical, management, and business information
requirements of a healthcare delivery system across the continuum
of care from the physician practice to the IHO and to integrate
the information requirements of clinical operations and business
functions. Cerner's newest HNA platform, HNA Millennium, utilizes
three-tiered client/server technology to optimize distributed
computing performance and functionality advantages.  Millennium's
breadth of focus and functionality are well suited for large-
scale and enterprise application technologies for healthcare
organizations.  HNA Millennium's system architecture allows its
applications to work together as one system.  The value of HNA
Millennium to a client is the use across a healthcare
organization of a single system based on a fully integrated
common architecture and data structure.  With its single data
structure HNA Millennium provides real time access to all
information across multiple applications, such as laboratory,
pharmacy, nursing and physicians, to all of those needing such
access, wherever they are located.  Systems based on differing
architectures and data structures must be interfaced together and
rely on these interfaces to transmit, modify and arrange data
exchanged between them, which limits the data's usefulness across
multiple systems and inhibits real-time access.  In addition,
many of these systems cannot operate across multiple provider
settings or locations within a healthcare organization.

     March of 1998 marked the completion of the major development
cycle  of  HNA  Millennium.  During that  development  cycle  the
Company  expended  approximately  $130  million  developing   HNA
Millennium.  At the end of 1998, 187 HNA Millennium systems  were
being  used by Cerner clients.  As of March of 1999,  23  of  HNA
Millennium's initial 30 product lines were being used  by  Cerner
clients.  By comparison, the Classic version of Cerner's products
had  7  product  lines.  Cerner expects to  have  more  than  400
Millennium systems in use by the end of 1999.  Implementation  of
Millennium  at client sites is a much more complex  process  than
implementation  of  HNA  Classic due  to  the  greater  range  of
capability   of  the  Millennium  products  and  its  complexity.
Substantial  project  management,  process  redesign,  technology
integration and training are all required in order for clients to
achieve the full benefits offered by Millennium.
     
      Cerner's  systems  also  allow the  use  of  other  vendors
products in conjunction with Cerner's system through the  use  of
Cerner's  Open Engine Gateway System that allows the exchange  of
data with the foreign system.
     
Strategy
- --------

     Key elements of the Company's business strategy include:

       To   penetrate  the  integrated  healthcare  market.
       ----------------------------------------------------  The
transformation of healthcare delivery must deal with the changing
financial  model from fee-for-service to fixed or controlled  fee
payments  for  services  provided.  In order  to  accomplish  the
transition,  integrated healthcare systems  must  decrease  costs
generally,  utilize  fewer  resources  per  patient   or   member
encounter,  decrease the amount of care required by  focusing  on
preventative   measures  and  increase  member   populations   by
attracting  additional members through better quality  healthcare
and  services.   Cerner's process-based, clinical and  management
systems provide the technology to enable an integrated system  to
manage  healthcare  to significantly reduce  costs,  improve  the
efficiency  of healthcare delivery and maintain and  improve  the
quality of healthcare.

                          

     To penetrate the physician market. 
     ----------------------------------  As physicians combine to
form  organizations such as IPA's and PPO's, and then participate
in  MSO's,  they  require clinical and process-based  systems  to
manage  the  member/patient  care  processes  within  their   own
practices.   As  such  groups align with IDS's  and  IHO's,  they
further require clinical and management information systems  that
allow  them to share clinical and management processes with these
community-wide systems.  Healthcare organizations are  developing
strategies  for  connecting  community-based  physicians  to  the
information  resources of the health system using  the  internet.
Cerner's  systems  provide the member/patient data  repositories,
clinical,   management   tools  and  connectivity   required   by
physicians  in order for them to participate effectively  in  the
changing healthcare marketplace.

      To  expand  its  core business.  
      -------------------------------  Cerner  expects  continued
growth  in core business areas, including clinical domain systems
for  specific  markets such as PathNet, RadNet and  PharmNet,  as
institutional providers look to restructure and reengineer  these
high cost centers within their IDS's and IHO's.  The Company also
intends  to  market aggressively Cerner clinical  and  management
information systems and services to its existing client base.

      To  remain  committed  to a unified architecture.
      -------------------------------------------------  Because
Cerner  believes that the constituents in health management  need
to  work  together to benefit defined populations in a community,
the   Company   has  made  a  commitment  to  a  single   unified
architecture  as  the  platform for  "fully  integrated''  health
information  and  management  systems.   This  platform   enables
Cerner's  process-based HNA systems to be scaleable on  a  linear
basis,  using  either  Cerner  compatible  modules  for  process-
oriented  applications  or competitive systems  interfaced  using
open system protocols.

      To  expand  its  products and services.  
      ---------------------------------------  Using  Millennium,
Cerner  intends  to  expand the range of  products  and  services
offered  to providers, including IDS's and IHO's, either  through
internal development or by acquisitions or joint ventures.  These
new  products and services will complement the systems  currently
offered,  address the emerging information needs  of  clients  or
employ  technological  advances.   Cerner  believes  that   major
opportunities   exist   as  IHO's  begin   to   include   service
organizations  and  on-line services to  the  home,  particularly
because   the   member/patient  focus  of  Cerner's  architecture
provides  the  basis  for individual electronic  medical  records
which can be used throughout a member-focused health system.   In
addition,  Cerner recognizes the value of the aggregate  database
being developed by its broad client base as a potential means  to
enable  comparative  or  normative  procedure  evaluations  as  a
powerful  new  tool in the healthcare industry.  The  substantial
project management process redesign, technology integration,  and
training involved in healthcare systems taking advantage  of  the
opportunities  provided  by clinical and  management  information
technology  represent  a  significant market  for  the  Company's
consulting services.

                          

Products
- --------

     The  Company's  products include Enterprise  Systems,  which
automate  processes  across  and  throughout  the  health  system
enterprise; Enterprise Repositories, which capture, sort, present
and  analyze clinical and business information; Clinical  Systems
for  Direct  Care,  which automate the clinical processes  within
hospitals and the physicians practice; Clinical Systems for  Care
Centers,  which  automate the clinical processes within  specific
departments or domains; Decision Support and Executable Knowledge
systems,  which  enhance  clinical and  business  processes  with
information  and  actions; Financial and  Operational  Management
Systems,  which  automate  the  business  operations;  Population
Health  Management systems for managing health; Demand Management
systems  and  services for managing the need for  care;  Personal
Health  systems for individuals to manage their own  health;  and
Interface Technologies for connecting other technologies  to  HNA
Millennium. These systems can be acquired individually  or  as  a
fully  integrated  health  information  system.   The  individual
systems  perform  together even if installed at different  times.
Cerner  also  markets  over 200 product options  that  complement
Cerner's  major  information  systems.  In  connection  with  the 
licensing  of an  information system, Cerner also generally sells
to   its  clients  computers  and   related  hardware  that   are 
manufactured and supplied to Cerner by third parties.

Enterprise Systems
- ------------------

     Cerner's  Enterprise Systems automate processes  across  the
entire  health  system.  Capstone automates  the  identification,
eligibility,   registration  and  scheduling   processes   across
hospitals,  clinics, physician practices and other care  delivery
organizations,  integrating the health system  and  incorporating
existing  systems.  Powerlink connects community-based physicians
to   health   systems  for  referrals,  authorizations,   claims,
eligibility,   and  reporting.   PowerChart  is  the   enterprise
clinician's   desktop   solution  for   viewing,   ordering   and
documenting the electronic medical record.

Enterprise Repositories
- -----------------------

     Open  Agreement Foundation Data Repository is  a  structured
repository   for   the  storage  and  viewing  of   health   plan
information, records, contracts, eligibility and coverage data.

     Open  Clinical  Foundation Data Repository is  a  structured
repository  for  the storage of member/patient  orders;  discrete
results;  clinical  reports  and  other  documents;  indexes   to
document  images  from  foreign  document  imaging  systems;  and
indexes to third-party dictation systems.

     Open  Management Foundation Data Repository is a  structured
repository  for process- and activity-related information  useful
for  management  of a healthcare organization.   Information  can
originate  from  numerous sources and can  be  maintained  in  an
easily  accessible, standardized format.  OMF can  be  integrated
into   an   architecture  containing  products   from   different
suppliers.

     Open  Health  Foundation  Data Repository  is  a  structured
repository  for  the  storage and viewing of  health  information
related  to populations, in support of applications and  services
designed to manage the health status of those populations.

     Open  Outcome  Foundation Data Repository  is  a  structured
repository for the storage and viewing of the data that  supports
the  reporting  and  management  of  outcomes  in  the  areas  of
clinical, medical, process, economic and satisfaction.

Clinical Systems for Direct Care
- --------------------------------

     Cerner's CareNet Acute Care Management System is designed to
automate  the  entire  care  process in  acute  or  institutional
settings.    It  collects,  refines,  organizes,  and   evaluates
detailed clinical and management data. It enables the entire care
team  to plan and manage individual activities and plans, as 




well as measure outcomes and goals.  CareNet consists of five major
solutions    -   patient   registration,   scheduling,    orders,
documentation, care planning and diagnostic and therapeutic care.

     The  INet  Intensive Care Management System is  designed  to
automate the entire care process in intensive care settings.   It
supports  patient  management, chart review and  browsing,  order
management,  documentation management, scheduling, and  automatic
data  acquisition.  It automatically acquires patient  data  from
bedside   medical   devices,   manages   information   flow   and
presentation  at  the bedside, supports care  management  through
care  planning  and  critical  pathways,  and  encourages  timely
decisions  based on comprehensive data availability;  information
tailored  to  the  practitioner and the patient;  and  rule-based
decision support.

     The  ProVide Physician Office Management System supports the
broad range of clinical and business activities that occur within
a physician office, clinic, or large physician organization (such
as  a  multi-site clinic or management service organization)  and
ties  the  office  together with others  in  the  community.   It
automates  key  activities of the care team in both  primary  and
specialty care settings.  ProVide offers clinicians and  staff  a
variety  of  functional  capabilities,  including  patient/member
tracking,  clinical  records access and  navigation,  eligibility
checking,  order  and referral processing, and reference  library
access and navigation.

     The  ProCall  Home  Care  Management  System  automates  the
clinical  and  business  processes of home health  organizations,
such  as  visiting  nurse  associations  and  hospices.   It   is
appropriate  for  Medicare-certified  or  noncertified   agencies
providing   skilled   nursing,  specialized   care,   supervisory
activities,  assessments,  and  unskilled  attendant  or  medical
delivery services.  ProCall facilitates the documentation of care
activities  in  the  home and provides access to  the  electronic
medical  record.   It  automates the  referral,  scheduling,  and
management  reporting processes performed by office personnel  in
home   care   agencies,   and   supports   their   business   and
administrative  processes.  Financial  and  management  reporting
capabilities provide needed information to directors and managers
in  home care agencies to allow them to compete in a prospective-
pay environment.

Clinical Systems for Care Centers
- ---------------------------------

     The  PathNet  Laboratory Information  System  addresses  the
information  management  needs of six  clinical  areas:   general
laboratory, microbiology, blood bank transfusion services,  blood
bank  donor  services,  anatomic  pathology,  and  HLA.   PathNet
automates   the   ordering  and  reporting  of  procedures,   the
production of accurate and timely reports, and the maintenance of
accessible clinical records.

     The   RadNet  Radiology  Information  System  addresses  the
operational  and management requirements of diagnostic  radiology
departments  or services.  It allows a department to replace  its
manual,  paper-based system of record-keeping with  an  efficient
computer-based system
          
     The  PharmNet  Pharmacy  Information  System  provides  full
integration in an HNA environment for rapid pharmacy order  entry
and  support  of the clinical pharmacy in either an inpatient  or
outpatient setting.  PharmNet streamlines medication order entry,
enabling  the  pharmacist or technician to  place  all  types  of
pharmaceutical  orders  on  one easy-to-use  screen.   Dispensing
functions  also  are  fully automated.   Medication  fill  lists,
intravenous fill lists and medication administration records  are
produced automatically or on demand.

     The  SurgiNet  Surgery  Information System  is  designed  to
address   the   needs  of  the  surgical  department,   including
automating  the  functions of resource and equipment  scheduling,
inventory management, and operating room management.
     
     The FirstNet Emergency Department Information System offers
patient and provider tracking and an intuitive presentation of patient
diagnoses and clinical events for the emergency department.  FirstNet




provides basic emergency department functionality, including quick 
admits, tracking, triage, and patient history, as well as a graphical
reference to patient location and order status.


     The CVNet Cardiology Department Information System automates
the processes within the department of cardiology, supporting the
scheduling, ordering, documentation and data capture required by
professionals in the cardiology domain.

Decision Support and Executable Knowledge
- -----------------------------------------

     Discern  Structured  Care Design is  clinical  pathways  and
protocols  that  automate  the specific  plans  of  care  for  an
individual, and operates within Cerner's clinical systems.

     Discern  Dialogue  is a real-time decision support  software
application  that incorporates executable knowledge and  provides
order  advice to clinicians.  It manages the display of  clinical
alerts  through Discern Insights, which are licensed  separately.
Discern  Dialogue  provides specific recommendations  to  change,
cancel, or create orders.

     Discern  Expert and Alerts are an event-driven,  rule-based,
decision support software application that allows users to define
clinical  and  management  rules  that  are  applied  to   events
accessing  data  that  is  captured or  generated  by  other  HNA
applications.

     Discern  Explorer is a decision support software application
integrated   with  other  Cerner  HNA  clinical  and   management
information systems that allows users to execute predetermined or
ad hoc queries and reports regarding process-related data that is
generated by the other HNA applications.

     Health  Facts  is  Cerner's comparative data  warehouse  for
benchmarking information and services for subscribers to  support
their own improvement processes.

Financial and Operational Management Systems
- --------------------------------------------

     ProFit  is  Cerner's  application  for  revenue  accounting,
billing and accounts receivables for the entire health system  as
well as each individual domain or organization.

     ProRate  is  an  application to automate  the  managed  care
processes   around   membership,  eligibility  tracking,   claims
processing and contract management.

     The  ProLogue Enterprise Management System includes a  suite
of  management applications specifically designed to assemble and
use   the  information  to  help  an  organization  complete  its
strategic plans, including clinical metrics, case profiling,  and
performance profiling of individuals and organizations.

     The  ProFile Health Information Management System helps meet
the   operations  management  needs  of  the  health  information
management    (medical   records)   department    and    includes
functionality for the various chart tracking and completion tasks
commonly associated with maintaining medical records.

     ProCure  and  ProTrack  automates  the  business  operations
around materials and equipment management for the organization.

Population Health Management
- ----------------------------

     IQ  Health  produces  personal health risk  assessments  and
analyzes those to create interventions that promote self care and
improve health.


                          

Demand Management
- -----------------
     
     Health Connections includes applications and services to
automate and manage the operations of telecare, including
protocol-based triage and person information.

Personal Health
- ---------------

     Vitality  is  Cerner's  home software  product  designed  to
extend  medical care to the consumer's home.  It provides  a  way
for the consumer to interact on a regular basis with a healthcare
provider.  Vitality can store health and medical records for easy
access.   By providing health appraisals and personalized  health
plans,  Vitality  takes  the first step toward  improving  health
education for members in a community.

Interface Technologies
- ----------------------
          
     The  Open Engine Application Gateway System facilitates  the
exchange  of data and assists in the management of point-to-point
interfaces  between foreign systems.  It serves as a  toolkit  to
help write interface code.

Software Development
- --------------------

      Cerner  commits  significant resources  to  developing  new
health information system products.  As of January 2, 1999, 1,032
employees   were   engaged  full-time  in   product   development
activities.    Total   expenditures  for  the   development   and
enhancement   of   the  Company's  products  were   approximately
$74,159,000,  $54,524,000 and $43,133,000 during the  1998,  1997
and  1996 fiscal years respectively.  These figures include  both
capitalized  and  noncapitalized  portions  and  exclude  amounts
amortized for financial reporting purposes.

      The  Company expects to continue investment and development
efforts  for  its current and future product offerings.   As  new
clinical and management information needs emerge, Cerner  intends
to  enhance its current product lines with new versions  released
to  clients  on a periodic basis.  In addition, Cerner  plans  to
expand   its  current  product  lines  by  developing  additional
information  systems  for  use  in clinical  departments  and  to
continue to support simultaneous use of Cerner's products  across
multiple facilities.  All Cerner systems are developed under  HNA
using  a  proprietary  systems  development  methodology.    This
methodology defines and controls each task throughout the product
development  cycle and ensures that current and  future  products
can be fully integrated.

      The Company is committed to maintaining open attributes  in
its  system architecture through operability in a diverse set  of
technical  and application environments.  The Company strives  to
design  its  systems  to  co-exist  with  disparate  applications
developed  and  supported  by other suppliers.   This  effort  is
exemplified by Cerner's Open Engine, OCF and OMF product lines.

     See  "Cerner's  HNA  Approach  and  HNA  Millennium"  for  a
discussion  of  the development of Cerner's latest generation  of
software products.

Sales and Marketing
- -------------------

     The markets for Cerner's information system products include
IHO's,  IDS's,  physician groups and networks  and  their  MSO's,
managed  care  organizations, hospitals, medical  centers,  free-
standing  reference laboratories, blood banks,  imaging  centers,
pharmacies, employer coalitions, and public health organizations.
To  date,  a  substantial portion of system sales  have  been  in
clinical  applications in hospital-based provider  organizations.
Cerner's  HNA architecture is highly scaleable, with applications
being  used in hospitals ranging from under 50 beds to over 2,000
beds and managed care settings with over 2,000,000 members.   All
Cerner  systems are designed to operate on computers manufactured
by  Compaq Computer Corporation (''Compaq'').  In addition,  many
Cerner   Classic  applications  are  available

                          

on   IBM's   RISC System/6000 AIX (UNIX) platform.  All HNA 
Millennium applications are  designed  to  operate  on either
Compaq  or  IBM  platforms,  thereby  allowing Cerner to be price
competitive across the  full range   of   size  and  
organizational  structure  of  healthcare providers.  The sale of 
a health information system usually takes approximately nine to 
eighteen months, from the time  of  initial contact to the 
signing of a contract.

      The Company's executive marketing management is located  in
its  Kansas  City,  Missouri,  headquarters,  while  its  account
representatives are deployed through regional offices across  the
United  States.   The  Company, through subsidiaries,  and  joint
ventures has offices and sales staff in Australia, Singapore  and
Saudi  Arabia.   The  Company  has  a  nonexclusive  distribution
agreement with Siemens Health Service GmbH & Co. KG by which  its
products  are marketed, implemented and supported in  Europe  and
elsewhere.  Cerner's consolidated revenues include foreign  sales
of  $17,545,000, $16,272,000 and $15,874,000 for the  1998,  1997
and  1996  fiscal years, respectively.  The Company supports  its
sales  force  with technical personnel who perform demonstrations
of Cerner's products and assist clients in determining the proper
hardware  and  software  configurations.   The  Company   has   a
demonstration  and presentation facility at its  headquarters  in
Kansas  City,  Missouri, called the Cerner Vision  Center.   This
facility   enables  the  Company  to  actually  demonstrate   the
processes  automated through HNA and adapt the  presentations  to
the   clients'   environments.   The  Company's  primary   direct
marketing  strategy  is  to  generate  sales  contacts  from  its
existing  client  base  and  through  presentations  at  industry
seminars  and  tradeshows.   Cerner attends  a  number  of  major
tradeshows   each  year  and  has  begun  to  sponsor   executive
conferences,  which  feature industry  experts  who  address  the
information system needs of large healthcare organizations.

     During  1998 Cerner entered into a technology and  marketing
agreement  with General Electric Company, acting through  its  GE
Medical  Systems  division.  Cerner  is  a  leader  in  radiology
information  systems  and  GE is a leader  in  radiology  imaging
systems,  as  well  as  picture archiving communication  systems.
Picture  archiving communication systems are designed  to  store,
retrieve  and enhance digital images produced by modern radiology
imaging  systems  such as CAT SCAN systems, MRIs  and  ultrasound
medical technology.  This agreement is focused upon building  and
marketing  the  next  generation of solutions  in  the  radiology
suite,  a  fully  integrated  radiology  information  system  and
picture archiving communication system.

     At   the   end   of  1998  Cerner  licensed  HNA   Millenium
functionality  to  Synetic  Healthcare Communications,  Inc.,  in
exchange  for  a 19.9% equity interest in such company.   Synetic
Healthcare Communications is majority owned by Synetic, Inc.  and
was  formed for the purpose of creating Internet-based  physician
connectivity and electronic commerce.

Client Services
- ---------------

     Cerner uses a regional strategy to provide the full range of
product  and  service  capabilities to  its  clients  from  seven
locations  throughout  the United States.  Each  regional  center
reflects Cerner's corporate culture and provides support services
and  resources, including training and development opportunities,
for  Company  personnel  working in the geographical  area.   The
regional  centers are also used for client education  activities.
Through  the regional centers, Cerner provides on-site  personnel
for the development and management of systems projects, learn the
evolving  information  needs  of clients  based  on  geographical
trends  in  the  healthcare industry, work with  clients  in  the
development  of new products and services and share with  clients
Cerner's  vision of the changing healthcare delivery  market  and
the  role  of  information systems in that  transformation.   The
Company has regional offices in Atlanta, Boston, Dallas, Detroit,
Kansas  City,  Los  Angeles and Washington, D.C.   Each  regional
office  is focused on long-term marketplace development,  product
marketing,  client project management, long-term  client  service
and  client satisfaction for a group of clients within a specific
geographical region.

     All  of  Cerner's  clients enter into  software  maintenance
agreements  with Cerner for support of their Cerner systems.   In
addition  to immediate software support in the event of problems,
these  agreements 

                          

allow these clients the use of new releases of the Cerner products
covered by these agreements.  Each client has 24-hour  access to
the client support staff located at Cerner's corporate headquarters.
Most of Cerner's clients also enter into hardware  maintenance
agreements with Cerner.  These arrangements normally provide for a
fixed monthly fee for specified services.  In the majority of cases,
Cerner subcontracts hardware maintenance to the hardware manufacturer.

Backlog
- -------

       At  January  2,  1999,  Cerner  had  contract  backlog  of
$314,965,000.  Such backlog represents system sales  from  signed
contracts  which  had not yet been recognized  as  revenue.   The
Company  recognizes  revenue on a percent  of  completion  basis,
based on certain milestone conditions, for its software products.
At  January  2,  1999, the Company had $94,627,000  of  contracts
receivable,  which  represents  revenues  recognized  under   the
percent of completion method but not yet billable under the terms
of  the  contract.   At January 2, 1999, Cerner  had  a  software
support  and  maintenance backlog of $153,453,000.  Such  backlog
represents  contracted software support and hardware  maintenance
services  for  a period of twelve months.  The Company  estimates
that  approximately 43% of the aggregate backlog of  $468,418,000
will be recognized as revenue during 1999.

Other Factors Affecting the Company's Business
- ----------------------------------------------

      Information  under  the caption "Factors  that  may  Affect
Future  Results of Operations, Financial Condition  or  Business"
included  in  "Management's Discussion and Analysis of  Financial
Condition  and  Results of Operations" in Item 7 is  incorporated
herein  by reference.  Such information includes a discussion  of
various  factors  that  could, among  other  things,  affect  the
Company's business in the future, including (i) variations in the
Company's  quarterly operating results; (ii)  volatility  of  the
Company's  stock  price; (iii) market risk of  investments;  (iv)
changes  in the healthcare industry; (v) significant competition;
(vi)  the  Company's proprietary technology may be  subjected  to
infringement  claims  or may be infringed  upon;  (vii)  possible
regulation  of the Company's software by the U.S. Food  and  Drug
Administration  or  other  government  regulation;   (viii)   the
possibility  of  product-related  liabilities;  (ix)  risks   and
uncertainties related to the Year 2000; (x) possible failures  or
defects  in the performance of the Company's software;  and  (xi)
the  possibility that the Company's anti-takeover defenses  could
delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company.

Item 2.  Properties

      The Company's offices are located in a Company-owned office
park  in  North  Kansas City, Missouri, containing  approximately
500,000 square feet of useable space.  As of January 2, 1999, the
Company   was  using  approximately  434,000  square   feet   and
substantially  all of the remainder was leased to  tenants.   The
Company  also  leases  office space for  its  branch  offices  in
Atlanta, Boston, Dallas, Detroit, Los Angeles and Washington D.C.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

      The  Company  is  not  involved  in  any  material  pending
litigation.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

      No matters were submitted to a vote of the stockholders  of
the  Company during the fourth quarter of the fiscal  year  ended
January 2, 1999.

                          

Item 4A.  Executive Officers of the Company

      The  following table sets forth the names, ages,  positions
and  certain other information regarding the Company's  executive
officers as of April 1, 1999.  Officers are elected annually  and
serve at the discretion of the board of directors.


                                  
                          

     Neal L. Patterson has been Chairman of the Board of
Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the Company for more
than five years.  Mr. Patterson was appointed President of the
Company in March of 1999.

      Clifford  W. Illig has been a Director of the  Company  for
more  than five years.  He also served as Chief Operating Officer
of  the Company for more than five years until October, 1998  and
as  President of the Company for more than five years until March
of  1999.  Mr. Illig was appointed Vice Chairman of the Board  of
Directors in March of 1999.

      Glenn  P. Tobin, Ph.D. joined the Company in early 1998  as
General Manager and Senior Vice President.  On October 29,  1998,
Dr.  Tobin  was  appointed  Executive Vice  President  and  Chief
Operating  Officer.   Prior to joining  the  Company,  Dr.  Tobin
served  as  a senior consultant with McKinsey and Co.,  Inc.  for
more than five years.

      Jack  A. Newman, Jr. joined the Company in January 1996  as
Executive Vice President.  Prior to joining the Company,  he  was
with  KPMG LLP for 22 years.  Immediately prior to joining Cerner
he  was National Partner-in-Charge of KPMG's Health Care Strategy
Practice.

      Paul  M.  Black  joined the Company in  March,  1994  as  a
Regional Vice President.  He was promoted in December 1998 to his
current position.  Prior to joining Cerner, he spent twelve years
with IBM Corporation.

      Robert  C.  Dieterle joined the Company in  July,  1995  as
Senior  Vice  President and General Manager.   Prior  to  joining
Cerner,  he spent over 20 years in a variety of executive  health
care positions throughout the country.

      Alan D. Dietrich joined the Company in 1990 as Director  of
Business,  Planning  and Development.  In  January  1994  he  was
promoted to Senior Vice President.

      Stephen M. Goodrich joined the Company in October 1987 as a
project  leader  in the product organization.   In  1992  he  was
promoted  to  Vice  President and was  promoted  to  Senior  Vice
President effective April 1, 1999.

     Douglas M. Krebs joined the Company in June 1994 as Regional
Vice  President.   He was promoted to Senior Vice  President  and
Area  Manager effective April 1, 1999.  Prior to joining  Cerner,
he spent 15 years with IBM Corporation.

      Marvin G. Pember joined the Company in April, 1998  in  his
current  role.   Prior  to joining Cerner,  he  served  as  Chief
Financial  Officer and Managing Director for Integris  Health  in
Oklahoma City for more than five years.
     
     Thomas C. Tinstman, M.D. joined the Company in November 1995
as Senior Vice President and Chief Medical Officer and has been a
Director  of  the Company since May 1989.  Prior to  joining  the
Company,  Dr.  Tinstman was Director of Medical Informatics  with
University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston, Texas.  Prior to
that  he  was  a  physician  in private  practice  with  Internal
Medicine  Associates,  P.C. in Omaha,  Nebraska.   From  1977  to
January,  1994, Dr. Tinstman served as Associate Medical Director
of   Pulmonary  Medical  Services  at  Bishop  Clarkson  Memorial
Hospital  and  as  Medical  Director of the  Respiratory  Therapy
Department  of  Midland Hospital, both in Omaha,  Nebraska.   Dr.
Tinstman  has  served as a director of Smith-Haynes  Trust,  Inc.
since 1988.

      Marc  G.  Naughton joined the Company in November  1992  as
Manager  of  Taxes.   In  November  1995  he  was  elected  Chief
Financial  Officer and in February 1996 he was promoted  to  Vice
President.

                          

      Stanley M. Sword joined Cerner in July 1998 in his  current
role.  Prior to joining Cerner, he served as a client partner  in
the  outsourcing practice of AT&T Solutions for  more  than  five
years.

      Jeffrey A. Townsend joined the Company in June 1985.  Since
that   time  he  has  held  several  positions  in  the   product
organization and was promoted to Vice President in February 1997.
He was appointed Chief Engineering Officer in March 1998.

                          

PART II

Item 5.        Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related Security 
               Holder Matters

     The Company's common stock trades on The NASDAQ Stock
MarketSM under the symbol CERN.  The following table sets forth
the high, low, and last sales prices for the fiscal quarters of
1998 and 1997 as reported by The NASDAQ National Market System.



     At February 3, 1999, there were approximately 1,300 owners
of record.  To date, the Company has paid no dividends and it
does not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future.
Management believes it is in the stockholders' best interest to
reinvest funds in the operation of the business.

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data



(1) 1998 Statement of Earnings Data excludes acquisition related charges.

                          

Item 7.    Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
           Results of Operations

Introduction
____________

     1998 reflected major accomplishments that will provide long-
term financial and strategic benefits for the Company, but also
included disappointments in bookings and stock performance
despite a 35% increase in revenues and 56% increase in net
earnings (excluding acquisition related charges) as compared to
1997.  Most notably, the Company completed the major development
cycle of HNA Millennium.  The Company believes HNA Millennium
provides a significant competitive advantage because it utilizes
the only fully integrated, large-scale, enterprise-wide
architecture in the industry and thus can deliver a superior
combination of functionality, efficiency, cost-containment and
quality control through intrarelated clinical and management
information systems.

     The Company is now effectively positioned to meet the
complex needs of a dynamic and consolidating health-care industry
that requires sophisticated, powerful and comprehensive solutions
to information sharing and process automation.  Many analysts
expect that the overall health information marketplace will grow
at least 20% per year for the next five years following the
millennium.  The Company expects that the clinical information
segments of this marketplace will grow even faster.  With over 30
product lines currently in HNA Millennium, which will grow over
the next few years, the Company believes it can sustain its
technological leadership and capitalize on this opportunity.
These 30 product lines will include, early in 2000, patient
accounting and other business and management systems, where the
Company currently has no or limited market share.

     In the fourth quarter of 1998, the Company licensed a broad
set of HNA Millennium applications to Synetic Healthcare
Communications, Inc. ("SHC") which is focused on clinical e-
commerce through an Internet platform that connects payers,
physicians and patients.  In exchange for granting this license
and entering into related marketing and other agreements, the
Company received 19.9% of SHC's common stock which the Company
valued at $70 million.  In November of 1998, the Company entered
into an agreement with GE Medical Systems division of General
Electric Company ("GE") to develop and market the next generation
of solutions in the radiology suite that combines the Company's
leadership in radiology information systems with GE's leadership
in radiology imaging systems and picture archival communication
systems.  These alliances create the potential to leverage the
Company's access to customers, emerging markets and technology.

     The Company's human resources were augmented significantly
during 1998.  The Company recruited and promoted a number of
talented executives to its senior management team last year,
including:  Jeff Townsend, Chief of Engineering; Glenn Tobin,
Chief Operating Officer; Marvin Pember, responsible for provider-
based and managed cared Enterprise Business Units; Stan Sword,
Chief People Officer; and Paul Black, promoted to Chief Sales
Officer.  The Company also added approximately 550 associates.
The Company's ability to recruit and retain such talent was
recognized in 1998 by Fortune Magazine with its award as "One of
the Top 100 Companies" to work for in the United States.  The
quality and service-orientation of our associates was also
validated by external surveys which identified the Company as the
"Best Telephone Support" provider in the industry.

     Despite the many positive developments that occurred in
1998, the Company was disappointed with its financial
performance.  The Company did not fully anticipate the decrease
in demand for large-scale systems within the health care industry
resulting from the diversion of capital and human resources to
solve Year 2000 compliance issues.  It is currently expected that
this decline in demand will likely persist during 1999 as
customers continue to focus on efforts to update their current
systems to become Year 2000 compliant.  However, after January 1,
2000, the Company expects that this problem will quickly
dissipate.  Sales of enterprise wide systems were negatively
impacted during 1998 because the Company 

                          

did not have a large, complex reference site using significant
portions of HNA Millenium applications until January of 1999.

     While the Company is quite optimistic about its financial
performance heading into the new millennium, it is taking a
conservative view for 1999.  This cautiousness is predicated
primarily on the continued uncertainty that Year 2000 compliance
issues create for the buyers of health care information systems.
Nevertheless, the Company believes that its revenues and earnings
will exceed those of 1998.  Earnings from implementation services
are expected to increase as more projects are billed under a
closely-scoped fee-for-service approach.  Approximately 43% of
the aggregate backlog of $468,418,000 is expected to be
recognized as revenues during 1999.

Results of Operations
- ---------------------

Year Ended January 2, 1999, Compared to Year Ended January 3, 1998

     The Company's revenues increased 35% to $330,902,000 in 1998
from $245,057,000 in 1997.  Net earnings increased 36% to
$20,589,000 in 1998 from $15,148,000 in 1997. Excluding
acquisition related charges, net earnings increased 56% to
$23,687,000 in 1998 relative to 1997.

Revenues 
- -------- - In 1998, revenues increased due to an increase in
system sales and support of installed systems.  System sales
increased 44% to $245,490,000 in 1998 from $170,906,000 in 1997.
This increase in system sales resulted primarily from an increase
in installations under Health Network Architecture (HNA)
contracts.  Revenue from HNA contracts increased 23% compared to
1997.  The sale of additional hardware and software products to
the installed client base increased 30% in 1998 as compared to
1997.

Total sales to the installed base in 1998, including new systems,
incremental hardware and software, support and maintenance
services, and discrete services, were 69% of total revenues in
1998 compared to 73% in 1997.  The lower percentage was primarily
due to the increase in system sales to new clients.

At January 2, 1999, the Company had $314,965,000 in contract
backlog and $153,453,000 in support and maintenance backlog,
compared to $198,274,000 in contract backlog and $132,842,000 in
support and maintenance backlog at the end of 1997.

Support and maintenance revenues increased 12% in 1998 compared
to 20% in 1997.  These revenues represented 23% of 1998 total
revenues and 28% of 1997 total revenues. The lower percentage was
primarily due to the increase in system sales.

Other revenues increased 59% to $8,657,000 in 1998 from
$5,438,000 in 1997.  This increase was due primarily to services
performed beyond contracted requirements for existing clients.

Cost of Revenues 
- ---------------- - The cost of revenues includes the cost of
computer hardware and sublicensed software purchased from
computer and software manufacturers for delivery to clients.  It
also includes the cost of hardware maintenance and sublicensed
software support subcontracted to the manufacturers.  The cost of
revenues was 27% of total revenues in 1998 and 29% of total
revenues in 1997.  Such costs, as a percent of revenues,
typically have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware,
services and support) components carrying different margin rates
changes from period to period.  The decrease in the cost of
revenue as a percent of total revenues resulted principally from
a decrease in the percent of revenue from computer hardware and
sublicensed software, which carry a higher cost of revenue
percentage.

Sales and Client Service 
- ------------------------ -  Sales and client service expenses
include salaries of client service personnel, communications
expenses, and unreimbursed travel expenses.  Also included are
sales and marketing 

                          

salaries, travel expenses, trade show costs,
and advertising costs.  These expenses as a percent of total
revenues were 35% in 1998 and 34% in 1997.  The increase in total
sales and client service expenses is attributable to the cost of
a larger field sales and services organization and marketing of
new products.

Software Development 
- -------------------- - Software development expenses include
salaries, documentation, and other direct expenses incurred in
product development and amortization of software development
costs.  Total expenditures for software development, including
both capitalized and noncapitalized portions, for 1998 and 1997
were $74,159,000 and $54,524,000, respectively.  These amounts
exclude amortization.  Capitalized software costs were
$25,052,000 and $18,373,000 for 1998 and 1997, respectively.  The
increase in aggregate expenditures for software development in
1998 is due to development of HNA Millennium  products and
development of community care products.

General and Administrative 
- -------------------------- - General and administrative expenses
include salaries for corporate, financial, and administrative
staffs, utilities, communications expenses, and professional
fees.  These expenses as a percent of total revenues were 8% in
1998 and 9% in 1997.

Write-off of In-Process Research and Development 
- ------------------------------------------------ - Write-off of
in-process research and development is a one-time expense
resulting from the acquisition of Multum.

Interest Income (Expense), Net 
- ------------------------------ - Net interest expense was
$262,000  in 1998 compared to net interest income of $2,314,000
in 1997.  The decrease is due primarily to a decrease in invested
cash.

Income Taxes 
- ------------ - The Company's effective tax rate was 38% in 1998
and 1997.

Year Ended January 3, 1998, Compared to Year Ended December 28, 1996

     The Company's revenues increased 30% to $245,057,000 in 1997
from $189,107,000 in 1996.  Net earnings increased 84% to
$15,148,000 in 1997 from $8,251,000 in 1996.  Net earnings from
the Company's foreign operations decreased to $2,389,000 in 1997
from $2,897,000 in 1996.

Revenues 
- -------- - In 1997, revenues increased due to an increase in
system sales and support of installed systems.  System sales
increased 39% to $170,906,000 in 1997 from $122,836,000 in 1996.
This increase in system sales resulted primarily from an increase
in installations under Health Network Architecture (HNA)
contracts.  HNA contracts were 57% of total systems sales in
1997, compared to 43% in 1996.  The sale of additional hardware
and software products to the installed client base decreased 8%
in 1997 as compared to 1996.

Total sales to the installed base in 1997, including new systems,
incremental hardware and software, support and maintenance
services, and discrete services, were 73% of total revenues in
1997 compared to 79% in 1996.  The lower percentage was primarily
due to the increase in system sales to new clients.

At January 3, 1998, the Company had $198,274,000 in contract
backlog and $132,842,000 in support and maintenance backlog,
compared to $110,330,000 in contract backlog and $107,255,000 in
support and maintenance backlog at the end of 1996.

Support and maintenance revenues increased 20% in 1997 compared
to 16% in 1996. This increase was due primarily to the increase
in the Company's installed and converted client base. These
revenues represented 28% of 1997 total revenues and 30% of 1996
total revenues.

Other revenues decreased 38% to $5,438,000 in 1997 from
$8,841,000 in 1996.  This decrease was due primarily to a
decrease in real estate lease revenues from the rental to outside
tenants, as the Company utilizes more office space, and the
reporting of certain services revenue as system sales in 1997.

                          

Cost of Revenues 
- ---------------- - The cost of revenues includes the cost of
computer hardware and sublicensed software purchased from
computer and software manufacturers for delivery to clients.  It
also includes the cost of hardware maintenance and sublicensed
software support subcontracted to the manufacturers.  The cost of
revenues was 29% of total revenues in 1997 and 31% of total
revenues in 1996.  Such costs, as a percent of revenues,
typically have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware,
services and support) components carrying different margin rates
changes from period to period.  The decrease in the cost of
revenue as a percent of total revenues resulted principally from
a decrease in the percent of revenue from computer hardware and
sublicensed software, which carry a higher cost of revenue
percentage.

Sales and Client Service 
- ------------------------ -  Sales and client service expenses
include salaries of client service personnel, communications
expenses, and unreimbursed travel expenses.  Also included are
sales and marketing salaries, travel expenses, trade show costs,
and advertising costs.  These expenses as a percent of total
revenues were 34% in 1997 and  1996.  The increase in total sales
and client service expenses is attributable to the cost of a
larger field sales and services organization and marketing of new
products.

Software Development 
- -------------------- - Software development expenses include
salaries, documentation, and other direct expenses incurred in
product development and amortization of software development
costs.  Total expenditures for software development, including
both capitalized and noncapitalized portions, for 1997 and 1996
were $54,524,000 and $43,133,000, respectively.  These amounts
exclude amortization.  Capitalized software costs were
$18,373,000 and $13,240,000 for 1997 and 1996, respectively.  The
increase in aggregate expenditures for software development in
1997 is due to development of HNA Millennium  products and
development of community care products.

General and Administrative 
- -------------------------- - General and administrative expenses
include salaries for corporate, financial, and administrative
staffs, utilities, communications expenses, and professional
fees.  These expenses as a percent of total revenues were 9% in
1997 and 10% in 1996.

Interest Income, Net 
- -------------------- - Net interest income was $2,314,000  in
1997 compared to $2,301,000 in 1996.

Income Taxes 
- ------------ - The Company's effective tax rates were 38% and 36%
for 1997 and 1996, respectively. The lower 1996 tax rate is due
to the utilization of foreign net operating losses.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
- -------------------------------

     The Company had total cash and cash equivalents of
$42,658,000 at the end of 1998 and working capital of
$118,681,000, compared to cash and cash equivalents of
$77,543,000 at the end of 1997, and working capital of
$156,808,000.  The decrease in working capital resulted primarily
from the Company's investment in software development, the
purchase of capital equipment and the acquisition of Multum.  In
November 1998, the Company sold 670,000 shares of common stock to
General Electric Company, which resulted in cash proceeds of
$14,874,000.

     The Company generated cash of $5,893,000, $18,692,000, and
$28,262,000 from operations in 1998, 1997, and 1996,
respectively.  Cash flow from operations decreased in 1998 and
1997, due primarily to increases in receivables from increased
revenues, and, in 1998 from non-cash consideration received for
the sale of license software.

     Revenues provided under support and maintenance agreements
represent recurring cash flows.  Support and maintenance revenues
increased 12%, 20%, and 16%, in 1998, 1997, and 1996,
respectively, and the Company expects these revenues to continue
to grow as the base of installed systems grows.

     The Company's liquidity is influenced by many factors,
including the amount and timing of the Company's revenues, its
cash collections from its clients as implementation of its
products proceed and 

                                 

the amounts the Company invests in software development and 
capital expenditures.  The Company's liquidity has decreased
over the three year period ended January 2, 1999 due primarily 
to increased investment in software development and increase
in receivables due to increased sales.  The Company expects 
that its cash position will decrease during the first half of
1999 as it continues its investment in software development,
but the Company expects to have an increase in its cash position
for the fourth quarter of 1999.  The Company believes that its
present cash position, together with cash generated from operations,
will be sufficient to meet anticipated cash requirements during 1999.
The Company has an $18,000,000 line of credit available but may
obtain additional debt capital in order to provide greater 
financial flexibility.

     The effects of inflations were minimal on the Company's
business.

Factors that may Affect Future Results of Operations, Financial 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Condition or Business
- ---------------------

     Statements made in this report, other reports and proxy
statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
communications to stockholders, press releases and oral
statements made by representatives of the Company that are not
historical in nature, or that state the Company's or management's
intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations, or predictions of the
future, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of
Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and involve risks and uncertainties.  The words
"should," "will be," "intended," "continue," "believe," "may,"
"expect," "hope," "anticipate," "goal," "forecast" and similar
expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking
statements.  It is important to note that any such performance,
and actual results, financial condition or business could differ
materially from those expressed in such forward-looking
statements.  Factors that could cause or contribute to such
differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed
below as well as those discussed elsewhere in reports filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The Company undertakes
no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements to
reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated
events or changes in future operating results, financial
condition or business over time.

Quarterly Operating Results May Vary 
- ------------------------------------ -   The Company's quarterly
operating results have varied in the past and may continue to
vary in future periods.  Quarterly operating results may vary for
a number of reasons including demand for the Company's products
and services, the Company's long sales cycle, the long
installation and implementation cycle for these larger, more
complex and costlier systems and other factors described in this
section and elsewhere in this report.  As a result of healthcare
industry trends and the market for the Company's HNA Millennium
products, a large percentage of the Company's revenues are
generated by the sale and installation of larger, more complex
and costlier systems.  The sales process for these systems is
lengthy and involves a significant technical evaluation and
commitment of capital and other resources by the customer.  The
sale may be subject to delays due to customers' internal budgets
and procedures for approving large capital expenditures and by
competing needs for other capital expenditures and deploying new
technologies or personnel resources.  Delays in the expected sale
or installation of these large contracts may have a significant
impact on the Company's anticipated quarterly revenues and
consequently its earnings, since a significant percentage of the
Company's expenses are relatively fixed.

These larger, more complex and costlier systems are installed and
implemented over time periods ranging from approximately nine
months to three years and involve significant efforts both by the
Company and the client.  In addition, implementation of the
Company's Millennium products is a new and evolving process.  The
Company recognizes revenue upon the completion of standard
milestone conditions and the amount of revenue recognized in any
quarter depends upon the Company's and the client's ability to
meet these project milestones.  Delays in meeting these milestone
conditions or modification of the contract relating to one or
more of these systems could result in a shift of revenue
recognition from one quarter to another and could have a material
adverse effect on results of operations for a particular quarter.
In addition, support payments by clients for the Company's
products do not commence until the product is in use.

                          

The Company's revenues from system sales historically have been
lower in the first quarter of the year and greater in the fourth
quarter of the year.

Stock Price May Be Volatile 
- --------------------------- -   The trading price of the
Company's common stock may be volatile.  The market for the
Company's common stock may experience significant price and
volume fluctuations in response to a number of factors including
actual or anticipated quarterly variations in operating results,
changes in expectations of future financial performance or
changes in estimates of securities analysts, governmental
regulatory action, healthcare reform measures, client
relationship developments and other factors, many of which are
beyond the Company's control.

Furthermore, the stock market in general, and the market for
software, healthcare and high technology companies in particular,
has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated
to the operating performance of particular companies.  These
broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the
trading price of the Company's common stock, regardless of actual
operating performance.

Market Risk of Investments 
- -------------------------- - The Company accounts for its
investments in equity securities which have readily determinable
fair values as available-for sale.  Available-for-sale securities
are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses
reported, net of tax, as a separate component of accumulated
other comprehensive income.  Investments in other equity
securities are reported at cost.  All equity securities are
reviewed by the Company for declines in fair value.  If such
declines are considered to be other than temporary, the cost
basis of the individual security is written down to fair value as
a new cost basis, and the amount of the write-down is included in
earnings.

Included in the Company's investments is the ownership of 19.9%
of the common stock of Synetic Healthcare Communications, Inc.
("SHC").  There is no current market for this common stock and it
is not accounted for as available-for-sale.  As a result, the
stock was valued at $70,000,000 based on a methodology which
utilized both a comparable company and the expected underlying
discounted future cash flows.  The common stock is subject to
certain lock-up provisions.  A permanent impairment in the value
of SHC stock would result in a charge to earnings in either the
then current or future periods.  There would be no effect on cash
flows because the revenue was earned through contractual rights
granted in exchange for SHC stock.  An increase in the value of
the SHC stock would have no effect on reported earnings.
Synetic, Inc., the parent of SHC, has publicly announced that SHC
plans to conduct an initial public offering of its shares.  The
Company has agreed to purchase additional SHC shares in that
offering which may maintain its proportionate ownership of SHC.
The Company has not engaged in equity swaps or other hedging
techniques to manage the equity risk inherent in the SHC shares.

The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in marketable
securities (which consist of money market and commercial paper).
At January 2, 1999, marketable securities of the Company were
recorded at a fair value of approximately $43 million, with an
overall average return of approximately 5% and an overall
weighted maturity of less than 90 days.  The marketable
securities held by the Company are not subject to price risk as
they are held to maturity.

The Company is not exposed to material future earnings or cash
flow exposures from changes in interest rates on long-term debt
since 100% of its long-term debt is at a fixed rate.  To date,
the Company has not entered into any derivative financial
instruments to manage interest rate risk and is currently not
evaluating the future use of any such financial instruments.

The Company conducts business in several foreign jurisdictions.
However, the business transacted is in the local functional
currency and the Company does not currently have any material
exposure to foreign currency transaction gains or losses.  All
other business transactions are in U.S. dollars.  To date, the
Company has not entered into any derivative financial instrument
to manage foreign currency risk and is currently not evaluating
the future use of any such financial instruments.

                          

Changes in the Healthcare Industry 
- ---------------------------------- -   The healthcare industry is
highly regulated and is subject to changing political, economic
and regulatory influences.  For example, The Balanced Budget Act
of 1997 (Public Law 105-32) contains significant changes to
Medicare and Medicaid and began to have its initial impact in
1998 due to limitations on reimbursement, resulting cost
containment initiatives, and effects on pricing and demand for
capital intensive systems.  These factors affect the purchasing
practices and operation of healthcare organizations.  Federal and
state legislatures have periodically considered programs to
reform or amend the U.S. healthcare system at both the federal
and state level and to change healthcare financing and
reimbursement systems.  These programs may contain proposals to
increase governmental involvement in healthcare, lower
reimbursement rates or otherwise change the environment in which
healthcare industry participants operate.  Healthcare industry
participants may respond by reducing their investments or
postponing investment decisions, including investments in the
Company's products and services.

Many healthcare providers are consolidating to create integrated
healthcare delivery systems with greater market power.  These
providers may try to use their market power to negotiate price
reductions for the Company's products and services.  As the
healthcare industry consolidates, the Company's customer base
could be eroded, competition for customers could become more
intense and the importance of acquiring each customer becomes
greater.

Significant Competition 
- ----------------------- -   The market for healthcare information
systems is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to
rapid technological change.  The Company believes that the
principal competitive factors in this market include the breadth
and quality of system and product offerings, the stability of the
information systems provider, the features and capabilities of
the information systems, the ongoing support for the system, and
the potential for enhancements and future compatible products.

Certain of the Company's competitors have greater financial,
technical, product development, marketing and other resources
than the Company and some of its competitors offer products that
it does not offer.  The Company's principle existing competitors
include Shared Medical Systems Corporation, IDX Systems
Corporation, McKesson HBOC, Inc. and Eclipsys Corporation, each
of which offers a suite of products that compete with many of the
Company's products.  There are other competitors that offer a
more limited number of competing products.

In addition, the Company expects that major software information
systems companies, large information technology consulting
service providers and system integrators, Internet-based start-up
companies and others specializing in the healthcare industry may
offer competitive products or services.  The pace of change in
the healthcare information systems market is rapid and there are
frequent new product introductions, product enhancements and
evolving industry standards and requirements.  As a result, the
Company's success will depend upon its ability to keep pace with
technological change and to introduce, on a timely and cost-
effective basis, new and enhanced products that satisfy changing
customer requirements and achieve market acceptance.

Proprietary Technology May Be Subjected to Infringement Claims or
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
May Be Infringed Upon 
- --------------------- -  The Company relies upon a combination of
trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, license agreements,
confidentiality procedures, employee nondisclosure agreements and
technical measures to maintain the trade secrecy of its
proprietary information.  The Company has not historically filed
patent applications or copyrights covering its software
technology.  As a result, the Company may not be able to protect
against misappropriation of its intellectual property.

In addition, the Company could be subject to intellectual
property infringement claims as the number of competitors grows
and the functionality of its products overlaps with competitive
offerings.  These claims, even if not meritorious, could be
expensive to defend.  If the Company becomes liable to third
parties for infringing their intellectual property rights, it
could be required to pay a substantial damage award and to
develop noninfringing technology, obtain a license or cease
selling the products that contain the infringing intellectual
property.

                          

Government Regulation 
- --------------------- -  The United States Food and Drug
Administration (the "FDA") has declared that software products
that are intended for the maintenance of data used in making
decisions regarding the suitability of blood donors and the
release of blood or blood components for transfusion are medical
devices under the 1976 Medical Device Amendments to the Federal
Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the Safe Medical Devices Act of
1990.  As a consequence, the Company is subject to extensive
regulation by the FDA with regard to its blood bank software.  If
other of the Company's products are deemed to be medical devices
by the FDA, the Company could be subject to extensive
requirements governing pre- and post- marketing conditions, such
as device investigation, approval, labeling and manufacturing.
Complying with these FDA regulations would be time consuming,
burdensome and expensive.  The Company expects that the FDA is
likely to become more active in regulating computer software that
is used in healthcare.

Following an inspection by the FDA in March of 1998, the Company
received a two-item Form FDA 483 (Notice of Inspectional
Observations) containing observations of non-compliance with the
Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the "Act") with respect to
the Company's PathNet HNA Blood Bank Transfusion and Donor
products (the "Blood Bank Products").  The Company subsequently
received a Warning Letter, dated April 29, 1998, as a result of
the same inspection.  The Company responded promptly to the FDA
and undertook a number of actions in response to the Form 483 and
Warning Letter, including an audit by a third party of the
Company's Blood Bank Products.  A copy of the third party audit
was submitted to the FDA in October of 1998 and, at the request
of the FDA, additional information and clarification was
submitted to the FDA in January of 1999.

There can be no assurance, however, that the Company's actions
taken in response to the Form 483 and Warning Letter will be
deemed adequate by the FDA or that additional actions on behalf
of the Company will not be required.  In addition, the Company
remains subject to periodic inspections and there can be no
assurances that the Company will not be required to undertake
additional actions to comply with the Act and any other
applicable regulatory requirements.  Any failure by the Company
to comply with the Act and any other applicable regulatory
requirements could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's ability to continue to manufacture and distribute its
products, and in more serious cases, could result in seizure,
recall, injunction and/or civil fines.  Any of the foregoing
would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business,
results of operations or financial condition.

Product Related Liabilities 
- --------------------------- -   Many of the Company's products
provide data for use by healthcare providers in providing care to
patients.  Although no such claims have been brought against the
Company to date regarding injuries related to the use of its
products, such claims may be made in the future.  Although the
Company maintains product liability insurance coverage in an
amount that it believes is sufficient for its business, there can
be no assurance that such coverage will prove to be adequate or
that such coverage will continue to remain available on
acceptable terms, if at all.  A successful claim brought against
the Company which is uninsured or under-insured could materially
harm its business, results of operations or financial condition.

Year 2000 
- --------- -  The following statements are a "Year 2000 Readiness
Disclosure" within the meaning of the Year 2000 Information and
Readiness Disclosure Act.  Computer programs that use two digits
to identify a year may fail or create errors in the year 2000,
leading to system failures or miscalculations causing disruptions
to the operations of the user.  The Company has conducted a Year
2000 review of its operations focusing on the Company's products
and their use by its clients, the computers, operating systems
and data bases used in conjunction with its products and the
Company's internal operations.

The Company's software products currently being marketed are Year
2000 compliant.  The costs incurred to make the Company's current
versions compliant have occurred in the ordinary course of
software development and enhancement and have not been material.
All of the Company's clients using older versions of its software
products are entitled to upgrade to the compliant versions with
no charge for the compliant version.  However, some have elected
not to do so for a variety of reasons.  The Company is 

                          

working with the clients who wish to upgrade to address Year 
2000 issues.  These clients have either been upgraded to compliant 
versions or are scheduled to be upgraded to compliant versions
of the Company's software by August 1999.  The Company is assisting
those clients to upgrade using electronic access from the
Company's facilities without charge.  If the client desires on-
site assistance, the Company is assessing its normal charges.
These services are being conducted in the ordinary course of the
Company's business by its employees, and the costs to the Company
are not expected to be material.  The Company is also engaged in
many projects to implement its products at client sites.  These
projects require efforts both by the Company and its clients.
For some of these clients, these projects constitute their
solution to Year 2000 issues.  Substantially all of these
projects are planned to be completed by September 1999.  The
Company is working with its clients, or the clients are working
independently, on contingency plans for Year 2000 issues where
there is a reasonable likelihood the project may not be completed
by the end of 1999.

As  clients  and potential customers focus on efforts  to  update
their   current   systems,  they  may  elect  to  delay   capital
investments  in  information systems  in  order  to  focus  their
capital  budgets  on the expenditures necessary  to  bring  their
existing  systems into Year 2000 compliance.  As  a  result,  the
Company may not achieve expected sales revenues and its business,
financial condition and results of operations could be materially
adversely affected.

The Company believes that its internal third-party software
applications, operating systems and telephone systems are Year
2000 compliant.  The Company did have some internally developed
software applications that required upgrading to be Year 2000
compliant.  These upgrades were done internally and have been
completed.  The Company has also replaced some older computers
and operating systems that were not Year 2000 compliant in the
normal course of infrastructure maintenance.

The suppliers of the computers, operating systems and data bases
necessary to operate the current versions of the Company's
software products have indicated to the Company that those
products either are Year 2000 compliant or they would be by the
end of 1999.  The Company has conducted tests of such computers,
operating systems and databases with its products now being
marketed and currently has no reasonable cause to believe that
the Company's products are not Year 2000 compliant when operated
with such computers, operating systems and databases.  However,
in operation at clients' sites, the Company's software products
interchange data with many third party systems through interfaces
that may be unique to the client or the third party system.  Such
interfaces or data interchanged may contain inaccuracies or such
data may not be in a format that allows the Company's system to
correctly identify the date.  There can be no assurance that the
Company will not be subject to claims that result from the
failure of third party systems or their related interfaces to be
Year 2000 compliant.  These claims, even if not meritorious,
could be expensive to defend.

Although the Company believes its Year 2000 review and the
actions it has taken and plans to take in response to the review
are appropriate, there can be no assurance that the review
identified all possible issues or that all identified issues will
be satisfactorily resolved.  A material failure of the Company's
internal systems to be Year 2000 compliant, a material failure in
suppliers of the computers, operating systems and databases used
in conjunction with the Company's products to be Year 2000
compliant or a material delay in client projects related to Year
2000 issues could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
business, results of operations or financial condition.

System Errors and Warranties 
- ---------------------------- -   The Company's systems,
particularly the Millennium versions, are very complex.  As with
complex systems offered by others, the Company's systems may
contain errors, especially when first introduced.  Although the
Company conducts extensive testing, it has discovered software
errors in its products after their introduction.  The Company's
systems are intended for use in collecting and displaying
clinical information used in the diagnosis and treatment of
patients.  Therefore, users of the Company products have a
greater sensitivity to system errors than the market for software
products generally.  The Company's agreements with its clients
typically provide warranties against material errors and other
matters.  Failure of a client's system to meet these criteria
could constitute a 

                          

material breach under such contracts allowing the client to 
cancel the contract, or could require the Company to incur
additional expense in order to make the system meet these criteria.
The Company's contract with its clients generally limit the Company's 
liability arising from such claims but such limits may not be
enforceable in certain jurisdictions.

Anti-Takeover Defenses 
- ---------------------- -   The Company's charter, bylaws,
shareholders' rights plan and certain provisions of Delaware law
contain certain provisions that may have the effect of delaying
or preventing an acquisition of the Company.  Such provisions are
intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring the
Company to negotiate with and obtain the approval of the Board of
Directors in connection with any such transaction.  These
provisions include (i) a Board of Directors that is staggered
into three classes to serve staggered three-year terms, (ii)
blank check preferred stock, (iii) supermajority voting
provisions, (iv) inability of stockholders to act by written
consent or call a special meeting, (v) limitations on the ability
of stockholders to nominate directors or make proposals at
stockholder meetings, and (vi) triggering the exercisability of
stock purchase rights on a discriminatory basis, which may invoke
extensive economic and voting dilution of a potential acquirer if
its beneficial ownership of the Company's common stock exceeds a
specified threshold.  Certain of these provisions may discourage
a future acquisition of the Company not approved by the Board of
Directors in which shareholders might receive a premium value for
their shares.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

     Information contained under the caption "Factors that may
Affect Future Results of Operations, Financial Condition or
Business -- Market Risk of Investments" set forth under
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" in Item 7 is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     The Financial Statements and Notes required by this Item are
submitted as a separate part of this report.

Item  9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and 
           Financial Disclosure

     None.

                          

PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

      The  Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in  connection
with  the  Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on  May  28,
1999,  contains under the caption "Election of Directors" certain
information required by Item 10 of Form 10-K and such information
is  incorporated  herein  by  this  reference.   The  information
required by Item 10 of Form 10-K as to executive officers is  set
forth in Item 4A of Part I hereof.

      The  Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in  connection
with  the  Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on  May  28,
1999,  contains under the caption "Compliance with Section  16(a)
of  the  Securities  Exchange Act of  1934"  certain  information
required  by  Item  10  of  Form 10-K  and  such  information  is
incorporated herein by this reference.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

      The  Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in  connection
with  the  Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on  May  28,
1999,  contains  under the caption "Executive  Compensation"  the
information required by Item 11 of Form 10-K and such information
is incorporated herein by this reference.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

      The  Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in  connection
with  the  Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on  May  28,
1999, contains under the caption "Voting Securities and Principal
Holders Thereof" the information required by Item 12 of Form 10-K
and such information is incorporated herein by this reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

      The  Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in  connection
with  the  Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on  May  28,
1999,  contains  under  the  caption "Certain  Transactions"  the
information required by Item 13 of Form 10-K and such information
is incorporated herein by this reference.

                          

PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
          Form 8-K

     (a)  Financial Statements.

          (1)  Consolidated Financial Statements:

               Independent Auditors' Report on Consolidated Financial Statements

               Consolidated Balance Sheets -
               January 2, 1999 and January 3, 1998

               Consolidated Statements of Earnings -
               Years Ended January 2, 1999, January 3, 1998 and 
               December 28, 1996

               Consolidated Statements of Changes In Equity
               Years Ended January 2, 1999, January 3, 1998 and
               December 28, 1996

               Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
               Years Ended January 2, 1999, January 3, 1998 and 
               December 28, 1996

               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

          (2)  The following financial statement,
               schedule and independent auditors' report
               on financial statement schedule of the
               Registrant for the three-year period ended
               January 2, 1999 are included herein:

               Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts,

               Independent Auditors' Report on Consolidated
               Financial Statement Schedule.
          
           All  other  schedules  are omitted,  as  the  required
information  is inapplicable or the information is  presented  in
the consolidated financial statements or related notes.

          (3)  The exhibits required to be filed by this item are set forth
               below:

          
Number         Description
- ------         -----------

3(a)           Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, (filed  
               as Exhibit 3(i) to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 
               for the year ended June 29, 1996 and hereby incorporated by 
               reference).

3(b)           Bylaws, as amended (filed as Exhibit 3 to the Registrant's 
               Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the six months ended 
               June 30, 1995, and hereby incorporated by reference).

                          

4(a)           Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of March 12,
               1999, between Cerner Corporation and UMB Bank, n.a., as Rights
               Agents, which includes the Form of Certificate of Designation,
               Preferences and Rights of Series A Preferred Stock of Cerner
               Corporation, as Exhibit A, and the Form of Rights Certificate, as
               Exhibit B (filed as an Exhibit to Registrant's current report on
               Form 8-A/A dated March 31, 1999 and incorporated herein by
               reference).

4(b)           Specimen stock certificate (filed as Exhibit 4(a) to 
               Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No.
               33-15156) and hereby incorporated herein by reference).

4(c)           Note Agreement between Cerner Corporation, Principal Mutual Life 
               Insurance Company, and Principal National Life Insurance Company 
               dated July 1, 1994, (filed as Exhibit 10(a) to Registrant's
               Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
               1994, and hereby incorporated by reference.

4(d)           Credit Agreement between Cerner Corporation and Mercantile Bank 
               dated April 1, 1999.

10(a)          Incentive Stock Option Plan C of Registrant (filed as Exhibit 
               10(f) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
               ended December 31, 1993, and hereby incorporated herein by
               reference).*

10(b)          Indemnification Agreements between the Registrant and Neal L. 
               Patterson, Clifford W. Illig, Gerald E. Bisbee, Jr. and 
               Thomas C. Tinstman, (filed as Exhibit 10(i) to Registrant's
               Annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992,
               and incorporated herein by reference).*

10(c)          Indemnification Agreement between Michael E. Herman and
               Registrant (filed as Exhibit 10(i)(a) to Registrant's Quarterly 
               Report on Form 10-Q for the year ended June 29, 1996 and hereby
               incorporated by reference).*

10(d)          Indemnification Agreement between John C. Danforth, and 
               Registrant (filed as Exhibit 10(i)(b) to Registrant's Quarterly
               Report on Form 10-Q for the year ended June 29, 1996 and hereby
               incorporated by reference).*

10(e)          Indemnification Agreement between Thomas A. McDonnell and 
               Registrant (filed as Exhibit 10(i)(c) to Registrant's Quarterly 
               Report on Form 10-Q for the year ended June 29, 1996 and hereby
               incorporated by reference).*

10(f)          Amended Stock Option Plan D of Registrant (filed as Exhibit 10(g)
               to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
               January 3, 1998, and hereby incorporated by reference).*

10(g)          Stock Option Plan E of Registrant (filed as Exhibit 10(h) to 
               Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
               January 3, 1998, and hereby incorporated by reference).*

10(h)          Agreement for Cerner Corporation Consulting Services with 
               Gerald E. Bisbee, Ph.D. (filed as Exhibit 10(i) to Registrant's
               Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 3, 1998,
               and hereby incorporated by reference).*

10(i)          Cerner Performance Plan for 1998.*

10(j)          Cerner Performance Plan for 1999.*

10(k)          Long-Term Incentive Plan for 1998.*

                           

10(l)          Long-Term Incentive Plan for 1999.*

10(m)          Promissory Note of Jack A. Newman, Jr.*

10(n)          Promissory Note of Robert C. Dieterle.*

10(o)          Promissory Note of Glenn P. Tobin.*

10(p)          Promissory Note of Marvin G. Pember.*

11             Computation of Registrant's Earnings Per Share. 
               (Exhibit omitted. Information contained in notes to
               consolidated financial statements.)

21             Subsidiaries of Registrant.

23             Consent of Independent Auditors.

27             Financial Data Schedule.

* Management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements required to be 
  identified by Item 14(a)(3).

          (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

          A report on form 8-K was filed on March 18, 1999.

          (c)  Exhibits.

          The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate 
          section of this report.

          (d)  Financial Statement Schedules.

          The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate 
          section of this report.


                           
                                
                           SIGNATURES

           Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, the  registrant  has  duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

                              CERNER CORPORATION


Dated:   April 1, 1999        By:/s/Neal L. Patterson
                                 --------------------
                                    Neal L. Patterson
                                    Chairman of the Board,
                                    Chief Executive Officer and President


          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange
Act  of  1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and  on
the dates indicated:

          Signature and Title                     Date
          -------------------                     ----  



/s/Neal L. Patterson                            April 1, 1999
- -----------------------------  
Neal L. Patterson, Chairman of the Board,
 Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer) and President



/s/Clifford W. Illig                            April 1, 1999
- -----------------------------
Clifford W. Illig, Vice Chairman and Director



/s/Marc G. Naughton                             April 1, 1999
- -----------------------------
Marc G. Naughton, Vice President and
 Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)



/s/Michael E. Herman                            April 1, 1999
- -----------------------------
Michael E. Herman, Director



/s/Gerald E. Bisbee                             April 1, 1999
- ------------------------------
Gerald E. Bisbee, Jr., Director



/s/Thomas C. Tinstman                           April 1, 1999
- -------------------------------
Thomas C. Tinstman, M.D., Senior Vice President and Director




/s/John C. Danforth                             April 1, 1999
- -------------------------------
John C. Danforth, Director



/s/Thomas A. McDonnell                          April 1, 1999
- -------------------------------
Thomas A. McDonnell, Director

                          


Independent Auditors' Report
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Cerner Corporation:



We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Cerner Corporation and subsidiaries as of January 2, 1999 and
January 3, 1998,  and the related consolidated statements of
earnings, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the years
in the three-year period ended January 2, 1999.  These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to
above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Cerner Corporation and subsidiaries as of January 2,
1999 and January 3, 1998, and the results of their operations and
their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended January 2, 1999, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.



KPMG LLP

Kansas City, Missouri
February 3, 1999



Management's Report
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The management of Cerner Corporation is responsible for the
consolidated financial statements and all other information
presented in this report.  The financial statements have been
prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles appropriate to the circumstances, and, therefore,
included in the financial statements are certain amounts based on
management's informed estimates and judgments.  Other financial
information in this report is consistent with that in the
consolidated financial statements.  The consolidated financial
statements have been audited by Cerner Corporation's independent
certified public accountants and have been reviewed by the audit
committee of the Board of Directors.

                         

Consolidated Balance Sheets
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
January 2, 1999 and January 3, 1998

                                                                
                                
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                  
                          

Consolidated Statements of Earnings
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For the years ended January 2, 1999, January 3, 1998, and December 28, 1996


                                                                
See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                          

Consolidated Statements of Changes In Equity
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For the years ended January 2, 1999, January 3, 1998, and December 28, 1996



See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                          

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



See notes to consolidated financial statements.




Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

(a)  Principles of Consolidation - The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of Cerner Corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries (the Company).  All significant
intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in
consolidation.

(b)  Revenue Recognition - Revenues are derived primarily from
the sale of clinical information systems. The Company also
provides project implementation and consulting services.  In
addition, revenue is generated from servicing installed clinical
information systems, which generally includes support of software
and maintenance of hardware.  The Company also derives revenue
from the sale of computer hardware.

Clinical information system sales contracts are negotiated
separately and generally include the licensing of the Company's
clinical information system software, project-related services
associated with the installation of the systems, and the sale of
computer hardware.  Clinical information system sales contracts
are noncancelable and provide for a right of return only in the
event the system fails to meet the performance criteria set forth
in the contracts.  The Company recognizes revenue from sales of
clinical information systems using a percentage-of-completion
method based on meeting key milestone events over the term of the
contracts in accordance with Statement of Position 97-2,
"Software Revenue Recognition".

Revenue associated with project implementation and consulting
services is recognized as the services are performed.  Revenue
from the licensing of additional software is recognized upon
installation at the client's site.  Revenue from the sale of
computer hardware is recognized upon shipment.  Revenue from
ongoing software support and equipment maintenance is recognized
as the services are rendered.

(c)  Fiscal Year - The Company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday
closest to December 31.  Fiscal year 1998, ended January 2, 1999,
consisted of 52 weeks, fiscal year 1997 consisted of 53 weeks,
and fiscal year 1996 consisted of 52 weeks.  All references to
years in these notes to consolidated financial statements
represent fiscal years unless otherwise noted.

(d)  Software Development Costs - Costs incurred internally in
creating computer software products are expensed until
technological feasibility has been established upon completion of
a detail program design.  Thereafter, all software development
costs are capitalized and subsequently reported at the lower of
amortized cost or net realizable value.  Capitalized costs are
amortized based on current and future revenue for each product
with minimum annual amortization equal to the straight-line
amortization over the estimated economic life of the product.
The Company is amortizing capitalized costs on a straight-line
basis over five years.  During 1998, 1997, and 1996, the Company
capitalized $25,052,000, $18,373,000, and $13,240,000,
respectively, of total software development costs of $74,159,000,
$54,524,000, and  $43,133,000, respectively.  Amortization
expense of capitalized software development costs in 1998, 1997,
and 1996 was $10,647,000, $7,935,000, and $5,997,000,
respectively, and accumulated amortization was $43,542,000,
$32,895,000, and $24,960,000, respectively.

(e)   Cash  Equivalents - Cash equivalents consist of  short-term
marketable  securities with original maturities less than  ninety
days.

(f)   Investments - The Company accounts for its  investments  in
equity securities which have readily determinable fair values  as
available-for-sale.  Available-for-sale securities  are  reported
at  fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported, net  of
tax,  as  a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive
income.   Investments in other equity securities are reported  at
cost.   All  equity securities are reviewed by  the  Company  for
declines  in fair value.  If such declines are considered  to  be
other  than temporary, the cost basis of the individual  security
is written down to fair value as a new cost basis, and the amount
of the write-down is included in earnings.

                          

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(g)  Inventory - Inventory consists primarily of computer
hardware held for resale and is recorded at the lower of cost
(first-in, first-out) or market.

(h)  Property and Equipment - Property, equipment, and leasehold
improvements are stated at cost.  Depreciation of property and
equipment is computed using the straight-line method over periods
of 5 to 39 years.  Amortization of leasehold improvements is
computed using a straight-line method over the lease terms, which
range from periods of two to twelve years.

(i)       Earnings per Common Share - Basic earnings per share
(EPS) excludes dilution and is computed by dividing income
available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number
of common shares outstanding for the period.  Diluted EPS
reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or
other contracts to issue stock were exercised or converted into
common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock that
then shared in the earnings of the Company.  A reconciliation of
the numerators and the denominators of the basic and diluted per-
share computations is as follows:




Options to purchase 1,652,000, 1,149,000 and 494,000 shares
of common stock at per share prices ranging from $25.00 to
$31.00, $21.50 to $31.00, and $18.50 to $29.63 were
outstanding at the end of 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively,
but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings
per share because the options' exercise price was greater
than the average market price of the common shares.

(j)  Foreign Currency - Assets and liabilities in foreign
currencies are translated into dollars at rates prevailing
at the balance sheet date.  Revenues and expenses are
translated at average rates for the year.  The net exchange
differences resulting from these translations are reported
in accumulated other comprehensive income.  Gains and losses
resulting from foreign currency transactions are included in
the consolidated statements of earnings.  The net loss
resulting from foreign currency transactions was $673,000,
$762,000, and $274,000 in 1998, 1997, and 1996,
respectively.

(k)  Income Taxes - Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts
of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax
bases.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured
using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income
in the years in which those temporary differences are
expected to be recovered or settled.

(l)  Goodwill - Excess of cost over net assets acquired
(goodwill) is being amortized on a straight-line basis over
seven to eight years.  Accumulated amortization was
$4,037,000 and $2,733,000 at the end of 1998 and 1997,
respectively.  The Company assesses the recoverability of
goodwill based on forecasted undiscounted future operating
cash flows.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------


(m)  Comprehensive Income - The Company adopted
statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 130,
"Reporting Comprehensive Income"  at the beginning of 1998.
This statement establishes requirements for reporting and
display of comprehensive income and its components.  The
adoption of this statement had no effect on the previously
reported net earnings or stockholders' equity.

(n)  Use of Estimates - The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

(o)  Reclassifications - Certain 1997 and 1996 amounts have
been reclassified to conform with the 1998 presentations.

2    Acquisition of Business

On March 16, 1998, the Company purchased all of the
outstanding common stock of Multum Information Systems,
Inc., (Multum) for $6.9 million.  Multum is a supplier to
the healthcare industry of drug knowledge databases and
intelligent software components designed to improve the
quality and cost-effectiveness of medical care.  The Company
plans to incorporate Multum's drug information and expert
dosing component into its Health Network Architecture
Millennium solutions to enable Multum's expert knowledge to
become executable within the process of care delivery.

The acquisition has been accounted for using the purchase
method of accounting with the operating results of Multum
included in the Company's consolidated statement of earnings
since the date of acquisition.  Approximately $5,000,000 of
the purchase price was allocated to in-process research and
development that had not reached technological feasibility
and was treated as a one-time charge to earnings reducing
after tax income for 1998 by $3.1 million or $.09 per share
on a diluted basis.  This acquisition would not have
materially affected revenues, net earnings, or earnings per
share on a pro forma basis for any period presented.

The acquired in-process research and development related  to
Multum's   component   based,  drug   information   software
development  kit  (SDK)  for  use  in  clinical  information
systems.   Its components are designed for use in a  variety
of  configurations and to provide complete control over  the
retrieval   of  drug  information  from  Multum's  knowledge
databases.  SDK was approximately 80% complete at  the  time
of  the  acquisition.   When Multum  was  acquired,  it  was
projected that SDK would be completed in 12-18 months at  an
estimated  cost  of $1.9 million. The risks associated  with
completing  SDK  are  like  any other  software  development
project  and  include changes in technology and competition.
The  SDK  project was valued using the income approach  with
the  following  assumptions: material net cash  inflows  are
expected  to  commence  in 2000; no  material  changes  from
historical   pricing,   margins  or   expense   levels   are
anticipated;  and,  a 20% risk adjusted  discount  rate  was
applied  to estimated net cash flows.  SDK was approximately
90% complete at the end of 1998; management expects it to be
completed in 1999.

The allocation of the purchase price to the estimated fair
values of the identified tangible and intangible assets
acquired and liabilities assumed, resulted in goodwill of
$1,581,000.  The goodwill is being amortized straight-line
over seven years.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3    Receivables

Receivables consist of accounts receivable and contracts
receivable.  Accounts receivable represent recorded revenues
that have been billed.  Contracts receivable represent
recorded revenues that are billable by the Company at future
dates under the terms of a contract with a client.  Billings
and other consideration received on contracts in excess of
related revenues recognized under the percentage-of-
completion method are recorded as deferred revenue.   A
summary of receivables is as follows:



Substantially all receivables are derived from sales and
related support and maintenance of the Company's clinical
information systems to healthcare providers located
throughout the United States and in certain foreign
countries.  Included in receivables at the end of 1998 and
1997 are amounts due from healthcare providers located in
foreign countries of $12,071,000 and $9,950,000,
respectively.  Consolidated revenues include foreign sales
of $17,545,000, $16,272,000, and $15,874,000, during 1998,
1997, and 1996, respectively.  Consolidated long-lived
assets at the end of 1998 and 1997,  include foreign long-
lived assets of $290,000 and $265,000, respectively.
Revenues and long-lived assets from any one foreign country
are not material.

The Company provides an allowance for estimated
uncollectible accounts based upon historical experience and
management's judgment.  At the end of 1998 and 1997 the
allowance for estimated uncollectible accounts was
$3,405,000 and $1,490,000, respectively.

4    Property and Equipment

A summary of property, equipment, and leasehold improvements
stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and
amortization, is as follows:





Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

5    Investments

Investments consist of the following:



Included in investments in other equity securities in 1998
is common stock received as consideration for the sale of
license software. There is no current market for the common
stock.  As a result, it was valued at $70,000,000 based on a
methodology which utilized both a comparable company and the
expected underlying discounted future cash flows.  The
common stock is subject to certain lock-up provisions.

6    Indebtedness

The Company has a loan agreement with two banks that
provides for a long-term revolving line of credit for
working capital purposes.  The long-term revolving line of
credit is unsecured and requires monthly payments of
interest only.  Interest is payable at the Company's option
at a rate based on prime (7.75% at January 2, 1999) or LIBOR
(5.094% at January 2, 1999) plus 1.75%.  The interest rate
may be reduced by up to .5% if certain net worth ratios are
maintained.  At January 2, 1999, the Company had no
outstanding borrowings under this agreement and had
$18,000,000 available for working capital purposes.  The
agreement contains certain net worth, current ratio, and
fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain
restrictions on the Company's ability to borrow, incur
liens, sell assets, and pay dividends.  A commitment fee of
3/16% is payable quarterly on the unused portion of the
revolving line of credit.

The Company has $30,000,000 of Senior Notes.  The Senior
Notes are payable in six equal annual installments beginning
in August 1999.  Interest is payable on February 1 and
August 1 at a rate of 8.3%.  The note agreement contains
certain net worth, current ratio, and fixed charge coverage
covenants and provides certain restrictions on the Company's
ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets, and pay
dividends.

The Company also has an obligation under a capital lease
agreement, which is secured by the related equipment, for
$30,000 ($61,000 at January 3, 1998) with interest at 8.5%,
payable in monthly installments through September 1999.

The fair value of the Company's Senior Notes is estimated to
be $31,848,000 based on current rates offered to the Company
for debt of the same remaining maturities.
         


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

7    Interest Income and Expense

A summary of interest income and expense is as follows:


   
8    Stock Options and Warrants

At January 2, 1999, the Company had four fixed stock option
plans.  Under Stock Option Plan B, the Company could grant
to associates options to purchase up to 5,600,000 shares of
common stock through November 30, 1993.  The options are
exercisable at the fair market value on the date of grant
for a period determined by the Board of Directors (not more
than ten years from the date granted).  The options contain
restrictions as to transferability and exercisability after
termination of employment.

Under Stock Option Plan C, the Company is authorized to
grant to associates options to purchase up to 95,000 shares
of common stock through May 18, 2003.  The options are
exercisable at the fair market value on the date of grant
for a period determined by the Board of Directors (not more
than ten years from the date granted).  The options contain
restrictions as to transferability and exercisability after
termination of employment.  The Company has committed not to
issue any more stock options under Stock Option Plan C.

Initially under Stock Option Plan D, the Company was
authorized to grant to associates, directors, consultants,
or advisors to the Company options to purchase up to
2,600,000 shares of common stock through January 1, 2000.
An additional 2,000,000 shares were approved by the
Company's shareholders on May 22, 1998, increasing the total
authorized to grant to 4,600,000 shares.  The options are
exercisable at a price and during a period determined by the
Stock Option Committee.  Options under this plan currently
vest over periods of up to ten years and are exercisable for
periods of up to 25 years.

Under Stock Option Plan E, the Company is authorized to
grant to associates who are not officers subject to the
provisions of Section 16(a) of the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934, consultants, or advisors to the Company options
to purchase up to 2,000,000 shares of common stock through
January 1, 2005.  The options are exercisable at a price and
during a period determined by the Stock Option Committee.
Options under this plan currently vest over periods of up to
ten years and are exercisable for periods of up to 25 years.

The Company has also granted 210,362 other non-qualified
stock options under separate agreements to certain third
parties.  These options are exercisable at a price equal to
or greater than the fair market value on the date of grant.
These options vest over periods of up to six years and are
exercisable for periods of up to ten years.

                          

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Company accounts for stock options in accordance with
the provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion
No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees", and
related interpretations.  As such, compensation expense is
recorded on the date of grant only if the current market
price of the underlying stock exceeds the exercise price.
On December 31, 1995, the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation" (FAS 123),  which permits entities
to recognize as expense over the vesting period the fair
value of all stock-based awards on the date of grant.
Alternatively, FAS 123 allows entities to continue to apply
the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 and provide pro forma
net earnings and pro forma earnings per share disclosures
for employee stock option grants made in 1995 and future
years as if the fair-value-based method defined in FAS 123
had been applied.  The Company has elected to continue to
apply the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 and provide the
pro forma disclosure provisions of FAS 123.

A combined summary of the status of the Company's four fixed
stock option plans and other stock options at the end of
1998, 1997, and 1996, and changes during these years ended
is presented below:



The following table summarizes information about fixed and
other stock options outstanding at January 2, 1999.





Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The per share weighted-average fair value of stock options
granted during 1998, 1997 and 1996 was $14.97, $10.99 and
$7.89, respectively, on the date of grant using the Black
Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-
average assumptions:



Since the Company applies APB Opinion No. 25 in accounting
for its plans, no compensation cost has been recognized for
its stock options issued to employees.  Had the Company
recorded compensation expense based on the fair value at the
grant date for its stock options under FAS 123, the
Company's net earnings and earnings per share on a diluted
basis would have been reduced by approximately $5,929,000 or
$.18 per share in 1998, approximately $3,965,000 or $.12 per
share in 1997 and approximately $3,023,000 or $.09 per share
in 1996.

Pro forma net earnings reflects only options granted since
January 1, 1995.  Therefore, the full impact of calculating
compensation expense for stock options under FAS 123 is not
reflected in the pro forma net earnings amounts presented
above, because compensation cost is reflected over the
options' vesting period of ten years for these options.
Compensation expense for options granted prior to January 1,
1995 is not considered.

In November 1998, the Company entered into an agreement with
General Electric Company (GE) to integrate the Company's
Health Network Architecture Millennium RadNet Radiology
Information System with GE Medical Systems' Picture Archive
and Communication Systems technology.  In conjunction with
the agreement, the Company sold GE 670,000 shares of common
stock for $14,874,000 and granted warrants for the purchase
of 500,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price equal
to the fair value of the stock at the grant date ($25.49).
The warrants become exercisable provided certain conditions
are met, including achievement of certain levels of revenue.
The warrants expire after seven years or thirty days after
termination of the agreement.

9    Income Taxes

Income tax expense (benefit) for the years ended 1998, 1997,
and 1996, consists of the following:



                          

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Temporary differences between the financial statement
carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities
that give rise to significant portions of deferred income
taxes at the end of 1998 and 1997 relate to the following:



The effective income tax rates for 1998, 1997, and 1996 were
38%, 38%, and 36%, respectively.  These effective rates
differ from the federal statutory rate of 35% as follows:



Income taxes payable are reduced by the tax benefit
resulting from disqualifying dispositions of stock acquired
under the Company's stock option plans.  The 1998, 1997, and
1996 benefits of $621,000, $521,000, and $260,000,
respectively, are treated as increases to additional paid-in
capital.

                          

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

10   Foundations Retirement Plan

The Cerner Corporation Foundations Retirement Plan (the
Plan) is established under Section 401(k) of the Internal
Revenue Code.  All full-time associates are eligible to
participate.  Participants may elect to make pretax
contributions from 1% to 15% of compensation to the Plan,
subject to annual limitations determined by the Internal
Revenue Service.  Participants may direct contributions into
mutual funds, a money market fund, or a Company stock fund.
The Company makes matching contributions to the Plan, on
behalf of participants, in an amount equal to 20% of the
participant's contribution, limited to an annual maximum of
$600 per participant.  The Company's expense for the plan
amounted to $1,005,000, $761,000, and $560,000 for 1998,
1997, and 1996, respectively.

11   Commitments

The Company is committed under operating leases for office
space through December 2004.  Rent expense for office and
warehouse space for the Company's regional and international
offices for 1998, 1997, and 1996 was $1,847,000, $1,759,000,
and $1,580,000,  respectively.  Aggregate minimum future
payments (in thousands) under these noncancelable leases are
as follows:



12   Real Estate Lease Revenue

The Company leases space to unrelated parties in its Kansas
City headquarters complex under noncancelable operating
leases.  Included in other revenues is rental income of
$1,795,000, $1,694,000, and $2,383,000 in 1998, 1997, and
1996, respectively.  Future minimum lease revenues (in
thousands) under these noncancelable operating leases
expiring through 2002 are as follows:



13   Stockholders' Equity

At the end of 1998 and 1997, the Company had 1,000,000
shares of authorized but unissued preferred stock, $.01 par
value.

                          

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

14   Quarterly Results (unaudited)

Selected quarterly financial data for 1998 and 1997 is set forth below:

(In thousands,except per share data)




                                                           
                                                           
                                 
                                 
                                 
                   Independent Auditors' Report
                  on Financial Statement Schedule
                                 
                                 
                                 
  The Board of Directors
  Cerner Corporation:
  
  
  Under   date  of  February  3,  1999,  we  reported  on   the
  consolidated   balance  sheets  of  Cerner  Corporation   and
  subsidiaries as of January 2, 1999 and January  3,  1998  and
  the  related consolidated statements of earnings, changes  in
  equity,  and cash flows for each of the years in  the  three-
  year   period  ended  January  2,  1999.  These  consolidated
  financial  statements and our report thereon are included  in
  the  Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year  1998.
  In   connection   with  our  audits  of  the   aforementioned
  consolidated financial statements, we also have  audited  the
  related  financial  statement schedule as listed  under  Item
  14(a)(2).   This   financial  statement   schedule   is   the
  responsibility    of    the   Company's    management.    Our
  responsibility  is  to express an opinion on  this  financial
  statement schedule based on our audits.
  
  In  our  opinion,  this  financial statement  schedule,  when
  considered  in  relation to the basic consolidated  financial
  statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
  respects, the information set forth therein.
  
                             KPMG LLP
                                 
  Kansas City, Missouri
  February 3, 1999


