
10-K






               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                     Washington, D.C.  20549

                            FORM 10-K
(Mark One)

(X)  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

     For the fiscal year ended January 1, 2000

                               OR

( )  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

     For the transition period from _____________ to ___________


                 Commission File Number 0-15386

                       CERNER CORPORATION
     (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

          Delaware                                43-1196944
(State or other jurisdiction               (I.R.S. Employer
of incorporation or organization)          Identification Number)

                     2800 Rockcreek Parkway
                   Kansas City, Missouri 64117
                         (816) 221-1024
  (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code;
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code)


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  NONE

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

             Common Stock, par value $.01 per share
                 Preferred Stock Purchase Rights
                        (Title of Class)

      Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
all  reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d)  of  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding  12  months
(or  for such shorter period that the Registrant was required  to
file  such  reports),  and (2) has been subject  to  such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

                     Yes     X      No _____

      Indicate  by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers
pursuant  to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained  herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge,
in  definitive  proxy or information statements  incorporated  by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to  this
Form 10-K.    [ X ]

      At  March 15, 2000, there were 33,794,735 shares of  Common
Stock  outstanding,  of  which 7,810,343  shares  were  owned  by
affiliates.  The aggregate market value of the outstanding Common
Stock  of  the  Registrant held by non-affiliates, based  on  the
average of bid and asked prices of such stock on March 15,  2000,
was $772,223,643.

       Documents  incorporated  by  reference:  portions  of  the
Registrant's  Proxy  Statement for the  2000  Annual  Meeting  of
Stockholders are incorporated by reference in Part III hereof.



PART I

Item 1.  Business

Overview
- --------

Cerner  Corporation  ("Cerner" or the "Company")  is  a  Delaware
corporation  incorporated  in  1980.   The  Company's   principal
offices  are  located  at 2800 Rockcreek  Parkway,  Kansas  City,
Missouri 64117, and its telephone number is (816) 221-1024.

Cerner   designs,  develops,  markets,  installs   and   supports
information  technology  and  content  solutions  for  healthcare
organizations and consumers that are capable of being implemented
on  an  individual,  combined or enterprise-wide  basis  and  are
accessible  over  the  internet  by  consumers,  physicians   and
healthcare  providers.  Cerner's integrated  suite  of  solutions
enable  healthcare providers to improve operating  effectiveness,
reduce  costs  and  improve the quality of care  as  measured  by
clinical  outcomes.  Cerner's solutions are designed  to  provide
the  appropriate health information and knowledge to care givers,
clinicians   and   consumers  and  the   appropriate   management
information  to  healthcare administration on a real-time  basis,
allowing  secure  access to data by clinical  and  administrative
users  in organized settings of care and by consumers from  their
home. These solutions can be implemented as part of an enterprise-
wide  solution or individually, leveraging the client's  existing
investment  in  information  technology.   Cerner  solutions  are
available as integrated applications managed by our clients or as
a  service option under the Applications Solutions Provider (ASP)
model,  where applications are provided to clients from  Cerner's
solutions center in Kansas City, Missouri.  Cerner solutions  are
designed  and  developed  using the Health  Network  Architecture
(''HNA''), a single information architecture.  HNA is  a  unified
technology  infrastructure for combining clinical and  management
information   applications.    HNA  allows   each   participating
healthcare organization to access an individual's clinical record
at  the  point of care, to organize it for the specific needs  of
the   physician,  nurse,  laboratory  technician  or  other  care
provider  on  a  real-time basis, and to use the  information  in
management  decisions to improve the efficiency and  productivity
of   the   entire  enterprise.  HNA  solutions  allow  healthcare
organizations to reduce costs of delivering care, reduce clinical
variance,  reduce  medical errors, and  improve  patient  safety.
Cerner  has developed and is licensing and installing or offering
as  a  service, its newest generation of HNA solutions  known  as
"Millennium".    See  "Cerner's  Techology   -   Health   Network
Architecture  (HNA) and HNA Millennium" for a discussion  of  HNA
Millennium.

Healthcare Industry
- -------------------

While  the  rate of healthcare cost increases has slowed  in  the
last five years, the demand for healthcare services has continued
unabated.   A  more  health conscious and better-informed  health
consumer combined with the aging of the population in general has
accelerated the demand for healthcare services.  In most  markets
the  drive toward pure capitation (a fixed monthly fee per member
in  payment  for  all  required  services)  and  a  primary  care
gatekeeper model as key components of managed care has slowed.  A
virtual  integrated health organization built  upon  connections,
partnerships,   alliances,  and  relationships  with   physician,
payors,  employers, and suppliers is emerging  as  the  operating
model  for health organizations.  In order to operate effectively
in this virtual model, healthcare organizations must increasingly
rely on broadly deployed information technology to accomplish the
integration  necessary to manage costs and deliver  high  quality
patient outcomes.

The  healthcare delivery industry in the United States is  highly
fragmented,  very  complex  and  remarkably  inefficient.   While
science  and  medical  technology continue  to  make  significant
breakthrough progress in dealing with human disease  and  injury,
the  management and clinical processes of these complex  delivery
organizations have made little progress in the past twenty years.
Even today, the major clinical workflow depends on manual, paper-
based  medical  record  systems augmented by  spotty  automation.
This   has   resulted  in  an  industry  which  is   economically
inefficient  and  produces  significant  variances   in   medical
outcomes.  In November 1999, the Institute of Medicine released a
report called "To Err is Human"



indicating that medical error  is  one  of  the  top ten causes of
death in the  United  States.   The industry  must  address  these
issues by identifying ways to enhance efficiencies and improve the
quality of care.

The  healthcare  industry has also been buffeted  by  significant
external  forces  during the 1990's. Managed  Care  Organizations
defined  themselves as an intermediary in the flow of  funds  and
exerted   pressures  on  healthcare  spending.  These   pressures
resulted  in  lowering total spending on healthcare but  did  not
necessarily  address any of the larger, systemic  issues  in  the
industry.  As a result of the pressures created by managed  care,
healthcare   providers   consolidated   both   horizontally   and
vertically into newly defined delivery systems.  It is clear many
of  these  delivery  systems were created  to  form  entities  to
negotiate with managed care but many organizations also  expected
new  economies of scale.  For the most part these economies never
materialized.

A  number  of for-profit business models were created during  the
decade  attempting  to  find  the  leverage  point  which   would
transform  the  healthcare delivery system.  The models  included
for-profit  acute  care, physician practice management  companies
and,  most recently, the carve-out focused factories specializing
in  one element of healthcare, such as cardiology.  Most of these
efforts have been unsuccessful.

Finally, Federal government policy in the United States has  also
been  an  active force shaping the health care environment.   The
policy  impact  includes the focus on health care reform  in  the
1992  presidential election, the very aggressive  Medicare  Fraud
and  Abuse  compliance programs initiated during the decade  and,
most  recently,  the passing of the Balanced  Budget  Act,  which
reduced  payments to health care providers by over  $250  billion
dollars over a five-year period.  This legislation took its  full
grip  on  providers  here  in  the  United  States  during  1999,
significantly  reducing the operating margins  of  hospitals  and
physician groups while raising their cost of capital.

In   order   to  be  competitive  in  this  dynamic  marketplace,
healthcare enterprises will need to deploy information technology
solutions that internally automate the paper-based medical record
systems and externally create smart connections between the major
participants  in  health care: the consumer, the  physician,  the
hospital  and   the managed care organization.  The emergence  of
near ubiquitous internet connectivity has enabled a new class  of
eHealth solutions that allow the consumer to participate fully in
the care and health management process.  This same technology has
also  enabled  a  new  way to deliver these solutions  under  the
Application  Services Provider (ASP) model,  whereby  information
solutions are delivered to clients from a remote location.

The  complexity  of  healthcare's information  requirements  will
continue  to  increase  with  provider  consolidations  and   the
challenging  cost containment pressures created  by  the  Balance
Budget Act.  The soon to be published final regulations under the
Health  Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996  add
an additional element of uncertainty for healthcare organizations
around   security   and   patient   confidentiality.    Physician
organizations  are  affected  by  the  same  pressures  and  will
increasingly  need to utilize person/patient focused  information
systems  (i) to improve quality and efficiency for their  growing
practices  and  physician  networks, (ii)  to  develop  the  data
necessary  to compete for contracts with payors and (iii)  to  be
able  to  share  the  financial  risks  of  healthcare  delivery.
Managed care organizations are increasingly recognizing the value
of   process-oriented  and  clinically  driven   information   to
understand  and  improve the health of their members,  to  reduce
medical  errors and to reduce costs.  These larger, more  complex
integrated    healthcare   enterprises   are    seeking    closer
relationships   with  technology  suppliers  that   can   provide
comprehensive information systems solutions, including integrated
process-based  systems for clinical domains,  data  repositories,
applications  for  physicians and management teams  and  consumer
connectivity.

Cerner is responding to the changing and increasing needs of  the
healthcare  industry for better information systems by developing
HNA Millennium, its latest generation of solutions. See "Cerner's
Techology - Health Network Architecture (HNA) and HNA Millennium"
for a discussion of HNA Millennium.



Healthcare Information Technology (HCIT) Industry
- -------------------------------------------------

The  Healthcare  Information Technology industry is  evolving  to
meet  the  needs  of a changing marketplace.   Beginning  in  the
1960's,  computer  systems developed for use in  healthcare  were
financially  oriented,  with a focus on the  ability  to  capture
charges and generate patient bills and update the general ledger.
Later,  hospital  and  commercial  organizations  began  to   use
clinical  information  systems,  which  automate  the  activities
within   clinical  departments,  such  as  laboratory,  pharmacy,
radiology and surgery departments, to improve the productivity of
resources  and  automate the production and  use  of  significant
amounts  of  clinical information.  During the late eighties  and
early  nineties, individual clinical departments selected systems
based  upon  specific  features on  a  ''best  of  breed''  basis
resulting  in  disparate  and  disconnected  information  systems
within the institution.

Most  recently,  there  has been a shift  from  the  purchase  of
disparate clinical systems selected on a ''best of breed''  basis
to  systems  that are able to integrate communication effectively
throughout  the healthcare enterprise.  This approach requires  a
common   system   architecture,  in  which  system's   functional
components  are  engineered and built with a common  data  model,
messaging  system,  standards  and other  lower  level  technical
components.   The system users enjoy a common look  and  feel  as
well  as  common  navigation capabilities.   This  infrastructure
trend also affects the relationship between the health system and
the  suppliers  of information technology.  Moving  to  a  common
architecture  approach  requires  the  creation  of  a  strategic
relationship  with one HCIT company dedicated to  implementing  a
shared vision for the role of information in the operation of the
health system.

Many  HCIT  companies have responded to this trend  by  acquiring
smaller  HCIT  companies with existing application offerings  and
thereby  offering  a  "solution" under one brand  to  the  market
place.  Attempts to integrate these disparate architectures  have
not  delivered the anticipated clinical or financial benefits for
clients  or HCIT companies. In the long run, the Company believes
that  value for consumers and providers will center on  a  common
architectural framework that allows the seamless transmission  of
knowledge and processes among all the healthcare constituents.

The  internet's role in the transformation of healthcare  is  not
well defined at present, but all indications are that it will  be
one  of  the  major  enablers of the shift to a  consumer-centric
industry.   As  more  and more households have  internet  access,
consumers   have  access  to  an  increasing  amount  of   health
information,  resulting in an informed and  empowered  healthcare
consumer.

The  same  infrastructure  that is automating  the  clinical  and
managerial  operations  of  the  medical  center  and  clinic  is
extending to all trading partners within the healthcare industry.
Managed care authorizations, referrals, claims and remittance can
be submitted to local, regional, and national exchanges for rapid
processing.   Orders  for  tests  and  results  can  be  securely
transmitted over the internet to physicians and consumers  alike.
Most  importantly,  consumers will have  the  option  of  working
closely with their local healthcare organization to organize  and
manage  their care or selectively work with providers  on  an  as
needed  basis.   An  internet-based personal health  record  will
emerge  to  assist patients and caregivers with  maintaining  the
wide variety of health and care related information.

Cerner's  HNA  Millennium  solutions, with  their  person-centric
design  and web-based architecture, are well suited to  meet  the
requirements  of  the  connected health  system.   See  "Cerner's
Techology - Health Network Architecture (HNA) and HNA Millennium"
for a discussion of HNA Millennium.



The Cerner Vision
- -----------------

Cerner's  vision  is to enable the transformation  of  healthcare
through  the  implementation of information  technology  and  the
deployment  of  medical knowledge.   As a  result  of  the  rapid
changes  in the healthcare and information technology industries,
Cerner believes that a "New Health Enterprise" will emerge with a
digital  center  and  an  information "backbone"  which  connects
consumers,   physicians,  hospitals,   pharmacies,  home   health
agencies  and  payors  to  service  the  healthcare  needs  of  a
community   or   defined   member  population.     This   digital
information  backbone  is enabled by the  increased  connectivity
created by the internet.

Cerner  believes that healthcare delivery systems will  reach  an
inflection  point within the next decade, creating the  emergence
of these New Health Enterprises in the United States.  Currently,
healthcare  organizations  are seeing increased  workflow  volume
while  the  reimbursement  per case decreases.   The  New  Health
Enterprise will require information systems that can manage  care
delivery    virtually   across   an   entire   community    while
simultaneously managing the business services side of  healthcare
management.    This   will  require  managing   care   from   the
person/patient's home to the Intensive Care Unit in  a  paperless
fashion.   In  this  digital environment, Cerner  envisions  that
consumers and physicians will be able to choose from a variety of
electronic  access  devices (e.g. Personal  Computers  linked  to
internet  portals,  Personal  Digital Assistants,  home/personal-
based  diagnostic and therapeutic technology) to connect  to  the
clinical  process of care and create or review a complete  health
record  for each individual.  This precise and specific  personal
medical  information will create large data repositories  storing
and   tracking  health  outcomes  over  multiple  lifetimes.  New
knowledge and medical insights will be harvested from this  data.
Cerner's  products securely manage health care transactions  from
each  point  of  access to their destination.  Cerner's  products
also  allow  preferencing and customization to the  consumer  and
physicians, embed clinical rules, clinical evidence and protocols
to  monitor  care  safety and quality, and use  of  business  and
compliance  rules  to  create more efficient business  management
between   the  health  enterprise  and  their  payors,  patients,
physician  groups, supply chain, community, and outside  business
relationships.

Cerner's Technology -- Health Network Architecture (HNA) and  HNA
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Millennium
- ----------

The  cornerstone  of  Cerner's technology strategy  is  HNA,  the
single  architecture  around which each of  Cerner's  information
products  is  developed. This open, highly scaleable architecture
allows  Cerner  to  meet the clinical, management,  and  business
information  requirements of a healthcare delivery system  across
the  continuum of care.  Cerner's newest version of HNA computing
platform, Millennium,  developed between 1994 and 1999,  utilizes
N-tiered   client/server  technology  to   optimize   distributed
computing performance and scalability  across multiple client and
server   platforms.    The   HNA  Millennium   architecture   and
applications   were   designed  and  developed   to   accommodate
healthcare  specific requirements for mission critical  computing
and  secure  access,  whether the user is inside  the  healthcare
enterprise or at home via the internet. HNA Millennium's  breadth
of  focus  and functionality are well suited for large-scale  and
enterprise application technologies for healthcare organizations,
including  the  ability  to leverage the  internet  for  eHealth-
related self-service and business to business functions.

The  value of HNA Millennium to a client organization is the  use
across  a healthcare organization of a single system based  on  a
fully  integrated  common architecture and  database.   With  its
single  data model, HNA Millennium provides real time  access  to
all    information   across   multiple   applications,   domains,
organizations   and  physical  locations,  including   physician,
hospital, nursing, laboratory, pharmacy, and consumers, to all of
those needing such access, wherever they are located.  Given  its
integrated  and  open design, HNA Millennium can also  provide  a
centralized repository of clinical and financial transactions  to
help  standardize access and messaging of disparate  applications
across a health system.

The  alternative to an architectural approach is to use disparate
systems  based on differing architectures and data structures  to
automate the care processes across the continuum of care.   These
disparate systems must be interfaced together and rely  on  these
interfaces to transmit, modify and arrange data



exchanged between them,  which limits the data's usefulness across
multiple systems and  inhibits  real-time  access.   In  addition,
many  of  these systems  lack  functional  scalability  and cannot
operate  across multiple  provider  settings  or locations  within
a  healthcare organization.

Two overarching capabilities are embedded into the HNA Millennium
architecture:  (i)  person  centric transactions  and  messaging,
which  considers  the  breadth of  requirements  not  only  of  a
patient,  but  also  of healthy consumers,  and  (ii)  healthcare
community  dynamics,  which takes into  account  the  flexibility
required   by  the  constantly  changing  relationships   between
healthcare organizations, physicians and consumers, and the  need
to  maintain complex security and end user preferences  based  on
the  context  and  business attributes of the  transaction  in  a
community setting.

Strategy
- --------

Key elements of the Company's business strategy include:

To  penetrate  the  integrated healthcare provider  market.
- ----------------------------------------------------------    The
transformation of healthcare delivery must deal with the changing
financial  model from fee-for-service to fixed or controlled  fee
payments  for  services  provided.  In order  to  accomplish  the
transition,  integrated healthcare systems  must  decrease  costs
generally,  utilize  fewer  resources  per  patient   or   member
encounter,  decrease the amount of care required by  focusing  on
preventative   measures  and  increase  member   populations   by
attracting  additional members through better quality  healthcare
and  services.   Cerner's process-based, clinical and  management
systems provide the technology to enable an integrated system  to
manage  healthcare  to significantly reduce  costs,  improve  the
efficiency  of healthcare delivery and maintain and  improve  the
quality of healthcare.

To expand its market share in individual domains.
- ------------------------------------------------   Cerner expects
continued growth in clinical domain systems for specific  markets
such   as   nursing,  physician  office,  laboratory,   pharmacy,
radiology,   surgery,  emergency  medicine  and  cardiology,   as
institutional providers look to restructure and reengineer  these
high   cost   centers.   The  Company  also  intends  to   market
aggressively  Cerner clinical and management information  systems
and services to its existing client base.

To  remain  committed to a common architecture.
- ----------------------------------------------    Because  Cerner
believes that the constituents in health management need to  work
together  to  benefit  defined populations in  a  community,  the
Company has made a commitment to a single unified architecture as
the  platform  for  "fully integrated''  health  information  and
management systems.  This platform enables Cerner's process-based
HNA  systems  to  be  scaleable on a linear basis,  using  either
Cerner  compatible modules for process-oriented  applications  or
competitive systems interfaced using open system protocols.

To  expand  its  products and services.
- --------------------------------------    Using  HNA  Millennium,
Cerner  intends to continue expanding the range of  products  and
services offered to providers either through internal development
or  by  acquisitions or joint ventures.  These new  products  and
services  will complement the systems currently offered,  address
the emerging information needs of clients or employ technological
advances.   Cerner  believes that major  opportunities  exist  as
providers  and managed care organizations reach into new  markets
and  offer more alternative services to remain competitive.   The
Company  believes these organizations will find value  in  having
personal health records and trusted health information accessible
to  the  individual in the home.  In addition, Cerner  recognizes
the  value of the aggregate database being developed by its broad
client  base  as  a  potential means  to  enable  comparative  or
normative  procedure evaluations as a powerful new  tool  in  the
healthcare industry.  The substantial project management  process
redesign,  technology  integration,  and  training  involved   in
healthcare systems taking advantage of the opportunities provided
by  clinical  and management information technology  represent  a
significant market for the Company's consulting services.

To  offer  web-based  solutions.
- -------------------------------   The Company  has  extended  its
product  offerings  around  the HNA  Millennium  architecture  to
facilitate powerful business-to-consumer and business-to-business
connections



via    the   internet.   This  satisfies   healthcare  consumers'
increasing  demands  for  anytime,  anywhere  access  to   health
information,   communication   with   their  physician, access to
services  and  management of a personal health record.   Cerner's
expertise in complex clinical and management information  systems
allows health organizations to create and brand a health "portal"
in   their   community   that  connects  consumers,   physicians,
hospitals, disease management providers, payors, reference  labs,
pharmacies,  and  supply-chain organizations  via  the  internet.
Bringing the consumer and provider closer together in the context
of  the health record creates an opportunity for the majority  of
Cerner's  products to deploy via the internet.  Cerner  currently
has  applications  that  are developed and  being  used  for  web
deployment.   Cerner  also provides content and  applications  to
other  internet-focused companies, and in the future  will  offer
additional  internet  services and  solutions,  as  the  business
demand requires.

To  offer  its products as an Application Service Provider.
- ----------------------------------------------------------    The
Company  now  offers its HNA Millennium applications through  its
new  Application  Service Provider (ASP) organization.   The  ASP
organization offers information technology services to clients in
a    package   that   includes   software,   computer   hardware,
implementation,  technical  support,  wide-area   network   (WAN)
services  and  automatic software upgrades.   Unlike  traditional
software  implementations, software delivered through an  ASP  is
not installed at the user's location, but is delivered, operated,
and   maintained  in  Cerner's  solutions  center  in  a  rapidly
accelerated implementation timeframe with a smaller initial  user
investment.  Using Cerner's ASP, any size organization can access
the  same  robust clinical applications, architecture, and  user-
interface  advantages  that  were previously  only  available  to
larger institutions.

Our Technology - Information Product Suites
- -------------------------------------------

The  Company's  technology  includes  Enterprise  Systems,  which
automate  processes  across  and  throughout  the  health  system
enterprise; Enterprise Repositories, which capture, sort, present
and  analyze clinical and business information; Clinical  Systems
for  Direct  Care,  which automate the clinical processes  within
hospitals and the physicians practice; Clinical Systems for  Care
Centers,  which  automate the clinical processes within  specific
departments  or domains; Decision Support Systems  and  Knowledge
Solutions,  which  enhance clinical and business  processes  with
information  and  actions; Financial and  Operational  Management
Systems,  which  automate  the  business  operations;  Population
Health  Management systems for managing health; Demand Management
systems  and  services for managing the need for  care;  Personal
Health  systems for individuals to manage their own  health;  and
Interface Technologies for connecting other technologies  to  HNA
Millennium.  These systems can be acquired individually or  as  a
fully  integrated  health  information  system.   The  individual
systems  perform  together even if installed at different  times.
Cerner's applications can all be delivered over the internet in a
web  browser using third-party application server software or for
selected  applications, native web implementations.  Cerner  also
markets  over 200 product options that complement Cerner's  major
information  systems.  In connection with  the  licensing  of  an
information  system, Cerner also generally sells to its  client's
computers,  related hardware, networks and sub-licensed  software
components that are manufactured and supplied to Cerner by  third
parties.

Enterprise Systems and Enterprise Repositories
- ----------------------------------------------

Cerner's Enterprise Systems automate processes across the  entire
health    system.    Capstone   automates   the   identification,
eligibility,   registration  and  scheduling   processes   across
hospitals,  clinics, physician practices and other care  delivery
organizations,  integrating the health system  and  incorporating
existing  systems.  It includes a structured repository  for  the
storage   and  viewing  of  health  plan  information,   records,
contracts,  eligibility  and coverage data.   PowerLink  connects
community-based  physicians  to  health  systems  for  referrals,
authorizations,  claims, eligibility, and reporting.   PowerChart
is  the  enterprise  clinician's desktop  solution  for  viewing,
ordering and documenting the electronic medical record, which  is
maintained in the Open Clinical Foundation (OCF) data repository.
ePowerChart  extends  the  power  of  this  viewer  to  the  web.
Physicians  can gain access to the electronic medical  record  to
view  results and documentation from any internet-based terminal.
It   includes  a  structured  repository  for  the   storage   of



person/patient  orders; discrete results;  clinical  reports  and
other documents; indexes to document images from foreign document
imaging systems; and indexes to third-party dictation systems.

Open  Management Foundation (OMF) Data Repository is a structured
repository  for process- and activity-related information  useful
for  management  of a healthcare organization.   Information  can
originate  from  numerous sources and can  be  maintained  in  an
easily  accessible, standardized format.  OMF can  be  integrated
into   an   architecture  containing  products   from   different
suppliers.

Clinical Systems for Direct Care
- --------------------------------

Cerner's  CareNet  Acute Care Management System  is  designed  to
automate  the  entire  care  process in  acute  or  institutional
settings.    It  collects,  refines,  organizes,  and   evaluates
detailed clinical and management data. It enables the entire care
team  to plan and manage individual activities and plans, as well
as  measure  outcomes and goals.  CareNet consists of  two  major
solutions  -  Care Team Automation, which automates documentation
related  to  care delivery at the point of care within  an  acute
care  organization, including nursing order entry and viewing  of
the  patient's  medical  record, as well  as  basic  registration
capabilities;  and Care Coordination, which supports  acute  care
planning,  including pathways used to audit  care,  nursing  care
plans,  multidisciplinary care plans, single-discipline  pathways
and multidisciplinary pathways.

The INet Intensive Care Management System is designed to automate
the  entire care process in intensive care settings.  It supports
chart   review  and  browsing,  order  management,  documentation
management,  and  automatic data acquisition, as  well  as  basic
patient management.  It automatically acquires patient data  from
bedside   medical   devices,   manages   information   flow   and
presentation  at  the bedside, supports care  management  through
care  planning  and  critical  pathways,  and  encourages  timely
decisions  based on comprehensive data availability;  information
tailored  to  the  practitioner and the patient;  and  rule-based
decision support.

The ProVide Physician Office Management System supports the broad
range  of  clinical and business activities that occur  within  a
physician  office, clinic, or large physician organization  (such
as  a  multi-site clinic or management service organization)  and
ties  the  office  together with others  in  the  community.   It
automates  key  activities of the care team in both  primary  and
specialty care settings.  ProVide offers clinicians and  staff  a
variety  of  functional  capabilities,  including  patient/member
tracking,  clinical  records access and  navigation,  eligibility
checking,  order  and referral processing, and reference  library
access and navigation.  ProVide allows an enterprise to deliver a
common medical record effectively integrating the ambulatory  and
acute  care  record in one single instance. In  addition  to  the
traditional implementation and operations model, this  system  is
immediately  deployable  under an ASP model  hosted  in  Cerner's
solutions   center   and   includes   options   for   the   rapid
implementation of the solution.

The  ProCall  Home Care Management System automates the  clinical
and  business  processes  of home health organizations,  such  as
visiting nurse associations and hospices.  It is appropriate  for
Medicare-certified  or  noncertified agencies  providing  skilled
nursing,  specialized care, supervisory activities,  assessments,
and  unskilled  attendant or medical delivery services.   ProCall
facilitates the documentation of care activities in the home  and
provides  access to the electronic medical record.  It  automates
the  referral,  scheduling,  and management  reporting  processes
performed by office personnel in home care agencies, and supports
their  business  and administrative processes.   In  addition  to
these  solutions, ProCall also supports telephonic  documentation
to  allow  patients  and  caregivers to document  activities  and
results  by  using a touch-tone phone. Financial  and  management
reporting  capabilities provide needed information  to  directors
and managers in home care agencies to allow them to compete in  a
prospective-pay  environment.   Interfaces  to  patient   billing
systems  are  also supported.   The ProCall system is immediately
deployable under an ASP model hosted in Cerner's solutions center
and   includes  options  for  the  rapid  implementation  of  the
solution.



Clinical Systems for Care Centers
- ---------------------------------

The   PathNet   Laboratory  Information  System   addresses   the
information  management  needs of six  clinical  areas:   general
laboratory, microbiology, blood bank transfusion services,  blood
bank  donor  services, anatomic pathology,  and  human  leukocyte
antigen.   PathNet  automates  the  ordering  and  reporting   of
procedures,  the production of accurate and timely  reports,  and
the  maintenance  of  accessible clinical  records.  The  PathNet
system  is  immediately deployable under an ASP model  hosted  in
Cerner's  solutions  center and includes options  for  the  rapid
implementation   of  the  solution.   To  facilitate   electronic
ordering   by  community  physicians  and  to  allow  the   rapid
dissemination  of lab results, Cerner also provides  PathLink,  a
web-based  application  for  both order  and  results.   PathLink
combines  the  order critiquing, routing and  labeling  logic  of
PathNet with the convenience of the web.

The RadNet Radiology Information System addresses the operational
and  management requirements of diagnostic radiology  departments
or services.  It allows a department to replace its manual, paper-
based  system  of record keeping with an efficient computer-based
system.   Specific  modules on mammography,  film  tracking,  and
inventory  management  are also offered.    Incorporated  in  the
RadNet  system  is  the capability to display and  route  medical
images in a viewer called ProView.    Complex interfaces to major
PACS  (Pictorial Archive Retrieval Systems) are also  offered  to
integrate the radiology information system to the PACS.

The   PharmNet   Pharmacy  Information   System   provides   full
integration in an HNA environment for rapid pharmacy order  entry
and  support  of the clinical pharmacy in either an inpatient  or
outpatient/retail setting.  PharmNet streamlines medication order
entry,  enabling the pharmacist or technician to place all  types
of  pharmaceutical orders on one easy-to-use screen.   Dispensing
functions,  including interfaces to automated dispensing  devices
also  are  fully  supported.  Medication fill lists,  intravenous
fill  lists  and medication administration records  are  produced
automatically or on demand.

The  SurgiNet Surgery Information System is designed  to  address
the  needs  of the surgical department, including automating  the
functions   of  resource  and  equipment  scheduling,   inventory
management,  anesthesia management and operating room management.
Case   cart  management,  preference  cards,  and  peri-operative
documentation are key attributes of the system.

The FirstNet Emergency Medicine Information System offers patient
and  provider tracking and an intuitive presentation  of  patient
diagnoses  and  clinical  events for  the  emergency  department.
FirstNet   provides  basic  emergency  department  functionality,
including quick admits, tracking, triage, and patient history, as
well  as  a  graphical reference to patient  location  and  order
status.     Physician    documentation    following    structured
documentation pathways is also offered.

The  CVNet  Cardiology Information System automates the processes
within  the  department of cardiology, supporting the scheduling,
ordering,   documentation   and   data   capture   required    by
professionals in the cardiology domain.

Decision Support Systems and Knowledge Solutions
- ------------------------------------------------

Discern  Expert is an event-driven, rule-based, decision  support
software  application that allows users to  define  clinical  and
management rules that are applied to events accessing  data  that
is  captured or generated by other HNA applications.  It supports
both   synchronous   (real-time,  interactive)   processing   and
asynchronous  (noninteractive)  processing  of  events.   Discern
Expert  manages the evaluation and display of executable clinical
knowledge  through  both Cerner-developed  Alerts  and  Insights,
which are licensed separately, or client-developed alerts.

Discern  Explorer  is  a  decision support  software  application
integrated   with  other  Cerner  HNA  clinical  and   management
information systems that allows users to execute predetermined or
ad hoc queries and reports regarding process-related data that is
generated by the other HNA applications.



Alerts  and  Insights  are  automated clinical  guidelines  that,
through   Cerner  systems,  provide  decision  support.    Alerts
represent  specific,  synchronous (interactive)  or  asynchronous
(noninteractive), rule-based alerts that operate  in  conjunction
with   Discern   Expert.   Insights  are  specific,   synchronous
(interactive),  rule-based clinical guidelines  that  operate  in
conjunction  with  Discern Expert and that are peer-reviewed  and
medically researched.

Care  Designs  are clinical pathways and protocols that  automate
the  specific plans of care for an individual, and operate within
Cerner's clinical systems.

Health   Facts   is  Cerner's  comparative  data  warehouse   for
benchmarking information and services for subscribers to  support
their  own improvement processes. Data is provided from  client's
information systems as well as national and regional  data  sets.
The   Health   Facts  warehouse  is  hosted  at  Cerner's   World
Headquarters and accessed via the web by any web browser.

Financial and Operational Management Systems
- --------------------------------------------

The  ProFit  Enterprise Billing & Accounts Receivable  System  is
Cerner's  system  for  revenue accounting, billing  and  accounts
receivables  for  the  entire  health  system  as  well  as  each
individual domain or organization.

The  ProRate Agreement Management System is a system to  designed
to   automate  the  managed  care  processes  around  membership,
eligibility tracking, claims processing and contract management.

The  ProLogue Enterprise Management System includes  a  suite  of
management applications specifically designed to assemble and use
the  information contained in the Open Management  Foundation  to
help  an  organization  complete its strategic  plans,  including
clinical  metrics, case profiling, and performance  profiling  of
individuals and organizations.

The  ProFile Health Information Management System helps meet  the
operations  management needs of the health information management
(medical records) department and includes functionality  for  the
various  chart tracking and completion tasks commonly  associated
with maintaining medical records.

The   ProCure  Materials  Management  System  and  the   ProTrack
Equipment  Management  System automate  the  business  operations
around   supply  chain  and  includes  materials  and   equipment
management for the organization.

Population Health Management
- ----------------------------

Survey  and Assessments produces personal health risk assessments
and analyzes those to create interventions that promote self-care
and  improve  health.  The offering includes both (i)  the  tools
necessary  to  build unique survey instruments to assess  patient
wellness,  functional status and satisfaction and  (ii)  specific
content to score a health risk assessment.

Demand Management
- -----------------

Health  Connections is a demand management system  that  includes
applications  and services to automate and manage the  operations
of  a  call  center,  including protocol-based  triage,  referral
management  and  person  information.  The  ProLink  Call  Center
Management System is Cerner's suite of applications that  enables
call  centers to automate the telecare function for providers  as
well as health plans or disease management companies.



Personal Health
- ---------------

Vitality   is  Cerner's  internet-based  home  software   product
designed  to  extend  medical care to the  consumer's  home.   It
provides  a  way for the consumer to interact on a regular  basis
with  a  healthcare  provider.  Vitality  can  store  health  and
medical  records for easy access.  By providing health appraisals
and  personalized  health plans, Vitality takes  the  first  step
toward  improving health education for members  in  a  community.
Vitality can be tightly integrated into the person record  within
the  health  system or can standalone.  In either case,  relevant
health  information can be shared among providers and the patient
under  control  of the patient.  Vitality can be  hosted  at  the
client data center or at Cerner's solution center.

Interface Technologies
- ----------------------

The  Open  Engine  Application  Gateway  System  facilitates  the
exchange  of data and assists in the management of point-to-point
interfaces  between foreign systems.  It serves as a  toolkit  to
help  write  interface  code.  The  Open  Port  Interface  System
represents   Cerner's  standardized  technology   for   providing
reliable  foreign  system,  medical device,  and  other  standard
interfaces  in  a  timely manner.  Message translation  and  data
mapping  are  done  with point-and-click tools  and  a  scripting
environment.  Communications protocols are configured via  table-
driven  parameters.  These sophisticated methodologies result  in
decreased implementation times and greater client satisfaction.

Software Development
- --------------------

Cerner  commits  significant resources to developing  new  health
information  system  products.  As  of  January  1,  2000,  1,022
employees   were   engaged  full-time  in   product   development
activities.    Total   expenditures  for  the   development   and
enhancement   of   the  Company's  products  were   approximately
$88,699,000,  $74,159,000 and $54,524,000 during the  1999,  1998
and  1997 fiscal years respectively.  These figures include  both
capitalized  and  noncapitalized  portions  and  exclude  amounts
amortized for financial reporting purposes.

The  Company  expects  to  continue  investment  and  development
efforts  for  its current and future product offerings.   As  new
clinical and management information needs emerge, Cerner  intends
to  enhance its current product lines with new versions  released
to  clients  on a periodic basis.  In addition, Cerner  plans  to
expand   its  current  product  lines  by  developing  additional
information  systems for clinical, financial, operational  and/or
consumer  use  and  to  continue to support simultaneous  use  of
Cerner's products across multiple facilities.  All Cerner systems
are  developed under HNA using a proprietary systems  development
methodology.   This  methodology defines and controls  each  task
throughout the product development cycle and ensures that current
and future products can be fully integrated.

The  Company is committed to maintaining open attributes  in  its
system  architecture  through operability in  a  diverse  set  of
technical  and application environments.  The Company strives  to
design  its  systems  to  co-exist  with  disparate  applications
developed  and  supported  by other suppliers.   This  effort  is
exemplified by Cerner's Open Engine and OMF product lines.

See  "Cerner's Techology - Health Network Architecture (HNA)  and
HNA  Millennium" for a discussion of the development of  Cerner's
latest generation of software products.

Sales and Marketing
- -------------------

The  markets  for  Cerner's information system  products  include
integrated  delivery networks, physician groups and networks  and
their    management   service   organizations,    managed    care
organizations,   hospitals,   medical   centers,    free-standing
reference laboratories, blood banks, imaging centers, pharmacies,
pharmaceutical  manufacturers, employer  coalitions,  and  public
health  organizations.  To date, a substantial portion of  system
sales  have  been  in  clinical  applications  in  hospital-based
provider



organizations.   Cerner's HNA  architecture is  highly scaleable,
with applications being  used in hospitals ranging from under  50
beds to over 2,000 beds   and  managed care  settings  with  over
2,000,000   members.     All   Cerner  systems  are  designed  to
operate  on computers manufactured by Compaq Computer Corporation
(''Compaq'').  In addition, many Cerner Classic applications  are
available on IBM's RISC System/6000 AIX (UNIX) platform.  All HNA
Millennium applications are designed to operate on either  Compaq
or IBM platforms, thereby allowing Cerner to be price competitive
across  the  full range of size and organizational  structure  of
healthcare  providers.  The sale of a health  information  system
usually  takes  approximately nine to eighteen months,  from  the
time of initial contact to the signing of a contract.

The  Company  is in the process of expanding its sales  force  in
anticipation of increased market demands expected to  be  created
by  its  HNA  Millennium  solutions.  See "Cerner's  Techology  -
Health  Network  Architecture (HNA) and  HNA  Millennium"  for  a
discussion  of  the development of Cerner's latest generation  of
software products.

The  Company's executive marketing management is located  in  its
Kansas   City,   Missouri,  headquarters,   while   its   account
representatives  are  deployed across  the  United  States.   The
Company, through subsidiaries and joint ventures, has sales staff
and/or  offices in Australia, Canada, Singapore and Saudi Arabia.
The  Company  has  a  nonexclusive  distribution  agreement  with
Siemens  Health Service GmbH & Co. KG by which its  products  are
marketed,  implemented  and supported in  Europe  and  elsewhere.
Cerner's   consolidated  revenues  include   foreign   sales   of
$24,001,000, $17,545,000 and $16,272,000 for the 1999,  1998  and
1997  fiscal years, respectively.  The Company supports its sales
force  with  technical  personnel who perform  demonstrations  of
Cerner's  products and assist clients in determining  the  proper
hardware  and  software  configurations.  The  Company's  primary
direct marketing strategy is to generate sales contacts from  its
existing  client  base  and  through  presentations  at  industry
seminars  and  tradeshows.   Cerner attends  a  number  of  major
tradeshows   each  year  and  has  begun  to  sponsor   executive
conferences,  which  feature industry  experts  who  address  the
information system needs of large healthcare organizations.

At the end of 1998 Cerner licensed HNA Millenium functionality to
CareInsite,  Inc. ("CareInsite"), in exchange for a 19.9%  equity
interest  in  such company.  Cerner currently has a 18.7%  equity
interest in CareInsite.  CareInsite is majority owned by  Medical
Manager, Inc. ("Medical Manager") and was formed for the  purpose
of  creating internet-based physician connectivity and electronic
commerce.   In  February of 2000, CareInsite and Medical  Manager
announced an agreement to merge with Healtheon/WebMD Corporation.
The  merger  is  subject to shareholder approval  and  regulatory
clearance.

Client Services
- ---------------

All   of   Cerner's  clients  enter  into  software   maintenance
agreements  with Cerner for support of their Cerner systems.   In
addition  to immediate software support in the event of problems,
these  agreements allow these clients the use of new releases  of
the Cerner products covered by these agreements.  Each client has
24-hour  access to the client support staff located  at  Cerner's
corporate headquarters.  Most of Cerner's clients also enter into
hardware  maintenance agreements with Cerner.  These arrangements
normally  provide for a fixed monthly fee for specified services.
In   the   majority   of  cases,  Cerner  subcontracts   hardware
maintenance to the hardware manufacturer.

Cerner  recently modified its strategy of using regional business
centers  to provide support for its clients.  Due to the increase
in the number of Cerner personnel working at client sites and the
resulting decrease in utilization and cost effectiveness  of  its
regional  branch offices, Cerner decided to close its  facilities
in  Atlanta,  Boston,  Dallas, Los Angeles and  Washington,  D.C.
effective April 30, 2000.  Cerner's offices in Detroit and Denver
will remain open.



Backlog
- -------

At  January 1, 2000, Cerner had contract backlog of approximately
$338,614,000.  Such backlog represents system sales  from  signed
contracts,  which had not yet been recognized  as  revenue.   The
Company  recognizes  revenue on a percent  of  completion  basis,
based on certain milestone conditions, for its software products.
At  January 1, 2000, the Company had approximately $75,360,000 of
contracts receivable, which represents revenues recognized  under
the  percent of completion method but not yet billable under  the
terms of the contract.  At January 1, 2000, Cerner had a software
support  and  maintenance backlog of approximately  $162,798,000.
Such  backlog represents contracted software support and hardware
maintenance services for a period of twelve months.  The  Company
estimates  that  approximately 47% of the  aggregate  backlog  of
$501,412,000 will be recognized as revenue during 2000.

Other Factors Affecting the Company's Business
- ----------------------------------------------

Information  under  the caption "Factors that may  Affect  Future
Results  of Operations, Financial Condition or Business" included
in  "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition
and  Results of Operations" in Item 7 is incorporated  herein  by
reference.   Such  information includes a discussion  of  various
factors  that  could,  among other things, affect  the  Company's
business in the future, including (i) variations in the Company's
quarterly  operating results; (ii) volatility  of  the  Company's
stock  price; (iii) market risk of investments; (iv)  changes  in
the  healthcare industry; (v) significant competition;  (vi)  the
Company's proprietary technology may be subjected to infringement
claims or may be infringed upon; (vii) possible regulation of the
Company's  software by the U.S. Food and Drug  Administration  or
other  government regulation; (viii) the possibility of  product-
related  liabilities; (ix) possible failures or  defects  in  the
performance  of the Company's software; (x) the possibility  that
the  Company's anti-takeover defenses could delay or  prevent  an
acquisition  of  the  Company; and (xi) risks  and  uncertainties
related to the Year 2000 transition.

Item 2.  Properties

The  Company's offices are located in a Company-owned office park
in  North Kansas City, Missouri, containing approximately 500,000
square feet of useable space.  As of January 1, 2000, the Company
was using approximately 436,000 square feet and substantially all
of  the remainder was leased to tenants.  The Company also leases
office  space  for  its  branch offices in  Detroit,  Denver  and
Australia.   The  Company's current leases for  office  space  in
Boston  and Washington, D.C. terminate at the end of April.   The
Company is negotiating the termination of or planning to sublease
its  current leases for office space in Atlanta, Dallas  and  Los
Angeles.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

On  June  11,  1999, a lawsuit was filed against the Company  and
eleven  other  companies  engaged  in  various  aspects  of   the
healthcare information systems business. The lawsuit was  brought
in  the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Texas   Fort  Worth  Division  and  is  entitled  Allcare  Health
Management System, Inc. v. Cerner Corporation, et al., and sought
damages  for  patent  infringement. The case was  dismissed  with
prejudice with respect to the Company on February 9, 2000 and the
Company entered into an agreement with Allcare and its principals
to  obtain  a license to use the patent which was the subject  of
the  litigation, as well as all future patents of Allcare and all
patents  related to healthcare information systems  of  Allcare's
principals issued prior to February 1, 2012.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No  matters were submitted to a vote of the stockholders  of  the
Company  during  the  fourth quarter of  the  fiscal  year  ended
January 1, 2000.



Item 4A.  Executive Officers of the Company

The  following  table sets forth the names, ages,  positions  and
certain  other  information  regarding  the  Company's  executive
officers as of March 27, 2000.  Officers are elected annually and
serve at the discretion of the board of directors.



Neal L. Patterson has been Chairman of the Board of Directors and
Chief  Executive Officer of the Company for more than five years.
Mr.  Patterson also served as President of the Company from March
of 1999 until August of 1999.

Clifford  W.  Illig has been a Director of the Company  for  more
than  five  years.  He also served as Chief Operating Officer  of
the  Company for more than five years until October, 1998 and  as
President of the



Company for more than five years until March  of 1999.  Mr. Illig
was appointed Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors in March of
1999.

Earl  H.  Devanny, III joined the Company in August  of  1999  as
President.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Devanny  served  as
president of the Health Care Information Systems Division of ADAC
Laboratories.   Prior to joining ADAC, Mr. Devanny  served  as  a
Vice  President of Cerner from 1994 to 1997.  Prior  to  that  he
spent seventeen years with IBM Corporation.

Glenn  P.  Tobin, Ph.D. joined the Company in April  of  1998  as
General Manager and Senior Vice President.  On October 29,  1998,
Dr.  Tobin  was  appointed  Executive Vice  President  and  Chief
Operating  Officer.   Prior to joining  the  Company,  Dr.  Tobin
served  as  a senior consultant with McKinsey and Co.,  Inc.  for
more than five years.

Jack  A.  Newman,  Jr.  joined the Company  in  January  1996  as
Executive Vice President.  Prior to joining the Company,  he  was
with KPMG LLP for twenty-two years.  Immediately prior to joining
Cerner  he  was National Partner-in-Charge of KPMG's Health  Care
Strategy Practice.

Paul  M.  Black joined the Company in March, 1994 as  a  Regional
Vice  President.  He was promoted in December 1998 to his current
position.   Prior to joining Cerner, he spent twelve  years  with
IBM Corporation.

Alan  D.  Dietrich  joined the Company in  1990  as  Director  of
Business,  Planning  and Development.  In  January  1994  he  was
promoted to Senior Vice President.

Stephen  M.  Goodrich joined the Company in  October  1987  as  a
project  leader  in the product organization.   In  1992  he  was
promoted  to  Vice  President and was  promoted  to  Senior  Vice
President in April 1999.

Douglas M. Krebs joined the Company in June 1994 as Regional Vice
President.   He  was promoted to Senior Vice President  and  Area
Manager  in April 1999.  On February 1, 2000, Doug was  appointed
as  President  of  Cerner International,  Inc.,  a  wholly  owned
subsidiary  of  the Company.  Prior to joining Cerner,  he  spent
fifteen years with IBM Corporation.

Thomas  C. Tinstman, M.D. joined the Company in November 1995  as
Senior  Vice President and Chief Medical Officer and has  been  a
Director  of  the Company since May 1989.  Prior to  joining  the
Company,  Dr.  Tinstman was Director of Medical Informatics  with
University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston, Texas.  Prior to
that  he  was  a  physician  in private  practice  with  Internal
Medicine  Associates,  P.C. in Omaha,  Nebraska.

Marc  G.  Naughton joined the Company in November 1992 as Manager
of  Taxes.  In November 1995 he was named Chief Financial Officer
and in February 1996 he was promoted to Vice President.

Stanley M. Sword joined the Company in August 1998 in his current
role.  Prior to joining Cerner, he served as a client partner  in
the  outsourcing practice of AT&T Solutions for  more  than  five
years.

Jeffrey A. Townsend joined the Company in June 1985.  Since  that
time  he  has  held several positions in the product organization
and  was  promoted to Vice President in February  1997.   He  was
appointed Chief Engineering Officer in March 1998.

Randy  D. Sims joined the Company in March 1997 as Vice President
and  Chief Legal Officer.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Sims
worked  at  Farmland Industries, Inc. for three  years  where  he
served  most  recently as Associate General  Counsel.   Prior  to
Farmland,  Mr.  Sims  was in-house legal counsel  at  The  Marley
Company  (now  a   division  of  United  Dominion Industries) for
seven years. Mr. Sims started his career at Marley as an attorney
and was Assistant General Counsel when he left to join Farmland.


Richard  J. Flanigan Jr. joined the Company in November  1994  as
Regional  Vice  President.   In 1997, his  responsibilities  were
extended  and he was named as General Manager.  Prior to  joining
Cerner, Mr. Flanigan spent more than thirteen years in sales  and
management positions at IBM Corporation.

Stephen  D.  Garver joined the Company in March 1992 as  part  of
Cerner  Consulting.  In March of 1999 he was named Vice President
and  Managing Partner.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr.  Garver
spent  ten years with Andersen Consulting in a variety  of  roles
within the systems integration practice.

Paul  J.  Sinclair  joined the Company in October  1996  as  Vice
President  and Area Operations Officer. In March of 1999  he  was
named  Senior  Partner  and  North American  Operations  Officer.
Prior  to  joining  the Company, he worked for seven years at Seer
Technologies.



PART II

Item 5.   Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related Security
          Holder Matters

The  Company's  common stock trades on The Nasdaq Stock  MarketSM
under  the symbol CERN.  The following table sets forth the high,
low,  and  last sales prices for the fiscal quarters of 1999  and
1998  as  reported by The Nasdaq National Market  System.   These
quotations  represent prices between dealers and do  not  include
retail mark-up, mark-down, or commissions, and do not necessarily
represent actual transactions.



At  February 14, 2000, there were approximately 1,300 owners
of  record.   To date, the Company has paid no dividends  and  it
does  not  intend  to  pay dividends in the  foreseeable  future.
Management  believes it is in the stockholders' best interest  to
reinvest funds in the operation of the business.

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data



(1)  Includes a non-recurring charge of $5.8 million, net of $3.6
     million tax benefit, related to the cost in excess of revenues of
     completing fixed fee implementation contracts.  The effected tax
     impact of non-recurring charges on diluted earnings per share was
     ($.17) for 1999.



(2)  Includes a non-recurring charge of $.9 million, net of $.5
     million tax benefit, related to the accrual of branch
     restructuring costs.  The effected tax impact of non-recurring
     charges on diluted earnings per share was ($.03) for 1999.
(3)  Includes a non-recurring, acquisition-related charge of $3.1
     million, net of $1.9 million tax benefit.  The tax-effected
     impact of non-recurring charges on diluted earnings per share was
     ($.09) for 1998.

Summary Financial Data



(1)   Statement of Earnings Data excludes a non-recurring  charge
      of  $5.8 million, net of $3.6 million tax benefit, related to the
      cost in excess of revenues of completing fixed fee implementation
      contracts.   The effected tax impact of non-recurring charges  on
      diluted earnings per share was ($.17) for 1999.
(2)   Statement of Earnings Data excludes a non-recurring  charge
      of  $.9  million, net of $.5 million tax benefit, related to  the
      accrual  of branch restructuring costs.  The effected tax  impact
      of non-recurring charges on diluted earnings per share was ($.03)
      for 1999.
  (3) Statement  of  Earnings Data  excludes  a  non-recurring,
      acquisition-related charge of $3.1 million, net of  $1.9  million
      tax benefit.  The tax-effected impact of non-recurring charges on
      diluted earnings per share was ($.09) for 1998.



Item 7.    Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial
           Condition and Results of Operations

Introduction
- ------------

At the beginning of 1999 the Company indicated that 1999 could be
a  difficult year for the Company due to the possible  impact  of
Y2K issues and the effects of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 and
unfortunately  that became true.  In both the  first  and  second
quarters  of 1999 our earnings per share were below expectations.
Total  revenues  declined from the first quarter  to  the  second
quarter and from the second quarter to the third quarter,  caused
by a decline in system sales and new bookings.  Potential clients
simply  could  not focus on their Y2K remediation  efforts,  deal
with the decreased funding resulting from the Balanced Budget Act
of  1997 and invest in new information systems at the same  time.
However, beginning in the fourth quarter of 1999 the Company  saw
significant improvements. Revenue for the fourth quarter was  the
highest  for  the  year  and  the  second  highest  quarter  ever
recorded,  bookings  in  the Company's  core  business  were  the
highest  ever  recorded, cash collections increased significantly
and non-billed receivables declined to approximately 47% of total
receivables,  the  lowest  level since  1996.   The  increase  in
revenues  and  cash  collections  and  the  decline  in  unbilled
revenues   reflect  our  success  in  completing  HNA  Millennium
projects,  HNA  Millennium market readiness and a  declining  Y2K
impact in the Company's markets.

However,  1999 did mark important accomplishments.   The  Company
met  all  of  its Y2K commitments to  clients and  the  Company's
clients  have  had  no Y2K-related problems  with  the  Company's
systems.  The Company completed the successful implementation  of
349  HNA  Millennium applications, more than  double  the  number
completed during 1997 and 1998, and reduced the average time from
project  start to conversion from 26.5 months at the end of  1996
to 9.8 months at the end of 1999.

During  2000 patient accounting and other business and management
systems,  where  the Company currently has no or  limited  market
share,   will   become  available.   The  Company  believes   HNA
Millennium  provides a significant competitive advantage  because
it  utilizes  the only fully integrated, large scale,  enterprise
wide  architecture  in the industry and can  deliver  a  superior
combination  of  functionality, efficiency, cost containment  and
quality  control  through  interrelated clinical  and  management
information  systems.  Although the Company believes  that  there
will be some "tail" to the Y2K impact into the year 2000, it also
believes  that the impact of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997  and
the  other pressures to decrease costs and provide improved  care
throughout  the healthcare system will stimulate the  market  for
healthcare information systems during the year 2000.

Results of Operations
- ---------------------

Year Ended January 1, 2000, Compared to Year Ended January 2, 1999

The  Company's revenues increased 3% to $340,197,000 in 1999 from
$330,902,000  in  1998.  Net earnings, before extraordinary  item
and  non-recurring  charges was $6,857,000 in  1999  compared  to
$23,687,000 in 1998.  Non-recurring charges in 1999, as described
below,   included  contract  reserves  and  branch  restructuring
charges.   Non-recurring  charges  in  1998  include  acquisition
related  charges.   Including  the extraordinary  item  and  non-
recurring charges, the Company incurred a loss of $1,211,000,  in
1999 compared to earnings of $20,589,000 in 1998.

Revenues  -  In  1999, revenues increased due to an  increase  in
support  of  installed systems and other revenues.  System  sales
decreased 9% to $224,510,000 in 1999 from $245,490,000  in  1998.
The decrease in system sales is due to a decrease in new contract
bookings  in  1999 compared to 1998.  The Company  believes  that
this  decrease is due primarily to delays in purchasing decisions
related  to Year 2000 and the Balanced Budget Act of  1997.   The
sale  of  additional  hardware  and  software  products  to   the
installed client base increased 27% in 1999 as compared to 1998.



Total sales to the installed base in 1999, including new systems,
incremental   hardware  and  software,  support  and  maintenance
services,  and discrete services, were 75% of total  revenues  in
1999  compared  to  69%  in  1998.   The  higher  percentage  was
primarily due to the decrease in system sales to new clients.

At  January  1,  2000, the Company had $338,614,000  in  contract
backlog  and  $162,798,000  in support and  maintenance  backlog,
compared to $314,965,000 in contract backlog and $153,453,000  in
support and maintenance backlog at the end of 1998.

Support  and maintenance revenues increased 23% in 1999  compared
to  12%  in  1998.  These revenues represented 28% of 1999  total
revenues  and 23% of 1998 total revenues.  The higher  percentage
was primarily attributable to the decrease in system sales and an
increase in installed systems.

Other  revenues  increased  148%  to  $21,489,000  in  1999  from
$8,657,000 in 1998.  This increase was due primarily to  services
performed  beyond  contracted requirements for existing  clients.
The  Company  anticipates that other revenues  will  continue  to
increase in 2000.

Cost  of  Revenues - The cost of revenues includes  the  cost  of
third   party   consulting  services,   computer   hardware   and
sublicensed   software  purchased  from  computer  and   software
manufacturers for delivery to clients.  It also includes the cost
of   hardware   maintenance  and  sublicensed  software   support
subcontracted to the manufacturers.  The cost of revenues was 25%
of  total  revenues in 1999, excluding a non-recurring fixed  fee
implementation  cost,  as  described  below,  and  27%  of  total
revenues  in  1998.   Such  costs,  as  a  percent  of  revenues,
typically  have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware,
services and support) components carrying different margin  rates
changes  from  period to period.  The decrease  in  the  cost  of
revenue as a percent of total revenues resulted principally  from
a  decrease in the percent of revenue from computer hardware  and
sublicensed  software,  which carry  a  higher  cost  of  revenue
percentage.

Included  in the 1999 cost of revenues is a charge of $9,449,000,
which  represents  the remaining additional costs  in  excess  of
revenues  required to complete certain remaining HNA   Millennium
fixed  fee implementation contracts.  The Company switched to  an
hourly  fee-for-service implementation model in 1997.  Delays  in
some  of  the  older  projects, primarily  caused  by  delays  in
development  of the Company's HNA Millennium products,  increased
the  time  required to complete these installations.   While  the
Company  originally  anticipated these fixed fee  implementations
would  be  completed  in  1999, in some instances  the  focus  by
clients  on their internal Y2K projects created a further  delay.
As  a result of the significant implementation work completed  in
the  last half of 1999 and the agreement between the Company  and
these  clients  in  the fourth quarter as to the  scope  of  work
remaining,  the  Company estimates that  the  costs  to  complete
certain  fixed  fee  implementation  contracts  will  exceed  the
remaining  revenue  by  $9,449,000.  The Company  recognized  the
impact  of  these  excess  costs in  the  fourth  quarter  income
statement as a non-recurring cost of revenues.

Sales  and  Client  Service -  Sales and client service  expenses
include  salaries  of  client service  personnel,  communications
expenses,  and unreimbursed travel expenses.  Also  included  are
sales  and marketing salaries, travel expenses, trade show costs,
and  advertising  costs.  These expenses as a  percent  of  total
revenues  were  41%  in  1999, excluding a  non-recurring  charge
related  to  the  closing of five branch  offices,  as  described
below,  and 35% in 1998.  The increase in total sales and  client
service  expenses is attributable to the cost of a  larger  field
sales and services organization and marketing of new products.

Included  in  1999 sales and client service expenses  is  a  non-
recurring  charge related to the closing of five branch  offices.
In  December, 1999, the Company made a decision to close five  of
its  branch  offices.   The  Company created  a  regional  branch
structure  in  1994 in order to bring associates  closer  to  its
clients.  The natural evolution of that strategy and the  ability
to  leverage  internal information technology  infrastructure  to
create  a  more  virtual workplace has resulted in a  significant
decrease in utilization of certain regional offices. This led  to
the  decision  to  close these physical locations.   The  Company
recorded  a charge



of  $1.4  million  in  the  1999  fourth  quarter  to  provide for
the costs of closing these locations, primarily based on estimated
lease cancellation  fees.  The  Company  will continue to maintain
offices in Denver, Detroit and Australia, in addition to the world
headquarters in Kansas City, Missouri.

Software  Development  -  Software development  expenses  include
salaries,  documentation, and other direct expenses  incurred  in
product  development  and  amortization of  software  development
costs.   Total  expenditures for software development,  including
both  capitalized and noncapitalized portions, for 1999 and  1998
were  $88,699,000 and $74,159,000, respectively.   These  amounts
exclude   amortization.    Capitalized   software   costs    were
$30,192,000 and $25,052,000 for 1999 and 1998, respectively.  The
increase  in  aggregate expenditures for software development  in
1999  is  due  to  development of HNA  Millennium   products  and
development of community care products.

General  and Administrative - General and administrative expenses
include  salaries  for corporate, financial,  and  administrative
staffs,  utilities,  communications  expenses,  and  professional
fees.   These expenses as a percent of total revenues were 8%  in
1999 and 1998.

Interest  Expense, Net - Net interest expense was  $3,396,000  in
1999  compared to $262,000 in 1998.  The increase is  due  to  an
increase  in borrowings. On April 15, 1999, the Company completed
a  $100,000,000  private placement of debt  pursuant  to  a  Note
Agreement date April 1, 1999.  The Series A Senior Notes, with  a
$60,000,000 principal amount at 7.14% are payable in  five  equal
annual installments beginning in April 2002.  The Series B Senior
Notes,  with a $40,000,000 principal amount at 7.66% are  payable
in  six  equal  annual installments beginning  April  2004.   The
proceeds  were used to retire the Company's existing  $30,000,000
of  debt,  and  the  remaining funds will be  used  for  proposed
capital  improvements  and  to  strengthen  the  Company's   cash
position.  In connection with the early extinguishment  of  debt,
the  Company  incurred  a $1,395,000 net of taxes,  extraordinary
loss  for  a  prepayment penalty and write-off of  deferred  loan
costs.  The  note agreement contains certain net  worth,  current
ratio,  and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides  certain
restrictions  on  the Company's ability to borrow,  incur  liens,
sell  assets,  and pay dividends.  The Company was in  compliance
with all covenants at January 1, 2000.

Income  Taxes - The Company's effective tax rate was 39% in  1999
and 38% in 1998.

Year  Ended  January  2, 1999, Compared  to Year Ended January 3,

The Company's revenues increased 35% to $330,902,000 in 1998 from
$245,057,000 in 1997.  Net earnings increased 36% to  $20,589,000
in  1998  from $15,148,000 in 1997. Excluding acquisition related
charges,  net  earnings  increased 56%  to  $23,687,000  in  1998
relative to 1997.

Revenues  -  In  1998, revenues increased due to an  increase  in
system  sales  and  support of installed systems.   System  sales
increased 44% to $245,490,000 in 1998 from $170,906,000 in  1997.
This increase in system sales resulted primarily from an increase
in   installations   under  Health  Network  Architecture   (HNA)
contracts.  Revenue from HNA contracts increased 23% compared  to
1997.   The sale of additional hardware and software products  to
the  installed client base increased 30% in 1998 as  compared  to
1997.

Total sales to the installed base in 1998, including new systems,
incremental   hardware  and  software,  support  and  maintenance
services,  and discrete services, were 69% of total  revenues  in
1998 compared to 73% in 1997.  The lower percentage was primarily
due to the increase in system sales to new clients.

At  January  2,  1999, the Company had $314,965,000  in  contract
backlog  and  $153,453,000  in support and  maintenance  backlog,
compared to $198,274,000 in contract backlog and $132,842,000  in
support and maintenance backlog at the end of 1997.



Support  and maintenance revenues increased 12% in 1998  compared
to  20%  in  1997.  These revenues represented 23% of 1998  total
revenues and 28% of 1997 total revenues. The lower percentage was
primarily due to the increase in system sales.

Other   revenues  increased  59%  to  $8,657,000  in  1998   from
$5,438,000 in 1997.  This increase was due primarily to  services
performed beyond contracted requirements for existing clients.

Cost  of  Revenues - The cost of revenues includes  the  cost  of
computer   hardware  and  sublicensed  software  purchased   from
computer and software manufacturers for delivery to clients.   It
also  includes  the cost of hardware maintenance and  sublicensed
software support subcontracted to the manufacturers.  The cost of
revenues  was  27%  of total revenues in 1998 and  29%  of  total
revenues  in  1997.   Such  costs,  as  a  percent  of  revenues,
typically  have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware,
services and support) components carrying different margin  rates
changes  from  period to period.  The decrease  in  the  cost  of
revenue as a percent of total revenues resulted principally  from
a  decrease in the percent of revenue from computer hardware  and
sublicensed  software,  which carry  a  higher  cost  of  revenue
percentage.

Sales  and  Client  Service -  Sales and client service  expenses
include  salaries  of  client service  personnel,  communications
expenses,  and unreimbursed travel expenses.  Also  included  are
sales  and marketing salaries, travel expenses, trade show costs,
and  advertising  costs.  These expenses as a  percent  of  total
revenues were 35% in 1998 and 34% in 1997.  The increase in total
sales and client service expenses is attributable to the cost  of
a  larger field sales and services organization and marketing  of
new products.

Software  Development  -  Software development  expenses  include
salaries,  documentation, and other direct expenses  incurred  in
product  development  and  amortization of  software  development
costs.   Total  expenditures for software development,  including
both  capitalized and noncapitalized portions, for 1998 and  1997
were  $74,159,000 and $54,524,000, respectively.   These  amounts
exclude   amortization.    Capitalized   software   costs    were
$25,052,000 and $18,373,000 for 1998 and 1997, respectively.  The
increase  in  aggregate expenditures for software development  in
1998  is  due  to  development of HNA  Millennium   products  and
development of community care products.

General  and Administrative - General and administrative expenses
include  salaries  for corporate, financial,  and  administrative
staffs,  utilities,  communications  expenses,  and  professional
fees.   These expenses as a percent of total revenues were 8%  in
1998 and 9% in 1997.

Write-off  of In-Process Research and Development - Write-off  of
in-process  research  and  development  is  a  one-time   expense
resulting from the acquisition of Multum.

Interest  Income  (Expense),  Net  -  Net  interest  expense  was
$262,000   in 1998 compared to net interest income of  $2,314,000
in 1997.  The decrease is due primarily to a decrease in invested
cash.

Income  Taxes - The Company's effective tax rate was 38% in  1998
and 1997.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
- -------------------------------

The Company had total cash and cash equivalents of $75,677,000 at
the end of 1999 and working capital of $170,053,000, compared  to
cash and cash equivalents of $42,658,000 at the end of 1998,  and
working capital of $118,681,000.  The increase in working capital
resulted primarily from the completion of a $100,000,000  private
placement  of  debt,  partially offset by the  Company's  further
investment in software development.

The  Company  generated  cash  of  $27,389,000,  $5,893,000,  and
$18,692,000   from   operations  in   1999,   1998,   and   1997,
respectively.  Cash flow from operations increased in  1999,  due
primarily  to  increased



collection  of  receivables,   improved payment terms, and record
level conversions.   Cash  flow  from  operations  decreased   in
1998, due primarily  to  increases  in receivables from increased
revenues,   and   from   non-cash consideration  received for the
sale of license software.

Cash   used  in  investing  activities  consisted  primarily   of
capitalized   software  development  costs  of  $30,192,000   and
$25,052,000 and purchases of capital equipment of $14,286,000 and
$20,846,000  in  1999 and 1998, respectively.  The  Company  also
made additional investments in affiliates in 1999 of $13,615,000,
primarily  CareInsite.  The major source of cash  from  financing
activities  in 1999 was provided by the Company's refinancing  of
its  long-term  debt,  more fully described  in  note  6  to  the
Consolidated Financial Statements.  In November 1998, the Company
sold  670,000 shares of common stock to General Electric Company,
which resulted in cash proceeds of $14,874,000.

Revenues   provided  under  support  and  maintenance  agreements
represent recurring cash flows.  Support and maintenance revenues
increased   23%,  12%,  and  20%,  in  1999,  1998,   and   1997,
respectively, and the Company expects these revenues to  continue
to grow as the base of installed systems grows.

The  Company's liquidity is influenced by many factors, including
the  amount  and  timing  of  the Company's  revenues,  its  cash
collections  from its clients as implementation of  its  products
proceed   and  the  amounts  the  Company  invests  in   software
development  and  capital expenditures.  The Company  expects  to
have  an  increase  in its cash position for 2000.   The  Company
believes  that  its  present cash position,  together  with  cash
generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet anticipated
cash  requirements during 2000.  The Company has  an  $18,000,000
line of credit available.

The effects of inflation were minimal on the Company's business.

Factors  that may Affect Future Results of Operations,  Financial
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Condition or Business
- ---------------------

Statements  made  in  this  report,  other  reports   and   proxy
statements  filed  with the Securities and  Exchange  Commission,
communications   to   stockholders,  press  releases   and   oral
statements  made by representatives of the Company that  are  not
historical in nature, or that state the Company's or management's
intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations, or predictions  of  the
future,  are "forward-looking statements" within the  meaning  of
Section  21E  of  the Securities and Exchange  Act  of  1934,  as
amended,   and  involve  risks  and  uncertainties.   The   words
"should,"  "will  be," "intended," "continue," "believe,"  "may,"
"expect,"  "hope," "anticipate," "goal," "forecast"  and  similar
expressions   are   intended  to  identify  such  forward-looking
statements.   It is important to note that any such  performance,
and  actual results, financial condition or business could differ
materially   from   those  expressed  in   such   forward-looking
statements.   Factors  that could cause  or  contribute  to  such
differences  include,  but are not limited  to,  those  discussed
below as well as those discussed elsewhere in reports filed  with
the  Securities and Exchange Commission.  The Company  undertakes
no  obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements  to
reflect  changed  assumptions, the  occurrence  of  unanticipated
events   or   changes  in  future  operating  results,  financial
condition or business over time.

Quarterly  Operating Results May Vary
- ------------------------------------- -   The Company's quarterly
operating  results have varied in the past and  may  continue  to
vary in future periods.  Quarterly operating results may vary for
a  number  of reasons including demand for the Company's products
and   services,  the  Company's  long  sales  cycle,   the   long
installation  and  implementation cycle for  these  larger,  more
complex and costlier systems and other factors described in  this
section  and elsewhere in this report.  As a result of healthcare
industry  trends and the market for the Company's HNA  Millennium
products,  a  large  percentage of  the  Company's  revenues  are
generated  by  the sale and installation of larger, more  complex
and  costlier  systems.  The sales process for these  systems  is
lengthy  and  involves  a  significant technical  evaluation  and
commitment  of capital and other resources by the customer.   The
sale  may be subject to delays due to customers' internal budgets
and  procedures for approving large capital expenditures  and  by
competing needs for other capital expenditures and deploying  new
technologies or personnel resources.  Delays in the expected sale
or  installation of these large contracts may have a  significant
impact  on  the  Company's



anticipated  quarterly  revenues  and  consequently its earnings,
since a significant  percentage of  the  Company's  expenses  are
relatively fixed.

These larger, more complex and costlier systems are installed and
implemented  over  time  periods ranging from  approximately  six
months to three years and involve significant efforts both by the
Company  and  the  client.  In addition,  implementation  of  the
Company's HNA Millennium products is a new and evolving  process.
The  Company  recognizes revenue upon the completion of  standard
milestone conditions and the amount of revenue recognized in  any
quarter  depends upon the Company's and the client's  ability  to
meet these project milestones.  Delays in meeting these milestone
conditions  or modification of the contract relating  to  one  or
more  of  these  systems  could result  in  a  shift  of  revenue
recognition from one quarter to another and could have a material
adverse effect on results of operations for a particular quarter.
In  addition,  support  payments by  clients  for  the  Company's
products do not commence until the product is in use.

The  Company's revenues from system sales historically have  been
lower  in the first quarter of the year and greater in the fourth
quarter of the year.

Stock  Price  May  Be  Volatile
- ------------------------------- -    The  trading  price  of  the
Company's  common  stock may be volatile.   The  market  for  the
Company's  common  stock  may experience  significant  price  and
volume  fluctuations in response to a number of factors including
actual  or anticipated quarterly variations in operating results,
changes  in  expectations  of  future  financial  performance  or
changes   in   estimates  of  securities  analysts,  governmental
regulatory    action,   healthcare   reform   measures,    client
relationship  developments and other factors, many of  which  are
beyond the Company's control.

Furthermore,  the  stock market in general, and  the  market  for
software, healthcare and high technology companies in particular,
has  experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated
to  the  operating  performance of particular  companies.   These
broad  market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect  the
trading price of the Company's common stock, regardless of actual
operating performance.

Market  Risk  of  Investments
- -----------------------------  - The  Company  accounts  for  its
investments  in equity securities which have readily determinable
fair values as available-for-sale.  Available-for-sale securities
are  reported  at  fair value with unrealized  gains  and  losses
reported,  net  of  tax, as a separate component  of  accumulated
other  comprehensive income.  Investments in the common stock  of
certain  affiliates  over  which the Company  exerts  significant
influence are accounted for by the equity method.  Investments in
other  equity  securities  are  reported  at  cost.   All  equity
securities  are  reviewed by the Company  for  declines  in  fair
value.   If  such  declines  are  considered  to  be  other  than
temporary,  the cost basis of the individual security is  written
down  to  fair value as a new cost basis, and the amount  of  the
write-down is included in earnings.

Included  in  the  Company's  investments  is  the  ownership  of
13,149,259 shares (18.7%) of the common stock of CareInsite, Inc.
("CareInsite"),    formerly   known   as    Synetic    Healthcare
Communications, Inc. which have a cost basis of $81,804,000 and a
carrying value of $248,821,000 at January 1, 2000.  12,437,500 of
these shares were received in 1998 as consideration for the  sale
of  licensed  software,  and an additional  711,759  shares  were
purchased in 1999.  The value assigned to the shares acquired  in
1998  was  $70,000,000  and  was based  on  a  methodology  which
utilized  both  a comparable company and the expected  underlying
discounted  future  cash  flows.  On June  16,  1999,  CareInsite
undertook an initial public offering of common stock.  The common
stock of CareInsite is traded in the public market and listed  on
the  Nasdaq National Market.  The stock of CareInsite held by the
Company  is  not  registered and is subject  to  certain  lock-up
provisions.   A  permanent impairment in the value of  CareInsite
common  stock would result in a charge to earnings in either  the
then current or future periods.  There would be no effect on cash
flows  because the revenue was earned through contractual  rights
granted  in  exchange for CareInsite stock.  An increase  in  the
value  of  the CareInsite stock would have no effect on  reported
earnings.  The Company has not engaged in equity swaps  or  other
hedging  techniques  to manage the equity risk  inherent  in  the
CareInsite shares.



Under  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  no.   115
"Accounting   for   Certain  Investments  in  Debt   and   Equity
Securities" (SFAS No. 115), the Company is required  to  mark  to
market  those  shares which are classified as available-for-sale.
Additionally,  SFAS  No. 115 requires shares  that  are  eligible
under  Rule 144 for public sale within a twelve month  period  be
considered  as available-for-sale.  Under Rule 144, as  currently
in  effect, a person who has beneficially owned shares of  common
stock for at least one year would be entitled to sell within  any
three-month  period a number of shares that does not  exceed  the
greater  of  1%  of  the number of shares of  common  stock  then
outstanding and the average weekly trading volume of  the  common
stock during the four preceding calendar weeks.  As of January 1,
2000,  the  Company  has  marked to market  2,230,700  shares  of
CareInsite  common  stock, with a market value  of  $179,571,000,
that  are  considered available-for-sale under Rule 144 and  SFAS
No. 115.    All  CareInsite  shares  the  Company  owns  will   be
considered  available-for-sale and be marked  to  market  in  the
first  quarter of 2000.  If all shares were eligible to be marked
to  market  at  January  1,  2000,  the  market  value  would  be
$1,058,515,000.

If  the  Company realizes certain performance metrics related  to
specified levels of physician usage, CareInsite will issue to the
Company  2,503,125 shares of common stock at a price of $.01  per
share  ("Performance Shares").  The measurement date is  February
15,  2001.  No  amounts have been recognized in the  consolidated
financial  statements  for  the Performance  Shares  due  to  the
uncertainty of the future events.

The  Company  was  also granted, by CareInsite, 1,008,445  common
stock  warrants with an exercise price of $4.00 per share ("THINC
Warrants").   The  THINC Warrants were exercisable  only  in  the
event  that  The  Health  Information  Network  Connections,  LLC
("THINC")  exercised warrants granted to them  by  CareInsite  at
$4.00  per share.  THINC  was allowed to exercise their  warrants
180  days  after  the initial public offering of CareInsite.   On
January  29, 2000 CareInsite completed an acquisition  of  THINC.
As  part  of  that  agreement, 806,756  of  the  1,008,445  THINC
Warrants  became  immediately  exercisable,  with  the  remaining
amount forfeited. The THINC Warrants expire in three years.

On  February  13,  2000 CareInsite entered into an  agreement  to
merge with Healtheon/WebMD Corporation  ("Merger Agreement").  As
part of the Merger Agreement, the Company will receive 1.3 shares
of Healtheon/WebMD  Corporation in exchange for each common share
of  CareInsite held by the Company.  In addition the  Performance
Shares  will  be  adjusted  at  a   rate   of   1.3   shares   of
Healtheon/WebMD  Corporation  for  each  share of CareInsite. All
physician  users of  systems  of  Healtheon/WebMD  Corporation or
its  affiliates shall  be  included  for  purposes of determining
the  specified  levels  of  physician  usage.  The THINC Warrants
will also  be adjusted at a rate of 1.3 shares of Healtheon/WebMD
Corporation for each share of CareInsite.  The proposed merger of
CareInsite and Healtheon/WebMD  Corporation ("Merger") is subject
to shareholder  and  regulatory  approval.  There is no guarantee
the Merger will close.

The  Company  has agreed under terms of the Merger  Agreement  to
certain  lock-up provisions, which differ from the terms  of  its
lock-up  provisions with CareInsite.  The Merger is  expected  to
close  in  the second quarter of 2000.  If the Merger closes  the
Company  will  record  the  Healtheon/WebMD   Corporation  shares
received  at  their then fair value and recognize a gain  on  the
disposition of the CareInsite shares.  Based on proposed  lock-up
provisions, 50% of the Healtheon/WebMD  Corporation shares  would
thereafter be considered available-for-sale and would  be  marked
to  market  at each balance sheet date.  The remainder  would  be
carried at cost until the third quarter of 2000.

The  Company owns 50% of Health Network Ventures ("HNV"), a joint
venture  investment  which  is accounted  for  under  the  equity
method.   Under  the  terms of the joint venture  agreement,  the
Company may require its partner to sell to the Company its  share
of  HNV  for $12,000,000, subject to certain adjustments,  ("Call
Option") at any time after July 1, 2000.  In addition the partner
may  require  the  Company  to purchase  its  share  of  HNV  for
$6,000,000, subject to certain adjustments, ("Put Option") at any
time after July 1, 2000.



The  Company is exposed to market risk from changes in marketable
securities (which consist of money market and commercial  paper).
At  January  1, 2000, marketable securities of the  Company  were
recorded  at cost, which approximates fair value of approximately
$76  million, with an overall average return of approximately  5%
and  an  overall  weighted maturity of less than  90  days.   The
marketable  securities held by the Company  are  not  subject  to
price  risk  as  a  result  of  the  short-term  nature  of   the
investments.

The  Company is not exposed to material future earnings  or  cash
flow  exposures from changes in interest rates on long-term  debt
since  100% of its long-term debt is at a fixed rate.   To  date,
the  Company  has  not  entered  into  any  derivative  financial
instruments to manage interest rate risk.

The  Company  conducts business in several foreign jurisdictions.
However,  the  business  transacted is in  the  local  functional
currency  and  the Company does not currently have  any  material
exposure  to  foreign currency transaction gains or losses.   All
other  business transactions are in U.S. dollars.  To  date,  the
Company  has not entered into any derivative financial instrument
to  manage  foreign currency risk and is currently not evaluating
the future use of any such financial instruments.

Changes in the Healthcare Industry
- ---------------------------------- -   The healthcare industry is
highly  regulated and is subject to changing political,  economic
and  regulatory influences.  For example, the Balanced Budget Act
of  1997  (Public  Law  105-32) contains significant  changes  to
Medicare  and  Medicaid and began to have its initial  impact  in
1998   due  to  limitations  on  reimbursement,  resulting   cost
containment  initiatives, and effects on pricing and  demand  for
capital  intensive systems.  These factors affect the  purchasing
practices and operation of healthcare organizations.  Federal and
state  legislatures  have  periodically  considered  programs  to
reform  or  amend the U.S. healthcare system at both the  federal
and   state   level  and  to  change  healthcare  financing   and
reimbursement systems.  These programs may contain  proposals  to
increase   governmental   involvement   in   healthcare,    lower
reimbursement rates or otherwise change the environment in  which
healthcare  industry  participants operate.  Healthcare  industry
participants  may  respond  by  reducing  their  investments   or
postponing  investment decisions, including  investments  in  the
Company's products and services.

Many  healthcare providers are consolidating to create integrated
healthcare  delivery  systems with greater market  power.   These
providers  may  try to use their market power to negotiate  price
reductions  for  the  Company's products and  services.   As  the
healthcare  industry  consolidates, the Company's  customer  base
could  be  eroded,  competition for customers could  become  more
intense  and  the  importance of acquiring each customer  becomes
greater.

Significant Competition
- -----------------------  -  The market for healthcare information
systems is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to
rapid  technological  change.   The  Company  believes  that  the
principal competitive factors in this market include the  breadth
and quality of system and product offerings, the stability of the
information  systems provider, the features and  capabilities  of
the  information systems, the ongoing support for the system, and
the potential for enhancements and future compatible products.

Certain  of  the  Company's competitors have  greater  financial,
technical,  product  development, marketing and  other  resources
than  the Company and some of its competitors offer products that
it  does not offer.  The Company's principal existing competitors
include   Shared   Medical  Systems  Corporation,   IDX   Systems
Corporation,  McKesson HBOC, Inc. and Eclipsys Corporation,  each
of which offers a suite of products that compete with many of the
Company's  products.  There are other competitors  that  offer  a
more limited number of competing products.

In  addition, the Company expects that major software information
systems   companies,  large  information  technology   consulting
service providers and system integrators, internet-based start-up
companies and others specializing in the healthcare industry  may
offer  competitive products or services.  The pace of  change  in
the  healthcare information systems market is rapid and there are
frequent  new  product  introductions, product  enhancements  and
evolving  industry standards and requirements.  As a result,  the
Company's success will depend upon its ability to keep pace  with
technological  change and to introduce,



on  a  timely and cost-effective basis, new and enhanced products
that satisfy  changing  customer  requirements and achieve market
acceptance.

Proprietary Technology May Be Subjected to Infringement Claims or
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
May Be Infringed Upon
- --------------------- -  The Company relies upon a combination of
trade  secret, copyright and trademark laws, license  agreements,
confidentiality procedures, employee nondisclosure agreements and
technical  measures  to  maintain  the  trade  secrecy   of   its
proprietary information.  The Company has not historically  filed
patent   applications   or  copyrights  covering   its   software
technology.  As a result, the Company may not be able to  protect
against misappropriation of its intellectual property.

In  addition,  the  Company  could  be  subject  to  intellectual
property  infringement claims as the number of competitors  grows
and  the  functionality of its products overlaps with competitive
offerings.   These  claims,  even if not  meritorious,  could  be
expensive  to  defend.  If the Company becomes  liable  to  third
parties  for  infringing their intellectual property  rights,  it
could  be  required  to pay a substantial  damage  award  and  to
develop  noninfringing  technology, obtain  a  license  or  cease
selling  the  products  that contain the infringing  intellectual
property.

Government  Regulation
- ---------------------- -   The  United  States  Food  and   Drug
Administration  (the "FDA") has declared that  software  products
intended  for  the  maintenance of data used in making  decisions
regarding  the  suitability of blood donors and  the  release  of
blood  or  blood  components for transfusion are medical  devices
under  the  Federal  Food,  Drug and  Cosmetic  Act  ("Act")  and
amendments to the Act.  As a consequence, the Company is  subject
to  extensive regulation by the FDA with regard to its blood bank
software.   If other of the Company's products are deemed  to  be
actively regulated medical devices by the FDA, the Company  could
be  subject  to extensive requirements governing pre-  and  post-
marketing requirements including premarket notification clearance
prior  to marketing.  Complying with these FDA regulations  would
be time consuming and expensive.  It is possible that the FDA may
become  more active in regulating computer software that is  used
in healthcare.

Following an inspection by the FDA in March of 1998, the  Company
received  a  Form  FDA 483 (Notice of Inspectional  Observations)
alleging  non-compliance with certain aspects  of  FDA's  Quality
System  Regulation  with  respect to the Company's  PathNet  HNAC
Blood  Bank  Transfusion  and Donor  products  (the  "Blood  Bank
Products").  The Company subsequently received a Warning  Letter,
dated  April  29, 1998, as a result of the same inspection.   The
Company  responded promptly to the FDA and undertook a number  of
actions  in response to the Form 483 and Warning Letter including
an  audit  by a third party of the Company's Blood Bank  Products
and improvements to Cerner's Quality System.  A copy of the third
party  audit was submitted to the FDA in October of 1998 and,  at
the  request of the FDA, additional information and clarification
was submitted to the FDA in January of 1999.

There  can  be no assurance, however, that the Company's  actions
taken  in  response to the Form 483 and Warning  Letter  will  be
deemed  adequate by the FDA or that additional actions on  behalf
of  the  Company will not be required.  In addition, the  Company
remains subject to periodic FDA inspections and there can  be  no
assurances  that  the Company will not be required  to  undertake
additional  actions  to  comply  with  the  Act  and  any   other
applicable  regulatory requirements.  Any failure by the  Company
to  comply  with  the  Act  and any other  applicable  regulatory
requirements  could  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on   the
Company's  ability to continue to manufacture and distribute  its
products.    FDA  has  many enforcement tools including  recalls,
seizures,  injunctions, civil fines and/or criminal prosecutions.
Any  of the foregoing would have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business, results of operations or financial condition.

Product  Related  Liabilities
- ----------------------------- -   Many of the Company's  products
provide data for use by healthcare providers in providing care to
patients.  Although no such claims have been brought against  the
Company  to  date regarding injuries related to the  use  of  its
products,  such claims may be made in the future.   Although  the
Company  maintains  product liability insurance  coverage  in  an
amount that it believes is sufficient for its business, there can
be  no assurance that such coverage will prove to be adequate  or
that   such  coverage  will  continue  to  remain  available   on
acceptable terms, if at all.  A successful claim brought



against  the  Company  which  is uninsured or under-insured could
materially harm  its business, results of operations or financial
condition.

System   Errors   and  Warranties
- ---------------------------------  -    The  Company's   systems,
particularly the HNA Millennium versions, are very  complex.   As
with complex systems offered by others, the Company's systems may
contain  errors, especially when first introduced.  Although  the
Company  conducts  extensive testing, it has discovered  software
errors  in  its products after their introduction.  The Company's
systems  are  intended  for  use  in  collecting  and  displaying
clinical  information  used  in the diagnosis  and  treatment  of
patients.   Therefore,  users  of the  Company  products  have  a
greater sensitivity to system errors than the market for software
products  generally.  The Company's agreements with  its  clients
typically  provide warranties against material errors  and  other
matters.   Failure  of a client's system to meet  these  criteria
could  constitute a material breach under such contracts allowing
the  client to cancel the contract, or could require the  Company
to  incur  additional expense in order to make  the  system  meet
these   criteria.   The  Company's  contracts  with  its  clients
generally limit the Company's liability arising from such  claims
but such limits may not be enforceable in certain jurisdictions.

Anti-Takeover   Defenses
- ------------------------ -    The  Company's  charter,   bylaws,
shareholders' rights plan and certain provisions of Delaware  law
contain  certain provisions that may have the effect of  delaying
or preventing an acquisition of the Company.  Such provisions are
intended  to  encourage any person interested  in  acquiring  the
Company to negotiate with and obtain the approval of the Board of
Directors  in  connection  with  any  such  transaction.    These
provisions  include (i) a Board of Directors  that  is  staggered
into  three  classes  to serve staggered three-year  terms,  (ii)
blank   check   preferred  stock,  (iii)   supermajority   voting
provisions,  (iv)  inability of stockholders to  act  by  written
consent or call a special meeting, (v) limitations on the ability
of  stockholders  to  nominate directors  or  make  proposals  at
stockholder  meetings, and (vi) triggering the exercisability  of
stock purchase rights on a discriminatory basis, which may invoke
extensive economic and voting dilution of a potential acquirer if
its beneficial ownership of the Company's common stock exceeds  a
specified  threshold.  Certain of these provisions may discourage
a  future acquisition of the Company not approved by the Board of
Directors in which shareholders might receive a premium value for
their shares.

Year  2000
- ---------- -   As of the date of this annual report, the  Company
has  not  seen  any adverse impact as a result of the  Year  2000
transition  on  any  of its systems or those of  its  clients  or
suppliers.  Nonetheless, the Company will continue to monitor the
effect  of the Year 2000 transition, and there can be no absolute
assurance  that  Year  2000 issues will not  materialize  in  the
future  and  have a material adverse effect on the  Company,  its
products or its operations.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Information contained under the caption "Factors that may  Affect
Future Results of Operations, Financial Condition or Business  --
Market   Risk  of  Investments"  set  forth  under  "Management's
Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial Condition and  Results  of
Operations" in Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The  Financial  Statements and Notes required by  this  Item  are
submitted as a separate part of this report.

Item  9.   Changes  in  and  Disagreements  with  Accountants   on
Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.



PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The  Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in  connection  with
the  Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May  26,  2000,
contains  under  the  caption  "Election  of  Directors"  certain
information required by Item 10 of Form 10-K and such information
is  incorporated  herein  by  this  reference.   The  information
required by Item 10 of Form 10-K as to executive officers is  set
forth in Item 4A of Part I hereof.

The  Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in  connection  with
the  Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May  26,  2000,
contains under the caption "Compliance with Section 16(a) of  the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934" certain information required  by
Item  10 of Form 10-K and such information is incorporated herein
by this reference.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

The  Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in  connection  with
the  Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May  26,  2000,
contains   under   the  caption  "Executive   Compensation"   the
information required by Item 11 of Form 10-K and such information
is incorporated herein by this reference.

Item 12.  Security  Ownership  of Certain Beneficial  Owners  and
          Management

The  Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in  connection  with
the  Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May  26,  2000,
contains  under  the  caption "Voting  Securities  and  Principal
Holders Thereof" the information required by Item 12 of Form 10-K
and such information is incorporated herein by this reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The  Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in  connection  with
the  Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May  26,  2000,
contains under the caption "Certain Transactions" the information
required  by  Item  13  of  Form 10-K  and  such  information  is
incorporated herein by this reference.


PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
          Form 8-K

     (a)  Financial Statements.

          (1)  Consolidated Financial Statements:

               Independent  Auditors'  Report  on  Consolidated
               Financial Statements

               Consolidated Balance Sheets -
               January 1, 2000 and January 2, 1999

               Consolidated Statements of Operations -
               Years Ended January 1, 2000, January 2, 1999  and
                 January 3, 1998

               Consolidated Statements of Changes In Equity
               Years Ended January 1, 2000, January 2, 1999 and
                 January 3, 1998

               Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
               Years Ended January 1, 2000, January 2, 1999 and
                 January 3, 1998

               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

          (2)  The following financial statement,
               schedule and independent auditors' report
               on financial statement schedule of the
               Registrant for the three-year period ended
               January 1, 2000 are included herein:

               Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts,

               Independent Auditors' Report on Consolidated
               Financial Statement Schedule.

All  other schedules are omitted, as the required information  is
inapplicable  or the information is presented in the consolidated
financial statements or related notes.

          (3)  The exhibits required to be filed by this item are set forth
               below:

Number          Description
- ------          -----------

3(a)            Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  of  the
                Registrant,  (filed  as Exhibit  3(i)  to  Registrant's
                Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the year ended  June
                29, 1996 and hereby incorporated by reference).

3(b)            Bylaws,  as amended (filed as Exhibit  3  to  the
                Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the  six
                months ended June 30, 1995, and hereby incorporated  by
                reference).



4(a)            Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of
                March  12,  1999,  between Cerner Corporation  and  UMB
                Bank,  n.a., as Rights Agents, which includes the  Form
                of Certificate of Designation, Preferences and  Rights
                of  Series A Preferred Stock of Cerner Corporation,  as
                Exhibit  A,  and  the  Form of Rights  Certificate,  as
                Exhibit  B (filed as an Exhibit to Registrant's current
                report   on  Form  8-A/A  dated  March  31,  1999   and
                incorporated herein by reference).

4(b)            Specimen stock certificate (filed as Exhibit 4(a)
                to  Registrant's  Registration Statement  on  Form  S-8
                (File  No. 33-15156) and hereby incorporated herein  by
                reference).

4(c)            Credit  Agreement between Cerner Corporation  and
                Mercantile  Bank dated April 1, 1999 (filed as  Exhibit
                4(d) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                year  ended  January  2, 1999, and hereby  incorporated
                herein by reference).

10(a)          Incentive Stock Option Plan C of Registrant (filed
               as  Exhibit 10(f) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
               10-K  for the year ended December 31, 1993, and  hereby
               incorporated herein by reference).*

10(b)          Indemnification Agreements between the Registrant
               and  Neal  L. Patterson, Clifford W. Illig,  Gerald  E.
               Bisbee, Jr., Ph.D. and Thomas C. Tinstman, M.D., (filed
               as  Exhibit 10(i) to Registrant's Annual report on Form
               10-K  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  1992,   and
               incorporated herein by reference).*

10(c)          Indemnification  Agreement  between  Michael  E.
               Herman  and  Registrant (filed as Exhibit  10(i)(a)  to
               Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the year
               ended   June  29,  1996  and  hereby  incorporated   by
               reference).*

10(d)          Indemnification  Agreement   between   John   C.
               Danforth, and Registrant (filed as Exhibit 10(i)(b)  to
               Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the year
               ended   June  29,  1996  and  hereby  incorporated   by
               reference).*

10(e)          Indemnification  Agreement   between   Jeff   C.
               Goldsmith, Ph.D. and Registrant.*

10(f)          Amended Stock Option Plan D of Registrant  (filed
               as Exhibit 10 (g) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
               10-K  for  the year ended January 3, 1998,  and  hereby
               incorporated by reference).*

10(g)          Stock  Option  Plan  E  of Registrant  (filed  as
               Exhibit 10(h) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-
               K  for  the  year  ended January 3,  1998,  and  hereby
               incorporated by reference).*

10(h)          Cerner Performance Plan for 1999 (filed as Exhibit
               10(j)  to  Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the year ended January 2, 1999, and hereby incorporated
               herein by reference).*

10(i)          Cerner Performance Plan for 2000.*

10(j)          Long-Term  Incentive  Plan  for  1999  (filed  as
               Exhibit 10(l) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-
               K  for  the  year  ended January 2,  1999,  and  hereby
               incorporated herein by reference).*

10(k)          Promissory Note of Jack A. Newman, Jr. (filed  as
               Exhibit 10(m) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-
               K  for  the  year  ended January 2,  1999,  and  hereby
               incorporated herein by reference)*



10(l)          Promissory Notes of Earl H. Devanny, III.*

10(m)          Promissory Note of Glenn P. Tobin, Ph.D. (filed as
               Exhibit 10(o) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-
               K  for  the  year  ended January 2,  1999,  and  hereby
               incorporated herein by reference).*

10(n)          Cerner Corporation Executive Stock Purchase  Plan
               (filed  as  Exhibit  4(g) to Registrant's  Registration
               Statement  on Form S-8 (File No. 333-77029) and  hereby
               incorporated herein by reference).*

10(o)          Form   of  Stock  Pledge  Agreement  for  Cerner
               Corporation  Executive Stock Purchase  Plan  (filed  as
               Exhibit 4(h) to Registrant's Registration Statement  on
               Form  S-8  (File No. 333-77029) and hereby incorporated
               herein by reference).*

10(p)          Form  of  Promissory Note for Cerner  Corporation
               Executive Stock Purchase Plan (filed as Exhibit 4(i) to
               Registrant's Registration Statement on Form  S-8  (File
               No.  333-77029)  and  hereby  incorporated  herein   by
               reference).*

10(q)          Employment Agreement of Earl H. Devanny, III.*

10(r)          Employment Agreement of Glenn P. Tobin, Ph.D.*

10(s)          Employment Agreement of Stanley M. Sword.*

11             Computation of Registrant's Earnings Per Share.
               (Exhibit omitted.  Information contained in notes to
               consolidated financial statements.)

21             Subsidiaries of Registrant.

23             Consent of Independent Auditors.

27             Financial Data Schedule.


* Management  contracts  or compensatory  plans  or  arrangements
  required to be identified by Item 14(a)(3).

          (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

      Reports on form 8-K were filed on March 18, 1999, April 23,
      1999 and September 28, 1999.

          (c)  Exhibits.

      The  response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as  a
      separate section of this report.

          (d)  Financial Statement Schedules.

      The  response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as  a
      separate section of this report.



                           SIGNATURES

Pursuant  to  the  requirements of Section 13  or  15(d)  of  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly  caused
this  report  to  be  signed on its behalf  by  the  undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

                              CERNER CORPORATION


Dated:  March 27, 2000        By: /s/Neal L.Patterson
                                 --------------------------
                                  Neal L. Patterson
                                  Chairman   of  the  Board   and
                                  Chief Executive Officer


Pursuant  to the requirements of the Securities Exchange  Act  of
1934,  this report has been signed below by the following persons
on  behalf  of the registrant and in the capacities  and  on  the
dates indicated:

          Signature and Title                              Date
          -------------------                              ----



____/s/Neal L. Patterson_________________             March 27, 2000
Neal L. Patterson, Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)



____/s/Clifford W. Illig_________________            March 27, 2000
Clifford W. Illig, Vice Chairman and Director



____/s/Marc G. Naughton__________________            March 27, 2000
Marc G. Naughton, Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)


____/s/Michael E. Herman_________________            March 27, 2000
Michael E. Herman, Director



____/s/Gerald E. Bisbee___________________           March 27, 2000
Gerald E. Bisbee, Jr., Ph.D., Director



____/s/Thomas C. Tinstman__________________          March 27, 2000
Thomas C. Tinstman, M.D., Senior Vice President and Director




____/s/John C. Danforth____________________          March 27, 2000
John C. Danforth, Director


____/s/Jeff C. Goldsmith___________________          March 27, 2000
Jeff C. Goldsmith, Ph.D., Director





Independent Auditors' Report
- ------------------------------------------------------------------



The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Cerner Corporation:



We  have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets  of
Cerner  Corporation and subsidiaries as of January  1,  2000  and
January  2,  1999,   and the related consolidated  statements  of
operations,  changes in equity, and cash flows for  each  of  the
years  in  the  three-year period ended January 1,  2000.   These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility  of  the
Company's  management.   Our  responsibility  is  to  express  an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based  on  our
audits.

We  conducted  our  audits in accordance with generally  accepted
auditing  standards.  Those standards require that  we  plan  and
perform  the  audit to obtain reasonable assurance about  whether
the  financial statements are free of material misstatement.   An
audit  includes  examining, on a test basis, evidence  supporting
the  amounts  and  disclosures in the financial  statements.   An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used  and
significant  estimates made by management, as well as  evaluating
the  overall  financial statement presentation.  We believe  that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to
above  present  fairly, in all material respects,  the  financial
position of Cerner Corporation and subsidiaries as of January  1,
2000 and January 2, 1999, and the results of their operations and
their  cash flows for each of the years in the three-year  period
ended  January  1,  2000, in conformity with  generally  accepted
accounting principles.



KPMG LLP

Kansas City, Missouri
February 14, 2000



Management's Report
- -----------------------------------------------------------------


The  management  of  Cerner Corporation is  responsible  for  the
consolidated  financial  statements  and  all  other  information
presented  in  this report.  The financial statements  have  been
prepared   in  conformity  with  generally  accepted   accounting
principles  appropriate  to  the circumstances,  and,  therefore,
included in the financial statements are certain amounts based on
management's  informed estimates and judgments.  Other  financial
information  in  this  report  is consistent  with  that  in  the
consolidated  financial  statements.  The consolidated  financial
statements  have been audited by Cerner Corporation's independent
certified public accountants and have been reviewed by the  audit
committee of the Board of Directors.




Consolidated Balance Sheets
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
January 1, 2000 and January 2, 1999



See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Consolidated Statements of Operations
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For the years ended January 1, 2000, January 2, 1999, and January 3, 1998



See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For the years ended January 1, 2000, January 2, 1999, and January 3, 1998



See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For years ended January 1, 2000, January 2, 1999, and January 3, 1998



See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

(a)   Principles  of  Consolidation - The consolidated  financial
statements  include  the accounts of Cerner Corporation  and  its
wholly   owned  subsidiaries  (the  Company).   All   significant
intercompany  transactions and balances have been  eliminated  in
consolidation.

(b)   Revenue  Recognition - Revenues are derived primarily  from
the  sale  of  clinical  information systems.  The  Company  also
provides  project  implementation and  consulting  services.   In
addition, revenue is generated from servicing installed  clinical
information systems, which generally includes support of software
and  maintenance  of hardware.  The Company also derives  revenue
from the sale of computer hardware.

Clinical   information  system  sales  contracts  are  negotiated
separately  and generally include the licensing of the  Company's
clinical  information  system software, project-related  services
associated with the installation of the systems, and the sale  of
computer  hardware.  Clinical information system sales  contracts
are  noncancelable and provide for a right of return only in  the
event the system fails to meet the performance criteria set forth
in  the contracts.  The Company recognizes revenue from sales  of
clinical  information  systems using  a  percentage-of-completion
method based on meeting key milestone events over the term of the
contracts   in  accordance  with  Statement  of  Position   97-2,
"Software Revenue Recognition".  Revenue recognized is limited to
amounts to be billed within one year.

Revenue  associated  with project implementation  and  consulting
services  is  recognized as the services are performed.   Revenue
from  the  licensing  of additional software is  recognized  upon
installation  at  the client's site.  Revenue from  the  sale  of
computer  hardware  is  recognized upon shipment.   Revenue  from
ongoing  software support and equipment maintenance is recognized
as the services are rendered.

(c)  Fiscal Year - The Company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday
closest   to   December  31.   Fiscal  years   1999   and   1998,
respectively,  consisted of 52 weeks each, and fiscal  year  1997
consisted of 53 weeks.  All references to years in these notes to
consolidated  financial statements represent fiscal years  unless
otherwise noted.

(d)   Software  Development Costs - Costs incurred internally  in
creating   computer   software  products   are   expensed   until
technological feasibility has been established upon completion of
a  detail  program design.  Thereafter, all software  development
costs  are capitalized and subsequently reported at the lower  of
amortized  cost or net realizable value.  Capitalized  costs  are
amortized  based on current and future revenue for  each  product
with  minimum  annual  amortization equal  to  the  straight-line
amortization  over the estimated economic life  of  the  product.
The  Company  is amortizing capitalized costs on a  straight-line
basis  over five years.  During 1999, 1998, and 1997, the Company
capitalized    $30,192,000,   $25,052,000,    and    $18,373,000,
respectively, of total software development costs of $88,699,000,
$74,159,000,   and    $54,524,000,  respectively.    Amortization
expense of capitalized software development costs in 1999,  1998,
and   1997   was   $14,156,000,  $10,647,000,   and   $7,935,000,
respectively,  and  accumulated  amortization  was   $57,698,000,
$43,542,000, and $32,895,000, respectively.

(e)   Cash  Equivalents - Cash equivalents consist of  short-term
marketable  securities with original maturities less than  ninety
days.

(f)   Investments - The Company accounts for its  investments  in
equity securities which have readily determinable fair values  as
available-for-sale.  Available-for-sale securities  are  reported
at  fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported, net  of
tax,  as  a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive
income.   Investments in the common stock of  certain  affiliates
over which the Company exerts significant influence are accounted
for by the equity method.  Investments in other equity securities
are  reported at cost.  All equity securities are reviewed by the
Company  for  declines  in  fair value.   If  such



declines  are  considered  to  be  other  than temporary, the cost
basis  of  the individual  security  is written down to fair value
as a  new   cost  basis, and  the  amount  of  the  write-down  is
included in earnings.

(g)    Inventory  -  Inventory  consists  primarily  of  computer
hardware  held  for resale and is recorded at the lower  of  cost
(first-in, first-out) or market.

(h)   Property and Equipment - Property, equipment, and leasehold
improvements  are stated at cost.  Depreciation of  property  and
equipment is computed using the straight-line method over periods
of  5  to  39  years.  Amortization of leasehold improvements  is
computed using a straight-line method over the lease terms, which
range from periods of two to twelve years.

(i)   Earnings per Common Share - Basic earnings per share  (EPS)
excludes dilution and is computed by dividing income available to
common  stockholders  by the weighted-average  number  of  common
shares  outstanding  for the period.  Diluted  EPS  reflects  the
potential  dilution  that  could occur  if  securities  or  other
contracts to issue stock were exercised or converted into  common
stock  or  resulted  in the issuance of common  stock  that  then
shared  in the earnings of the Company.  A reconciliation of  the
numerators  and  the denominators of the basic and  diluted  per-
share computations is as follows:



Options to purchase 3,185,000, 1,652,000 and 1,149,000 shares  of
common  stock at per share prices ranging from $17.50 to  $31.00,
$25.00  to $31.00, and $21.50 to $31.00 were outstanding  at  the
end  of  1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, but were not included
in  the  computation of diluted earnings per  share  because  the
options' exercise price was greater than the average market price
of the common shares.



(j)   Foreign  Currency  -  Assets  and  liabilities  in  foreign
currencies are translated into dollars at rates prevailing at the
balance  sheet  date.  Revenues and expenses  are  translated  at
average  rates  for  the  year.   The  net  exchange  differences
resulting  from  these translations are reported  in  accumulated
other  comprehensive  income.  Gains and  losses  resulting  from
foreign  currency  transactions are included in the  consolidated
statements  of  earnings.   The net gain  (loss)  resulting  from
foreign  currency  transactions  was  $95,000,  ($673,000),   and
($762,000) in 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.

(k)   Income  Taxes  -  Deferred tax assets and  liabilities  are
recognized  for  the  future  tax  consequences  attributable  to
differences between the financial statement carrying  amounts  of
existing  assets and liabilities and their respective tax  bases.
Deferred  tax  assets and liabilities are measured using  enacted
tax  rates  expected to apply to taxable income in the  years  in
which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or
settled.

(l)    Goodwill  -  Excess  of  cost  over  net  assets  acquired
(goodwill) is being amortized on a straight-line basis over seven
to  eight  years.   Accumulated amortization was  $5,387,000  and
$4,037,000  at  the  end  of 1999 and  1998,  respectively.   The
Company   assesses  the  recoverability  of  goodwill  based   on
forecasted undiscounted future operating cash flows.

(m)   Use  of Estimates - The preparation of financial statements
in  conformity  with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure  of
contingent  assets and liabilities at the date of  the  financial
statements  and  the  reported amounts of revenues  and  expenses
during  the  reporting period.  Actual results could differ  from
those estimates.

2    Acquisition of Business

On  March  16, 1998, the Company purchased all of the outstanding
common  stock  of Multum Information Systems, Inc., (Multum)  for
$6.9 million.  Multum is a supplier to the healthcare industry of
drug  knowledge  databases  and intelligent  software  components
designed to improve the quality and cost-effectiveness of medical
care.  The Company plans to incorporate Multum's drug information
and  expert dosing component into its Health Network Architecture
Millennium  solutions  to  enable Multum's  expert  knowledge  to
become executable within the process of care delivery.

The  acquisition has been accounted for using the purchase method
of  accounting with the operating results of Multum  included  in
the  Company's consolidated statement of earnings since the  date
of  acquisition.  Approximately $5,000,000 of the purchase  price
was allocated to in-process research and development that had not
reached  technological feasibility and was treated as a  one-time
charge  to  earnings reducing after tax income for 1998  by  $3.1
million  or  $.09 per share on a diluted basis.  This acquisition
would  not  have materially affected revenues, net  earnings,  or
earnings per share on a pro forma basis for any period presented.

The  acquired  in-process  research and  development  related  to
Multum's  component based, drug information software  development
kit   (SDK)  for  use  in  clinical  information  systems.    Its
components  are  designed for use in a variety of  configurations
and  to  provide  complete control over  the  retrieval  of  drug
information   from   Multum's  knowledge  databases.    SDK   was
approximately 80% complete at the time of the acquisition.   When
Multum was acquired, it was projected that SDK would be completed
in  12-18 months at an estimated cost of $1.9 million. The  risks
associated  with  completing  SDK are  like  any  other  software
development  project  and  include  changes  in  technology   and
competition.   The  SDK  project  was  valued  using  the  income
approach  with  the  following  assumptions:  material  net  cash
inflows  are  expected to commence in 2000; no  material  changes
from   historical   pricing,  margins  or  expense   levels   are
anticipated; and, a 20% risk adjusted discount rate  was  applied
to  estimated net cash flows.  SDK was approximately 90% complete
at the end of 1998 and was completed in 1999.



The allocation of the purchase price to the estimated fair values
of  the  identified tangible and intangible assets  acquired  and
liabilities  assumed, resulted in goodwill  of  $1,581,000.   The
goodwill is being amortized straight-line over seven years.

3    Receivables

Receivables   consist  of  accounts  receivable   and   contracts
receivable.  Accounts receivable represent recorded revenues that
have   been  billed.   Contracts  receivable  represent  recorded
revenues  that are billable by the Company at future dates  under
the  terms  of  a  contract with a client.   Billings  and  other
consideration received on contracts in excess of related revenues
recognized under the percentage-of-completion method are recorded
as deferred revenue.   A summary of receivables is as follows:



Substantially all receivables are derived from sales and  related
support  and  maintenance of the Company's  clinical  information
systems  to  healthcare providers located throughout  the  United
States and in certain foreign countries.  Included in receivables
at  the  end  of  1999 and 1998 are amounts due  from  healthcare
providers  located  in  foreign  countries  of  $17,704,000   and
$12,071,000, respectively.  Consolidated revenues include foreign
sales  of $24,001,000, $17,545,000, and $16,272,000, during 1999,
1998, and 1997, respectively.  Consolidated long-lived assets  at
the  end of 1999 and 1998,  include foreign long-lived assets  of
$638,000  and  $290,000, respectively.  Revenues  and  long-lived
assets from any one foreign country are not material.

The  Company  provides  an allowance for estimated  uncollectible
accounts   based  upon  historical  experience  and  management's
judgment.   At  the  end  of  1999 and  1998  the  allowance  for
estimated  uncollectible accounts was $4,759,000 and  $3,405,000,
respectively.

4    Property and Equipment

A  summary  of  property,  equipment, and leasehold  improvements
stated  at  cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization,
is as follows:





5    Investments

Investments consist of the following:



Included  in  the  Company's  investments  is  the  ownership  of
13,149,259  shares (18.7%)  of common stock, of CareInsite,  Inc.
("CareInsite"),    formerly   known   as    Synetic    Healthcare
Communications, Inc.  which have a cost basis of $81,804,000  and
a  carrying value of $248,821,000 at January 1, 2000.  12,437,500
of  these shares were received in 1998 as consideration  for  the
sale  of license software, and an additional 711,759 shares  were
purchased in 1999.  The value assigned to the shares acquired  in
1998  was  $70,000,000  and  was based  on  a  methodology  which
utilized  both  a comparable company and the expected  underlying
discounted  future  cash  flows.  On June  16,  1999,  CareInsite
undertook an initial public offering of common stock.  The common
stock of CareInsite is traded in the public market and listed  on
the  Nasdaq National Market.  The stock of CareInsite held by the
Company  is  not  registered and is subject  to  certain  lock-up
provisions.   A  permanent impairment in the value of  CareInsite
common  stock would result in a charge to earnings in either  the
then current or future periods.  There would be no effect on cash
flows  because the revenue was earned through contractual  rights
granted  in  exchange for CareInsite stock.  An increase  in  the
value  of  the CareInsite stock would have no effect on  reported
earnings.  The Company has not engaged in equity swaps  or  other
hedging  techniques  to manage the equity risk  inherent  in  the
CareInsite shares.

Under  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  no.   115
"Accounting   for   Certain  Investments  in  Debt   and   Equity
Securities" (SFAS No. 115), the Company is required  to  mark  to
market  those  shares which are classified as available-for-sale.
Additionally,  SFAS  No. 115 requires shares  that  are  eligible
under  Rule 144 for public sale within a twelve month  period  be
considered  as available-for-sale.  Under Rule 144, as  currently
in  effect, a person who has beneficially owned shares of  common
stock for at least one year would be entitled to sell within  any
three-month  period a number of shares that does not  exceed  the
greater  of  1%  of  the number of shares of  common  stock  then
outstanding and the average weekly trading volume of  the  common
stock during the four preceding calendar weeks.  As of January 1,
2000,  the  Company  has  marked to market  2,230,700  shares  of
CareInsite  common  stock, with a market value  of  $179,571,000,
that  are  considered available-for-sale under Rule 144 and  SFAS
No. 115.    All  CareInsite  shares  the  Company  owns  will  be
considered  available-for-sale and be marked  to  market  in  the
first  quarter of 2000.  If all shares were eligible to be marked
to  market  at  January  1,  2000,  the  market  value  would  be
$1,058,515,000.

If  the  Company realizes certain performance metrics related  to
specified levels of physician usage, CareInsite will issue to the
Company  2,503,125 shares of common stock at a price of $.01  per
share  ("Performance Shares").  The measurement date is  February
15,  2001.  No  amounts have been recognized in the  consolidated
financial  statements  for  the Performance  Shares  due  to  the
uncertainty of the future events.

The  Company  was  also granted, by CareInsite, 1,008,445  common
stock  warrants with an exercise price of $4.00 per share ("THINC
Warrants").   The THINC  Warrants were exercisable  only  in  the
event  that  The  Health  Information  Network  Connections,  LLC
("THINC")  exercised warrants granted to them  by



CareInsite  at $4.00  per share.  THINC  was  allowed to exercise
their  warrants  180  days  after  the initial public offering of
CareInsite.   On  January  29,  2000  CareInsite  completed    an
acquisition  of  THINC. As  part  of  that agreement, 806,756  of
the  1,008,445  THINC Warrants  became  immediately  exercisable,
with  the  remaining amount forfeited.  The THINC Warrants expire
in three years.

On  February  13,  2000 CareInsite entered into an  agreement  to
merge with Healtheon/WebMD  Corporation ("Merger Agreement").  As
part of the Merger Agreement, the Company will receive 1.3 shares
of Healtheon/WebMD  Corporation in exchange for each common share
of  CareInsite held by the Company.  In addition the  Performance
Shares   will   be  adjusted   at    a  rate  of  1.3  shares  of
Healtheon/WebMD  Corporation  for  each share of CareInsite.  All
physician users of systems of Healtheon/WebMD Corporation or  its
affiliates shall  be  included  for  purposes of determining  the
specified levels  of  physician  usage.  The THINC Warrants  will
also  be  adjusted  at  a  rate  of 1.3 shares of Healtheon/WebMD
Corporation for each share of CareInsite.  The proposed merger of
CareInsite and Healtheon/WebMD Corporation ("Merger") is  subject
to shareholder and regulatory approval.  There  is  no  guarantee
the Merger will close.

The  Company  has agreed under terms of the Merger  Agreement  to
certain  lock-up provisions, which differ from the terms  of  its
lock-up  provisions with CareInsite.  The Merger is  expected  to
close  in  the second quarter of 2000.  If the Merger closes  the
Company  will  record  the  Healtheon/WebMD   Corporation  shares
received  at  their then fair value and recognize a gain  on  the
disposition of the CareInsite shares.  Based on proposed  lock-up
provisions, 50% of the Healtheon/WebMD  Corporation shares  would
thereafter be considered available-for-sale and would  be  marked
to  market  at each balance sheet date.  The remainder  would  be
carried at cost until the third quarter of 2000.

The  Company owns 50% of Health Network Ventures ("HNV"), a joint
venture  investment  which  is accounted  for  under  the  equity
method.   Under  the  terms of the joint venture  agreement,  the
Company may require its partner to sell to the Company its  share
of  HNV  for $12,000,000, subject to certain adjustments,  ("Call
Option") at anytime after July 1, 2000.  In addition the  partner
may  require  the  Company  to purchase  its  share  of  HNV  for
$6,000,000, subject to certain adjustments, ("Put Option") at any
time after July 1, 2000.

6    Indebtedness

The Company has a loan agreement with a bank that provides for  a
long-term  revolving line of credit for working capital purposes.
The  long-term revolving line of credit is unsecured and requires
monthly  payments of interest only.  Interest is payable  at  the
Company's  option at a rate based on prime (8.5%  at  January  1,
2000)  or  LIBOR  (6.5%  at January 1,  2000)  plus  1.5%.   The
interest  rate may be reduced by up to .4% if certain  net  worth
ratios  are maintained.  At January 1, 2000, the Company  had  no
outstanding borrowings  under  this agreement and had $18,000,000
available  for working capital purposes.  The agreement  contains
certain  net  worth,  current ratio, and  fixed  charge  coverage
covenants  and  provides certain restrictions  on  the  Company's
ability  to  borrow, incur liens, sell assets, and pay dividends.
A  commitment  fee of 3/10% is payable quarterly  on  the  unused
portion of the revolving line of credit.

On  April 15, 1999, the Company completed a $100,000,000  private
placement  of  debt pursuant to a Note Agreement dated  April  1,
1999.   The  Series A Senior Notes, with a $60,000,000  principal
amount  at  7.14%  are payable in five equal annual  installments
beginning  in  April  2002.  The Series B Senior  Notes,  with  a
$40,000,000  principal amount at 7.66% are payable in  six  equal
annual installments beginning April 2004.  The proceeds were used
to  retire  the Company's existing $30,000,000 of debt,  and  the
remaining funds will be used for proposed capital improvements and
to  strengthen  the Company's cash position.  In connection  with
the  early  extinguishment  of  debt,  the  Company  incurred  an
extraordinary  loss  for a prepayment penalty  and  write-off  of
deferred  loan  costs  of  $1,395,000  net  of  taxes.  The  note
agreement  contains certain net worth, current ratio,  and  fixed
charge  coverage  covenants and provides certain restrictions  on
the  Company's ability to borrow, incur liens, sell  assets,  and
pay  dividends.  The Company was in compliance with all covenants
at January 1, 2000.




The  fair value of the Company's Senior Notes approximates  their
carrying value at January 1, 2000 based on current rates  offered
to  the  Company  for  similar  debt  instruments  of  comparable
maturities.

7   Interest Income and Expense

A summary of interest income and expense is as follows:



8   Stock Options and Warrants

At  January  1,  2000, the Company had four  fixed  stock  option
plans.   Under  Stock Option Plan B, the Company could  grant  to
associates options to purchase up to 5,600,000 shares  of  common
stock through November 30, 1993.  The options are exercisable  at
the  fair  market  value  on  the date  of  grant  for  a  period
determined  by  the Board of Directors (not more than  ten  years
from  the date granted).  The options contain restrictions as  to
transferability   and   exercisability   after   termination   of
employment.

Under Stock Option Plan C, the Company is authorized to grant  to
associates  options  to purchase up to 95,000  shares  of  common
stock  through May 18, 2003.  The options are exercisable at  the
fair market value on the date of grant for a period determined by
the  Board  of Directors (not more than ten years from  the  date
granted).  The options contain restrictions as to transferability
and  exercisability after termination of employment.  The Company
has  committed  not to issue any more stock options  under  Stock
Option Plan C.

Initially  under Stock Option Plan D, the Company was  authorized
to  grant  to associates, directors, consultants, or advisors  to
the  Company options to purchase up to 2,600,000 shares of common
stock  through  January 1, 2005.  An additional 2,000,000  shares
were  approved  by the Company's shareholders on  May  22,  1998,
increasing  the  total authorized to grant to  4,600,000  shares.
The options are exercisable at a price (not less than fair market
value on the date of grant) and during a period determined by the
Stock  Option Committee.  Options under this plan currently  vest
over  periods of up to ten years and are exercisable for  periods
of up to 25 years.

Under Stock Option Plan E, the Company is authorized to grant  to
associates  (other  than officers subject to  the  provisions  of
Section  16(a)  of  the  Securities and Exchange  Act  of  1934),
consultants, or advisors to the Company options to purchase up to
2,000,000  shares of common stock through January 1,  2005.   The
options  are  exercisable at a price (not less than  fair  market
value on the date of grant) and during a period determined by the
Stock  Option Committee.  Options under this plan currently  vest
over  periods of up to ten years and are exercisable for  periods
of up to 25 years.

The  Company  has also granted 210,362 other non-qualified  stock
options  under  separate  agreements to  certain  third  parties.
These options are exercisable at a price equal to or greater than
the  fair market value on the date of grant.  These options  vest
over  periods of up to six years and are exercisable for  periods
of up to ten years.

The  Company  accounts for stock options in accordance  with  the
provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion  No.  25,
"Accounting   for  Stock  Issued  to  Employees",   and   related
interpretations.  As such, compensation expense  is  recorded  on
the  date  of  grant  only if the current  market  price  of  the
underlying  stock exceeds the exercise price.   On  December  31,
1995,  the  Company  adopted Statement  of



Financial    Accounting  Standards  No.  123,  "Accounting    for
Stock-Based Compensation" (FAS 123),    which permits entities to
recognize as expense  over  the vesting  period the fair value of
all stock-based awards  on  the date  of  grant.   Alternatively,
FAS   123   allows   entities   to   continue  to     apply   the
provisions of APB  Opinion  No.  25  and  provide  pro  forma net
earnings  and  pro  forma  earnings  per  share  disclosures  for
employee stock option grants made  in  1995  and  future years as
if the  fair-value-based  method  defined  in  FAS  123 had  been
applied.  The  Company  has  elected  to  continue to  apply  the
provisions  of  APB  Opinion  No.  25   and   provide  the    pro
forma disclosure provisions of FAS 123.

A  combined  summary  of the status of the Company's  four  fixed
stock  option plans and other stock options at the end  of  1999,
1998, and 1997, and changes during these years ended is presented
below:



The  following table summarizes information about fixed and other
stock options outstanding at January 1, 2000.



The  per  share  weighted-average fair  value  of  stock  options
granted during 1999, 1998 and 1997 was $10.88, $14.97 and $10.99,
respectively, on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option-
pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions:



Since  the  Company applies APB Opinion No. 25 in accounting  for
its plans, no compensation cost has been recognized for its stock
options   issued   to  employees.   Had  the   Company   recorded
compensation  expense based on the fair value at the  grant  date
for  its  stock options under FAS 123, the Company's net earnings
and earnings per share on a diluted basis would have been reduced
by   approximately  $3,922,000  or  $.12  per  share   in   1999,
approximately  $5,929,000  or  $.18  per  share   in   1998   and
approximately $3,965,000 or $.12 per share in 1997.



Pro forma net earnings reflect only options granted since January
1,  1995.  Therefore, the full impact of calculating compensation
expense for stock options under FAS 123 is not reflected  in  the
pro   forma   net  earnings  amounts  presented  above,   because
compensation  cost is reflected over the options' vesting  period
of ten years for these options.  Compensation expense for options
granted prior to January 1, 1995 is not considered.

In  November  1998,  the Company entered into an  agreement  with
General  Electric Company (GE) to integrate the Company's  Health
Network  Architecture  Millennium  RadNet  Radiology  Information
System with GE Medical Systems' Picture Archive and Communication
Systems  technology.   In  conjunction with  the  agreement,  the
Company  sold  GE 670,000 shares of common stock for  $14,874,000
and granted warrants for the purchase of 500,000 shares of common
stock  at an exercise price equal to the fair value of the  stock
at  the  grant  date  ($25.49).  The warrants become  exercisable
provided  certain  conditions are met, including  achievement  of
certain levels of revenue.  The warrants expire after seven years
or thirty days after termination of the agreement.

9  Income Taxes

Income  tax expense (benefit) before extraordinary item  for  the
years ended 1999, 1998, and 1997, consists of the following:




The effective income tax rates for 1999, 1998, and 1997 were 39%,
38%,  and  38%, respectively.  These effective rates differ  from
the federal statutory rate of 35% as follows:



Income  taxes  payable are reduced by the tax  benefit  resulting
from  disqualifying  dispositions of  stock  acquired  under  the
Company's stock option plans.  The 1999, 1998, and 1997  benefits
of $594,000, $621,000, and $521,000, respectively, are treated as
increases to additional paid-in capital.

10  Foundations Retirement Plan

The Cerner Corporation Foundations Retirement Plan (the Plan)  is
established  under Section 401(k) of the Internal  Revenue  Code.
All   full-time   associates   are   eligible   to   participate.
Participants may elect to make pretax contributions  from  1%  to
15%  of  compensation to the Plan, subject to annual  limitations
determined  by  the Internal Revenue Service.   Participants  may
direct contributions into mutual funds, a money market fund, or a
Company stock fund.  The Company makes matching contributions  to
the Plan, on behalf of participants, in an amount equal to 20% of
the  participant's contribution, limited to an annual maximum  of
$600  per  participant.   The  Company's  expense  for  the  plan
amounted to $1,187,000, $1,005,000, and $761,000 for 1999,  1998,
and 1997, respectively.



11   Related Party Transactions

In  1999,  the Company loaned $3,628,000 to the Company's  senior
management  under  the  terms  of the  Executive  Stock  Purchase
Program  ("Program").  The purpose of the Program is  to  advance
the  interests  of the Company, the Company's senior  management,
and  the Company's shareholders by offering the Company's  senior
management an incentive to purchase shares of the Company's stock
on  the  open  market.   Pursuant to  the  Program,  the  Company
provided Program loans to executives to help finance up to 50% of
the  total  purchase price of the stock purchased.   All  Program
loans have a term of five (5) years, at an interest rate of 5.5%.
Principal  and interest is not due until the end of the five-year
loan   term,   unless   the   executive  terminates   employment.
Executives may also elect to pay interest annually.  If  interest
is  not  paid  annually, it will compound annually.  All  Program
loans are secured by the purchased shares and any pledged shares.

12  Commitments

The  Company leases space to unrelated parties in its Kansas City
headquarters   complex  under  noncancelable  operating   leases.
Included  in  other  revenues  is rental  income  of  $1,005,000,
$1,795,000, and $1,694,000 in 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.

The  Company is committed under operating leases for office space
through  December  2004.  Rent expense for office  and  warehouse
space  for  the Company's regional and international offices  for
1999,  1998, and 1997 was $2,226,000, $1,847,000, and $1,759,000,
respectively.   Future minimum lease revenues (in thousands)  and
aggregate  minimum  future payments (in  thousands)  under  these
noncancelable operating leases are as follows:



In  December, 1999, the Company made a decision to close five  of
its  branch  offices.   The  Company created  a  regional  branch
structure  in  1994 in order to bring associates  closer  to  its
clients.  The natural evolution of that strategy and the  ability
to  leverage  internal information technology  infrastructure  to
create  a  more  virtual workplace has resulted in a  significant
decrease in utilization of certain regional offices. This led  to
the  decision  to  close these physical locations.   The  Company
recorded  a  charge of $1.4 million in sales and  client  service
expenses  in the 1999 fourth quarter to provide for the costs  of
closing  these  locations,  primarily based  on  estimated  lease
cancellation fees.  The Company will continue to maintain offices
in  Denver,  Detroit  and Australia, in  addition  to  the  world
headquarters in Kansas City, Missouri.

13     Stockholders' Equity

At  the end of 1999 and 1998, the Company had 1,000,000 shares of
authorized but unissued preferred stock, $.01 par value.



14  Quarterly Results (unaudited)

Selected quarterly financial data for 1999 and 1998 is set forth below:



(1) In  the  second  quarter of 1999, the Company  incurred  an
    extraordinary  loss  on  the early extinguishment  of  debt  of
    $1,395,000, net of taxes of $865,000.   Earnings, basic earnings
    per   share,  and  diluted  earnings  per  share,  before   the
    extraordinary item for the second quarter of 1999 were $260,000,
    $0.01, and $0.01, respectively.

(2) See  note 12 regarding a non-recurring charge in the fourth
    quarter  of 1999.  The fourth quarter of 1999 also includes  an
    additional  non-recurring charge of $5.8 million, net  of  $3.6
    million tax benefit, for contract reserves.

(3) See note 2 regarding a non-recurring charge in the
    first quarter of 1998.























                   Independent Auditors' Report
                  on Financial Statement Schedule



  The Board of Directors
  Cerner Corporation:


  Under  date  of  February  14,  2000,  we  reported  on   the
  consolidated   balance  sheets  of  Cerner  Corporation   and
  subsidiaries as of January 1, 2000 and January  2,  1999  and
  the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in
  equity,  and cash flows for each of the years in  the  three-
  year   period  ended  January  1,  2000.  These  consolidated
  financial  statements and our report thereon are included  in
  the  Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year  1999.
  In   connection   with  our  audits  of  the   aforementioned
  consolidated financial statements, we also have  audited  the
  related  financial  statement schedule as listed  under  Item
  14(a)(2).   This   financial  statement   schedule   is   the
  responsibility    of    the   Company's    management.    Our
  responsibility  is  to express an opinion on  this  financial
  statement schedule based on our audits.

  In  our  opinion,  this  financial statement  schedule,  when
  considered  in  relation to the basic consolidated  financial
  statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
  respects, the information set forth therein.

                             KPMG LLP

  Kansas City, Missouri
  February 14, 2000

