
10-K
0001.txt






               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                     Washington, D.C.  20549

                            FORM 10-K
(Mark One)

(X)  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

     For the fiscal year ended December 30, 2000

                               OR

( )  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

     For the transition period from _____________ to ___________


                  Commission File Number 0-15386

                       CERNER CORPORATION
     (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

     Delaware                                    43-1196944
 (State or other jurisdiction               (I.R.S. Employer
 of incorporation or organization)          Identification Number)

                        2800 Rockcreek Parkway
                   North Kansas City, Missouri 64117
                           (816) 221-1024
  (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code;
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code)


  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  NONE

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

             Common Stock, par value $.01 per share
                 Preferred Stock Purchase Rights
                        (Title of Class)

      Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
all  reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d)  of  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding  12  months
(or  for such shorter period that the Registrant was required  to
file  such  reports),  and (2) has been subject  to  such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

                     Yes     X      No _____

      Indicate  by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers
pursuant  to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained  herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge,
in  definitive  proxy or information statements  incorporated  by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to  this
Form 10-K.    [X]

      At  March 15, 2001, there were 34,813,821 shares of  Common
Stock  outstanding,  of  which 7,559,789  shares  were  owned  by
affiliates.  The aggregate market value of the outstanding Common
Stock  of  the  Registrant held by non-affiliates, based  on  the
average of bid and asked prices of such stock on March 15,  2001,
was $1,089,309,592.

       Documents  incorporated  by  reference:  portions  of  the
Registrant's  Proxy  Statement for the  2001  Annual  Meeting  of
Stockholders are incorporated by reference in Part III hereof.



PART I

Item 1.  Business

Overview
- - - - --------

Cerner  Corporation  ("Cerner" or the "Company")  is  a  Delaware
corporation  incorporated  in  1980.   The  Company's   principal
offices  are  located  at 2800 Rockcreek  Parkway,  North  Kansas
City, Missouri 64117, and its telephone number is (816) 221-1024.

Cerner  designs, develops, markets, installs, hosts and  supports
software   information  technology  and  content  solutions   for
healthcare organizations and consumers.  Cerner implements  these
solutions as individual, combined or enterprise-wide systems.

Cerner's   integrated  suite  of  solutions   enable   healthcare
providers  to  improve  operating  effectiveness,  reduce  costs,
reduce  medical errors, reduce variances and improve the  quality
of  care as measured by clinical outcomes.  Cerner solutions  are
designed  to  provide  the  appropriate  health  information  and
knowledge  to  caregivers,  clinicians   and  consumers  and  the
appropriate  management information to healthcare  administration
on  a  real-time basis.  Cerner solutions allow secure access  to
data   by  clinical,   administrative  and  financial  users   in
organized  settings  of care and by consumers  from  their  home.
These  solutions can be implemented as a part of  an  enterprise-
wide  solution or individually, leveraging the client's  existing
investment  in  information  technology.   Cerner  solutions  are
available as integrated applications managed by its clients or as
a  service  option  under  the hosted  solutions  model.   Hosted
solutions  are  applications that are provided  to  clients  from
Cerner's solutions center in Lee's Summit, Missouri.

Cerner  solutions  are designed and developed  using  the  Health
Network Architecture (Registered)("HNA"), a single    information
architecture.   HNA  (Registered)  is    a    unified  technology
infrastructure  for combining clinical and management information
applications.     HNA   allows    each   participating healthcare
organization  to  access  an  individual's clinical record at the
point of care, to organize it  for  the  specific  needs  of  the
physician,  nurse,  laboratory technician  or other care provider
on  a  real-time   basis,   and   to   use   the  information  in
management decisions to improve  theefficiency  and  productivity
of  the  entire  enterprise.

Cerner  has developed and is licensing and installing its  newest
generation  of  HNA  solutions known as "Millennium (Trademark)".
See "Cerner's Technology -   Health  Network  Architecture  (HNA)
and   HNA   Millennium"  for   a  discussion  of  HNA  Millennium
(Registered).

Healthcare Industry
- - - - -------------------

The  healthcare delivery industry in the United States is  highly
fragmented,  very  complex  and  remarkably  inefficient.   While
science  and  medical  technology continue  to  make  significant
breakthrough progress in dealing with human disease  and  injury,
the  management and clinical processes of these complex  delivery
organizations have made little progress in the past twenty years.
Even today, the major clinical workflow depends on manual, paper-
based medical record systems augmented by spotty automation. This
has resulted in an industry which is economically inefficient and
produces  significant variances in medical outcomes. In  November
1999, the Institute of Medicine released a report called "To  Err
is  Human"  indicating that medical error is one of the  top  ten
causes  of  death in the United States, with up to  96,000  lives
lost  each  year.  The  industry must  address  these  issues  by
identifying ways to enhance efficiencies and improve the  quality
of care.

The  healthcare  industry has also been buffeted  by  significant
external  forces  during the 1990's. Managed  Care  Organizations
defined  themselves as an intermediary in the flow of  funds  and
exerted  pressure  on  healthcare spending.   In  1997,  Congress
enacted   the   Balanced  Budget  Act  which   reduced   Medicare
reimbursements  to  healthcare providers  by  over  $250  billion
dollars  over  a  five-year period.   The  full  impact  of  this
legislation  hit  in 1999, significantly reducing  the  operating
margins  of  hospitals  and  physician  groups.    The healthcare
industry has also seen the impact of legislative and employer-led
initiatives, such

<PAGE                           2

as  the Leapfrog Group, an organization of large businesses which
recommends that  its  members not send any of their employees  to
hospitals  that do  not use a computerized, physician order-entry
system.   These  pressures  have  forced  healthcare providers to
focus on improving their  systems and processes.

In   order   to  be  competitive  in  this  dynamic  marketplace,
healthcare enterprises will need to deploy information technology
solutions that internally automate the paper-based medical record
systems and externally create smart connections between the major
participants  in  healthcare: the consumer,  the  physician,  the
hospital and the managed care organization. The emergence of near
ubiquitous   Internet   connectivity  will  facilitate   consumer
participation in the healthcare management process.

The  complexity  of  healthcare's information  requirements  will
continue  to  increase  with  provider  consolidations  and   the
challenging  cost containment pressures created  by  the Balanced
Budget  Act.  The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
Act of 1996 (HIPAA) adds an additional element of uncertainty for
healthcare    organizations   around   security    and    patient
confidentiality.  The final health data privacy regulations  were
published in December 2000, and require compliance by April 2003.
While  many  of the rules under HIPAA have not been finalized  as
yet,  the  provisions are focused on a centralized and systematic
method  of  access control that Cerner thinks is best  met  by  a
single integrated architecture.

Cerner is responding to the changing and increasing needs of  the
healthcare  industry for better information systems by developing
HNA Millennium, its latest generation of solutions. See "Cerner's
Technology   -   Health  Network  Architecture  (HNA)   and   HNA
Millennium" for a discussion of HNA Millennium.

The Cerner Vision
- - - - -----------------

Cerner's  business and products are organized  around  a  central
vision  of how healthcare can and should operate. This vision  is
founded on four steps:

*    Automate the core processes  of  healthcare:  eliminate  the
     paper medical record

*    Connect the person: create the personal health system

*    Structure the knowledge: position every clinical decision as
     a learning event

*    Close the loop: implement evidence-based medicine

These  steps  describe  Cerner's business  today  and  plans  for
Cerner's business both in 2001 and beyond.

Automate the Process
- - - - --------------------

Cerner  is  dedicated  to the elimination of  the  paper  medical
record.

Medical care cannot make significant steps forward in quality and
consistency    without  leveraging   the  power  and   advantages
of  information  technology.  As long as medical  information  is
locked  and  isolated in a paper record, a physician is  cut  off
from  rapid, contextual reference to the vast knowledge available
in  today's  medicine.  The elimination of the paper record  will
lead   to   improved  quality  and  safety  of   care,   dramatic
productivity increases and enhanced documentation.

The  electronic  recording of medical information  will  lead  to
improvements  in the quality of care, the safety of patients  and
reduced  costs.  By allowing care providers to access a patient's
single, longitudinal medical record in real-time, clinicians  can
view  demographic information, medical history, lab  results  and
current  conditions  and treatment plans along  with  notes  from
attending  and  consulting physicians.  Guidelines  and  pathways
sensitive  to  the person's medical condition and  problems  will
assist the physician in making the "appropriate" decisions on how
to  diagnose  and  treat medical conditions.  This  comprehensive
view  of  a  patient's  health  status allows for better  medical
decision-making at the point of



care.  Online
documentation  and physician order entry  helps  to  prevent  the
errors  in  and  misinterpretation   of documentation and orders,
reducing   the   costs  of  duplication  and  medical error. This
automation  also will reduce the time for care delivery and lower
costs.

Once  all  the  steps  of care are captured  electronically,  the
enhanced  documentation will lead to more  efficient  healthcare,
both  in  terms of treatment and finance, and will set the  stage
for  data collection that will be the backbone of structuring the
knowledge of healthcare.  Electronic medical records reduce  some
of  the  duplication  caused  by poor  record-keeping.   Wasteful
duplication  is  eliminated, redundant  tests  are  not  ordered.
Also,  documentation  required for health plan  reimbursement  is
maintained   efficiently,  reducing  claim   denials.    Finally,
electronic  record-keeping lays the groundwork of data collection
necessary to make dramatic changes in care delivery.

Connect the Person
- - - - ------------------

Cerner  is  dedicated  to helping its clients  build  a  personal
health  system;  creating a "new medium" between the  person  and
physician;  empowering the individual; and creating a new  center
to healthcare.

The  healthcare system is undergoing fundamental  change  as  the
person  moves to the center of care delivery.  Increasing  access
to expert knowledge over the Internet and a cultural shift toward
more self-direction are combining to move the center of power and
control to the person.

With the electronic medical record,  persons  can   access  their
medical    records    securely    anytime        and     anywhere
they  have  Internet  access.   When combined  with  personalized
health  content, the consumer gains a better sense  of  the  care
they  are receiving and the options available to them.  They will
have  better  communications with their providers, and  can  take
more ownership of their own health and work to manage it to their
satisfaction.

Structure the Knowledge
- - - - -----------------------

Cerner is dedicated to building systems that treat every clinical
decision as a learning event by structuring, storing and studying
the content of medicine.

Medicine  must have a structure that allows physicians to  record
treatment  and outcomes in such a way as to permit comparability.
The  basis  of this structure is a common nomenclature  that  can
exactly  capture  the  meaning  of  input  from  physicians   and
clinicians.  By storing this data and then providing a  framework
for comparability, physicians can make sense and glean value from
the information that is gathered both through automated processes
and  connected  persons.   Without a  knowledge  framework,  data
collected  will  provide  no  real  benefit.   By  building  this
structure,  every encounter with a patient, every  piece  of  new
knowledge  and  information,  can  be  catalogued,  measured  and
analyzed to improve care.  This knowledge framework will  deliver
better  standards  of  care  and  an  improved  understanding  of
medicine.

Close the Loop
- - - - --------------

Cerner  is dedicated to building systems that implement evidence-
based  medicine, dramatically reducing the current  average  time
from  the  discovery  of  an improved method  to  the  change  in
"standard of care" medical practice.

Advances  in  technology offer great opportunities to  healthcare
and  must be used to practical effect.  The knowledge gained must
be  used  to deliver better care faster.  The information learned
must  be applied.  Today, patients may wait as long as ten  years
before  new  knowledge  reaches  widespread  use.   With  systems
designed  to embed evidence-based medicine inside the clinicians'
workflow  using  pathways, guidelines and alerts, physicians  can
ensure that every medical decision is optimal, based on the  best
and  most recent knowledge available.  The results will be better
outcomes and reduced variance.



The Cerner Strategy
- - - - -------------------

Key  elements  of  the  Company's  business  strategy include the
following:

Penetrate  the integrated healthcare provider market.
- - - - ----------------------------------------------------        Large
health   systems  represent  a  significant  component   of   the
healthcare  information technology market.   These  organizations
are  focused  on  improving  safety and  reducing  costs  through
operating  efficiencies. Cerner's enterprise-wide  process-based,
clinical and management systems provide the technology to  enable
an  integrated  system to manage healthcare  across  the  system,
significantly reduce costs, improve the efficiency of  healthcare
delivery and maintain and improve the quality of healthcare.

Expand market share in individual domains and  further  penetrate
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------
existing  client base.
- - - - ---------------------                  Cerner  expects  continued
growth  in clinical domain systems for specific markets  such  as
nursing,   physician  office,  laboratory,  pharmacy,  radiology,
surgery,  emergency  medicine  and cardiology,  as  institutional
providers  look  to restructure and reengineer  these  high  cost
centers. The Company anticipates growth in sales of new products,
such  as  its new patient accounting product introduced in  2000.
This  product addresses a large new market previously not covered
by  the  existing  product suite.  The Company  also  intends  to
market  aggressively  Cerner clinical and management  information
systems and services to its existing client base.

Remain  committed to a common architecture.
- - - - ------------------------------------------        Because  Cerner
believes that the constituents in health management need to  work
together  to  benefit  defined populations in  a  community,  the
Company has made a commitment to a single unified architecture as
the  platform  for  "fully integrated"  health  information  and
management  systems. This platform enables Cerner's process-based
HNA  systems  to  be  scaleable on a linear basis,  using  either
Cerner  compatible modules for process-oriented  applications  or
competitive systems interfaced using open system protocols.

Expand products and services.
- - - - ----------------------------              Using  HNA  Millennium,
Cerner  intends to continue expanding the range of  products  and
services  offered to providers. These new products  and  services
will  complement  the  systems  currently  offered,  address  the
emerging  information  needs of clients or  employ  technological
advances.  Cerner  believes  that major  opportunities  exist  as
providers  and managed care organizations reach into new  markets
and  offer  more alternative services to remain competitive.  The
Company  believes these organizations will find value  in  having
personal health records and trusted health information accessible
to the individual in the home. In addition, Cerner recognizes the
value  of  the  aggregate database being developed by  its  broad
client  base  as  a  potential means  to  enable  comparative  or
normative  procedure evaluations as a powerful new  tool  in  the
healthcare industry. The substantial project management,  process
redesign,   technology  integration  and  training  involved   in
healthcare systems taking advantage of the opportunities provided
by  clinical  and management information technology  represent  a
significant market for the Company's consulting services.

Offer products on a hosted solution basis.
- - - - -----------------------------------------            The  Company
now offers its HNA Millennium applications through its new hosted
solutions   delivery  option.  This  option  offers   information
technology  services to clients that include  software,  computer
hardware,  implementation, technical support,  wide-area  network
(WAN)   services   and   automatic  software   upgrades.   Unlike
traditional software implementations, software delivered  through
the  hosted  solutions delivery option is not  installed  at  the
user's  location,  but is delivered, operated and  maintained  in
Cerner's solutions center in a rapidly accelerated implementation
timeframe.   Using Cerner hosted solutions, any size organization
can  access  the same robust clinical applications,  architecture
and user-interface advantages that were previously only available
to larger institutions.

Cerner's Technology - Health Network Architecture (HNA) and HNA
- - - - ---------------------------------------------------------------
Millennium
- - - - ----------

The  cornerstone  of  Cerner's technology strategy  is  HNA,  the
single  architecture  around which each of  Cerner's  information
products  is  developed. This person-centric, single data  model,
open and highly scaleable architecture allows Cerner to meet  the
clinical,   financial,   management  and   business   information



requirements of a healthcare delivery system across the continuum
of  care.   Cerner's newest version of its HNA computing platform
is  Millennium, the core of which was developed between 1994  and
1999.    Millennium  uses  n-tier  client/server  technology   to
optimize distributed computing performance and scalability across
multiple   client  and  server  platforms.   The  HNA  Millennium
architecture  and  applications were designed  and  developed  to
accommodate healthcare specific requirements for mission critical
computing  and  secure access, whether the  user  is  inside  the
healthcare   enterprise  or  at  home  via  the   Internet.   HNA
Millennium's breadth of focus and functionality are  well  suited
for  large-scale  and  enterprise  application  technologies  for
healthcare  organizations, including the ability to leverage  the
Internet   for   ehealth-related  self-service  and  business-to-
business functions.

The  value of HNA Millennium to a client organization is the  use
across  a healthcare organization of a single system based  on  a
fully  integrated  common architecture and  database.   With  its
single  data  model, HNA Millennium provides  secure,   real-time
access  to all information across multiple applications, domains,
organizations   and  physical  locations,  including   physician,
hospital, nursing, laboratory, pharmacy and consumers, to all  of
those needing such access, wherever they are located.  Given  its
integrated  and  open design, HNA Millennium can also  provide  a
centralized repository of clinical and financial transactions  to
help  standardize access and messaging of disparate  applications
across a health system.

The  alternative  to a single architectural approach  is  to  use
disparate  systems  based  on differing  architectures  and  data
structures to automate the care processes across the continuum of
care.   These  disparate systems must be interfaced together  and
rely  on  these interfaces to transmit, modify and  arrange  data
exchanged between them, which limits the data's usefulness across
multiple  systems  and inhibits real-time access.   In  addition,
many  of  these  systems lack functional scalability  and  cannot
operate  across multiple provider settings or locations within  a
healthcare organization.

Two overarching capabilities are embedded into the HNA Millennium
architecture. First is the person-centric transactions and secure
messaging, which consider the breadth of requirements not only of
a  patient,  but also of healthy consumers.  Second is healthcare
community  dynamics,  which  take into  account  the  flexibility
required   by  the  constantly  changing  relationships   between
healthcare organizations, physicians and consumers, and the  need
to  maintain complex security and end user preferences  based  on
the  context  and  business attributes of the  transaction  in  a
community setting.

CernerObjects
- - - - -------------

Cerner  is  extending HNA Millennium's reach and scope  with  the
goal of becoming the de facto standard for healthcare information
technology.   A  key  element  in  that  effort  by   Cerner   is
CernerObjects.   Cerner  will  use CernerObjects  to  extend  HNA
Millennium to suppliers, supporting their development efforts and
increasing  Millennium's market penetration. CernerObjects  is  a
collection  of  reusable programming elements from  Cerner's  HNA
Millennium  architecture.  These segments of  code,  or  objects,
enable  third-party developers to create front-end  applications,
like Palm or Web browser solutions, that draw upon the data model
and  proven functionality of HNA Millennium.  With CernerObjects,
programmers  can quickly and efficiently build applications  that
integrate  with  Cerner's architecture, reusing existing  objects
that  achieve  the  tasks they are seeking to replicate.   Third-
party  programmers can avoid the time- and cost-intensive process
of  writing  new code to perform functions Cerner engineers  have
already developed.

CernerObjects  is  the mechanism Cerner uses to  extend  its  own
applications to the Internet. By licensing the objects library to
third parties, Cerner has an excellent opportunity to proliferate
the  HNA Millennium architecture - as well as the brand, clinical
expertise and technical excellence upon which it was built.

Products
- - - - --------

Cerner's  HNA  Millennium  platform  of  products  is  the   only
healthcare information system on the market today capable of both
retrieving  and disseminating clinical and financial  information
across  an  entire health system.  HNA Millennium includes  seven
product  families  dedicated to meeting the automation  needs  of
virtually every segment of the care continuum.



Cerner  solutions  can be acquired individually  or  as  a  fully
integrated  health information system.  Cerner also markets  more
than   200   product  options  that  complement  Cerner's   major
information  systems.   In addition, Cerner sells  computers  and
related hardware manufactured  by  third parties  and  consulting
services to its software licensees.

Cerner's product categories include:

*    Enterprise   Systems,  which automate processes  across  and
     throughout the health system enterprise;

*    Financial and Operational Management Systems, which automate
     business operations;

*    Decision   Support  Systems and Knowledge  Solutions,  which
     enhance clinical and business processes with information and
     actions;

*    Point   of  Care Clinical Systems, which automate  the  care
     processes within specific domains of health systems;

*    Systems  for  Clinical Centers, which automate the  clinical
     processes within specific departments;

*    Personal  Health Systems for individuals to manage their own
     health and connect to the health system; and

*    Interface Technologies for connecting other technologies and
     systems to HNA Millennium.

                    Enterprise-wide Solutions
                    -------------------------

Cerner's  CapStone  (Registered)  Enterprise  Access   Management
System  creates  the  enterprise-wide  master  person  identifier
(EMPI)     and  automates   the   identification,    eligibility,
registration and scheduling processe  across  hospitals, clinics,
physician   practices   and   other  care delivery organizations,
integrating the health system and incorporating existing systems.

PowerChart (Registered)  Electronic Medical Record System is  the
enterprise  clinician's  desktop  solution for viewing, ordering,
documenting and managing care delivery.

The  Open  Clinical  Foundation  (Registered)   manages  clinical
information, providing  the foundation for the electronic medical
record.

The  Open  Management  Foundation  (Trademark)  stores management
information  of  enterprise  financial,  operational  and process
results,   creating   the   foundation  for  the  enterprise-wide
management and executive information system.

The  Open  Agreement  Foundation  (Trademark) manages health plan
contracts and agreements, and member information.

The Open Research Foundation (Trademark) provides open repository
storage of clinical and medical information  to  support  medical
research.

                    Financial and Operational
                    -------------------------

The ProFit (Trademark) Enterprise Billing and Accounts Receivable
System is Cerner's  system  for  revenue accounting, billing  and
accounts receivable for the entire health system as well as  each
individual  domain  or organization.  ProFit integrates  clinical
and financial data and creates a single bill.

PowerVision (Registered)   Enterprise   Decision   Support  links
comprehensive clinical  and financial data and makes it available
at the  point of care - allowing  care to be better managed as it
occurs.



The  ProFile (Trademark)  Health  Information  Management  System
helps   meet  the  operations  management  needs  of  the  health
information management (medical records) department and  includes
functionality  for  the  various  chart  tracking  and completion
tasks.

The ProCure (Trademark) Materials Management System automates the
business operations around supply  chain,  materials  acquisition
and equipment management for the organization.

The   ProCare (Trademark)  Medical  Management  System  automates
medical  management   for  the  health  system,  addressing   the
areas  of utilization,  case  and risk management,  as  well   as
infection control.

The RadNet (Trademark) Radiology Information System addresses the
operational  and management requirements of radiology departments
or services. It allows a department to replace its manual, paper-
based  system  of record-keeping with an efficient computer-based
system  that  integrates with its imaging systems.   Cerner  also
provides  image  management  systems with  picture  archival  and
communications  systems  (PACS) that are  fully  integrated  with
Cerner's  radiology information systems.  Using Cerner's  end-to-
end,  fully integrated radiology information and image management
systems,  radiologists can improve operational  efficiencies  and
reduce medical error.

        Decision Support Systems and Knowledge Solutions
        ------------------------------------------------

Discern  Expert  (Registered)   is  an  event-driven,  rule-based
decision support software application that allows users to define
clinical  and  management  rules  (Alerts  (Trademark))  that are
applied   to   event   data   captured   or  generated  by  other
applications.    It   supports   both   synchronous   (real-time,
interactive)   processing   and   asynchronous   (noninteractive)
processing of events.  Discern  Expert  manages  the   evaluation
and  display  of executable  clinical  knowledge through   either
Cerner-developed   Alerts,   which   are  licensed separately, or
client-developed Alerts.

Discern  Explorer (Registered)   is  a decision support  software
application  integrated    with   other   Cerner  HNA  Millennium
clinical and management information   systems that  allows  users
to execute predetermined or  ad hoc queries and reports regarding
process-related data that is generated by the other applications.

Care  Designs  (Trademarks)  are  clinical pathways and protocols
that  automate the  specific plans of care for an individual  and
operate  within Cerner's clinical systems.

                Point of Care Clinical Solutions
                --------------------------------

The  INet  (Registered)  Intensive   Care  Management  System  is
designed  to  automate  the entire care process in intensive care
settings.   It supports  chart   review   and   browsing,   order
management,  documentation   management   and   automatic    data
acquisition.

Cerner's  CareNet  (Registered)  Acute Care Management System  is
designed  to  automate  the  entire  care  process  in  acute  or
institutional  settings.    The  application  collects,  refines,
organizes  and  evaluates  detailed clinical and management data.
It enables  the entire  care  team to  plan and manage individual
activities  and plans, as well as measure outcomes and goals.

The  CVNet (Registered) Cardiology  Information  System automates
the processes within  the  cardiology  department, supporting the
scheduling, ordering, documentation and data capture required  by
professionals in the cardiology domain.

The  SurgiNet (Registered) Surgery Information System is designed
to  address  the  needs  of  the  surgical  department, including
automating   the   functions    of   resource    and    equipment
scheduling,  inventory  management,  anesthesia  management   and
operating room management.



The   FirstNet(Registered) Emergency Medicine Information  System
offers   patient   and   provider   tracking   and  an  intuitive
presentation  of  patient   diagnoses  and  clinical  events  for
the   emergency department.  FirstNet provides basic    emergency
department  functionality,  including  quick  admits,   tracking,
triage  and patient  history,  as  well as a  graphical reference
to  patient location and order status.

The PowerChart Office (Trademark) Management System  supports the
broad range of clinical and business activities that occur within
a physician office, clinic or large physician organization.  This
system  ties the office together with other medical entities  and
automates key care team activities in both primary and  specialty
care settings.

The  ProCall  (Registered)  Home Care Management System automates
the  clinical and  business processes of home care organizations,
such as  home  health  agencies,  visiting nurse associations and
hospices.

                        Clinical Centers
                        ----------------

The PathNet (Registered) Laboratory Information System  addresses
the information management needs of six clinical  areas:  general
laboratory, microbiology, blood bank transfusion services,  blood
bank  donor  services, anatomic pathology  and  Human  Leukocyte
Antigen.   PathNet  automates  the  ordering  and  reporting   of
procedures, the production of accurate and timely reports and the
maintenance of accessible clinical records.

The  RadNet  (Registered)  Radiology Information System addresses
the  operational  and   management   requirements   of  radiology
departments or services.  It allows a department to  replace  its
manual, paper-based  system  of record-keeping  with an efficient
computer-based system that integrates with their imaging systems.

The  PharmNet  (Registered)  Pharmacy Information System provides
full  integration  for  rapid  pharmacy  order  entry and support
of  the  clinical  pharmacy  in  either  an  inpatient  or retail
setting. PharmNet streamlines  medication order  entry,  enabling
the pharmacist or technician to place all types of pharmaceutical
orders, and automates dispensing functions.

                    Consumer/Personal Health
                    ------------------------

Cerner's IQHealth (Trademark) facilitates powerful  business-to-
consumer  and business-to-business connections via the Internet.
With IQHealth, healthcare  organizations  can create and brand a
"health  exchange"  in   the   community   to  directly  connect
hospitals,  physicians, payers,  consumers and others.  IQHealth
provides  the  tools  to create  such  local connections as well
as health information to improve the quality and safety of care.

IQHealth's  Personal  Health Record (PHR) is  a  personal  health
management  tool  that gives consumers the  ability  to  build  a
permanent  electronic record in which health information  can  be
securely stored as it accrues over time.

Cerner Multum (Registered) drug database provides caregivers  and
consumers  alike  with access to drug information and the ability
to perform drug interaction checking to prevent adverse events.

IQHealth's Health Risk Assessments allow organizations to  create
Web-based  surveys  to  assess individual  and  community  health
risks.

Health Connections (Trademark), a  24x7 call  center  staffed  by
nurses, provides ready access to accurate health  information  so
that consumers  can better manage their health and participate in
care decisions.

Health Facts (Registered) is Cerner's comparative data  warehouse
for  benchmarking  information  and  services  for subscribers to
support their own improvement processes.



                     Interface Technologies
                     ----------------------

The   Open   Engine   Application   Gateway   System  (Trademark)
facilitates  the exchange  of data  and assists in the management
of  interfaces between foreign systems in a  network environment.
It serves as a toolkit to help write interface code.

The  Open  Port  Interface System (Trademark) represents Cerner's
standardized  technology  for  providing reliable foreign system,
medical   device  and  other  standard  interfaces  in  a  timely
manner.     Message  translation  and  data mapping are done with
point-and-click  tools and a scripting environment.

Communications   protocols  are  configured  via   table   driven
parameters.    These   sophisticated  methodologies   result   in
decreased implementation times and greater client satisfaction.

Software Development
- - - - --------------------

Cerner  commits  significant resources to developing  new  health
information   system   products.   As  of  December   30,   2000,
approximately 1,100 employees were engaged full-time  in  product
development  activities.  Total expenditures for the  development
and  enhancement  of  the Company's products  were  approximately
$90,694,000,  $88,699,000 and $74,159,000 during the  2000,  1999
and  1998 fiscal years, respectively.  These figures include both
capitalized  and  noncapitalized  portions  and  exclude  amounts
amortized for financial reporting purposes.

The  Company  expects  to  continue  investment  and  development
efforts  for  its current and future product offerings.   As  new
clinical and management information needs emerge, Cerner  intends
to  enhance its current product lines with new versions  released
to  clients  on a periodic basis.  In addition, Cerner  plans  to
expand   its  current  product  lines  by  developing  additional
information  systems for clinical, financial, operational  and/or
consumer  use  and  to  continue to support simultaneous  use  of
Cerner's  products  across  multiple  facilities,  and  plans  to
continue to expand in the global marketplace.

See  "Cerner's Technology - Health Network Architecture (HNA) and
HNA  Millennium" for a discussion of the development of  Cerner's
latest generation of software products.

Sales and Marketing
- - - - -------------------

The  markets  for  Cerner's information system  products  include
integrated  delivery networks, physician groups and networks  and
their    management   service   organizations,    managed    care
organizations,   hospitals,   medical   centers,    free-standing
reference laboratories, blood banks, imaging centers, pharmacies,
pharmaceutical  manufacturers,  employer  coalitions  and  public
health  organizations.  To date, a substantial portion of  system
sales  have  been  in  clinical  applications  in  hospital-based
provider  organizations.   Cerner's HNA  architecture  is  highly
scaleable, with applications being used in hospitals ranging from
under  50 beds to over 2,000 beds and managed care settings  with
over  2,000,000  members.  All  HNA Millennium  applications  are
designed  to operate on either computers manufactured  by  Compaq
Computer  Corporation  or  IBM's  RISC  System/6000  AIX   (UNIX)
platform, thereby allowing Cerner to be price competitive  across
the full range of size and organizational structure of healthcare
providers.  The sale of a health information system usually takes
approximately nine to eighteen months, from the time  of  initial
contact to the signing of a contract.

The  Company  is in the process of expanding its sales  force  in
anticipation of increased market demands expected to  be  created
by  its  HNA  Millennium solutions.  See "Cerner's  Technology  -
Health  Network



Architecture (HNA) and  HNA  Millennium"   for  a  discussion  of
the   development  of  Cerner's  latest  generation  of  software
products.

The  Company's executive marketing management is located  in  its
North Kansas City, Missouri, headquarters,   while   its   client
representatives  are  deployed  across  the  United  States   and
globally.  In addition to the United States, the Company, through
subsidiaries  and joint ventures, has sales staff and/or  offices
in  Australia,  Belgium,  Canada, Germany,  Singapore,  Malaysia,
Saudi  Arabia  and  the  United  Kingdom.  Cerner's  consolidated
revenues  include foreign sales of $25,815,000,  $24,001,000  and
$17,545,000   for   the  2000,  1999  and  1998   fiscal   years,
respectively.   The  Company  supports  its  sales   force   with
technical  personnel  who  perform  demonstrations  of   Cerner's
products  and  assist clients in determining the proper  hardware
and   software  configurations.  The  Company's  primary   direct
marketing  strategy  is  to  generate  sales  contacts  from  its
existing  client  base  and  through  presentations  at  industry
seminars  and  tradeshows.   Cerner attends  a  number  of  major
tradeshows   each  year  and  has  begun  to  sponsor   executive
conferences,  which  feature industry  experts  who  address  the
information system needs of large healthcare organizations.

Client Services
- - - - ---------------

All   of   Cerner's  clients  enter  into  software   maintenance
agreements  with Cerner for support of their Cerner systems.   In
addition  to immediate software support in the event of problems,
these  agreements allow these clients the use of new releases  of
the Cerner products covered by these agreements.  Each client has
24-hour  access to the client support staff located  at  Cerner's
corporate headquarters.  Most of Cerner's clients also enter into
hardware  maintenance agreements with Cerner.  These arrangements
normally  provide for a fixed monthly fee for specified services.
In   the   majority   of  cases,  Cerner  subcontracts   hardware
maintenance to the hardware manufacturer.

In  1999, Cerner modified its strategy of using regional business
centers  to provide support for its clients.  Due to the increase
in  the  number of Cerner associates working at client sites  and
the  resulting decrease in utilization and cost effectiveness  of
its  regional branch offices, Cerner decided to close  or  reduce
the  size of many of its facilities in the United States.  Cerner
closed  its  offices in Atlanta, Georgia; Boston,  Massachusetts;
Irvine, California; and Washington, D.C. in the second quarter of
2000.   The expenses for such closings were charged to the fourth
quarter  of  1999.  Additional leased office space  was  acquired
during  2000  as  a  result  of  acquisition  of  businesses   in
Chesapeake,  Virginia; Dallas, Texas; St.  Louis,  Missouri;  and
Houston,  Texas,  and new  office space was opened in Washington,
D.C.   Cerner's   offices   in   Detroit,   Michigan  and Denver,
Colorado remain open.

Backlog
- - - - -------

At   December  30,  2000,  Cerner  had  a  contract  backlog   of
approximately $439,943,000. Such backlog represents system  sales
from  signed  contracts,  which had not yet  been  recognized  as
revenue.   The  Company  recognizes  revenue  on  a  percent   of
completion basis, based on certain milestone conditions, for  its
software  products.   At  December  30,  2000,  the  Company  had
approximately   $91,090,000   of  contracts   receivable,   which
represents  revenues recognized under the percent  of  completion
method but not yet billable under the terms of the contract.   At
December  30, 2000, Cerner had a software support and maintenance
backlog  of  approximately $184,360,000. Such backlog  represents
contracted software support and hardware maintenance services for
a   period   of   twelve  months.  The  Company  estimates   that
approximately  55% of the aggregate backlog of $624,303,000  will
be recognized as revenue during 2001.

Number of Employees ("Associates")
- - - - ----------------------------------

As of March 1, 2001, the Company employed 3,104 associates.

Other Factors Affecting the Company's Business
- - - - ----------------------------------------------

Information  under  the caption "Factors That May  Affect  Future
Results  of Operations,    Financial  Condition    of   Business"
included  in   "Management's   Discussion    and   Analysis    of
Financial Condition and  Results of



Operations"   in    Item   7   is    incorporated    herein    by
reference.   Such  information includes a discussion  of  various
factors  that  could,  among other things, affect  the  Company's
business in the future, including (a) variations in the Company's
quarterly  operating  results; (b) volatility  of  the  Company's
stock  price; (c) market risk of investments; (d) changes in  the
healthcare  industry;  (e)  significant  competition;   (f)   the
Company's proprietary technology may be subjected to infringement
claims  or may be infringed upon; (g) possible regulation of  the
Company's  software by the U.S. Food and Drug  Administration  or
other  government  regulation; (h) the  possibility  of  product-
related  liabilities; (i) possible failures  or  defects  in  the
performance  of the Company's software; (j) the possibility  that
the  Company's anti-takeover defenses could delay or  prevent  an
acquisition  of  the  Company; and (k)  risks  and  uncertainties
related to the Year 2000 transition.

Item 2.  Properties

The  Company's offices are located in a Company-owned office park
in  North Kansas City, Missouri, containing approximately 500,000
square  feet  of  useable space.  As of December  30,  2000,  the
Company  was   using    approximately  455,000  square  feet  and
substantially  all of the remainder was leased to  tenants.   The
Company  also  leases  office space for  its  branch  offices  in
Detroit, Michigan; Denver, Colorado; St. Louis, Missouri; Dallas,
Texas;  Washington, D.C.; Chesapeake, Virginia;  Houston,  Texas;
Sydney, Australia; and Brussels, Belgium.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

The Company has no material pending litigation.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No  matters were submitted to a vote of the stockholders  of  the
Company  during  the  fourth quarter of  the  fiscal  year  ended
December 30, 2000.

Item 4A.  Executive Officers of the Company

The  following  table sets forth the names, ages,  positions  and
certain  other  information  regarding  the  Company's  executive
officers as of March 27, 2001.  Officers are elected annually and
serve at the discretion of the board of directors.



Neal L. Patterson has been Chairman of the Board of Directors and
Chief  Executive Officer of the Company for more than five years.
Mr.  Patterson also served as President of the Company from March
of 1999 until August of 1999.

Clifford  W.  Illig has been a Director of the Company  for  more
than  five  years.  He also served as Chief Operating Officer  of
the  Company for more than five years until October 1998  and  as
President of the Company for more than five years until March  of
1999.   Mr.  Illig was appointed Vice Chairman of  the  Board  of
Directors in March of 1999.

Earl  H.  Devanny, III joined the Company in August  of  1999  as
President.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Devanny  served  as
president of the ADAC Healthcare Information Systems, Inc.  Prior
to  joining ADAC, Mr. Devanny served as a Vice President  of  the
Company  from  1994  to 1997.  Prior to that he  spent  seventeen
years with IBM Corporation.

Glenn  P.  Tobin, Ph.D. joined the Company in April  of  1998  as
General Manager and Senior Vice President.  On October 29,  1998,
Dr.  Tobin  was  appointed  Executive Vice  President  and  Chief
Operating  Officer.   Prior to joining  the  Company,  Dr.  Tobin
served  as  a senior consultant with McKinsey and Co.,  Inc.  for
more than five years.

Paul  M.  Black joined the Company in March of 1994 as a Regional
Vice  President.   He was promoted in June 1998  to  Senior  Vice
President and Chief Sales Officer and to Executive Vice President
in  September of 2000.  Prior to joining Cerner, he spent  twelve
years with IBM Corporation.

Jack  A.  Newman, Jr. joined the Company in January  of  1996  as
Executive Vice President.  Prior to joining the Company,  he  was
with KPMG LLP for twenty-two years.  Immediately prior to joining
Cerner  he  was  National Partner-in-Charge of KPMG's  Healthcare
Strategy Practice.

Douglas  M.  Krebs joined the Company in June 1994 as a  Regional
Vice  President.   He was promoted to Senior Vice  President  and
Area  Manager in April 1999.  On February 1, 2000, Mr. Krebs  was
appointed  as  President of Cerner International, Inc,  a  wholly
owned  subsidiary  of the Company.  Prior to joining  Cerner,  he
spent fifteen years with IBM Corporation.

Stephen  M.  Goodrich joined the Company in  October  1987  as  a
project  leader  in the product organization.   In  1992  he  was
promoted  to  Vice  President and was  promoted  to  Senior  Vice
President  in April 1999.  He was named Chief Quality Officer  in
January of 2000.

Richard J. Flanigan Jr. joined the Company in November 1994 as  a
Regional  Vice  President.   In 1997, his  responsibilities  were
extended and he was named as General Manager.  He was promoted to
Senior  Vice  President in April 2000.  Prior to joining  Cerner,
Mr.  Flanigan  spent  more  than  thirteen  years  in  sales  and
management positions at IBM Corporation.

Stephen  D.  Garver joined the Company in March 1992 as  part  of
Cerner  Consulting.  In March of 1999 he was named Vice President
and Managing Partner and was promoted to Senior Vice President in
April



2000.   Prior  to  joining  the  Company,  Mr.  Garver spent  ten
years  with Andersen Consulting in a variety of roles within  the
systems integration practice.

Marc  G.  Naughton joined the Company in November 1992 as Manager
of  Taxes.  In November 1995 he was named Chief Financial Officer
and in February 1996 he was promoted to Vice President.

Stanley M. Sword joined the Company in August 1998 in his current
role.  Prior to joining Cerner, he served as a client partner  in
the  outsourcing  practice  of AT&T Solutions  and  as  the  Vice
President of Organization Development for NCR Corporation.  Prior
to  joining  AT&T,  Mr.  Sword  spent  ten  years  with  Anderson
Consulting  in a variety of roles within the systems  integration
practice.

Jeffrey A. Townsend joined the Company in June 1985.  Since  that
time  he  has  held several positions in the product organization
and  was  promoted to Vice President in February  1997.   He  was
appointed Chief Engineering Officer in March 1998.

Randy  D. Sims joined the Company in March 1997 as Vice President
and  Chief Legal Officer.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Sims
worked  at  Farmland Industries, Inc. for three  years  where  he
served  most  recently as Associate General  Counsel.   Prior  to
Farmland,  Mr.  Sims  was in-house legal counsel  at  The  Marley
Company (now a division of United Dominion Industries) for  seven
years, holding the position of  Assistant General Counsel when he
left to join Farmland.



PART II

Item 5.   Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related
          Security Holder Matters

The  Company's  common stock trades on The NASDAQ Stock    Market
(Service Mark) under  the  symbol CERN.  The following table sets
forth the high, low and last sales prices for the fiscal quarters
of  2000  and  1999  as  reported  by  The NASDAQ National Market
System.  These quotations represent prices between dealers and do
not  include retail mark-up, mark-down or commissions, and do not
necessarily represent actual transactions.



At  January  31, 2001, there were approximately 1,200  owners  of
record.   To date, the Company has paid no dividends and it  does
not   intend   to  pay  dividends  in  the  foreseeable   future.
Management  believes it is in the stockholders' best interest  to
reinvest funds in the operation of the business.

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data



(1)  Includes a non-recurring investment gain of $120.4 million,
     net of $68.3 million tax expense, related to the conversion
     of  shares  of CareInsite  common  stock to shares of WebMD
     common  stock.  The impact of this non-recurring investment
     gain on diluted earnings per share was $3.38 for 2000.
(2)  Includes  a non-recurring investment loss of $24.5 million,
     net  of  $13.9  million tax benefit, related to the sale of
     shares  of  WebMD  common  stock.    The  impact  of   this
     non-recurring investment loss on diluted earnings per share
     was ($.69) for 2000.



(3)  Includes a non-recurring charge of $6.7 million related to
     the  write-down  of  intangible assets associated with the
     acquisition  of  Health Network Ventures, Inc.  The impact
     of this non-recurring charge on diluted earnings per share
     was ($.19) for 2000.
(4)  Includes a non-recurring charge of $3.2 million related to
     the  acquisition  of  CITATION Computer Systems, Inc.  The
     impact  of  this  non-recurring charge on diluted earnings
     per share was ($.09) for 2000.
(5)  Includes  a  non-recurring  charge of $1.0 million, net of
     $.7  million  tax  benefit,  related to the acquisition of
     ADAC  Healthcare Information Systems, Inc.   The impact of
     this  non-recurring  charge  on diluted earnings per share
     was ($.03) for 2000.
(6)  Includes  a non-recurring  charge  of $5.8 million, net of
     $3.6 million tax benefit, related to the cost in excess of
     revenues of completing fixed fee implementation contracts.
     The  impact  of  this  non-recurring  charge  on   diluted
     earnings per share was ($.17) for 1999.
(7)  Includes a non-recurring charge of $.9 million, net of $.5
     million  tax  benefit,  related  to  the accrual of branch
     restructuring costs.   The  impact  of  this non-recurring
     charge on diluted earnings per share was ($.03) for 1999.
(8)  Includes  a  non-recurring  charge of $3.1 million, net of
     $1.9   million  tax benefit, related to the acquisition of
     Multum Information Services, Inc.    The  impact  of  this
     non-recurring  charge  on  diluted  earnings per share was
     ($.09) for 1998.

Summary Pro-Forma Financial Data
(Statements of Earnings Data Excluding Non-Recurring Gains,
 Losses and Charges)



(1)   Statement   of   Earnings  Data  excludes  a  non-recurring
      investment  gain   of $120.4 million, net of $68.3  million
      tax  expense,   related  to  the  conversion  of  shares of
      CareInsite common  stock  to  shares of WebMD common stock.
      The impact of this non-recurring investment gain on diluted
      earnings per share was $3.38  for 2000.
(2)   Statement    of  Earnings  Data  excludes  a  non-recurring
      investment loss of $24.5 million, net of $13.9 million  tax
      benefit,  related  to  the  sale  of shares of WebMD common
      stock.   The  impact  of this non-recurring investment loss
      on  diluted  earnings per share was ($.69) for 2000.



(3)   Statement of Earnings Data excludes a non-recurring  charge
      of  $6.7  million  related  to the write-down of intangible
      assets  associated  with  the acquisition of Health Network
      Ventures, Inc.   The impact of this non-recurring charge on
      diluted earnings per  share was ($.19) for 2000.
(4)   Statement of Earnings Data excludes a non-recurring  charge
      of  $3.2  million  related  to  the acquisition of CITATION
      Computer Systems, Inc.     The impact of this non-recurring
      charge on diluted earnings per share was ($.09) for 2000.
(5)   Statement of Earnings Data excludes a non-recurring  charge
      of $1.0 million, net of $.7 million tax benefit, related to
      the  acquisition  of  ADAC  Healthcare Information Systems,
      Inc.     The impact of this non-recurring charge on diluted
      earnings per share was ($.03) for 2000.
(6)   Statement of Earnings Data excludes a non-recurring  charge
      of  $5.8  million, net of $3.6 million tax benefit, related
      to the  cost  in excess of revenues of completing fixed fee
      implementation contracts.  The impact of this non-recurring
      charge on  diluted  earnings per share was ($.17) for 1999.
(7)   Statement of Earnings Data excludes a non-recurring  charge
      of  $.9 million, net of $.5 million tax benefit, related to
      the accrual of branch restructuring costs.    The impact of
      this non-recurring charge on diluted earnings per share was
      ($.03)  for 1999.
(8)   Statement of Earnings Data excludes a non-recurring  charge
      of $3.1 million,  net  of $1.9 million tax benefit, related
      to the  acquisition  of  Multum  Information Services, Inc.
      The impact of this non-recurring charge on diluted earnings
      per  share  was  ($.09) for 1998.



Item 7.    Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial
           Condition and Results of Operations

Introduction
- - - - ------------

Last  year,  the  Company indicated that 2000  would  be  a  more
stable,  predictable and successful year than 1999. In 2000,  the
Company  set record levels of bookings, revenues and  cash  flow.
The Company continued to expand its product line to more than  37
products  at  the  end  of 2000.  Over the last  18  months,  the
Company  more than doubled its direct sales force.   The  Company
also  created  a strategic presence in Europe.  Between  the  new
client  relationships created through the Company's direct  sales
efforts  and the acquisitions the Company completed in 2000,  the
Company  grew  its  install base of client  relationships by 40%,
adding   430  new  client  relationships,  and   created  330 HNA
Millennium  footprints during the year.  The Company also  signed
licensing  agreements  with over 80 other healthcare  information
technology  companies to use HNA components as  key  elements  of
their architecture.

The  Company's success reached into new market opportunities,  as
well.    The  Company's  hosting  services  became  the  delivery
platform  of choice for over $50 million of new bookings  in  its
first  year.   Many of these clients are community hospitals  and
represent   an  expanded  market  for  the  Company's   products.
PowerChart  Office,  the  Company's physician  clinical  practice
solution, is having a significant impact on the way many  of  the
Company's  clients practice medicine. ProFit, the  Company's  new
patient accounting solution, completed alpha testing, opening  up
a market estimated at $3 billion.

The  promulgation of new HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability  and
Accountability  Act) regulations and the recent  release  of  the
Institute  of  Medicine's second report on patient  safety  could
combine  to  create significant pressures to expand  the  use  of
information  technology in healthcare organizations.   While  the
budgetary  pressures created by the Balanced Budget Act  of  1997
have subsided, they should continue to stimulate interest in  the
use  of healthcare  information technology to improve operational
performance.  The Company believes that its investment in the HNA
Millennium   architecture   affords  a  significant   competitive
advantage.   HNA  Millennium is the only fully integrated,  large
scale, enterprise-wide architecture in the industry.  It is  this
integration that the Company expects will be a significant factor
in  meeting the challenges posed by forces such as HIPAA, patient
safety and operational performance.

Results of Operations
- - - - ---------------------

Year  Ended December 30, 2000, Compared to Year Ended January  1,

The Company's revenues increased 19% to $404,504,000 in 2000 from
$340,197,000  in  1999.  Net earnings, before extraordinary  item
and  non-recurring  charges and credits was $20,366,000  in  2000
compared  to  $6,857,000  in  1999.   Non-recurring  charges  and
credits   in  2000,  as  described  below,  included  a  realized
investment  gain  and  loss,  write-off  of  acquired  in-process
research  and development and a write-down of intangible  assets.
Non-recurring  charges  in  1999,  as  described  below,  include
contract  reserves  and branch restructuring charges.   Including
the extraordinary item and non-recurring charges, the Company had
earnings of $105,265,000 in 2000 compared to a loss of $1,211,000
in 1999.

Revenues  -  In  2000, revenues increased due to an  increase  in
system  sales  and  support of installed systems.   System  sales
increased 17% to $263,109,000 in 2000 from $224,510,000 in  1999.
The  increase  in  system sales is due  to  an  increase  in  new
contract bookings in 2000 compared to 1999.

Total sales to the installed base in 2000, including new systems,
incremental   hardware  and  software,  support  and  maintenance
services  and  discrete services, were 77% of total  revenues  in
2000 compared to 75% in 1999.

At  December  30, 2000, the Company had $439,943,000 in  contract
backlog  and  $184,360,000  in support and  maintenance  backlog,
compared to $338,614,000 in contract backlog and $162,798,000  in
support and maintenance backlog at the end of 1999.



Support  and  maintenance  revenues  increased  22%  in  2000  as
compared  to  1999.  These revenues represented 28% of  2000  and
1999 total revenues.

Other  revenues  increased  23%  to  $26,497,000  in  2000   from
$21,489,000  in  1999.   This  increase  was  due  primarily   to
additional  revenues derived from subscriptions and  services  to
clients;   these   increases  were  $1,765,000  and   $2,324,000,
respectively.   The Company anticipates that other revenues  will
continue to increase in 2001.

Cost  of  Revenues - The cost of revenues includes  the  cost  of
third   party   consulting  services,   computer   hardware   and
sublicensed   software  purchased  from  computer  and   software
manufacturers for delivery to clients.  It also includes the cost
of   hardware   maintenance  and  sublicensed  software   support
subcontracted to the manufacturers.  The cost of revenues was 22%
of  total  revenues in 2000, and 25% of total revenues  in  1999,
excluding   a   non-recurring  charge  relating  to   fixed   fee
implementation contracts, as described below.  Such costs,  as  a
percent  of revenues, typically have varied as the mix of revenue
(software,  hardware, services and support)  components  carrying
different  margin  rates  changes from  period  to  period.   The
decrease  in  the cost of revenue as a percent of total  revenues
resulted  principally from a decrease in the percent  of  revenue
from  computer hardware and sublicensed software, which  carry  a
higher cost of revenue percentage.

Included  in the 1999 cost of revenues is a charge of $9,449,000,
which  represents  the remaining additional costs  in  excess  of
revenues  required to complete certain remaining  HNA  Millennium
fixed  fee implementation contracts.  The Company switched to  an
hourly  fee-for-service implementation model in 1997.  Delays  in
some  of  the  older  projects, primarily  caused  by  delays  in
development  of the Company's HNA Millennium products,  increased
the  time  required to complete these installations.   While  the
Company  originally  anticipated these fixed fee  implementations
would  be  completed  in  1999, in some instances  the  focus  by
clients  on their internal Y2K projects created a further  delay.
As  a result of the significant implementation work completed  in
the  last half of 1999 and the agreement between the Company  and
these  clients  in  the fourth quarter as to the  scope  of  work
remaining,  the  Company estimated that  the  costs  to  complete
certain  fixed  fee  implementation contracts  would  exceed  the
remaining  revenue  by  $9,449,000.  The Company  recognized  the
impact  of  these  excess  costs in  the  fourth  quarter  income
statement  as  a non-recurring cost of revenues.   $7,148,000  of
these  additional costs were incurred in 2000, with the remaining
costs to be completed in 2001.  There were no significant changes
in the estimates of the costs to complete in 2000.

Sales  and  Client  Service -  Sales and client service  expenses
include  salaries  of  client service  personnel,  communications
expenses  and  unreimbursed travel expenses.  Also  included  are
sales  and  marketing salaries, travel expenses, tradeshow  costs
and  advertising  costs.  These expenses as a  percent  of  total
revenues  were  42%  in 2000 and 41% in 1999,  excluding  a  non-
recurring  charge related to the closing of five branch  offices,
as  described  below.  The increase in  total  sales  and  client
service  expenses is attributable to the cost of a  larger  field
sales and services organization and marketing of new products.

Included  in  1999 sales and client service expenses  is  a  non-
recurring  charge related to the closing of five branch  offices.
In  December, 1999, the Company made a decision to close five  of
its  branch  offices.   The  Company created  a  regional  branch
structure  in  1994 in order to bring associates  closer  to  its
clients.  The natural evolution of that strategy and the  ability
to  leverage  internal information technology  infrastructure  to
create  a  more  virtual workplace has resulted in a  significant
decrease in utilization of certain regional offices. This led  to
the  decision  to  close these physical locations.   The  Company
recorded  a charge of $1.4 million in the 1999 fourth quarter  to
provide for the costs of closing these locations, primarily based
on  estimated lease cancellation fees.  All of these  costs  were
paid  in 2000.  The Company will continue to maintain offices  in
Denver, Colorado; Detroit, Michigan; St. Louis, Missouri; Dallas,
Texas;  Washington, D.C.; Chesapeake, Virginia;  Houston,  Texas;
Brussels, Belgium and Sydney, Australia, in addition to the world
headquarters in North Kansas City, Missouri.

Software  Development  -  Software development  expenses  include
salaries,  documentation and other direct  expenses  incurred  in
product  development  and  amortization of  software  development
costs.   Total



expenditures for software development, including both capitalized
and noncapitalized portions, for 2000 and  1999 were  $90,694,000
and   $88,699,000,   respectively.      These   amounts   exclude
amortization.  Capitalized   software   costs    were $30,982,000
and $30,192,000 for 2000 and 1999, respectively.

General  and Administrative - General and administrative expenses
include  salaries  for corporate, financial,  and  administrative
staffs, utilities, communications expenses and professional fees.
These expenses as a percent of total revenues were 7% in 2000 and
8% in 1999.

Write-off  of In-Process Research and Development - Write-off  of
in-process  research and development includes  one-time  expenses
resulting  from  the acquisitions of CITATION  Computer  Systems,
Inc. and ADAC Healthcare Information Systems, Inc., in 2000.

Write-down of Intangible Assets - Write-down of intangible assets
is  a one-time expense resulting from the decision to discontinue
a  portion of the Health Network Ventures, Inc. business as  more
fully   described  in  Note  2  to  the  Consolidated   Financial
Statements.

Interest  Expense, Net - Net interest expense was  $3,671,000  in
2000  compared to $3,396,000 in 1999.  The increase is due to  an
increase  in borrowings. On April 15, 1999, the Company completed
a  $100,000,000  private placement of debt  pursuant  to  a  Note
Agreement dated April 1, 1999.  The Series A Senior Notes, with a
$60,000,000 principal amount at 7.14% are payable in  five  equal
annual installments beginning in April 2002.  The Series B Senior
Notes,  with a $40,000,000 principal amount at 7.66% are  payable
in  six  equal  annual installments beginning  April  2004.   The
proceeds  were used to retire the Company's existing  $30,000,000
of  debt,  and  the  remaining funds are being used  for  capital
improvements  and to strengthen the Company's cash position.   In
connection  with  the early extinguishment of debt,  the  Company
incurred  a  $1,395,000, net of taxes, extraordinary loss  for  a
prepayment penalty and write-off of deferred loan costs. The Note
Agreement  contains certain net worth, current ratio,  and  fixed
charge  coverage  covenants and provides certain restrictions  on
the Company's ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets and pay
dividends.   The Company was in compliance with all covenants  at
December 30, 2000.

Realized  Gain  on  Exchange of Stock  -  The  Realized  gain  on
exchange  of stock is a non-recurring investment gain related  to
the exchange of CareInsite shares for WebMD shares in 2000.

Realized  Loss on Sale of Stock - The realized loss  on  sale  of
stock is a non-recurring investment loss related to the sale of a
portion of the WebMD shares in 2000.

Income  Taxes - The Company's effective tax rate was 39% in  2000
and 1999.

Year  Ended  January 1, 2000, Compared to Year Ended  January  2,

The  Company's revenues increased 3% to $340,197,000 in 1999 from
$330,902,000 in 1998. Net earnings, before extraordinary item and
non-recurring  charges  were $6,857,000  in  1999   compared   to
$23,687,000 in 1998.  Non-recurring charges in 1999, as described
below,   included  contract  reserves  and  branch  restructuring
charges.   Non-recurring  charges  in  1998  include  acquisition
related  charges.   Including  the extraordinary  item  and  non-
recurring  charges, the Company incurred a loss of $1,211,000  in
1999 compared to earnings of $20,589,000 in 1998.

Revenues  -  In  1999, revenues increased due to an  increase  in
support  of  installed systems and other revenues.  System  sales
decreased 9% to $224,510,000 in 1999 from $245,490,000  in  1998.
The  decrease  in  system sales was due  to  a  decrease  in  new
contract bookings in 1999 compared to 1998.  The Company believes
that  this  decrease  was due primarily to delays  in  purchasing
decisions  related  to  Y2K  and   the  Balanced  Budget  Act  of
1997.   The sale of additional hardware and software products  to
the  installed client base increased 27% in 1999 as  compared  to
1998.



Total sales to the installed base in 1999, including new systems,
incremental   hardware  and  software,  support  and  maintenance
services,  and discrete services, were 75% of total  revenues  in
1999  compared  to  69%  in  1998.   The  higher  percentage  was
primarily due to the decrease in system sales to new clients.

At  January  1,  2000, the Company had $338,614,000  in  contract
backlog  and  $162,798,000  in support and  maintenance  backlog,
compared to $314,965,000 in contract backlog and $153,453,000  in
support and maintenance backlog at the end of 1998.

Support  and  maintenance  revenues  increased  23%  in  1999  as
compared  to 1998.  These revenues represented 28% of 1999  total
revenues  and 23% of 1998 total revenues.  The higher  percentage
was primarily attributable to the decrease in system sales and an
increase in installed systems.

Other  revenues  increased  148%  to  $21,489,000  in  1999  from
$8,657,000 in 1998.  This increase was due primarily to  services
performed beyond contracted requirements for existing clients.

Cost  of  Revenues - The cost of revenues includes  the  cost  of
third   party   consulting  services,   computer   hardware   and
sublicensed   software  purchased  from  computer  and   software
manufacturers for delivery to clients.  It also includes the cost
of   hardware   maintenance  and  sublicensed  software   support
subcontracted to the manufacturers.  The cost of revenues was 25%
of  total  revenues  in  1999, excluding a  non-recurring  charge
related  to  fixed  fee  implementation contracts,  as  described
below,  and  27%  of total revenues in 1998.  Such  costs,  as  a
percent  of revenues, typically have varied as the mix of revenue
(software,  hardware, services and support)  components  carrying
different  margin  rates  changes from  period  to  period.   The
decrease  in  the cost of revenue as a percent of total  revenues
resulted  principally from a decrease in the percent  of  revenue
from  computer hardware and sublicensed software, which  carry  a
higher cost of revenue percentage.

Included  in the 1999 cost of revenues is a charge of $9,449,000,
which  represents  the remaining additional costs  in  excess  of
revenues  required to complete certain remaining HNA   Millennium
fixed fee implementation contracts, as further described above.

Sales  and  Client  Service -  Sales and client service  expenses
include  salaries  of  client service  personnel,  communications
expenses,  and unreimbursed travel expenses.  Also  included  are
sales  and  marketing salaries, travel expenses, tradeshow  costs
and  advertising  costs.  These expenses as a  percent  of  total
revenues  were  41%  in  1999, excluding a  non-recurring  charge
related  to  the  closing of five branch  offices,  as  described
below,  and 35% in 1998.  The increase in total sales and  client
service  expenses is attributable to the cost of a  larger  field
sales and services organization and marketing of new products.

Included  in  1999 sales and client service expenses  is  a  non-
recurring  charge related to the closing of five branch  offices.
In  December, 1999, the Company made a decision to close five  of
its  branch  offices.   The  Company created  a  regional  branch
structure  in  1994 in order to bring associates  closer  to  its
clients.  The natural evolution of that strategy and the  ability
to  leverage  internal information technology  infrastructure  to
create  a  more  virtual workplace has resulted in a  significant
decrease in utilization of certain regional offices. This led  to
the  decision  to  close  these physical locations.  The  Company
recorded  a charge of $1.4 million in the 1999 fourth quarter  to
provide for the costs of closing these locations, primarily based
on estimated lease cancellation fees.

Software  Development  -  Software development  expenses  include
salaries,  documentation, and other direct expenses  incurred  in
product  development  and  amortization of  software  development
costs.   Total  expenditures for software development,  including
both  capitalized and noncapitalized portions, for 1999 and  1998
were  $88,699,000 and $74,159,000, respectively.   These  amounts
exclude   amortization.    Capitalized   software   costs    were
$30,192,000 and $25,052,000 for 1999 and 1998, respectively.  The
increase  in  aggregate expenditures for software development  in
1999  is  due  to  development of HNA  Millennium   products  and
development of community care products.



General  and Administrative - General and administrative expenses
include  salaries  for corporate, financial,  and  administrative
staffs, utilities, communications expenses and professional fees.
These expenses as a percent of total revenues were 8% in 1999 and
1998.

Interest  Expense, Net - Net interest expense was  $3,396,000  in
1999  compared to $262,000 in 1998.  The increase is  due  to  an
increase  in borrowings. On April 15, 1999, the Company completed
a  $100,000,000  private placement of debt  pursuant  to  a  Note
Agreement date April 1, 1999.  The Series A Senior Notes, with  a
$60,000,000 principal amount at 7.14% are payable in  five  equal
annual installments beginning in April 2002.  The Series B Senior
Notes,  with a $40,000,000 principal amount at 7.66% are  payable
in  six  equal  annual  installments beginning  April  2004.   In
connection  with  the early extinguishment of debt,  the  Company
incurred  a  $1,395,000 net of taxes, extraordinary  loss  for  a
prepayment penalty and write-off of deferred loan costs.

Income  Taxes - The Company's effective tax rate was 39% in  1999
and 38% in 1998.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
- - - - -------------------------------

The Company had total cash and cash equivalents of $90,893,000 at
the end of 2000 and working capital of $186,181,000, compared  to
cash and cash equivalents of $75,677,000 at the end of 1999,  and
working capital of $170,053,000.

The  Company  generated  cash  of  $53,313,000,  $27,389,000  and
$5,893,000  from operations in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.
Cash flow from operations increased in 2000, due primarily to the
increase  in  net earnings, increased collection of  receivables,
improved  payment  terms and record level of  conversions.   Cash
flow  from  operations  increased  in  1999,  due  primarily   to
increased  collection of receivables, improved payment terms  and
record level of conversions.

Cash   used  in  investing  activities  consisted  primarily   of
capitalized   software  development  costs  of  $30,982,000   and
$30,192,000 and purchases of capital equipment of $16,154,000 and
$14,345,000  in  2000 and 1999, respectively.  The  Company  also
made  additional investments in affiliates in 2000 of  $7,370,000
and  completed acquisitions of businesses for $16,829,000.   Cash
provided  from  investing  activities  came  primarily  from  the
proceeds of $26,152,000 from the sale of WebMD shares.  The major
source of cash from financing activities in 2000 was provided  by
the  exercise of common stock options.  The major source of  cash
from  financing activities in 1999 was provided by the  Company's
refinancing of its long-term debt, more fully described in Note 6
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Revenues   provided  under  support  and  maintenance  agreements
represent recurring cash flows.  Support and maintenance revenues
increased 22%, 23% and 12%, in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively,
and the Company expects these revenues to continue to grow as the
base of installed systems grows.

The  Company's liquidity is influenced by many factors, including
the  amount  and  timing  of  the Company's  revenues,  its  cash
collections  from its clients as implementation of  its  products
proceed   and  the  amounts  the  Company  invests  in   software
development  and  capital expenditures.  The Company  expects  to
have  an  increase  in its cash position for 2001.   The  Company
believes  that  its  present cash position,  together  with  cash
generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet anticipated
cash  requirements during 2001.  The Company has  an  $18,000,000
line of credit available.

The  effects  of inflation on the Company's business during  1999
and 2000 were not significant.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements
- - - - --------------------------------

During  the  second  quarter  of  1998,  the Financial Accounting
Standards   Board  issued  Statement  No.  133,  "Accounting  for
Derivative  Instruments  and Hedging Activities" (Statement 133).
Statement 133 will be adopted by the Company in the first quarter
of 2001.   The  Company  does  not anticipate Statement 133  will
have a significant impact on its reported earnings per share.



In December of 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission staff
issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, "Revenue Recognition in
Financial  Statements"  (SAB 101).  SAB  101 had no impact on the
Company's reported earnings per share.

Factors  That May Affect Future Results of Operations,  Financial
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------
Condition or Business
- - - - ---------------------

Statements made in this report, the Annual Report to Shareholders
in  which  this  report is made a part, other reports  and  proxy
statements  filed  with the Securities and  Exchange  Commission,
communications   to   stockholders,  press  releases   and   oral
statements  made by representatives of the Company that  are  not
historical in nature, or that state the Company's or management's
intentions,  hopes, beliefs, expectations or predictions  of  the
future,  are "forward-looking statements" within the  meaning  of
Section  21E  of  the Securities and Exchange  Act  of  1934,  as
amended, and involve risks and uncertainties.  The words "could,"
"should,"  "will  be,"  "will lead," "will  assist,"  "intended,"
"continue,"  "believe,"  "may," "expect,"  "hope,"  "anticipate,"
"goal,"  "forecast"  and  similar  expressions  are  intended  to
identify  such  forward-looking statements.  It is  important  to
note  that  any  such performance, and actual results,  financial
condition   or  business  could  differ  materially  from   those
expressed in such forward-looking statements.  Factors that could
cause  or  contribute to such differences include,  but  are  not
limited  to,  those  discussed below as well as  those  discussed
elsewhere  in  reports  filed with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission.   The Company undertakes no obligation to  update  or
revise forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions,
the  occurrence  of  unanticipated events or  changes  in  future
operating results, financial condition or business over time.

Quarterly  Operating Results May Vary
- - - - ------------------------------------- -   The Company's quarterly
operating  results have varied in the past and  may  continue  to
vary in future periods.  Quarterly operating results may vary for
a  number  of reasons including demand for the Company's products
and   services,  the  Company's  long  sales  cycle,   the   long
installation  and  implementation cycle for  these  larger,  more
complex and costlier systems and other factors described in  this
section  and elsewhere in this report.  As a result of healthcare
industry  trends and the market for the Company's HNA  Millennium
products,  a  large  percentage of  the  Company's  revenues  are
generated  by  the sale and installation of larger, more  complex
and  costlier  systems.  The sales process for these  systems  is
lengthy  and  involves  a  significant technical  evaluation  and
commitment  of  capital and other resources by the  client.   The
sale  may  be subject to delays due to clients' internal  budgets
and  procedures for approving large capital expenditures  and  by
competing needs for other capital expenditures and deploying  new
technologies or personnel resources.  Delays in the expected sale
or  installation of these large contracts may have a  significant
impact  on  the  Company's  anticipated  quarterly  revenues  and
consequently its earnings, since a significant percentage of  the
Company's expenses are relatively fixed.

These larger, more complex and costlier systems are installed and
implemented  over  time  periods ranging from  approximately  six
months to three years and involve significant efforts both by the
Company  and  the  client.  In addition,  implementation  of  the
Company's HNA Millennium products is a new and evolving  process.
The  Company  recognizes revenue upon the completion of  standard
milestone conditions and the amount of revenue recognized in  any
quarter  depends upon the Company's and the client's  ability  to
meet these project milestones.  Delays in meeting these milestone
conditions  or modification of the contract relating  to  one  or
more  of  these  systems  could result  in  a  shift  of  revenue
recognition from one quarter to another and could have a material
adverse effect on results of operations for a particular quarter.
In  addition,  support  payments by  clients  for  the  Company's
products generally do not commence until the product is in use.

The  Company's revenues from system sales historically have  been
lower  in the first quarter of the year and greater in the fourth
quarter of the year.

Stock  Price  May  Be  Volatile -
- - - - -------------------------------      The  trading  price  of  the
Company's  common  stock may be volatile.   The  market  for  the
Company's  common  stock  may experience  significant  price  and
volume  fluctuations in response to a number of factors including
actual  or anticipated quarterly variations in operating results,
changes  in  expectations  of  future  financial  performance  or
changes   in   estimates  of  securities  analysts,



governmental regulatory action,   healthcare   reform   measures,
client  relationship  developments  and  other  factors,  many of
which  are beyond the Company's control.

Furthermore,  the  stock market in general, and  the  market  for
software, healthcare and high technology companies in particular,
has  experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated
to  the  operating  performance of particular  companies.   These
broad  market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect  the
trading price of the Company's common stock, regardless of actual
operating performance.

Market  Risk  of  Investments
- - - - -----------------------------  - The  Company  accounts  for  its
investments  in equity securities which have readily determinable
fair values as available-for-sale.  Available-for-sale securities
are  reported  at  fair value with unrealized  gains  and  losses
reported,  net  of  tax, as a separate component  of  accumulated
other  comprehensive income.  Investments in the common stock  of
certain  affiliates  over  which the Company  exerts  significant
influence are accounted for by the equity method.  Investments in
other  equity  securities  are  reported  at  cost.   All  equity
securities  are  reviewed by the Company  for  declines  in  fair
value.   If  such  declines  are  considered  to  be  other  than
temporary,  the cost basis of the individual security is  written
down  to  fair value as a new cost basis, and the amount  of  the
write-down is included in earnings.

In   1998   and  1999  the  Company  acquired  a  17.5%  interest
(13,149,259  shares of common stock) in CareInsite, Inc.  with  a
cost  basis  of  $81,804,000. 12,437,500  of  these  shares  were
received  in  1998  as  consideration for  the  sale  of  license
software,  and  an  additional 711,759 shares were  purchased  in
1999.   The  value assigned to the shares acquired  in  1998  was
$70,000,000 and was based on a methodology which utilized both  a
comparable company and the expected underlying discounted  future
cash  flows.   The  Company  was  also  granted,  by  CareInsite,
1,008,445 common stock warrants with an exercise price  of  $4.00
per   share   ("THINC  Warrants").   The  THINC   Warrants   were
exercisable only in the event that The Health Information Network
Connections, LLC ("THINC") exercised warrants granted to them  by
CareInsite  at  $4.00 per share.  THINC was allowed  to  exercise
their  warrants  180  days after the initial public  offering  of
CareInsite.    On  January  29,  2000  CareInsite  completed   an
acquisition of THINC.  As part of that agreement, 806,756 of  the
Company's    1,008,445   THINC   Warrants   became    immediately
exercisable, with the remaining amount forfeited.

On  February  13,  2000, CareInsite entered into an agreement  to
merge with Healtheon/WebMD Corporation ("Merger Agreement").   As
part of the Merger Agreement, the Company received 1.3 shares  of
Healtheon/WebMD Corporation (WebMD) in exchange for  each  common
share of CareInsite held by the Company.  The warrants were  also
converted  at the same exchange ratio.  The merger of  CareInsite
and  WebMD ("Merger") closed on September 12, 2000.  Accordingly,
the   Company  recorded  a  non-recurring  investment   gain   of
$120,362,000, net of tax, as a result of the exchange.

On  December 12, 2000, the Company sold 4,273,509 shares of WebMD
for  $25,641,000.   Accordingly,  the  Company  recorded  a  non-
recurring investment loss of $24,539,000, net of tax, as a result
of the sale.

At  December  30,  2000, the Company owned 12,820,527  shares  of
common  stock  of WebMD, which have a cost basis of  $192,308,000
and  a  carrying  value  of $101,795,000,  as  these  shares  are
accounted for as available-for-sale.  The stock of WebMD held  by
the  Company  is  registered but is subject  to  certain  lock-up
provisions.   At  December  30,  2000, the  Company  also   holds
1,048,783 warrants of WebMD with an exercise price of $3.08 and a
cost  basis and carrying value of $13,685,000.  The warrants  are
carried  at  cost,  as  they do not have a  fair  value  that  is
currently  available on a securities exchange.

If  the  Company realizes certain performance metrics related  to
specified  levels  of physician usage, WebMD will  issue  to  the
Company 3,254,063 shares of common stock at a price of $0.01  per
share  ("Performance  Shares").   The  Performance  Shares   were
adjusted  at  a  rate of 1.3 shares of WebMD for  each  share  of
CareInsite.   The  contracted measurement date was  February  15,
2001.  The  Company  and WebMD are in discussions  regarding  the
attainment  of  the  Performance Shares.  No  amounts  have  been
recognized  in  the  consolidated financial  statements  for  the
Performance  Shares pending completion of the  discussions.   All
physician users of systems of WebMD Corporation or its affiliates
shall  be  included  for  purposes of determining  the  specified
levels of physician usage.



The  Company's policy is to review declines in fair value of  its
marketable equity securities for declines that may be other  than
temporary.   If the market price of the WebMD common shares  does
not recover to near the Company's $15.00 per share carrying value
in the near term, the Company will record a write-down, through a
charge to earnings, to establish a new cost basis in the security
reflecting the then current market value.

At  December  30, 2000, marketable securities (which  consist  of
money  market and commercial paper) of the Company were  recorded
at  cost,  which  approximates fair value  of  approximately  $91
million, with an overall average return of approximately  5%  and
an   overall  weighted  maturity  of  less  than  90  days.   The
marketable  securities held by the Company  are  not  subject  to
price  risk  as  a  result  of  the  short-term  nature  of   the
investments.

The  Company is not exposed to material future earnings  or  cash
flow  exposures from changes in interest rates on long-term  debt
since  100% of its long-term debt is at a fixed rate.   To  date,
the  Company  has  not  entered  into  any  derivative  financial
instruments to manage interest rate risk.

The  Company  conducts business in several foreign jurisdictions.
However,  the  business  transacted is in  the  local  functional
currency  and  the Company does not currently have  any  material
exposure  to  foreign currency transaction gains or losses.   All
other  business transactions are in U.S. dollars.  To  date,  the
Company has not entered into any derivative financial instruments
to manage foreign currency risk.

Changes in the Healthcare Industry
- - - - ---------------------------------- -   The healthcare industry is
highly  regulated and is subject to changing political,  economic
and  regulatory influences.  For example, the Balanced Budget Act
of  1997  (Public  Law  105-32) contains significant  changes  to
Medicare  and  Medicaid and began to have its initial  impact  in
1998   due  to  limitations  on  reimbursement,  resulting   cost
containment  initiatives, and effects on pricing and  demand  for
capital  intensive systems.  In addition, the issued and  pending
rules under the Health Information Portability and Accountability
Act  of  1996  (HIPAA),   will   have  a  direct  impact  on  the
healthcare  industry  by requiring identifiers  and  standardized
transactions/code  sets  and  necessary  security   and   privacy
measures  in  order  to ensure the protection of  patient  health
information.  These factors affect the purchasing  practices  and
operation   of  healthcare  organizations.   Federal  and   state
legislatures have periodically considered programs to  reform  or
amend  the  U.S. healthcare system at both the federal and  state
level  and  to  change  healthcare  financing  and  reimbursement
systems.   These  programs  may  contain  proposals  to  increase
governmental involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates
or  otherwise change the environment in which healthcare industry
participants  operate.   Healthcare  industry  participants   may
respond  by  reducing their investments or postponing  investment
decisions,  including investments in the Company's  products  and
services.

Many  healthcare providers are consolidating to create integrated
healthcare  delivery  systems with greater market  power.   These
providers  may  try to use their market power to negotiate  price
reductions  for  the  Company's products and  services.   As  the
healthcare industry consolidates, the Company's client base could
be  eroded, competition for clients could become more intense and
the importance of acquiring each client becomes greater.

Significant Competition
- - - - ----------------------- -   The market for healthcare information
systems is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to
rapid  technological  change.   The  Company  believes  that  the
principal competitive factors in this market include the  breadth
and quality of system and product offerings, the stability of the
information  systems provider, the features and  capabilities  of
the  information systems, the ongoing support for the system  and
the potential for enhancements and future compatible products.

Certain  of  the  Company's competitors have  greater  financial,
technical,  product  development, marketing and  other  resources
than  the Company and some of its competitors offer products that
it  does not offer.  The Company's principal existing competitors
include  Siemens  Medical Solutions Health Services  Corporation,
IDX    Systems    Corporation,    McKesson    HBOC,    Inc.   and
Eclipsys Corporation, each of which offers a  suite  of  products
that compete  with  many of the Company's products.    There  are
other  competitors  that  offer  a   more   limited   number   of
competing products.



In  addition, the Company expects that major software information
systems   companies,  large  information  technology   consulting
service providers and system integrators, Internet-based start-up
companies and others specializing in the healthcare industry  may
offer  competitive products or services.  The pace of  change  in
the  healthcare information systems market is rapid and there are
frequent  new  product  introductions, product  enhancements  and
evolving  industry standards and requirements.  As a result,  the
Company's success will depend upon its ability to keep pace  with
technological  change and to introduce, on  a  timely  and  cost-
effective basis, new and enhanced products that satisfy  changing
client requirements and achieve market acceptance.

Proprietary Technology May Be Subjected to Infringement Claims or
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------
May Be Infringed Upon
- - - - --------------------- -  The Company relies upon a combination of
trade  secret, copyright and trademark laws, license  agreements,
confidentiality procedures, employee nondisclosure agreements and
technical  measures  to  maintain  the  trade  secrecy   of   its
proprietary information. The Company recently initiated a  patent
program but currently has a very limited patent portfolio.  As  a
result,   the  Company  may  not  be  able  to  protect   against
misappropriation of its intellectual property.

In  addition,  the  Company  could  be  subject  to  intellectual
property  infringement claims as the number of competitors  grows
and  the  functionality of its products overlaps with competitive
offerings.   These  claims,  even if not  meritorious,  could  be
expensive  to  defend.  If the Company becomes  liable  to  third
parties  for  infringing their intellectual property  rights,  it
could  be  required  to pay a substantial  damage  award  and  to
develop  noninfringing  technology, obtain  a  license  or  cease
selling  the  products  that contain the infringing  intellectual
property.

Government  Regulation
- - - - ----------------------  -   The  United  States  Food  and   Drug
Administration  (the "FDA") has declared that  software  products
intended  for  the  maintenance of data used in making  decisions
regarding  the  suitability of blood donors and  the  release  of
blood  or  blood  components for transfusion are medical  devices
under  the  Federal  Food,  Drug and  Cosmetic  Act  ("Act")  and
amendments to the Act.  As a consequence, the Company is  subject
to  extensive regulation by the FDA with regard to its blood bank
software.   If other of the Company's products are deemed  to  be
actively regulated medical devices by the FDA, the Company  could
be  subject  to extensive requirements governing pre-  and  post-
marketing requirements including premarket notification clearance
prior  to marketing.  Complying with these FDA regulations  would
be time consuming and expensive.  It is possible that the FDA may
become  more active in regulating computer software that is  used
in healthcare.

Following an inspection by the FDA in March of 1998, the  Company
received  a  Form  FDA 483 (Notice of Inspectional  Observations)
alleging  non-compliance with certain aspects  of  FDA's  Quality
System  Regulation  with  respect to the Company's  PathNet  HNAC
Blood  Bank  Transfusion  and Donor  products  (the  "Blood  Bank
Products").  The Company subsequently received a Warning  Letter,
dated  April  29, 1998, as a result of the same inspection.   The
Company  responded promptly to the FDA and undertook a number  of
actions  in response to the Form 483 and Warning Letter including
an  audit  by a third party of the Company's Blood Bank  Products
and improvements to Cerner's Quality System.  A copy of the third
party  audit was submitted to the FDA in October of 1998 and,  at
the  request of the FDA, additional information and clarification
were submitted to the FDA in January of 1999.

There  can  be no assurance, however, that the Company's  actions
taken  in  response to the Form 483 and Warning  Letter  will  be
deemed  adequate by the FDA or that additional actions on  behalf
of  the  Company will not be required.  In addition, the  Company
remains subject to periodic FDA inspections and there can  be  no
assurances  that  the Company will not be required  to  undertake
additional  actions  to  comply  with  the  Act  and  any   other
applicable  regulatory requirements.  Any failure by the  Company
to  comply  with  the  Act  and any other  applicable  regulatory
requirements  could  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on   the
Company's  ability to continue to manufacture and distribute  its
products.    FDA  has  many enforcement tools including  recalls,
seizures,       injunctions,     civil    fines   and/or criminal
prosecutions. Any  of the foregoing could have a material adverse
effect  on  the  Company's  business,  results  of  operations or
financial condition.

Product  Related  Liabilities
- - - - ----------------------------- -   Many of the Company's  products
provide data for use by healthcare providers in providing care to
patients.  Although no such claims have been brought against  the
Company



to  date   regarding   injuries   related  to   the  use  of  its
products,  such claims may be made in the future.   Although  the
Company  maintains  product liability insurance  coverage  in  an
amount that it believes is sufficient for its business, there can
be  no assurance that such coverage will prove to be adequate  or
that   such  coverage  will  continue  to  remain  available   on
acceptable terms, if at all.  A successful claim brought  against
the  Company which is uninsured or under-insured could materially
harm its business, results of operations or financial condition.

System   Errors   and  Warranties
- - - - ---------------------------------  -    The  Company's   systems,
particularly the HNA Millennium versions, are very  complex.   As
with complex systems offered by others, the Company's systems may
contain  errors, especially when first introduced.  Although  the
Company  conducts  extensive testing, it has discovered  software
errors  in  its products after their introduction.  The Company's
systems  are  intended  for  use  in  collecting  and  displaying
clinical  information  used  in the diagnosis  and  treatment  of
patients.   Therefore,  users  of the  Company  products  have  a
greater sensitivity to system errors than the market for software
products  generally.  The Company's agreements with  its  clients
typically  provide warranties against material errors  and  other
matters.   Failure  of a client's system to meet  these  criteria
could  constitute a material breach under such contracts allowing
the  client to cancel the contract, or could require the  Company
to  incur  additional expense in order to make  the  system  meet
these   criteria.   The  Company's  contracts  with  its  clients
generally limit the Company's liability arising from such  claims
but such limits may not be enforceable in certain jurisdictions.

Anti-Takeover   Defenses
- - - - ------------------------  -    The  Company's  charter,   bylaws,
shareholders' rights plan and certain provisions of Delaware  law
contain  certain provisions that may have the effect of  delaying
or preventing an acquisition of the Company.  Such provisions are
intended  to  encourage any person interested  in  acquiring  the
Company to negotiate with and obtain the approval of the Board of
Directors  in  connection  with  any  such  transaction.    These
provisions  include (a) a Board of Directors  that  is  staggered
into three classes to serve staggered three-year terms, (b) blank
check  preferred stock, (c) supermajority voting provisions,  (d)
inability  of shareholders to act by written consent  or  call  a
special  meeting, (e) limitations on the ability of  shareholders
to  nominate directors or make proposals at shareholder  meetings
and (f) triggering the exercisability of stock purchase rights on
a  discriminatory basis, which may invoke extensive economic  and
voting  dilution  of  a  potential  acquirer  if  its  beneficial
ownership  of  the  Company's common stock  exceeds  a  specified
threshold.  Certain of these provisions may discourage  a  future
acquisition of the Company not approved by the Board of Directors
in  which  shareholders might receive a premium value  for  their
shares.

Item  7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about  Market
Risk

Information contained under the caption "Factors That May  Affect
Future Results of Operations, Financial Condition or Business  --
Market   Risk  of  Investments"  set  forth  under  "Management's
Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial Condition and  Results  of
Operations" in Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The  Financial  Statements and Notes required by  this  Item  are
submitted as a separate part of this report.

Item  9.   Changes  in  and  Disagreements  with  Accountants   on
Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.



PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The  Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in  connection  with
the  Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May  25,  2001,
contains  under  the  caption  "Election  of  Directors"  certain
information required by Item 10 of Form 10-K and such information
is  incorporated  herein  by  this  reference.   The  information
required by Item 10 of Form 10-K as to executive officers is  set
forth in Item 4A of Part I hereof.

The  Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in  connection  with
the  Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May  25,  2001,
contains under the caption "Compliance with Section 16(a) of  the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934" certain information required  by
Item  10 of Form 10-K and such information is incorporated herein
by this reference.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

The  Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in  connection  with
the  Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May  25,  2001,
contains   under   the  caption  "Executive   Compensation"   the
information required by Item 11 of Form 10-K and such information
is incorporated herein by this reference.

Item 12.  Security  Ownership  of Certain Beneficial  Owners  and
          Management

The  Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in  connection  with
the  Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May  25,  2001,
contains  under  the  caption "Voting  Securities  and  Principal
Holders Thereof" the information required by Item 12 of Form 10-K
and such information is incorporated herein by this reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The  Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in  connection  with
the  Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May  25,  2001,
contains under the caption "Certain Transactions" the information
required  by  Item  13  of  Form 10-K  and  such  information  is
incorporated herein by this reference.



PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports
          on Form 8-K

     (a)  Financial Statements.

          (1)  Consolidated Financial Statements:

               Independent Auditors' Report on Consolidated
               Financial Statements

               Consolidated Balance Sheets -
               December 30, 2000 and January 1, 2000

               Consolidated Statements of Operations -
               Years Ended December 30, 2000, January 1, 2000 and
               January 2, 1999

               Consolidated Statements of Changes In Equity
               Years Ended December 30, 2000, January 1, 2000 and
               January 2, 1999

               Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
               Years Ended December 30, 2000, January 1, 2000 and
               January 2, 1999

               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

          (2)  The following financial statement,
               schedule and independent auditors' report
               on financial statement schedule of the
               Registrant for the three-year period ended
               December 30, 2000 are included herein:

               Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts,

               Independent Auditors' Report on Consolidated
               Financial Statement Schedule.

All  other schedules are omitted, as the required information  is
inapplicable  or the information is presented in the consolidated
financial statements or related notes.

          (3)  The exhibits required to be filed by this item are
               set forth  below:



* Management  contracts  or compensatory  plans  or  arrangements
  required to be identified by Item 14(a)(3).

          (b)  Reports on Form 8-K.

     Report on Form 8-K was filed on November 22, 2000.

          (c)  Exhibits.

     The  response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as  a
     separate section of this report.

          (d)  Financial Statement Schedules.

      The  response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as  a
      separate section of this report.



                           SIGNATURES

Pursuant  to  the  requirements of Section 13  or  15(d)  of  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly  caused
this  report  to  be  signed on its behalf  by  the  undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

                              CERNER CORPORATION


Dated:   March   30,  2001      By:/s/   Neal   L. Patterson
                                   ------------------------------
                                   Neal L. Patterson
                                   Chairman of  the  Board   and
                                   Chief Executive Officer


Pursuant  to the requirements of the Securities Exchange  Act  of
1934,  this report has been signed below by the following persons
on  behalf  of the registrant and in the capacities  and  on  the
dates indicated:

          Signature and Title                     Date
          -------------------                     ----



/s/Neal L. Patterson                             March 30, 2001
- - - - -------------------------------
Neal L. Patterson, Chairman of the Board and
 Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive
 Officer)



/s/Clifford W. Illig                             March 30, 2001
- - - - -------------------------------
Clifford W. Illig, Vice Chairman and Director



/s/Marc G. Naughton                              March 30, 2001
- - - - -------------------------------
Marc G. Naughton, Vice President and
 Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial
 and  Accounting Officer)


/s/Michael E. Herman                             March 30, 2001
- - - - -------------------------------
Michael E. Herman, Director



/s/Gerald E. Bisbee                              March 30, 2001
- - - - -------------------------------
Gerald E. Bisbee, Jr., Ph.D., Director


/s/John C. Danforth                              March 30, 2001
- - - - -------------------------------
John C. Danforth, Director


/s/Jeff C. Goldsmith                             March 30, 2001
- - - - -------------------------------
Jeff C. Goldsmith, Ph.D., Director

/s/William B. Neaves                             March 30, 2001
- - - - -------------------------------
William B. Neaves, Ph.D., Director



Independent Auditors' Report
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------



The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Cerner Corporation:



We  have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets  of
Cerner  Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 30, 2000  and
January  1,  2000,  and  the related consolidated  statements  of
operations,  changes in equity, and cash flows for  each  of  the
years  in  the three-year period ended December 30, 2000.   These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility  of  the
Company's  management.   Our  responsibility  is  to  express  an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based  on  our
audits.

We  conducted  our  audits in accordance with auditing  standards
generally  accepted  in  the United  States  of  America.   Those
standards  require that we plan and perform the audit  to  obtain
reasonable  assurance about whether the financial statements  are
free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a
test  basis,  evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures  in
the  financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing  the
accounting  principles  used and significant  estimates  made  by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation.   We believe that our audits provide  a  reasonable
basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to
above  present  fairly, in all material respects,  the  financial
position  of  Cerner Corporation and subsidiaries as of  December
30, 2000 and January 1, 2000, and the results of their operations
and  their  cash  flows for each of the years in  the  three-year
period  ended  December 30, 2000, in conformity  with  accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.



KPMG LLP

Kansas City, Missouri
January 31, 2001



Management's Report
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------


The  management  of  Cerner Corporation is  responsible  for  the
consolidated  financial  statements  and  all  other  information
presented  in  this report.  The financial statements  have  been
prepared  in  conformity  with  accounting  principles  generally
accepted  in  the  United States of America  appropriate  to  the
circumstances,   and,  therefore,  included  in   the   financial
statements  are  certain amounts based on  management's  informed
estimates  and  judgments.  Other financial information  in  this
report  is  consistent  with that in the  consolidated  financial
statements.   The  consolidated financial  statements  have  been
audited  by  Cerner  Corporation's independent  certified  public
accountants and have been reviewed by the audit committee of  the
Board of Directors.



Consolidated Balance Sheets
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------
December 30, 2000 and January 1, 2000



See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Consolidated Statements of Operations
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------
For the years ended December 30, 2000, January 1, 2000 and
January 2, 1999



See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------
For the years ended December 30, 2000, January 1, 2000 and
January 2, 1999



See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------
For the years ended December 30, 2000, January 1, 2000 and
January 2, 1999




See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------

1    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

(a)  Principles  of  Consolidation - The  consolidated  financial
statements  include  the accounts of Cerner Corporation  and  its
wholly   owned  subsidiaries  (the  Company).   All   significant
intercompany  transactions and balances have been  eliminated  in
consolidation.

(b)   Nature  of  Operations  -  The Company  designs,  develops,
markets,   installs,  hosts  and  supports  software  information
technology and content solutions for healthcare organizations and
consumers.   The  Company  also  implements  these  solutions  as
individual, combined or enterprise-wide systems.

(c)   Revenue  Recognition - Revenues are derived primarily  from
the  sale  of  clinical  information systems.  The  Company  also
provides  project  implementation and  consulting  services.   In
addition, revenue is generated from servicing installed  clinical
information systems, which generally includes support of software
and  maintenance  of hardware.  The Company also derives  revenue
from the sale of computer hardware.

Clinical information system sales contracts generally include the
licensing  of the Company's clinical information system software,
project-related services associated with the installation of  the
systems, and the sale of computer hardware.  Clinical information
system sales contracts are noncancelable and provide for a  right
of  return  only  in  the  event the system  fails  to  meet  the
published specifications of the software.  The Company recognizes
revenue  from  sales  of  clinical information  systems  using  a
percentage-of-completion method based on  meeting  key  milestone
events  over  the  term  of  the  contracts  in  accordance  with
Statement of Position 97-2, "Software Revenue Recognition".

Revenue  associated  with project implementation  and  consulting
services  is  recognized as the services are performed.   Revenue
from  the  licensing  of additional software is  recognized  upon
installation  at  the client's site.  Revenue from  the  sale  of
computer  hardware  is  recognized upon shipment.   Revenue  from
ongoing  software support and equipment maintenance is recognized
as the services are rendered.

(d)  Fiscal Year - The Company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday
closest  to  December  31.   Fiscal years  2000,  1999  and  1998
consisted  of  52 weeks each.  All references to years  in  these
notes to consolidated financial statements represent fiscal years
unless otherwise noted.

(e)   Software  Development Costs - Costs incurred internally  in
creating   computer   software  products   are   expensed   until
technological feasibility has been established upon completion of
a  detail  program design.  Thereafter, all software  development
costs  are capitalized and subsequently reported at the lower  of
amortized  cost or net realizable value.  Capitalized  costs  are
amortized based on current and expected future revenue  for  each
product  with minimum annual amortization equal to the  straight-
line  amortization  over  the  estimated  economic  life  of  the
product.   The  Company  is amortizing  capitalized  costs  on  a
straight-line basis over five years.  During 2000, 1999 and 1998,
the Company capitalized $30,982,000, $30,192,000 and $25,052,000,
respectively, of total software development costs of $90,694,000,
$88,699,000    and    $74,159,000,  respectively.    Amortization
expense  of capitalized software development costs in 2000,  1999
and   1998   was   $18,713,000,  $14,156,000   and   $10,647,000,
respectively,  and  accumulated  amortization  was   $76,411,000,
$57,698,000 and $43,542,000, respectively.

(f)  Cash  Equivalents - Cash equivalents consist  of  short-term
marketable  securities with original maturities less than  ninety
days.

(g)   Investments - The Company accounts for its  investments  in
equity securities which have readily determinable fair values  as
available-for-sale.  Available-for-sale securities  are  reported
at  fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported, net  of
tax,  as  a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive
income.   For  realized  gains and losses  on  available-for-sale
investments,  the  Company utilizes the  specific  identification
method as the basis to determine cost.  Investments in the common
stock  of  certain  affiliates  over  which  the  Company  exerts
significant  influence are accounted for by  the  equity



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------

method.  Investments  in  other equity securities are reported at
cost.  All  equity  securities are  reviewed  by the Company  for
declines  in fair  value.   If such declines are considered to be
other  than temporary,  the cost basis of the individual security
is written down to fair value as a new cost basis, and the amount
of  the write-down is included in earnings.

(h)    Inventory  -  Inventory  consists  primarily  of  computer
hardware  held  for resale and is recorded at the lower  of  cost
(first-in, first-out) or market.

(i)   Property and Equipment - Property, equipment  and leasehold
improvements  are stated at cost.  Depreciation of  property  and
equipment is computed using the straight-line method over periods
of  5  to  39  years.  Amortization of leasehold improvements  is
computed using a straight-line method over the lease terms, which
range from periods of two to twelve years.

(j)   Earnings per Common Share - Basic earnings per share  (EPS)
excludes dilution and is computed by dividing income available to
common  stockholders  by the weighted-average  number  of  common
shares  outstanding  for the period.  Diluted  EPS  reflects  the
potential  dilution  that  could occur  if  securities  or  other
contracts to issue stock were exercised or converted into  common
stock  or  resulted  in the issuance of common  stock  that  then
shared  in the earnings of the Company.  A reconciliation of  the
numerators  and  the denominators of the basic and  diluted  per-
share computations is as follows:




Options  to purchase 521,000, 3,185,000 and 1,652,000  shares  of
common  stock at per share prices ranging from $35.88 to  $84.07,
$17.50  to $31.00, and $25.00 to $31.00 were outstanding  at  the
end  of  2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively, but were not included
in  the  computation of diluted earnings per  share  because  the
options' exercise price was greater than the average market price
of the common shares.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------

(k)   Foreign  Currency  -  Assets  and  liabilities  in  foreign
currencies are translated into dollars at rates prevailing at the
balance  sheet  date.  Revenues and expenses  are  translated  at
average  rates  for  the  year.   The  net  exchange  differences
resulting  from  these translations are reported  in  accumulated
other  comprehensive  income.  Gains and  losses  resulting  from
foreign  currency  transactions are included in the  consolidated
statements  of  earnings.   The net gain  (loss)  resulting  from
foreign  currency  transactions  was  ($518,000),  $95,000    and
($673,000) in 2000, 1999  and 1998, respectively.

(l)   Income  Taxes  -  Deferred tax assets and  liabilities  are
recognized  for  the  future  tax  consequences  attributable  to
differences between the financial statement carrying  amounts  of
existing  assets and liabilities and their respective tax  bases.
Deferred  tax  assets and liabilities are measured using  enacted
tax  rates  expected to apply to taxable income in the  years  in
which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or
settled.

(m)    Goodwill  -  Excess  of  cost  over  net  assets  acquired
(goodwill) is being amortized on a straight-line basis over  four
to  eight  years.   Accumulated amortization was  $5,964,000  and
$5,387,000  at  the  end  of 2000 and  1999,  respectively.   The
Company   assesses  the  recoverability  of  goodwill  based   on
forecasted undiscounted future operating cash flows.

(n)   Comprehensive Income - Included in comprehensive income for
2000 are reclassification adjustments for the net realized after-
tax  gain of $95,900,000 related to the exchange for and sale  of
WebMD stock.

(o)   Use  of Estimates - The preparation of financial statements
in  conformity with accounting principles generally  accepted  in
the   United  States  of  America  requires  management  to  make
estimates  and  assumptions that affect the reported  amounts  of
assets  and  liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets  and
liabilities  at  the  date of the financial  statements  and  the
reported  amounts of revenues and expenses during  the  reporting
period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.

2    Business Acquisitions

During  the  three  years ended December 30,  2000,  the  Company
completed  five acquisitions, which were accounted for under  the
purchase  method of accounting. Pro forma results  of  operations
have  not been presented for any of the acquisitions because  the
effects of these acquisitions were not material to the Company on
either  an individual or an aggregate basis. Had the acquisitions
occurred at the beginning of 1999, pro-forma revenues would  have
increased     by     $30,386,000   and   $49,797,000   in    2000
and  1999,  respectively.   The results  of  operations  of  each
acquisition are included in the Company's consolidated  statement
of operations from the date of each acquisition.

The  amounts  allocated  to  purchased  in-process  research  and
development (IPRD) were determined through established  valuation
techniques  in  the  high-technology computer industry  and  were
expensed  upon acquisition because technological feasibility  had
not  been  established  and no future alternative  uses  existed.
Research  and  development costs to bring the products  from  the
acquired companies to technological feasibility, individually  or
in  the aggregate, are not expected to have a material impact  on
the Company's future results of operations or cash flows. Amounts
allocated  to goodwill and other intangibles are amortized  on  a
straight-line basis over five to seven years.  The  IPRD  amounts
in  the table below are reflected as one-time charges to earnings
at the date of acquisition.

Subsequent  to the acquisition of Health Network Ventures,  Inc.,
the  Company determined that it would discontinue the portion  of
the   business   focused   on   individual   physician   practice
connectivity  and transaction processing.  As a  result  of  this
decision,  the  Company recorded a non-recurring  charge  in  the
second quarter of 2000 in the amount of $6,687,000 related  to  a
write-down of intangible assets.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------

A  summary  of the Company's purchase acquisitions for the  three
years ended December 30, 2000, is included in the following table
(in millions, except share amounts):



(a)  The acquired in-process research and development is  related
to HCIS's PACS (Picture  Archiving  and  Communications  Systems)
product.   The  PACS product, when integrated with the  Company's
radiology  information system, provides a comprehensive radiology
solution,   from  automating  and  streamlining  the  information
workflow  to  complete image management.  PACS was  approximately
86%  complete at the time of the acquisition.  When ADAC HCIS was
acquired, management projected that PACS would be completed in  3
months  at  an estimated cost of $150,000.  The risks  associated
with  PACS  are like any other software development  project  and
include  changes in technology and competition.  The PACS project
was   valued  using  the  income  approach  with  the   following
assumptions: material net cash inflows are expected  to  commence
in 2001; no material changes from historical pricing, margins, or
expense levels are anticipated; and, a 20% risk adjusted discount
rate  was  applied  to the estimated net cash  flows.   PACS  was
approximately 95% complete at the end of 2000.

(b)  The acquired in-process research and development is  related
to CITATION's enhanced versions of the  C-LAB and C-COM products.
C-LAB addresses the complex information needs of the laboratory's
general  lab, microbiology, anatomical pathology  and blood  bank
departments with a Windows NT client server solution.  C-LAB  was
approximately 68% complete at the time of the acquisition.   When
CITATION  was acquired, management projected that C-LAB would  be
completed  in  6-9 months at an estimated cost of $700,000.   The
risks   associated  with  C-LAB  are  like  any  other   software
development  project  and  include  changes  in  technology   and
competition.   The  C-LAB  project was valued  using  the  income
approach  with  the  following  assumptions:  material  net  cash
inflows  are  expected to commence in 2001; no



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------

material changes from historical  pricing,  margins,  or  expense
levels   are  anticipated; and, a 20% risk adjusted discount rate
was  applied to  the  estimated  net  cash  flows.     C-LAB  was
approximately  75% complete at  the  end  of 2000.  C-COM is also
designed  for a  Windows  NT  client  server  user and works with
other  information systems in  healthcare facilities by providing
a  central  data repository  for clinical orders and results.  It
then allows  for  routing  of  the  patient  information  to  all
care-providing  centers  throughout  the  healthcare  enterprise.
C-COM  was  approximately 75%  complete   at  the  time   of  the
acquisition.  When  CITATION  was acquired, management  projected
that C-COM would be completed in 3-6  months at an estimated cost
of $500,000.  The risks associated with C-COM  are like any other
software  development  project  and include changes in technology
and competition.  The C-COM project was valued using  the  income
approach  with  the   following  assumptions: material  net  cash
inflows are expected  to  commence in 2001;  no  material changes
from   historical   pricing,   margins,  or  expense  levels  are
anticipated; and, a 20% risk adjusted discount rate  was  applied
to the estimated net cash flows.   C-COM  was  approximately  85%
complete at the end of 2000.

3    Receivables

Receivables   consist  of  accounts  receivable   and   contracts
receivable.  Accounts receivable represent recorded revenues that
have   been  billed.   Contracts  receivable  represent  recorded
revenues  that are billable by the Company at future dates  under
the  terms  of  a  contract with a client.   Billings  and  other
consideration received on contracts in excess of related revenues
recognized under the percentage-of-completion method are recorded
as deferred revenue.   A summary of receivables is as follows:



Substantially all receivables are derived from sales and  related
support  and  maintenance of the Company's  clinical  information
systems  to  healthcare providers located throughout  the  United
States and in certain foreign countries.  Included in receivables
at  the  end  of  2000 and 1999 are amounts due  from  healthcare
providers  located  in  foreign  countries  of  $23,600,000   and
$17,704,000, respectively.  Consolidated revenues include foreign
sales  of $25,815,000, $24,001,000  and $17,545,000, during 2000,
1999  and 1998, respectively.  Consolidated long-lived assets  at
the  end  of 2000 and 1999, include foreign long-lived assets  of
$649,000  and  $638,000, respectively.  Revenues  and  long-lived
assets from any one foreign country are not material.

The  Company  provides  an allowance for estimated  uncollectible
accounts   based  upon  historical  experience  and  management's
judgment.   At  the  end  of  2000 and  1999  the  allowance  for
estimated  uncollectible accounts was $5,999,000 and  $4,759,000,
respectively.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------
4    Property and Equipment

A  summary  of  property,  equipment, and leasehold  improvements
stated  at  cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization,
is as follows:



5    Investments

Investments consist of the following:



In   1998   and  1999  the  Company  acquired  a  17.5%  interest
(13,149,259  shares of common stock) in CareInsite  with  a  cost
basis of $81,804,000. 12,437,500 of these shares were received in
1998  as consideration for the sale of license software,  and  an
additional  711,759  shares were purchased in  1999.   The  value
assigned to the shares acquired in 1998 was $70,000,000  and  was
based  on a methodology which utilized both a comparable  company
and  the  expected underlying discounted future cash flows.   The
Company  was also granted, by CareInsite, 1,008,445 common  stock
warrants  with  an  exercise price of  $4.00  per  share  ("THINC
Warrants").   The  THINC Warrants were exercisable  only  in  the
event  that  The  Health  Information  Network  Connections,  LLC
("THINC")  exercised warrants granted to them  by  CareInsite  at
$4.00  per  share.  THINC was allowed to exercise their  warrants
180  days  after  the initial public offering of CareInsite.   On
January  29, 2000 CareInsite completed an acquisition  of  THINC.
As  part  of  that agreement, 806,756 of the Company's  1,008,445
THINC Warrants became immediately exercisable, with the remaining
amount forfeited.

On  February  13,  2000 CareInsite entered into an  agreement  to
merge with Healtheon/WebMD Corporation ("Merger Agreement").   As
part of the Merger Agreement, the Company received 1.3 shares  of
Healtheon/WebMD Corporation (Web MD) in exchange for each  common
share of CareInsite held by the Company.  The warrants were  also
converted  at the same exchange ratio.  The merger of  CareInsite
and  WebMD ("Merger") closed on September 12, 2000.  Accordingly,
the   Company  recorded  a  non-recurring  investment   gain   of
$120,362,000, net of tax, as a result of the exchange.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- - - - ----------------------------------------------------------------

On  December 12, 2000, the Company sold 4,273,509 shares of WebMD
for  $25,641,000.   Accordingly,  the  Company  recorded  a  non-
recurring investment loss of $24,539,000, net of tax, as a result
of the sale.

At  December  30,  2000, the Company owned 12,820,527  shares  of
common  stock  of WebMD, which have a cost basis of  $192,308,000
and  a  carrying  value  of $101,795,000,  as  these  shares  are
accounted for as available-for-sale.  The stock of WebMD held  by
the  Company  is  registered but is subject  to  certain  lock-up
provisions.   At  December  30,  2000  the  Company  also   holds
1,048,783 warrants of WebMD with an exercise price of $3.08 and a
cost  basis and carrying value of $13,685,000.  The warrants  are
carried  at  cost,  as  they do not have a  fair  value  that  is
currently  available on a securities exchange.

If  the  Company realizes certain performance metrics related  to
specified  levels  of physician usage, WebMD will  issue  to  the
Company 3,254,063 shares of common stock at a price of $0.01  per
share  ("Performance  Shares").   The  Performance  Shares   were
adjusted  at  a  rate of 1.3 shares of WebMD for  each  share  of
CareInsite.   The  contracted measurement date was  February  15,
2001.   The  Company and WebMD are in discussions  regarding  the
attainment  of  the  Performance Shares.  No  amounts  have  been
recognized  in  the  consolidated financial  statements  for  the
Performance Shares pending completion of the discussions.

6    Indebtedness

The Company has a loan agreement with a bank that provides for  a
long-term  revolving line of credit for working capital purposes.
The  long-term revolving line of credit is unsecured and requires
monthly  payments of interest only.  Interest is payable  at  the
Company's  option at a rate based on prime (9.5% at December  30,
2000)  or  LIBOR  (6.4%  at December 30, 2000)  plus  1.5%.   The
interest  rate may be reduced by up to .4% if certain  net  worth
ratios are maintained.  At December 30, 2000, the Company had  no
outstanding  borrowings under this agreement and had  $18,000,000
available  for working capital purposes.  The agreement  contains
certain  net  worth,  current ratio, and  fixed  charge  coverage
covenants  and  provides certain restrictions  on  the  Company's
ability  to  borrow, incur liens, sell assets, and pay dividends.
A  commitment  fee of 3/10% is payable quarterly  on  the  unused
portion of the revolving line of credit.

On  April 15, 1999, the Company completed a $100,000,000  private
placement  of  debt pursuant to a Note Agreement dated  April  1,
1999.   The  Series A Senior Notes, with a $60,000,000  principal
amount  at  7.14%  are payable in five equal annual  installments
beginning  in  April  2002.  The Series B Senior  Notes,  with  a
$40,000,000  principal amount at 7.66% are payable in  six  equal
annual installments beginning April 2004.  The proceeds were used
to  retire  the Company's existing $30,000,000 of debt,  and  the
remaining  funds are being used for proposed capital improvements
and  to  strengthen the Company's cash position.   In  connection
with  the  early extinguishment of debt, the Company incurred  an
extraordinary  loss  for a prepayment penalty  and  write-off  of
deferred  loan  costs  of  $1,395,000  net  of  taxes.  The  note
agreement  contains certain net worth, current ratio,  and  fixed
charge  coverage  covenants and provides certain restrictions  on
the  Company's ability to borrow, incur liens, sell  assets,  and
pay  dividends.  The Company was in compliance with all covenants
at December 30, 2000.

The  Company  also has capital lease obligations and other  notes
payable  amounting  to $2,400,000, payable  over  the  next  four
years.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------
The  aggregate maturities for the Company's long-term debt is  as
follows (in thousands):



The Company estimates the fair value of its long-term, fixed-rate
debt  using discounted cash flow analysis based on the  Company's
current  borrowing rates for debt with similar  maturities.   The
fair  value  of  the Company's long-term debt is $101,271,000  at
December 30, 2000.

7   Interest Income and Expense

A summary of interest income and expense is as follows:



8   Stock Options and Warrants

At  December  30, 2000, the Company had four fixed  stock  option
plans.   Under  Stock Option Plan B, the Company could  grant  to
associates options to purchase up to 5,600,000 shares  of  common
stock through November 30, 1993.  The options are exercisable  at
the  fair  market  value  on  the date  of  grant  for  a  period
determined  by  the Board of Directors (not more than  ten  years
from  the date granted).  The options contain restrictions as  to
transferability   and   exercisability   after   termination   of
employment.

Under Stock Option Plan C, the Company is authorized to grant  to
associates  options to purchase up to 645,000  shares  of  common
stock  through May 18, 2003.  The options are exercisable at  the
fair market value on the date of grant for a period determined by
the  Board  of Directors (not more than ten years from  the  date
granted).  The options contain restrictions as to transferability
and  exercisability after termination of employment.  The Company
has  committed  not to issue any more stock options  under  Stock
Option Plan C.

Initially  under Stock Option Plan D, the Company was  authorized
to  grant  to associates, directors, consultants  or advisors  to
the  Company  options to purchase up to 50,000 shares  of  common
stock  through January 1, 2005.  Additional shares were  approved
by  the Company's shareholders on May 17, 1994, May 16, 1995  and
May  22,  1998,  increasing  the total  authorized  to  grant  to
4,600,000  shares.  The options are exercisable at a  price  (not
less  than fair market value on the date of grant) and  during  a
period  determined by the Stock Option Committee.  Options  under
this plan currently vest over periods of up to ten years and  are
exercisable for periods of up to 25 years.

Initially,  under Stock Option Plan E, the Company was authorized
to  grant  to  associates  (other than officers  subject  to  the
provisions of Section 16(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act of
1934),  consultants,  or  advisors  to  the  Company  options  to
purchase  up to 2,000,000 shares of common stock through  January
1,  2005.  There was a 1,100,000 share increase approved  by  the
Company's  Board  of  Directors on December 8,  2000,  increasing
the total authorized to grant to  3,100,000 shares.  The  options
are exercisable at a price (not  less  than  fair  market   value
on the date of grant) and  during  a  period determined



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------
by  the   Stock   Option   Committee.     Options    under   this
plan  currently  vest over periods of up to  ten  years  and  are
exercisable for periods of up to 25 years.

The  Company  has also granted 454,542 other non-qualified  stock
options under separate agreements to employees and certain  third
parties.   These options are exercisable at a price equal  to  or
greater  than the fair market value on the date of grant.   These
options  vest over periods of up to six years and are exercisable
for  periods of up to ten years. In 2000, the Company granted  an
additional 350,000 stock options to a third party at an  exercise
price  equal to the fair market value on the date of grant.   The
options are vested and become exercisable at the earlier of  five
years or when certain conditions are met.

The  Company  accounts for associate stock options in  accordance
with  the provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion
No.  25,  "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees", and related
interpretations.  As such, compensation expense  is  recorded  on
the  date  of  grant  only if the current  market  price  of  the
underlying  stock exceeds the exercise price.   On  December  31,
1995,  the  Company  adopted Statement  of  Financial  Accounting
Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (FAS
123),  which  permits entities to recognize as expense  over  the
vesting  period the fair value of all stock-based awards  on  the
date  of  grant.   Alternatively,  FAS  123  allows  entities  to
continue  to  apply  the provisions of APB  Opinion  No.  25  and
provide  pro forma net earnings and pro forma earnings per  share
disclosures  for employee stock option grants made  in  1995  and
future years as if the fair-value-based method defined in FAS 123
had  been applied.  The Company has elected to continue to  apply
the  provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 and provide the  pro  forma
disclosure provisions of FAS 123.

A  combined  summary  of the status of the Company's  four  fixed
stock  option plans and other stock options at the end  of  2000,
1999, and 1998, and changes during these years ended is presented
below:



The  following table summarizes information about fixed and other
stock options outstanding at December 30, 2000.





Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------

The  per  share  weighted-average fair  value  of  stock  options
granted during 2000, 1999 and 1998 was $18.96, $10.88 and $14.97,
respectively, on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option-
pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions:




Since  the  Company applies APB Opinion No. 25 in accounting  for
its plans, no compensation cost has been recognized for its stock
options   issued   to  employees.   Had  the   Company   recorded
compensation  expense based on the fair value at the  grant  date
for  its  stock options under FAS 123, the Company's net earnings
and earnings per share on a diluted basis would have been reduced
by   approximately  $7,527,000  or  $.21  per  share   in   2000,
approximately  $3,922,000  or  $.12  per  share   in   1999   and
approximately $5,929,000 or $.18 per share in 1998.

Pro forma net earnings reflect only options granted since January
1,  1995.  Therefore, the full impact of calculating compensation
expense for stock options under FAS 123 is not reflected  in  the
pro   forma   net  earnings  amounts  presented  above,   because
compensation  cost is reflected over the options' vesting  period
of ten years for these options.  Compensation expense for options
granted prior to January 1, 1995 is not considered.

9  Income Taxes

Income  tax expense (benefit) before extraordinary item  for  the
years ended 2000, 1999, and 1998, consists of the following:



Income  tax benefit attributable to the extraordinary item (early
retirement  of  debt) was $865,000 in 1999.  Income  tax  expense
(benefit)   allocated  to  stockholders'  equity  for  unrealized
holding gain (losses) on available-for-sale equity securities was
($92,842,000) and $59,971,000 for the years ended 2000 and  1999,
respectively.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------

Temporary  differences between the financial  statement  carrying
amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities that give rise to
significant portions of deferred income taxes at the end of  2000
and 1999 relate to the following:



The effective income tax rates for 2000, 1999, and 1998 were 39%,
39%,  and  38%, respectively.  These effective rates differ  from
the federal statutory rate of 35% as follows:



Income  taxes  payable are reduced by the tax  benefit  resulting
from  disqualifying  dispositions of  stock  acquired  under  the
Company's stock option plans.  The 2000, 1999, and 1998  benefits
of  $3,525,000, $594,000, and $621,000, respectively, are treated
as increases to additional paid-in capital.

10  Foundations Retirement Plan

The Cerner Corporation Foundations Retirement Plan (the Plan)  is
established  under Section 401(k) of the Internal  Revenue  Code.
All   full-time   associates   are   eligible   to   participate.
Participants may elect to make pretax contributions  from  1%  to
20%  of  compensation to the Plan, subject to annual  limitations
determined  by  the Internal Revenue Service.   Participants  may
direct contributions into mutual funds, a money market fund, or a
Company stock fund.  The Company makes matching contributions  to
the Plan, on behalf of participants, in an amount equal to 33% of
the  first  6% of the participant's contribution.  The  Company's
expense  for  the  plan amounted to $2,532,000,  $1,187,000   and
$1,005,000 for 2000, 1999  and 1998, respectively.

The Company added a discretionary profit sharing distribution  to
the  Plan  in  2000.  Distributions are based  on  attainment  of
established  earnings  per  share  goals  for  the  year.    Only
participants  in  the  Plan are eligible to  receive  the  profit
sharing distribution.  For the year ended December 30, 2000,  the
Company expensed $1,100,000 for discretionary distributions.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------

11   Related Party Transactions

The  Company loaned $160,000 in 2000 and $3,628,000 in  1999,  to
the  Company's senior management under the terms of the Executive
Stock  Purchase Program ("Program").  The purpose of the  Program
is  to advance the interests of the Company, the Company's senior
management,  and  the  Company's  shareholders  by  offering  the
Company's  senior management an incentive to purchase  shares  of
the Company's stock on the open market.  Pursuant to the Program,
the  Company provided Program loans to executives to help finance
up  to  50%  of the total purchase price of the stock  purchased.
All  Program loans have a term of five (5) years, at an  interest
rate of 5.5%.  Principal and interest is not due until the end of
the   five-year  loan  term,  unless  the  executive   terminates
employment.  Executives may also elect to pay interest  annually.
If interest is not paid annually, it will compound annually.  All
Program loans are secured by the purchased shares and any pledged
shares.   The  balance of these loans at December  30,  2000  was
$2,764,000.

12  Commitments

The Company leases space to unrelated parties in its North Kansas
City  headquarters complex under noncancelable operating  leases.
Included   in  other  revenues  is  rental  income  of  $624,000,
$1,005,000, and $1,795,000 in 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.

The  Company is committed under operating leases for office space
through  September 2005.  Rent expense for office  and  warehouse
space  for  the Company's regional and global offices  for  2000,
1999,  and  1998  was  $1,735,000,  $2,226,000,  and  $1,847,000,
respectively.   Future minimum lease revenues (in thousands)  and
aggregate  minimum  future payments (in  thousands)  under  these
noncancelable operating leases are as follows:




In  December, 1999, the Company made a decision to close five  of
its  branch  offices.   The  Company created  a  regional  branch
structure  in  1994 in order to bring associates  closer  to  its
clients.  The natural evolution of that strategy and the  ability
to  leverage  internal information technology  infrastructure  to
create  a  more  virtual workplace has resulted in a  significant
decrease in utilization of certain regional offices. This led  to
the  decision  to  close these physical locations.   The  Company
recorded  a  charge of $1.4 million in sales and  client  service
expenses  in the 1999 fourth quarter to provide for the costs  of
closing  these  locations,  primarily based  on  estimated  lease
cancellation fees.  All of these costs were paid in 2000.

13     Stockholders' Equity

At  the end of 2000 and 1999, the Company had 1,000,000 shares of
authorized but unissued preferred stock, $.01 par value.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------

14  Quarterly Results (unaudited)

Selected quarterly financial data for 2000 and 1999 is set  forth
below:


- - - - -----------------------------------------------------------------

(1)  Includes  a  non-recurring charge of $6.7 million related to
     the  write-down  of  intangible  assets  associated with the
     acquisition  of Health Network Ventures, Inc.  The impact of
     this  non-recurring charge on diluted earnings per share was
     ($.19) for second quarter and for 2000.

(2)  Includes  a  non-recurring charge of $3.2 million related to
     the  acquisition  of  CITATION  Computer  Systems, Inc.  The
     impact of  this non-recurring charge on diluted earnings per
     share was  ($.09) for the third quarter and for 2000.

(3)  Includes  a non-recurring investment gain of $120.4 million,
     net of $68.3 million tax expense, related to the  conversion
     of  shares  of CareInsite  common  stock  to shares of WebMD
     common  stock.   The impact of this non-recurring investment
     gain on  diluted  earnings per share was $3.37 for the third
     quarter and  $3.38 for 2000.

(4)  Includes a non-recurring  charge of $1.0 million, net of $.7
     million  tax  benefit,  related  to  the acquisition of ADAC
     Healthcare Information Systems, Inc. The impact of this non-
     recurring  charge  on  diluted earnings per share was ($.03)
     for  the fourth quarter and for 2000.

(5)  Includes  a  non-recurring investment loss of $24.5 million,
     net  of  $13.9  million tax benefit, related to the sale  of
     shares  of  WebMD  common  stock.     The  impact  of   this
     non-recurring  investment loss on diluted earnings per share
     was ($.67) for the   fourth quarter and ($.69) for   2000.

(6)  Includes  an  extraordinary loss on the early extinguishment
     of  debt  of  $1,395,000,  net  of  taxes of $865,000.   The
     impact  of  this  extraordinary item on diluted earnings per
     share was ($.01)  for the second quarter and for 1999.

(7)  See  Note 12  regarding a non-recurring charge in the fourth
     quarter  of  1999.  The fourth quarter of 1999 also includes
     an additional  non-recurring charge of $5.8 million, net  of
     $3.6  million tax benefit, for contract reserves.



                           Cerner Corporation
                    Valuation and Qualifying Accounts       Schedule II












                   Independent Auditors' Report
                  on Financial Statement Schedule



  The Board of Directors
  Cerner Corporation:


  Under   date  of  January  31,  2001,  we  reported  on   the
  consolidated   balance  sheets  of  Cerner  Corporation   and
  subsidiaries as of December 30, 2000 and January 1, 2000  and
  the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in
  equity,  and cash flows for each of the years in  the  three-
  year  period  ended  December 30,  2000.  These  consolidated
  financial  statements and our report thereon are included  in
  the  Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year  2000.
  In   connection   with  our  audits  of  the   aforementioned
  consolidated financial statements, we also have  audited  the
  related  financial  statement schedule as listed  under  Item
  14(a)(2).   This   financial  statement   schedule   is   the
  responsibility    of    the   Company's    management.    Our
  responsibility  is  to express an opinion on  this  financial
  statement schedule based on our audits.

  In  our  opinion,  this  financial statement  schedule,  when
  considered  in  relation to the basic consolidated  financial
  statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
  respects, the information set forth therein.

                             KPMG LLP

  Kansas City, Missouri
  January 31, 2001





