
10-K


               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                     Washington, D.C.  20549
                                
                            FORM 10-K
(Mark One)

( X )      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE
                      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                For the fiscal year ended January 3, 1998

                               OR

(    )     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR  15(d)  OF
           THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

        For the transition period from _____________ to ___________


                    Commission File Number 0-15386

                       CERNER CORPORATION
     (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

           Delaware                            43-1196944
     (State  or other jurisdiction          (I.R.S. Employer
     of incorporation or organization)    Identification Number)


                 2800 Rockcreek Parkway, Suite 601
                    Kansas City, Missouri 64117
                          (816) 221-1024
  (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code;
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code)


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  NONE
                                
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                
             Common Stock, par value $.01 per share
                        (Title of Class)

      Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
all  reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d)  of  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding  12  months
(or  for such shorter period that the Registrant was required  to
file  such  reports),  and (2) has been subject  to  such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

                     Yes     X      No _____

      Indicate  by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers
pursuant  to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained  herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge,
in  definitive  proxy or information statements  incorporated  by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to  this
Form 10-K.    [ X ]

      At  March  1, 1998, there were 32,649,710 shares of  Common
Stock  outstanding,  of  which 7,595,967  shares  were  owned  by
affiliates.  The aggregate market value of the outstanding Common
Stock  of  the  Registrant held by non-affiliates, based  on  the
average  of bid and asked prices of such stock on March 1,  1998,
was $516,733,449.

       Documents  incorporated  by  reference:  portions  of  the
Registrant's  Proxy  Statement for the  1998  Annual  Meeting  of
Stockholders are incorporated by reference in Part III hereof.



PART I

Item 1.  Business

General
- -------

     Cerner Corporation ("Cerner" or the "Company") is a Delaware
corporation  incorporated  in  1980.   The  Company's   principal
offices  are  located  at 2800 Rockcreek  Parkway,  Kansas  City,
Missouri 64117, and its telephone number is (816) 221-1024.

      Cerner  designs, develops, markets, installs  and  supports
person/member/patient-focused clinical and management information
systems  that are capable of being implemented on an  individual,
combined  or enterprise-wide basis.  Cerner systems are  designed
to  automate  the process of healthcare by accumulating  data  on
care  provided to members/patients, maintaining such  data  in  a
database  repository and providing access to such data for  users
of  clinical information across a healthcare system, including in
the home, at physician's offices and at ambulatory, inpatient and
intensive  care  settings.   Cerner's systems  are  designed  and
developed  using  the  Health Network Architecture  (''HNA''),  a
single  information  architecture.  HNA is a unified  system  for
combining clinical and management information applications.   HNA
allows   each   participating  facility  within   an   integrated
healthcare  enterprise to access an individual's clinical  record
at  the  point of care, to organize it for the specific needs  of
the   physician,  nurse,  laboratory  technician  or  other  care
provider  on  a  real-time basis, and to use the  information  in
management  decisions to improve the efficiency and  productivity
of  the  location and the entire enterprise. Cerner is developing
its  newest  generation of  HNA products known  as  "Millennium".
See  "Cerner's HNA Approach and HNA Millennium" for a  discussion
of Millennium.

Healthcare Industry
- -------------------

      The  dramatic  increase in healthcare costs in  the  United
States, which historically were based on a fee-for-service model,
has  caused  significant  changes  in  the  healthcare  industry.
Managed  care  organizations  and  other  payers  have  developed
alternative payment models to control costs, including procedure-
based   cost   limits,  contractually  approved   providers   and
capitation  (a  fixed monthly fee per member in payment  for  all
required  services).  The result has been a continuing  shift  of
financial risk from the payer to both the physician provider  and
the  institutional provider (hospitals, clinics, long-term  care,
subacute   providers  and  rehabilitative  care   centers).    In
response,  institutional providers are aligning with one  another
and  with  physician groups to form Integrated  Delivery  Systems
(''IDS's''),  and IDS's are aligning with payer organizations  to
form Integrated Health Organizations (''IHO's''), in each case to
reduce  costs  in  an effort to compete more effectively  in  the
changing healthcare environment.

      The  changes  occurring  in the  healthcare  industry  have
resulted  in  changes  in the needs for clinical  and  management
information  systems  by  hospitals,  physicians,  managed   care
organizations   and  Integrated  Delivery  Systems.    Hospitals'
information  requirements  have  become  more  complex  as   cost
containment  pressures have driven the needs for  efficiency  and
process  automation while the increasing number of  relationships
they    have    with   other   providers   requires    additional
sophistication.  As physicians combine into a variety of provider
configurations, management structures and incentive  plans,  they
are  increasingly  utilizing member/patient  focused  information
systems  to  improve  quality and efficiency  for  their  growing
practices  and physician networks, to develop the data  necessary
to  compete for contracts with payers and to be able to share the
financial   risks   of   healthcare   delivery.    Managed   care
organizations are increasingly recognizing the value of  process-
oriented  and  clinically-driven information  as  it  relates  to
understanding   and  improving  the  health  of  their   members.
Information  system  requirements for IDS's and  IHO's  encompass
many  of the same needs as hospitals, physicians and managed care
organizations.   Many  IDS's and IHO's are becoming  aggressively
involved  with institutional providers and physicians in  various
relationships  where information sharing and  process  automation
are  paramount.  Many of these larger, more complex organizations
are  seeking closer relationships with suppliers that can provide
comprehensive information systems solutions.  Information  system
requirements for IDS's and IHO's



include integrated process-based systems  for clinical domains,
data repositories and applications for  physicians and management
teams. Cerner is responding to the changing  and  increasing  
needs of the healthcare  industry  for better  information  systems
by developing  HNA  Millennium,  its latest generation of products.
See "Cerner's HNA Approach and HNA Millennium" for a discussion of
Millennium.


Healthcare Information Systems Industry
- ---------------------------------------

      Healthcare  information systems are evolving  to  meet  the
needs  of  a  changing marketplace.  Initially, computer  systems
developed for use in healthcare were financially oriented, with a
focus  on  the  ability to capture charges and  generate  patient
bills.    Beginning  in  the  mid-1960s,  institutional  provider
organizations  began to use clinical information  systems,  which
automate  the  activities within clinical  departments,  such  as
laboratory,  pharmacy,  radiology  and  surgery  departments,  to
improve the productivity of resources and automate the production
and   use   of   significant  amounts  of  clinical  information.
Individual  departments  selected  systems  based  upon  specific
features  on  a  ''best of breed'' basis resulting  in  disparate
information systems within the institutional provider.

      More recently, there has been a shift from the purchase  of
disparate  clinical  systems  on a ''best  of  breed''  basis  to
systems  which  are  able to integrate communication  effectively
throughout   the  healthcare  enterprise.   The   two   principal
approaches to meet this need are a common architecture, in  which
systems  communicate through inherent design, and  point-to-point
interfaces,   in  which  systems  with  different   architectures
communicate  through  interface  linkages.   This  infrastructure
trend also affects the relationship between the health system and
the  suppliers  of  information  technology.   The  approach   of
interfacing disparate systems typically involves multiple  system
suppliers and the health system must act as the intermediary  and
integrator.  The common architecture approach relies  more  on  a
strategic  relationship with one or very few suppliers  dedicated
to  implementing a shared vision for the role of  information  in
the operation of the health system.

     The  same forces that are causing other healthcare providers
to  join  together are causing physicians to combine into  larger
organizations,   including  Independent   Practice   Associations
(''IPA's'') and Preferred Provider Organizations (''PPO's''), and
are  increasingly  supported administratively through  Management
Services  Organizations  ("MSO's")  which  offer  management  and
administrative  services  to physicians.   In  some  cases,  such
organizations  align with IDS's and IHO's.  Cerner believes  that
such physician groups require clinical and management information
systems  that  allow  them to participate in  the  community-wide
clinical and management information systems employed by the IDS's
and IHO's.

The Cerner Vision
- -----------------

      As  a  result of the rapid transformation of the healthcare
industry,  Cerner believes that a new center of  healthcare  will
emerge-the IHO, which is a combination of payers, physicians  and
institutional  providers affiliated to  service  a  community  or
defined  member  population. The  focus  of  the  IHO  is  to  be
accountable  for the health status of a defined population,  with
strong  financial incentives to manage health on a preventive  or
wellness basis and reduce costs.

     Cerner  believes that many large IHO's will  emerge  in  the
United  States  in  the next decade.  These IHO's  will  need  to
implement  information systems that manage the delivery  of  care
across  an  entire  community while simultaneously  managing  the
business side of health management.  Only through automating  the
core  process  of  healthcare  delivery  from  member  enrollment
through  the ordering and delivery of care will IHO's be able  to
actually manage and measure care.  Process automation will enable
healthcare  systems  interactively to affect  the  care  that  is
delivered throughout the entire system at each point of delivery.
Cerner believes that managing these integrated healthcare systems
will require the accumulation and refining of enormous amounts of
process-related  data  in  order to monitor  performance  against
plans  and  to  make informed business decisions.  This  process-
oriented  approach  will also provide



the  information  basis  to measure  health system performance, 
in values known as  outcomes, from  clinical, functional, process,
member  satisfaction  and economic perspectives.

     When  all  of  the complex clinical processes that  comprise
care  delivery  in  IHO's  are automated using  fully  integrated
information systems, it becomes possible to extend automation  to
the management processes of healthcare.

Cerner's HNA Approach and HNA Millennium
- ----------------------------------------

      The cornerstone of Cerner's information systems strategy is
HNA,  the  single  architecture around  which  each  of  Cerner's
products is developed. This highly scaleable architecture  allows
Cerner to meet the clinical, management, and business information
requirements of a healthcare delivery system across the continuum
of  care  from the physician practice to the IHO and to integrate
the information requirements of  clinical operations and business
functions.   The  value of HNA is the creation  of  systems  that
''intrarelate'' as opposed to being integrated.  Most  healthcare
organizations  are using some form of information  technology  to
manage  their clinical, financial and administrative  operations.
Typically,  a  multitude  of  systems,  operating  on   differing
technology  platforms from various suppliers, are used  within  a
single   organization.   These  systems  rely  on  a  series   of
interfaces  to  transmit information to  one  another  which  may
inhibit  real-time  access to comprehensive patient  information.
In  addition, the data collected by disparate systems is  usually
maintained  in a variety of formats, and is indexed  or  codified
using different approaches, which dilutes the data's usefulness.

     Cerner's newest HNA platform, HNA Millennium, utilizes three-
tiered client/server technology to optimize distributed computing
performance  and functionality advantages.  Millennium's  breadth
of  focus  and functionality are well suited for large-scale  and
enterprise application technologies for healthcare organizations.
HNA  Classic,  Cerner's existing technology, was  able  to  serve
eight  clinical markets.  Millennium will be able to address  the
needs    of   approximately   twenty   major   market   segments.
Development of HNA Millennium began in the summer of 1993 and  at
the  end  of  1997 approximately 440 engineering and  engineering
support  personnel were engaged in the project.  Cerner  intends,
over time, to reengineer all of its software products to the  HNA
Millennium  platform.    Installation of Alpha and Beta  versions
of  certain  HNA  Millennium applications began during  1996  and
continued  through  1997.   At the end  of  1997  forty  systems,
including  versions of Open Clinical Foundation Data  Repository,
PathNet   Laboratory   Information   System,   RadNet   Radiology
Information  System,  SurgiNet Surgery Information  System,  Open
Management Foundation Data Repository System, PowerChart and Open
Engine  Application  Gateway System were  being  used  by  Cerner
clients.   Cerner  expects to have more than  one  hundred  fifty
Millennium systems in use by the end of 1998.  Implementation  of
Millennium  at client sites is a much more complex  process  than
implementation  of  HNA  Classic due  to  the  greater  range  of
capability   of  the  Millennium  products  and  its  complexity.
Substantial  project  management,  process  redesign,  technology
integration and training are all required in order for clients to
achieve  the  full  benefits offered by  Millennium  and  require
Cerner    to   significantly   increase   its   project   related
capabilities.     Continuing    the    Millennium    development,
implementing  Millennium at client sites and increasing  Cerner's
project  related  capabilities  will  be  significant  challenges
during 1998.

      Cerner's  approach to system design is to first  understand
the  intricate  processes of providing care and  then  to  design
systems  that  support and streamline those processes.   Cerner's
system  architecture allows its applications to work together  as
one  system.  Cerner's systems are ''intrarelated'', which  means
that   they  are  designed  around  a  single  architecture  that
automatically  organizes  and presents information  in  a  manner
relevant    to    a    clinician's   decision   process.     With
''intrarelated''  systems, all caregivers are  kept  apprised  of
each  patient's condition, allowing the activities  of  the  care
team  to  be  more carefully and efficiently orchestrated  in  an
effort to deliver the highest possible quality of care.

     Cerner's  systems  also  allow  the  use  of  other  vendors
products in conjunction with Cerner's system through the  use  of
Cerner's  Open Engine Gateway System that allows the exchange  of
data with the foreign system.



Strategy
- --------

     Key elements of the Company's business strategy include:

       To   penetrate  the  integrated  healthcare  market.   The
       ---------------------------------------------------
transformation of healthcare delivery must deal with the changing
financial  model from fee-for-service to fixed or controlled  fee
payments  for  services  provided.  In order  to  accomplish  the
transition,  integrated healthcare systems  must  decrease  costs
generally,  utilize  fewer  resources  per  patient   or   member
encounter,  decrease the amount of care required by  focusing  on
preventative   measures  and  increase  member   populations   by
attracting  additional members through better quality  healthcare
and  services.   Cerner's process-based, clinical and  management
systems provide the technology to enable an integrated system  to
manage  healthcare  to significantly reduce  costs,  improve  the
efficiency  of healthcare delivery and maintain and  improve  the
quality of healthcare.

     To penetrate the physician market.  As physicians combine to
     ---------------------------------
form  organizations such as IPA's and PPO's, and then participate
in  MSO's,  they  require clinical and process-based  systems  to
manage  the  member/patient  care  processes  within  their   own
practices.   As  such  groups align with IDS's  and  IHO's,  they
further require clinical and management information systems  that
allow  them to share clinical and management processes with these
community-wide systems.  Healthcare organizations are  developing
strategies  for  connecting  community-based  physicians  to  the
information  resources of the health system using  the  internet.
Cerner's  systems  provide the member/patient data  repositories,
clinical,   management   tools  and  connectivity   required   by
physicians  in order for them to participate effectively  in  the
changing healthcare marketplace.

      To  expand  its  core business.  Cerner  expects  continued
      ------------------------------
growth  in core business areas, including clinical domain systems
for  specific  markets such as PathNet, RadNet and  PharmNet,  as
institutional providers look to restructure and reengineer  these
high cost centers within their IDS's and IHO's.  The Company also
intends  to  market aggressively Cerner clinical  and  management
information systems and services to its existing client base.

      To  remain  committed  to a unified architecture.   Because
      ------------------------------------------------
Cerner  believes that the constituents in health management  need
to  work  together to benefit defined populations in a community,
the   Company   has  made  a  commitment  to  a  single   unified
architecture  as  the platform for fully ''intrarelated''  health
information  and  management  systems.   This  platform   enables
Cerner's  process-based HNA system to be scaleable  on  a  linear
basis,  using  either  Cerner  compatible  modules  for  process-
oriented  applications  or competitive systems  interfaced  using
open  system  protocols.  In addition,  the  HNA  system  can  be
accessed  throughout the enterprise at the point of  care,  which
improves data integrity, allows for coordination of procedures at
multiple  locations  and enables reliable  communication  without
delay.

      To  expand  its  products  and  services.   Using  its  HNA
      ----------------------------------------
platform,  Cerner  intends to expand the range  of  products  and
services offered to providers, including IDS's and IHO's,  either
through   internal  development  or  by  acquisitions  or   joint
ventures.   These new products and services will  complement  the
systems currently offered, address the emerging information needs
of  clients  or  employ technological advances.  Cerner  believes
that  major opportunities exist as IHO's begin to include service
organizations  and  on-line services to  the  home,  particularly
because   the   member/patient  focus  of  Cerner's  architecture
provides  the  basis  for individual electronic  medical  records
which can be used throughout a member-focused health system.   In
addition,  Cerner recognizes the value of the aggregate  database
being developed by its broad client base as a potential means  to
enable  comparative  or  normative  procedure  evaluations  as  a
powerful  new  tool in the healthcare industry.  The  substantial
project management process redesign, technology integration,  and
training involved in healthcare systems taking advantage  of  the
opportunities  provided  by clinical and  management  information
technology  represent  a  significant market  for  the  Company's
consulting services.



Products
- --------

      The  Company's  products include Enterprise Systems,  which
automate  processes  across  and throughout   the  health  system
enterprise; Enterprise Repositories, which capture, sort, present
and  analyze  clinical and business information; Cinical  Systems
for  Direct  Care,  which automate the clinical processes  within
hospitals and the physicians practice; Clinical Systems for  Care
Centers,  which  automate the clinical processes within  specific
departments or domains; Decision Support and Executable Knowledge
Systems,  which  enhance  clinical and  business  processes  with
information  and  actions; Financial and  Operational  Management
Systems,  which  automate  the  business  operations;  population
health  management systems for managing health; Demand Management
Systems  and  services for managing the need for  care;  Personal
Health  Systems for individuals to manage their own  health;  and
Interface Technologies for connecting other technologies  to  HNA
Millennium. These systems can be acquired individually  or  as  a
fully  intrarelated  health information system.   The  individual
systems  perform  together even if installed at different  times.
Cerner  also  markets  over 200 product options  that  complement
Cerner's major information systems.


Enterprise Systems
- ------------------

     Cerner's  Enterprise Systems automate processes  across  the
entire  health  system.  Capstone automates  the  identification,
eligibility,   registration  and  scheduling   processes   across
hospitals,  clinics, physician practices and other care  delivery
organizations,  integrating the health system  and  incorporating
existing  systems.  Powerlink connects community-based physicians
to   health   systems  for  referrals,  authorizations,   claims,
eligibility,   and  reporting.   PowerChart  is  the   enterprise
clinician's   desktop   solution  for   viewing,   ordering   and
documenting the electronic medical record.

Enterprise Repositories
- -----------------------

     Open  Agreement Foundation Data Repository is  a  structured
repository   for   the  storage  and  viewing  of   health   plan
information, records, contracts, eligibility and coverage data.

     Open  Clinical  Foundation Data Repository is  a  structured
repository  for  the storage of member/patient  orders;  discrete
results;  clinical  reports  and  other  documents;  indexes   to
document  images  from  foreign  document  imaging  systems;  and
indexes to third-party dictation systems.

     Open  Management Foundation Data Repository is a  structured
repository  for process- and activity-related information  useful
for  management  of a healthcare organization.   Information  can
originate  from  numerous sources and can  be  maintained  in  an
easily  accessible, standardized format.  OMF can  be  integrated
into   an   architecture  containing  products   from   different
suppliers.

     Open  Health  Foundation  Data Repository  is  a  structured
repository  for  the  storage and viewing of  health  information
related  to populations, in support of applications and  services
designed to manage the health status of those populations.

     Open  Outcome  Foundation Data Repository  is  a  structured
repository for the storage and viewing of the data that  supports
the  reporting  and  management  of  outcomes  in  the  areas  of
clinical, medical, process, economic and satisfaction.

Clinical Systems for Direct Care
- --------------------------------

     Cerner's CareNet Acute Care Management System is designed to
automate  the  entire  care  process in  acute  or  institutional
settings.    It  collects,  refines,  organizes,  and   evaluates
detailed clinical and management data. It enables the entire care
team  to plan and manage individual activities and plans, as



well as measure outcomes and goals.  CareNet consists of five major
solutions    -   patient   registration,   scheduling,    orders,
documentation, care planning and diagnostic and therapeutic care.

     The  INet  Intensive Care Management System is  designed  to
automate the entire care process in intensive care settings.   It
supports  patient  management, chart review and  browsing,  order
management,  documentation management, scheduling, and  automatic
data  acquisition.  It automatically acquires patient  data  from
bedside   medical   devices,   manages   information   flow   and
presentation  at  the bedside, supports care  management  through
care  planning  and  critical  pathways,  and  encourages  timely
decisions  based on comprehensive data availability;  information
tailored  to  the  practitioner and the patient;  and  rule-based
decision support.

     The  ProVide Physician Office Management System supports the
broad range of clinical and business activities that occur within
a physician office, clinic, or large physician organization (such
as  a  multi-site clinic or management service organization)  and
ties  the  office  together with others  in  the  community.   It
automates  key  activities of the care team in both  primary  and
specialty care settings.  ProVide offers clinicians and  staff  a
variety  of  functional  capabilities,  including  patient/member
tracking,  clinical  records access and  navigation,  eligibility
checking,  order  and referral processing, and reference  library
access and navigation.

     The  ProCall  Home  Care  Management  System  automates  the
clinical  and  business  processes of home health  organizations,
such  as  visiting  nurse  associations  and  hospices.   It   is
appropriate  for  Medicare-certified  or  noncertified   agencies
providing   skilled   nursing,  specialized   care,   supervisory
activities,  assessments,  and  unskilled  attendant  or  medical
delivery services.  ProCall facilitates the documentation of care
activities  in  the  home and provides access to  the  electronic
medical  record.   It  automates the  referral,  scheduling,  and
management  reporting processes performed by office personnel  in
home   care   agencies,   and   supports   their   business   and
administrative  processes.  Financial  and  management  reporting
capabilities provide needed information to directors and managers
in  home care agencies to allow them to compete in a prospective-
pay environment.

Clinical Systems for Care Centers
- ---------------------------------

     The  PathNet  Laboratory Information  System  addresses  the
information  management  needs of six  clinical  areas:   general
laboratory, microbiology, blood bank transfusion services,  blood
bank  donor  services,  anatomic  pathology,  and  HLA.   PathNet
automates   the   ordering  and  reporting  of  procedures,   the
production of accurate and timely reports, and the maintenance of
accessible clinical records.

     The   RadNet  Radiology  Information  System  addresses  the
operational  and management requirements of diagnostic  radiology
departments  or services.  It allows a department to replace  its
manual,  paper-based system of record-keeping with  an  efficient
computer-based system
          
     The    PharmNet   Pharmacy   Information   System   provides
intrarelation  in  an  HNA environment for rapid  pharmacy  order
entry and support of the clinical pharmacy in either an inpatient
or  outpatient  setting.  PharmNet streamlines  medication  order
entry,  enabling the pharmacist or technician to place all  types
of  pharmaceutical orders on one easy-to-use screen.   Dispensing
functions  also  are  fully automated.   Medication  fill  lists,
intravenous fill lists and medication administration records  are
produced automatically or on demand.

     The  SurgiNet  Surgery  Information System  is  designed  to
address   the   needs  of  the  surgical  department,   including
automating  the  functions of resource and equipment  scheduling,
inventory management, and operating room management.
          
     The FirstNet Emergency Department Information System offers
patient and provider tracking and an intuitive presentation of
patient diagnoses and clinical events for the emergency
department. FirstNet



provides basic emergency department functionality, including
quick admits, tracking, triage, and patient history, as well as a
graphical reference to patient location and order status.

     The CVNet Cardiology Department Information System automates
the processes within the department of cardiology, supporting the
scheduling, ordering, documentation and data capture required by
professionals in the cardiology domain.

Decision Support and Executable Knowledge
- -----------------------------------------

     Discern  Structured  Care Design is  clinical  pathways  and
protocols  that  automate  the specific  plans  of  care  for  an
individual, and operates within Cerner's clinical systems.

     Discern  Dialogue  is a real-time decision support  software
application  that incorporates executable knowledge and  provides
order  advice to clinicians.  It manages the display of  clinical
alerts  through Discern Insights, which are licensed  separately.
Discern  Dialogue  provides specific recommendations  to  change,
cancel, or create orders.

     Discern  Expert and Alerts are an event-driven,  rule-based,
decision support software application that allows users to define
clinical  and  management  rules  that  are  applied  to   events
accessing  data  that  is  captured or  generated  by  other  HNA
applications.

     Discern  Explorer is a decision support software application
integrated   with  other  Cerner  HNA  clinical  and   management
information systems that allows users to execute predetermined or
ad hoc queries and reports regarding process-related data that is
generated by the other HNA applications.

     Health  Facts  is  Cerner's comparative data  warehouse  for
benchmarking information and services for subscribers to  support
their own improvement processes.

Financial and Operational Management Systems
- --------------------------------------------

     ProFit   is  Cerner's  application for  revenue  accounting,
billing and accounts receivables for the entire health system  as
well as each individual domain or organization.

     ProRate  is  an  application to automate  the  managed  care
processes   around   membership,  eligibility  tracking,   claims
processing and contract management.

     The  ProLogue Enterprise Management System includes a  suite
of  management applications specifically designed to assemble and
use   the  information  to  help  an  organization  complete  its
strategic plans, including clinical metrics, case profiling,  and
performance profiling of individuals and organizations.

     The ProFile Health Information Management System  helps meet
the   operations  management  needs  of  the  health  information
management    (medical   records)   department    and    includes
functionality for the various chart tracking and completion tasks
commonly associated with maintaining medical records.

     ProCure  and  ProTrack  automates  the  business  operations
around materials and equipment management for the organization.

Population Health Management
- ----------------------------

     IQ  Health  produces  personal health risk  assessments  and
analyzes those to create interventions that promote self care and
improve health.



Demand Management
- -----------------

     Health Connections includes applications and services to
automate and manage the operations of telecare, including
protocol-based triage and person information.

Personal Health
- ---------------

     Vitality  is  Cerner's  home software  product  designed  to
extend  medical care to the consumer's home.  It provides  a  way
for the consumer to interact on a regular basis with a healthcare
provider.  Vitality can store health and medical records for easy
access.   By providing health appraisals and personalized  health
plans,  Vitality  takes  the first step toward  improving  health
education for members in a community.

Interface Technologies
- ----------------------
          
     The  Open Engine Application Gateway System facilitates  the
exchange  of data and assists in the management of point-to-point
interfaces  between foreign systems.  It serves as a  toolkit  to
help write interface code.


Software Development
- --------------------

      Cerner  commits  significant resources  to  developing  new
health  information system products.  As of January 3, 1998,  837
employees   were   engaged  full-time  in   product   development
activities.    Total   expenditures  for  the   development   and
enhancement   of   the  Company's  products  were   approximately
$33,957,000, $43,133,000 and $54,524,00 during the 1995, 1996 and
1997  fiscal  years  respectively.  These  figures  include  both
capitalized  and  noncapitalized  portions  and  exclude  amounts
amortized for financial reporting purposes.

      The  Company expects to continue investment and development
efforts  for  its current and future product offerings.   As  new
clinical and management information needs emerge, Cerner  intends
to  enhance its current product lines with new versions  released
to  clients  on a periodic basis.  In addition, Cerner  plans  to
expand   its  current  product  lines  by  developing  additional
information  systems  for  use  in clinical  departments  and  to
continue to support simultaneous use of Cerner's products  across
multiple facilities.  All Cerner systems are developed under  HNA
using  a  proprietary  systems  development  methodology.    This
methodology defines and controls each task throughout the product
development  cycle and ensures that current and  future  products
can be fully intrarelated.

      The Company is committed to maintaining open attributes  in
its  system architecture through operability in a diverse set  of
technical  and application environments.  The Company strives  to
design  its  systems  to  co-exist  with  disparate  applications
developed  and  supported  by other suppliers.   This  effort  is
exemplified by Cerner's Open Engine, OCF and OMF product lines.

     See  "Cerner's  HNA  Approach  and  HNA  Millennium"  for  a
discussion  of  the development of Cerner's latest generation  of
software products.

Sales and Marketing
- -------------------

     The markets for Cerner's information system products include
IHO's,  IDS's,  physician groups and networks  and  their  MSO's,
managed  care  organizations, hospitals, medical  centers,  free-
standing  reference laboratories, blood banks,  imaging  centers,
pharmacies, employer coalitions, and public health organizations.
To  date,  a  substantial portion of system sales  have  been  in
clinical  applications in hospital-based provider  organizations.
Cerner's  HNA architecture is highly scaleable, with applications
being  used in hospitals ranging from under 50 beds to over 2,000
beds and managed care settings with over



2,000,000 members.   All Cerner  systems are designed to operate
on computers manufactured by  Digital  Equipment Corporation
(''Digital'').  In  addition, many Cerner applications are avail-
able on IBM's RISC System/6000 AIX (UNIX) platform.  All HNA 
Millennium applications are designed to operate on either Digital
or IBM platforms, thereby allowing Cerner to be price competitive
across the full range of size  and organizational structure of
healthcare providers.  The sale of a health information system
usually takes approximately nine to eighteen months, from the
time of initial contact to  the signing of a contract.

      The Company's executive marketing management is located  in
its  Kansas  City,  Missouri,  headquarters,  while  its  account
representatives are deployed through regional offices across  the
United  States.   The  Company, through subsidiaries,  and  joint
ventures has offices and sales staff in Australia, Singapore  and
Saudi  Arabia.   The  Company  has  a  nonexclusive  distribution
agreement  with  Siemens  Nixdorf  by  which  its  products   are
marketed,  implemented  and supported in  Europe  and  elsewhere.
Cerner's   consolidated  revenues  include   foreign   sales   of
$8,823,000,  $15,874,000 and $16,272,000 for the 1995,  1996  and
1997  fiscal years, respectively.  The Company supports its sales
force  with  technical  personnel who perform  demonstrations  of
Cerner's  products and assist clients in determining  the  proper
hardware  and software configurations.  The Company has developed
a  demonstration and presentation facility at its headquarters in
Kansas  City,  Missouri, called the Cerner Vision  Center.   This
facility   enables  the  Company  to  actually  demonstrate   the
processes  automated through HNA and adapt the  presentations  to
the   clients'   environments.   The  Company's  primary   direct
marketing  strategy  is  to  generate  sales  contacts  from  its
existing  client  base  and  through  presentations  at  industry
seminars  and  tradeshows.   Cerner attends  a  number  of  major
tradeshows   each  year  and  has  begun  to  sponsor   executive
conferences,  which  feature industry  experts  who  address  the
information system needs of large healthcare organizations.

Client Services
- ---------------

     Cerner uses a regional strategy to provide the full range of
product  and  service  capabilities to  its  clients  from  eight
locations  throughout  the United States.  Each  regional  center
reflects  Cerner's  corporate culture  and  interfaces  with  the
Company's  clients on a regular and highly accessible basis.   In
this   way,  Cerner  can  provide  on-site  personnel   for   the
development  and  management  of  systems  projects,  learn   the
evolving  information  needs  of clients  based  on  geographical
trends  in  the  healthcare industry, work with  clients  in  the
development  of new products and services and share with  clients
Cerner's  vision of the changing healthcare delivery  market  and
the  role  of  information systems in that  transformation.   The
Company has regional offices in Atlanta, Boston, Dallas, Detroit,
Kansas  City,  Los  Angeles, Seattle and  Washington,  D.C.  Each
regional  office is focused on long-term marketplace development,
product  marketing, client project management,  long-term  client
service  and client satisfaction for a group of clients within  a
specific geographical region.

      All  of  Cerner's  clients enter into software  maintenance
agreements  with Cerner for support of their Cerner systems.   In
addition  to immediate software support in the event of problems,
these  agreements allow these clients the use of new releases  of
the Cerner products covered by these agreements.  Each client has
24-hour  access to the client support staff located  at  Cerner's
corporate headquarters.  Most of Cerner's clients also enter into
hardware  maintenance agreements with Cerner.  These arrangements
normally  provide for a fixed monthly fee for specified services.
In   the   majority   of  cases,  Cerner  subcontracts   hardware
maintenance to the hardware manufacturer.

Backlog
- -------

       At  January  3,  1998,  Cerner  had  contract  backlog  of
$198,274,000.  Such backlog represents system sales  from  signed
contracts  which  had not yet been recognized  as  revenue.   The
Company  recognizes  revenue on a percent  of  completion  basis,
based on certain milestone conditions, for its software products.
At  January  3,  1998, the Company had $70,608,000  of  contracts
receivable,  which  represents  revenues  recognized  under   the
percent of completion method but not yet billable under the terms
of  the  contract.   At January 3, 1998, Cerner  had  a  software
support  and  maintenance backlog of



$132,842,000.  Such backlog represents contracted software support
and hardware maintenance services for a period of twelve months.

Competition
- -----------

      The  market for healthcare information systems is intensely
competitive and rapidly changing.  The Company believes that  the
principal competitive factors in this market include the  breadth
and quality of system and product offerings, the stability of the
information  systems provider, the features and  capabilities  of
the  information systems, the ongoing support for the system, the
potential  for  enhancements and future compatible products,  and
technical  resources.   Many  of the Company's  competitors  have
greater  financial, technical, product development and  marketing
resources  than the Company, and some of these competitors  offer
products, such as financial, billing and collection systems,  not
offered by the Company.  The past several years have been  marked
by  consolidation  among many of the Company's  competitors.   In
addition,  other  companies  with significant  technological  and
other resources may enter the market in the Company competes.

Government Regulation
- ---------------------

      The healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal and
state  regulation governing, among other things, the addition  of
new  services,  certain capital expenditures  and  reimbursement.
The  effect of future legislation and regulation upon prospective
clients is impossible to predict.  In addition, the United States
Food  and  Drug  Administration (the  "FDA")  has  declared  that
software products that are intended for the maintenance  of  data
used  in  making  decisions regarding the  suitability  of  blood
donors  and  the  release  of  blood  or  blood  components   for
transfusion  are medical devices under the 1976.  Medical  Device
Amendments  to the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic  Act  and  the
Safe  Medical Devices Act of 1990.  As a consequence, the Company
is  subject to extensive regulation by the FDA with regard to its
blood  bank  software.   To the extent  that  the  other  Company
products are deemed by the FDA to be medical devices, the Company
could   be  subject,  depending  on  the  product,  to  extensive
requirements  governing pre- and post-marketing conditions,  such
as device investigation, approval, labeling and manufacturing.

Item 2.  Properties

      The Company's offices are located in a Company-owned office
park  in  North  Kansas City, Missouri, containing  approximately
500,000 square feet of useable space.  As of January 3, 1998, the
Company   was  using  approximately  361,000  square   feet   and
substantially  all of the remainder was leased  to  tenants.  The
Company  also  leases  office space for  its  branch  offices  in
Atlanta,  Boston,  Dallas,  Detroit,  Los  Angeles,  Seattle  and
Washington D.C.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

      The  Company  is  not  involved  in  any  material  pending
litigation.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

      No matters were submitted to a vote of the stockholders  of
the  Company during the fourth quarter of the fiscal  year  ended
January 3, 1998.



Item 4A.  Executive Officers of the Company

      The  following table sets forth the names, ages,  positions
and  certain other information regarding the Company's  executive
officers as of March 30, 1998.  Officers are elected annually and
serve at the discretion of the board of directors.

Name                     Age     Positions
- ----                     ---     ----------           

Neal L. Patterson         48     Chairman of the Board of Directors 
                                 and Chief Executive Officer

Clifford W. Illig         47     President and Chief Operating Officer

Jeffrey C. Reene          43     Executive Vice President

Jack A. Newman, Jr.       50     Executive Vice President

Thomas C. Tinstman, M.D.  52     Senior Vice President

Alan D. Dietrich          35     Senior Vice President

Marc G. Naughton          43     Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Jeffrey A. Townsend       34     Vice President

Stephen M. Goodrich       46     Vice President

Francois W. Sauer, M.D.   53     Chief Executive Officer of Cerner 
                                 International



     Neal L. Patterson has been Chairman of the Board of
Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the Company for more
than five years.

      Clifford W. Illig has been a Director, President and  Chief
Operating Officer of the Company for more than five years.

      Jeffrey  C. Reene joined the Company in September  1991  as
Group  Vice  President of Client Services.  He  was  promoted  to
Executive Vice President in June of 1994.

      Jack  A. Newman, Jr. joined the Company in January 1996  as
Executive Vice President.  Prior to joining the Company,  he  was
with  KPMG Peat Marwick LLP for 22 years.  Most recently  he  was
National   Partner-in-Charge  of  KPMG's  Health  Care   Strategy
Practice,  leading more than 200 professional and  administrative
staff  members  who  provided  strategy  consulting  services  to
healthcare  clients  nationwide,  including  healthcare  systems,
physician  groups,  managed care plans, and  other  provider  and
payor organizations.

     Thomas C. Tinstman, M.D. joined the Company in November 1995
as  Senior Vice President and has been a Director of the  Company
since  May 1989.  Prior to joining the Company, Dr. Tinstman  was
Director of Medical Informatics with University of Texas  Medical
Branch in Galveston, Texas.  Prior to that he was a physician  in
private  practice  with  Internal Medicine  Associates,  P.C.  in
Omaha, Nebraska.  From 1977 to January, 1994, Dr. Tinstman served
as  Associate Medical Director of Pulmonary Medical  Services  at
Bishop Clarkson Memorial Hospital and as Medical Director of  the
Respiratory  Therapy  Department of  Midland  Hospital,  both  in
Omaha, Nebraska.  Dr. Tinstman has served as a director of Smith-
Haynes Trust, Inc. since 1988.

      Alan D. Dietrich joined the Company in 1990 as Director  of
Business,  Planning  and Development.  In  January  1994  he  was
promoted to Senior Vice President.

      Marc  G.  Naughton joined the Company in November  1992  as
Manager  of  Taxes.   In  November  1995  he  was  elected  Chief
Financial  Officer and in February 1996 he was promoted  to  Vice
President.   Prior  to joining the Company, he spent  nine  years
with  The  Marley Company, a multinational manufacturing company,
in a variety of financial management positions.

      Jeffrey A. Townsend joined the Company in June 1985.  Since
that   time  he  has  held  several  positions  in  the   product
organization and was promoted to Vice President in February 1997.

      Stephen M. Goodrich joined the Company in October 1987 as a
project leader in the product organization.  In 1992  he  was
promoted to Vice President.

      Francois  W.  Sauer,  M.D., joined  the  Company  as  Chief
Executive Officer of Cerner International in July 1997.  Prior to
joining the Company, he was Director of Strategic Growth at Transquest,
Inc. from April 1996 to April 1997.  Prior to that he was a Managing
Partner of the Enterprise Development Group in the Global Information
Solution at AT&T, Inc. from October 1994 to April 1996.  Prior April 1994
he was with Digital Equipment in several roles including Consultant and 
Practice Director.




PART II

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related 
        Security Holder Matters

     The Company's common stock trades on The Nasdaq Stock
Market SM under the symbol CERN.  The following table sets forth
the high, low, and last sales prices for the fiscal quarters of
1997 and 1996 as reported by The Nasdaq National Market System.
These quotations represent prices between dealers and do not
include retail mark-up, mark-down, or commissions, and do not
necessarily represent actual transactions.



     At February 6, 1998, there were approximately 1,300 owners
of record.  To date, the Company has paid no dividends and it
does not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future.
Management believes it is in the stockholders' best interest to
reinvest funds in the operation of the business.


Item 6.  Selected Financial Data



     In 1997, the Company retroactively adopted FAS No. 128,
"Earnings per Share", which revised the calculation and
presentation of earnings per share.  Previously reported earnings
per share has been computed based upon the new accounting
standard



Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
         and Results of Operations

For a more thorough understanding of management's analysis of
results of operations and financial conditions, the following
discussion should be read in conjunction with the Letter to
Shareholders and the discussion of the Company's business
operations.

Year Ended January 3, 1998, Compared to Year Ended December 28, 1996

Results of Operations - The Company's revenues increased 30% to
$245,057,000 in 1997 from $189,107,000 in 1996.  Net earnings
increased 84% to $15,148,000 in 1997 from $8,251,000 in 1996.
Net earnings from the Company's foreign operations decreased to
$2,389,000 in 1997 from $2,897,000 in 1996.

Revenues - In 1997, revenues increased due to an increase in
system sales and support of installed systems.  System sales
increased 39% to $170,906,000 in 1997 from $122,836,000 in 1996.
This increase in system sales resulted primarily from an increase
in installations under Health Network Architecture (HNA)
contracts.  HNA contracts were 57% of total systems sales in
1997, compared to 43% in 1996.  The sale of additional hardware
and software products to the installed client base decreased 8%
in 1997 as compared to 1996.

Total sales to the installed base in 1997, including new systems,
incremental hardware and software, support and maintenance
services, and discrete services, were 73% of total revenues in
1997 compared to 79% in 1996.  The lower percentage was primarily
due to the increase in system sales to new clients.

At January 3, 1998, the Company had $198,274,000 in contract
backlog and $132,842,000 in support and maintenance backlog,
compared to $110,330,000 in contract backlog and $107,255,000 in
support and maintenance backlog at the end of 1996.

Support and maintenance revenues increased 20% in 1997 compared
to 16% in 1996. This increase was due primarily to the increase
in the Company's installed and converted client base. These
revenues represented 28% of 1997 total revenues and 30% of 1996
total revenues.

Other revenues decreased 38% to $5,438,000 in 1997 from
$8,841,000 in 1996.  This decrease was due primarily to a
decrease in real estate lease revenues from the rental to outside
tenants, as the Company utilizes more office space, and the
reporting of certain services revenue as system sales in 1997.

Cost of Revenues - The cost of revenues includes the cost of
computer hardware and sublicensed software purchased from
computer and software manufacturers for delivery to clients.  It
also includes the cost of hardware maintenance and sublicensed
software support subcontracted to the manufacturers.  The cost of
revenues was 29% of total revenues in 1997 and 31% of total
revenues in 1996.  Such costs, as a percent of revenues,
typically have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware,
services and support) components carrying different margin rates
changes from period to period.  The decrease in the cost of
revenue as a percent of total revenues resulted principally from
a decrease in the percent of revenue from computer hardware and
sublicensed software, which carry a higher cost of revenue
percentage.

Sales and Client Service -  Sales and client service expenses
include salaries of client service personnel, communications
expenses, and unreimbursed travel expenses.  Also included are
sales and marketing salaries, travel expenses, trade show costs,
and advertising costs.  These expenses as a percent of total
revenues were 34% in 1997 and  1996.  The increase in total sales
and client service expenses is attributable to the cost of a
larger field sales and services organization and marketing of new
products.



Software Development - Software development expenses include
salaries, documentation, and other direct expenses incurred in
product development and amortization of software development
costs.  Total expenditures for software development, including
both capitalized and noncapitalized portions, for 1997 and 1996
were $54,524,000 and $43,133,000, respectively.  These amounts
exclude amortization.  Capitalized software costs were
$18,373,000 and $13,240,000 for 1997 and 1996, respectively.  The
increase in aggregate expenditures for software development in
1997 is due to development of HNA Millennium  products and
development of community care products.

General and Administrative - General and administrative expenses
include salaries for corporate, financial, and administrative
staffs, utilities, communications expenses, and professional
fees.  These expenses as a percent of total revenues were 9% in
1997 and 10% in 1996.

Interest Income, Net - Net interest income was $2,314,000  in
1997 compared to $2,301,000 in 1996.

Income Taxes - The Company's effective tax rates were 38% and 36%
for 1997 and 1996, respectively. The lower 1996 tax rate is due
to the utilization of foreign net operating losses.

Year Ended December 28, 1996, Compared to Year Ended December 30, 1995

Results of Operations - The Company's revenues increased 1% to
$189,107,000 in 1996, from $186,901,000  in 1995.  Net earnings
decreased 63% to $8,251,000 in 1996 from $22,521,000 in 1995.
Net earnings from the Company's foreign operations increased to
$2,897,000 in 1996 from a loss of  $1,867,000 in 1995.

Revenues - In 1996, revenues increased due to an increase in
support of installed systems.  System sales decreased 5% to
$122,836,000 in 1996, from $129,917,000  in 1995.  This decrease
was primarily due to the Company's failure to achieve planned
levels of new system bookings.  New system bookings were
adversely impacted by an overall lengthening of the time required
by clients to finalize clinical information system acquisition
decisions and increased competition exacerbated by the Company's
transition to HNA Millennium (formerly known as HNA 500), its
next-generation, three-tiered client-server application
architecture.  HNA contracts were 43% of total system sales in
1996, compared to 42% in 1995.  The sale of additional hardware
and software products to the installed client base increased 10%
in 1996 as compared to 1995.

Total sales to the installed base in 1996, including new systems,
incremental hardware and software, support and maintenance
services, and discrete services, were 79% of total revenues in
1996 compared to 71% in 1995.  The higher percentage was
primarily due to the decrease in system sales.

At December 28, 1996, the Company had $110,330,000 in contract
backlog and $107,255,000 in support and maintenance backlog,
compared to $77,495,000 in contract backlog and $94,538,000 in
support and maintenance backlog at the end of 1995.

Support and maintenance revenues increased 16% in 1996 compared
to 19% in 1995.  These revenues represented 30% of 1996 total
revenues and 26% of 1995 total revenues.  This increase was
primarily due to the decrease in system sales.

Other revenues increased 16% to $8,841,000 in 1996, from
$7,633,000 in 1995.  This increase was due primarily to services
performed above contracted requirements for existing clients.



Cost of Revenues - The cost of revenues includes the cost of
computer hardware and sublicensed software purchased from
computer and software manufacturers for delivery to clients.  It
also includes the cost of hardware maintenance and sublicensed
software support subcontracted to the manufacturers.  The cost of
revenues was 31% of total revenues in 1996 and 28% of total
revenues in 1995.  Such costs, as a percent of revenues,
typically have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware,
and support) components carrying different margin rates changes
from period to period.  The increase in the cost of revenue as a
percent of total revenues resulted principally from an increase
in the percent of revenue from computer hardware and sublicensed
software, which carry a higher cost of revenue percentage.

Sales and Client Service -  Sales and client service expenses
include salaries of client service personnel, communications
expenses, and unreimbursed travel expenses.  Also included are
sales and marketing salaries, travel expenses, trade show costs,
and advertising costs.  These expenses as a percent of total
revenues were 34% in 1996 compared to 27% in 1995.  The increase
in total sales and client service expenses is attributable to the
cost of a larger field sales and services organization and
marketing of new products.

Software Development - Software development expenses include
salaries, documentation, and other direct expenses incurred in
product development and amortization of software development
costs.  Total expenditures for software development, including
both capitalized and noncapitalized portions, for 1996 and 1995
were $43,133,000 and $33,957,000, respectively.  These amounts
exclude amortization.  Capitalized software costs were
$13,240,000 and $9,210,000 for 1996 and 1995, respectively.  The
increase in aggregate expenditures for software development in
1996 is due to development of HNA Millennium  products and
development of community care products.

General and Administrative - General and administrative expenses
include salaries for corporate, financial, and administrative
staffs, utilities, communications expenses, and professional
fees.  These expenses as a percent of total revenues were 10% in
1996 and 9% in 1995.

Interest Income, Net - Net interest income (expense) was
$2,301,000 in 1996 compared to ($45,000) in 1995.  This increase
was due primarily to interest income from investment of  the
proceeds from the sale of 3,716,000 shares of common stock from
the August 1995 public offering.

Income Taxes - The Company's effective tax rates were 36% and 39%
for 1996 and 1995, respectively.  The decrease in effective tax
rates is due to the utilization of foreign net operating losses
during 1996.

Quarterly Results

Quarterly Results - The Company's quarterly revenues and net
earnings historically have been variable and cyclical.  The
variability is attributable primarily to the number and size of
project milestone events in any fiscal quarter.  The Company
expects the fluctuation in quarterly financial results to
continue.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Liquidity and Capital Resources - The Company's liquidity
position remains strong, with total cash and cash equivalents of
$7,541,000 and short-term investments of $70,002,000 at the end
of 1997 and working capital of $156,808,000, compared to cash and
cash equivalents of $6,905,000 and short-term investments of
$103,997,000 at the end of 1996, and working capital of
$171,204,000.  The decrease in working capital resulted primarily
from the Company's purchase of 688,500 shares of its common stock
for $15,103,000 during 1997.

The Company generated cash of $18,692,000, $28,262,000, and
$15,359,000 from operations in 1997, 1996, and 1995,
respectively.  Cash flow from operations decreased in 1997, due
primarily to an increase in receivables from record level-
revenues, and increased in 1996, due primarily to improved
collection of receivables.



Revenues provided under support and maintenance agreements of the
Company represent recurring cash flows.  Support and maintenance
revenues increased 20%, 16%, and 19%, in 1997, 1996, and 1995,
respectively, and the Company expects these revenues to continue
to grow as the base of installed systems grows.

The Company believes its present cash and short-term investment
position, together with cash generated from operations and the
current bank borrowing facility, will be sufficient to meet
anticipated cash requirements.

Inflation -  The effects of inflation were minimal on the
Company's business.

New Accounting Pronouncements and Other - In 1997, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive
Income".  This statement expands disclosures and, accordingly,
will have no impact on the Company's reported financial position,
results of operations or cash flows.  The Company will adopt SFAS
No. 130 during its first quarter of 1998.  FASB also issued SFAS
No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information" in 1997.  This statement will have no impact on the
Company.

The Company has considered the impact of Year 2000 issues on its
internal computer systems and applications and developed a
remediation plan.  Conversion activities are in process and the
Company expects conversion and testing to be completed by the end
of the first quarter of 1999.  The Company currently believes
that the costs to address these issues will not be material to
the Company's consolidated financial statements.  Such
expenditures will be charged to expense as incurred.

The Company has considered the impact of Year 2000 issues on its
clinical information system products.  The current versions of
these products are Year 2000 compliant.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

           The  Financial Statements and Notes required  by  this
Item are submitted as a separate part of this report.

Item  9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
and Financial Disclosure

          None.


PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

      The  Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in  connection
with  the  Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on  May  22,
1998,  contains under the caption "Election of Directors" certain
information required by Item 10 of Form 10-K and such information
is  incorporated  herein  by  this  reference.   The  information
required by Item 10 of Form 10-K as to executive officers is  set
forth in Item 4A of Part I hereof.

      The  Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in  connection
with  the  Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on  May  22,
1998,  contains under the caption "Compliance with Section  16(a)
of  the  Securities  Exchange Act of  1934"  certain  information
required  by  Item  10  of  Form 10-K  and  such  information  is
incorporated herein by this reference.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

      The  Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in  connection
with  the  Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on  May  22,
1998,  contains  under the caption "Executive  Compensation"  the
information required by Item 11 of Form 10-K and such information
is  incorporated  herein  by  this  reference  (except  that  the
information  set  forth  under  the  following  sub  captions  is
expressly   excluded   from   such   incorporation:    "Executive
Compensation  and  Stock Option Committee  Report"  and  "Company
Performance").

Item 12.  Security  Ownership  of Certain Beneficial  Owners  and
          Management

      The  Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in  connection
with  the  Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on  May  22,
1998, contains under the caption "Voting Securities and Principal
Holders Thereof" the information required by Item 12 of Form 10-K
and such information is incorporated herein by this reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

      The  Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in  connection
with  the  Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on  May  22,
1998,  contains  under  the  caption "Certain  Transactions"  the
information required by Item 13 of Form 10-K and such information
is incorporated herein by this reference.



PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
          Form 8-K

     (a)  Financial Statements.

          (1)  Consolidated Financial Statements:

               Independent Auditors' Report on Consolidated Financial
               Statements

               Consolidated Balance Sheets -
               January 3, 1998 and December 28, 1996

               Consolidated Statements of Earnings -
               Years Ended January 3, 1998, December 28, 1996 and
               December 30, 1995

               Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
               Years Ended January 3, 1998, December 28, 1996,
               and December 30, 1995

               Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
               Years  Ended January 3, 1998, December 28, 1996
               and December 30, 1995

               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

          (2)  The following financial statement,
               schedule and independent auditors' report
               on financial statement schedule of the
               Registrant for the three-year period ended
               January 3, 1998 are included herein:

               Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts,

               Independent Auditors' Report on Consolidated
               Financial Statement Schedule.
          
           All  other  schedules  are omitted,  as  the  required
information  is inapplicable or the information is  presented  in
the consolidated financial statements or related notes.

          (3)  The exhibits required to be filed by this item
               are set forth below:

Number    Description
- ------    -----------
        
3(a)      Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant,
          (filed as Exhibit 3(i) to Registrant's Quarterly Report
          on Form 10-Q for the year ended June 29, 1996 and hereby
          incorporated by reference).

3(b)      Bylaws,  as amended (filed as Exhibit  3  to  the
          Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the  six
          months ended June 30, 1995, and hereby incorporated  by
          reference).

4(a)      Rights Agreement, dated as of November 21,  1996,
          between Cerner Corporation ad UMB Bank, n.a., as Rights
          Agents,  which  includes  the Form  of  Certificate  of
          Designation,  Preferences  and  Rights  of   Series   A
          Preferred  Stock of Cerner Corporation, as  Exhibit  A,
          the  Form of Rights Certificate, as Exhibit B, and  the
          Summary  of  Rights  to Purchase


        
          Preferred Stock, as Exhibit C (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to
          Registrant's curren report on Form 8-K dated November 21,
          1996 and incorporated herein by reference.

4(b)      Specimen stock certificate (filed as Exhibit 4(a)
          to  Registrant's  Registration Statement  on  Form  S-8
          (File  No. 33-15156) and hereby incorporated herein  by
          reference).

4(c)      Note   Agreement  between  Cerner   Corporation,
          Principal Mutual Life Insurance Company,  and Principal
          National  Life  Insurance Company dated July  1,  1994,
          (filed  as  Exhibit  10(a)  to  Registrant's  Quarterly
          Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
          1994, and hereby incorporated by reference.

4(d)      Credit  Agreement  between  Cerner  Corporation,
          Cerner  Properties, Inc. Mark Twain  Kansas  Bank,  and
          Harris  Trust  &  Savings Bank dated  April  18,  1994,
          (filed  as  Exhibit  10(b)  to  Registrant's  Quarterly
          Report  on  Form  10-Q for the quarter ended  June  30,
          1994, and hereby incorporated by reference).

10(a)     Standard  Volume Agreement, dated July  6,  1989,
          between  Digital Equipment Corporation  and  Registrant
          (filed  as Exhibit 10(g) to Registrant's Annual  Report
          on  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989, and
          hereby incorporated herein by reference).

10(b)     Incentive Stock Option Plan C of Registrant (filed
          as  Exhibit 10(f) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
          10-K  for the year ended December 31, 1993, and  hereby
          incorporated herein by reference).*

10(c)     Indemnification Agreements between the Registrant
          and  Neal  L. Patterson, Clifford W. Illig,  Gerald  E.
          Bisbee,  Jr. and Thomas C. Tinstman, (filed as  Exhibit
          10(i)  to  Registrant's Annual report on Form 10-K  for
          the  year  ended  December 31, 1992,  and  incorporated
          herein by reference).*

10(d)     Indemnification  Agreement  between  Michael  E.
          Herman  and  Registrant (filed as Exhibit  10(i)(a)  to
          Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the year
          ended   June  29,  1996  and  hereby  incorporated   by
          reference).*

10(e)     Indemnification  Agreement   between   John   C.
          Danforth, and Registrant (filed as Exhibit 10(i)(b)  to
          Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the year
          ended   June  29,  1996  and  hereby  incorporated   by
          reference).*

10(f)     Indemnification  Agreement  between  Thomas   A.
          McDonnell and Registrant (filed as Exhibit 10(i)(c)  to
          Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the year
          ended   June  29,  1996  and  hereby  incorporated   by
          reference).*

10(g)     Amended Stock Option Plan D of Registrant.*

10(h)     Stock Option Plan E of Registrant.*

10(i)     Agreement for Cerner Corporation Consulting Services with
          Gerald E. Bisbee, Ph.D.*

10(j)     Cerner Performance Plan for Neal L. Patterson.*

10(k)     Cerner Performance Plan for Clifford W. Illig.*

10(l)     Cerner Performance Plan for Jeffrey C. Reene.*

10(m)     Cerner Performance Plan for Jack A. Newman, Jr.*



10(n)     Cerner Performance Plan for Thomas C. Tinstman, M.D.*

10(o)     Cerner Performance Plan for Alan D. Dietrich.*

10(p)     Cerner Performance Plan for Marc G. Naughton.*

10(q)     Cerner Performance Plan for Jeffrey A. Townsend.*

10(r)     Cerner Performance Plan for Stephen M. Goodrich.*

10(s)     Cerner Performance Plan for Francois W. Sauer, M.D.*

11        Computation of Registrant's Earnings  Per  Share.
          (Exhibit  ommitted.  Information contained in notes  to
          consolidated financial statements.)

22        Subsidiaries of Registrant.

23        Consent of Independent Auditors.

27        Financial Data Schedule.


* Management  contracts  or compensatory  plans  or  arrangements
  required to be identified by Item 14(a)(3).

          (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

               None


          (c)  Exhibits.

          The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as
          a separate section of this report.

          (d)  Financial Statement Schedules.

          The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as
          a separate section of this report.



                           SIGNATURES

           Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, the  registrant  has  duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

                              CERNER CORPORATION


Dated:  March 31, 1998          By:/s/Neal L. Patterson
      -----------------            --------------------- 
                                   Neal L. Patterson
                                   Chairman of the Board and
                                   Chief Executive Officer


          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange
Act  of  1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and  on
the dates indicated:

          Signature and Title                     Date
          -------------------                     ----


/s/ Neal L. Patterson                        March 31, 1998
- ------------------------------               
Neal L. Patterson, Chairman of the Board
  and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)



/s/Clifford W. Illig                         March 31, 1998
- ------------------------------
Clifford W. Illig, President, Chief
  Operating Officer and Director



/s/Marc G. Naughton                          March 31, 1998
- ------------------------------
Marc G. Naughton, Vice President and
 Chief Financial Officer


/s/Michael E. Herman                         March 31, 1998
- ------------------------------
Michael E. Herman, Director



/s/Gerald E. Bisbee, Jr.                     March 31, 1998
- ------------------------------
Gerald E. Bisbee, Jr., Director



/s/Thomas C. Tinstman                        March 31, 1998
- ------------------------------
Thomas C. Tinstman, M.D., Director




/s/John C. Danforth                          March 31, 1998
- ------------------------------
John C. Danforth, Director



/s/Thomas A. McDonnell                       March 31, 1998
- ------------------------------
Thomas A. McDonnell, Director




Independent Auditors' Report



The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Cerner Corporation:



We  have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets  of
Cerner  Corporation and subsidiaries as of January  3,  1998  and
December  28,  1996  and the related consolidated  statements  of
earnings,  stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each  of  the
years  in  the  three-year period ended January 3,  1998.   These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility  of  the
Company's  management.   Our  responsibility  is  to  express  an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based  on  our
audits.

We  conducted  our  audits in accordance with generally  accepted
auditing  standards.  Those standards require that  we  plan  and
perform  the  audit to obtain reasonable assurance about  whether
the  financial statements are free of material misstatement.   An
audit  includes  examining, on a test basis, evidence  supporting
the  amounts  and  disclosures in the financial  statements.   An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used  and
significant  estimates made by management, as well as  evaluating
the  overall  financial statement presentation.  We believe  that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to
above  present  fairly, in all material respects,  the  financial
position of Cerner Corporation and subsidiaries as of January  3,
1998  and  December 28, 1996 and the results of their  operations
and  their  cash  flows for each of the years in  the  three-year
period  ended  January  3,  1998  in  conformity  with  generally
accepted accounting principles.



KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

Kansas City, Missouri
February 6, 1998



Management's Report
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

The  management  of  Cerner Corporation is  responsible  for  the
consolidated  financial  statements  and  all  other  information
presented  in  this report.  The financial statements  have  been
prepared   in  conformity  with  generally  accepted   accounting
principles  appropriate  to  the circumstances,  and,  therefore,
included in the financial statements are certain amounts based on
management's  informed estimates and judgments.  Other  financial
information  in  this  report  is consistent  with  that  in  the
consolidated  financial  statements.  The consolidated  financial
statements  have been audited by Cerner Corporation's independent
certified public accountants and have been reviewed by the  audit
committee of the Board of Directors.













Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


1    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

(a)  Principles of Consolidation - The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of Cerner Corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries (the Company).  All significant
intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in
consolidation.

(b)  Revenue Recognition - Revenues are derived primarily from
the sale of clinical information systems. The Company also
provides project implementation and consulting services.  In
addition, revenue is generated from servicing installed clinical
information systems, which generally includes support of software
and maintenance of hardware.  The Company also derives revenue
from the sale of computer hardware.

Clinical information system sales contracts are negotiated
separately and generally include the licensing of the Company's
clinical information system software, project-related services
associated with the installation of the systems, and the sale of
computer hardware.  Clinical information system sales contracts
are noncancelable and provide for a right of return only in the
event the system fails to meet the performance criteria set forth
in the contracts.  The Company recognizes revenue from sales of
clinical information systems using a percentage-of-completion
method based on meeting key milestone events over the term of the
contracts in accordance with Statement of Position 97-2,
"Software Revenue Recognition".

Revenue associated with project implementation and consulting
services is recognized as the services are performed.  Revenue
from the licensing of additional software is recognized upon
installation at the client's site.  Revenue from the sale of
computer hardware is recognized upon shipment.  Revenue from
ongoing software support and equipment maintenance is recognized
as the services are rendered.

(c)  Fiscal Year - The Company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday
closest to December 31.  Fiscal year 1997, ended January 3, 1998,
consisted of 53 weeks, and fiscal years 1996 and 1995 consisted
of 52 weeks each.  All references to years in these notes to
consolidated financial statements represent fiscal years unless
otherwise noted.

(d)  Software Development Costs - Costs incurred internally in
creating computer software products are expensed until
technological feasibility has been established upon completion of
a detail program design.  Thereafter, all software development
costs are capitalized and subsequently reported at the lower of
amortized cost or net realizable value.  Capitalized costs are
amortized based on current and future revenue for each product
with minimum annual amortization equal to the straight-line
amortization over the estimated economic life of the product.
The Company is amortizing capitalized costs on a straight-line
basis over five years.  During 1997, 1996, and 1995, the Company
capitalized $18,373,000, $13,240,000, and $9,210,000,
respectively, of total software development costs of $54,524,000,
$43,133,000, and  $33,957,000, respectively.  Amortization
expense of capitalized software development costs in 1997, 1996,
and 1995 was $7,935,000, $5,997,000, and $5,109,000,
respectively, and accumulated amortization was $32,895,000,
$24,960,000, and $18,963,000, respectively.

(e)  Inventory - Inventory consists primarily of computer
hardware held for resale and is recorded at the lower of cost
(first-in, first-out) or market.

(f)  Property and Equipment - Property, equipment, and leasehold
improvements are stated at cost.  Depreciation of property and
equipment is computed using the straight-line method over periods
of 5 to 39 years.  Amortization of leasehold improvements is
computed using a straight-line method over the lease terms, which
range from periods of two to five years.

(g)  Earnings per Common Share - Prior to January 3, 1998 the
Company computed earnings per share (EPS) in accordance with the
provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 15,
"Earnings per Share and related interpretations".  As such,
primary earnings per common share was based



on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding,
giving effect to common stock equivalents (stock options),
if dilutive.  On January 3, 1998 the Company retroactively adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, "Earnings per
Share," which replaces the presentation of primary and fully diluted
EPS with a presentation of basic and diluted EPS.

Basic EPS excludes dilution and is computed by dividing income
available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number
of common shares outstanding for the period.  Diluted EPS
reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or
other contracts to issue stock were exercised or converted into
common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock that
then shared in the earnings of the entity.  A reconciliation of
the numerators and the denominators of the basic and diluted per-
share computations is as follows:


                                                                     

Options to purchase 1,149,000 shares of common stock at prices
ranging from $21.50 to $31.00 per share were outstanding at the
end of 1997 but were not included in the computation of diluted
earnings per share because the options' exercise price was
greater than the average market price of the common shares.

(h)  Foreign Currency - Assets and liabilities in foreign
currencies are translated into dollars at rates prevailing at the
balance sheet date.  Revenues and expenses are translated at
average rates for the year.  The net exchange differences
resulting from these translations are reported in stockholders'
equity.  Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency
transactions are included in the consolidated statements of
earnings.  The net gain (loss) resulting from foreign currency
transactions was ($762,000), ($274,000), and $33,000 in 1997,
1996, and 1995, respectively.

(i)  Income Taxes - Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted
tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in
which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or
settled.

(j)  Goodwill - Excess of cost over net assets acquired
(goodwill) is being amortized on a straight-line basis over eight
years.  Accumulated amortization was $2,733,000 and $1,862,000 at
the end of 1997 and 1996, respectively.  The Company assesses the
recoverability of goodwill based on forecasted undiscounted
future operating cash flows.



(k)  Use of Estimates - The preparation of financial statements
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period.  Actual results could differ from
those estimates.

2    Cash and Investments




Substantially all receivables are derived from sales and related
support and maintenance of the Company's clinical information
systems to healthcare providers located throughout the United
States and in certain foreign countries.  Included in receivables
at the end of 1997 and 1996 are amounts due from healthcare
providers located in foreign countries of $9,950,000 and
$9,682,000, respectively.  Consolidated revenues include foreign
sales of $16,272,000, $15,874,000, and $8,823,000, during 1997,
1996, and 1995, respectively.



The Company provides an allowance for estimated uncollectible
accounts based upon historical experience and management's
judgment.  At the end of 1997 and 1996 the estimated allowance
for uncollectible accounts was $1,490,000 and $1,121,000,
respectively.

The fair value of the Company's noncurrent receivables is
estimated to be $2,130,000, based on current interest rates
offered to the Company for debt of the same maturities.

4    Property and Equipment

A summary of property, equipment, and leasehold improvements
stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization,
is as follows:



5    Indebtedness

The Company has a loan agreement with two banks that provides for
a long-term revolving line of credit for working capital
purposes.  The long-term revolving line of credit is unsecured
and requires monthly payments of interest only.  Interest is
payable at the Company's option at a rate based on prime (8.5% at
January 3, 1998) or LIBOR plus 1.75% (7.72% at January 3, 1998).
The interest rate may be reduced by up to .5% if certain net
worth ratios are maintained.  At January 3, 1998, the Company had
no outstanding borrowings under this agreement and had
$18,000,000 available for working capital purposes.  The
agreement contains certain net worth, current ratio, and fixed
charge coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on
the Company's ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets, and
pay dividends.  A commitment fee of 3/16% is payable quarterly on
the unused portion of the revolving line of credit.

The Company has $30,000,000 of Senior Notes.  The Senior Notes
are payable in five equal annual installments beginning in August
2000.  Interest is payable on February 1 and August 1 at a rate
of 8.3%.  The note agreement contains certain net worth, current
ratio, and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain
restrictions on the Company's ability to borrow, incur liens,
sell assets, and pay dividends.

The Company also has an obligation under a capital lease
agreement, which is secured by the related equipment, for $61,000
($104,000 at December 28, 1996) with interest at 8.5%, payable in
monthly installments through September 1999.

The fair value of the Company's Senior Notes is estimated to be
$30,960,000 based on the quoted market prices for similar issues
offered to the Company for debt of the same remaining maturities.




6    Interest Income and Expense




7    Stock Options

At January 3, 1998, the Company had four fixed stock option
plans.  Under Stock Option Plan B, the Company could grant to
associates options to purchase up to 5,600,000 shares of common
stock through November 30, 1993.  The options are exercisable at
the fair market value on the date of grant for a period
determined by the Board of Directors (not more than ten years
from the date granted).  The options contain restrictions as to
transferability and exercisability after termination of
employment.

Under Stock Option Plan C, the Company may grant to associates
options to purchase up to 95,000 shares of common stock through
May 18, 2003.  The options are exercisable at the fair market
value on the date of grant for a period determined by the Board
of Directors (not more than ten years from the date granted).
The options contain restrictions as to transferability and
exercisability after termination of employment.  The Company has
committed not to issue any more stock options under Stock Option
Plan C.

Under Stock Option Plan D, the Company may grant to associates,
directors, consultants, or advisors to the Company options to
purchase up to 2,600,000 shares of common stock through January
1, 2000.  The options are exercisable at a price and during a
period determined by the Stock Option Committee.  Options under
this plan currently vest over periods of up to ten years and are
exercisable for periods up to 25 years.

Under Stock Option Plan E, the Company may grant to associates
who are not officers subject to the provisions of Section 16(a)
of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, consultants, or
advisors to the Company options to purchase up to 2,000,000
shares of common stock through January 1, 2005.  The options are
exercisable at a price and during a period determined by the
Stock Option Committee.  Options under this plan currently vest
over periods of up to ten years and are exercisable for periods
of up to 25 years.

The Company has also granted 120,362 other non-qualified stock
options under separate agreements to certain third parties.
These options are exercisable at a price equal to or greater than
the fair market value on the date of grant.  These options vest
over periods of up to six years and are exercisable for periods
of up to eight years.




The Company accounts for stock options in accordance with the
provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees", and related
interpretations.  As such, compensation expense is recorded on
the date of grant only if the current market price of the
underlying stock exceeds the exercise price.  On December 31,
1995, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (FAS
123),  which permits entities to recognize as expense over the
vesting period the fair value of all stock-based awards on the
date of grant.  Alternatively, FAS 123 allows entities to
continue to apply the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 and
provide pro forma net earnings and pro forma earnings per share
disclosures for employee stock option grants made in 1995 and
future years as if the fair-value-based method defined in FAS 123
had been applied.  The Company has elected to continue to apply
the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 and provide the pro forma
disclosure provisions of FAS 123.

A combined summary of the status of the Company's four fixed
stock option plans and other stock options at the end of 1997,
1996, and 1995, and changes during these years ended is presented
below:



The following table summarizes information about fixed and other
stock options outstanding at January 3, 1998.




The per share weighted-average fair value of stock options
granted during 1997, 1996 and 1995 was $10.99, $7.89 and $17.75,
respectively,  on the date of grant using the Black Scholes
option-pricing model with the following weighted average
assumptions:





Since the Company applies APB Opinion No. 25 in accounting for
its plans, no compensation cost has been recognized for its stock
options issued to employees in the financial statements.  Had the
Company recorded compensation expense based on the fair value at
the grant date for its stock options under FAS 123, the Company's
net earnings and earnings per share on a diluted basis would have
been reduced by approximately $3,965,000 or $.12 per share in
1997, approximately $3,023,000 or $.09 per share in 1996 and
approximately $1,187,000 or $.04 per share in 1995.

Pro forma net earnings reflects only options granted since
January 1, 1995.  Therefore, the full impact of calculating
compensation expense for stock options under FAS 123 is not
reflected in the pro forma net earnings amounts presented above,
because compensation cost is reflected over the options' vesting
period of ten years for these options.  Compensation expense for
options granted prior to January 1, 1995 is not considered.

8    Income Taxes

Income taxes for the years ended 1997, 1996, and 1995, consist of
the following:



Temporary differences between the financial statement carrying
amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities that give rise to
significant portions of deferred income taxes at the end of 1997
and 1996 relate to the following:




The effective income tax rates for 1997, 1996, and 1995 were 38%,
36%, and 39%, respectively.  These effective rates differ from
the federal statutory rate of 35% as follows:



Income taxes payable are reduced by the tax benefit resulting
from disqualifying dispositions of stock acquired under the
Company's stock option plans.  The 1997, 1996, and 1995 benefits
of $521,000, $260,000, and $3,325,000, respectively, are treated
as increases to additional paid-in capital.

9    Associate Stock Purchase Retirement Plan

The Cerner Corporation Associate Stock Purchase Retirement Plan
(the Plan) is established under Section 401(k) of the Internal
Revenue Code.  All full-time associates are eligible to
participate.  Participants may elect to make pretax contributions
from 1% to 15% of compensation to the Plan, subject to annual
limitations determined by the Internal Revenue Service.
Participants may direct contributions into mutual funds, a money
market fund, or a Company stock fund.  The Company makes matching
contributions to the Plan, on behalf of participants, in an
amount equal to 20% of the participant's contribution, limited to
a maximum of $600 per participant.  The Company's expense for the
plan amounted to $761,000, $560,000, and $431,000 for 1997, 1996,
and 1995, respectively.

10   Commitments

The Company is committed under operating leases for office space
through December 2003.  Rent expense for office and warehouse
space for the Company's regional and international offices for
1997, 1996, and 1995 was $1,759,000, $1,580,000, and $1,192,000,
respectively.  Lease expense for computer equipment was $0,
$27,000, and $68,000  in 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively.
Aggregate minimum future payments (in thousands) under these
noncancelable leases are as follows:






11   Real Estate Lease Revenue

The Company leases space to unrelated parties in its Kansas City
headquarters complex under noncancelable operating leases.
Included in other revenues is rental income of $1,694,000,
$2,383,000, and $2,577,000 in 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively.
Future minimum lease revenues (in thousands) under these
noncancelable operating leases expiring through 2001 are as
follows:


                                   

12   Stockholders' Equity

At the end of 1997 and 1996, the Company had 1,000,000 shares of
authorized but unissued preferred stock, $.01 par value.

13   Quarterly Results (unaudited)



In the fourth quarter of 1997, the Company retroactively adopted
FAS No.128, "Earnings per Share".  Previously reported earnings
per share has been computed based upon the new accounting
standard.

                                                  Schedule II


                              
                              
                Independent Auditors' Report
               on Financial Statement Schedule
                              
                              
The Board of Directors
Cerner Corporation:

Under date of February 6, 1998, we reported on the
consolidated balance sheets of Cerner Corporation and
subsidiaries as of January 3, 1998 and December 28, 1996 and
the related consolidated statements of earnings,
stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the years in
the three-year period ended January 3, 1998.  These
consolidated financial statements and our report thereon are
included in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the
year 1997.  In connection with our audits of the
aforementioned consolidated financial statements, we also
have audited the related financial statement schedule as
listed under item 14(a)(2).  This financial statement
schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on this
financial statement schedule based on our audits.

In our opinion, this financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.


                                   KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

Kansas City, Missouri
February 6, 1998


