
10-K



                          UNITED STATES
               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                     Washington, D.C. 20549
                                
                            FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
                                
( X )     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF
          THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

          For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994

                               OR

(    )    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
          OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE
          REQUIRED]

          For  the  transition  period  from  _____________  
                                          to  ___________


                 Commission File Number 0-15386

                       CERNER CORPORATION
     (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

               Delaware                          43-1196944
     (State  or other jurisdiction          (I.R.S. Employer
     of incorporation or organization)      Identification Number)

                2800 Rockcreek Parkway, Suite 601
                   Kansas City, Missouri 64117
                         (816) 221-1024
  (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code;
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code)


   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                              NONE
                                
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                
             Common Stock, par value $.01 per share
                        (Title of Class)

     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.

                     Yes     X      No _____

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    [ X ]

     At March 1, 1995, there were 14,079,564 shares of
Common Stock outstanding, of which 4,079,662 shares were
owned by affiliates.  The aggregate market value of the
outstanding Common Stock of the Registrant held by
non-affiliates, based on the average of bid and asked prices
of such stock on March 1, 1995, was $479,995,296.

     Documents incorporated by reference: portions of the
Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 1995 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders are incorporated by reference in Part III
hereof.



PART I

Item 1.  Business

General

     Cerner Corporation was incorporated in Missouri in
1980.  Through a merger into a wholly-owned Delaware
subsidiary effected in June 1987, Cerner Corporation
("Cerner" or the "Company") became a Delaware corporation.
The Company's principal offices are located at 2800
Rockcreek Parkway, Kansas City, Missouri 64117, and its
telephone number is (816) 221-1024.

     Cerner designs, develops, markets, installs, and
supports health information systems for use in healthcare
organizations, including hospitals, clinics, physicians
offices, reference laboratories, HMOs as well as large
integrated delivery systems and integrated health
organizations.  Cerner's  goal is to automate the process of
managing health using information systems.  Cerner systems
are designed around its Health Network Architecture, or HNA.
HNA is not a product.  It is the strategy of combining
Cerner applications under a common architecture so that
healthcare organizations can achieve the benefits of
intrarelationship among application systems and the data
managed by those systems.

Clinical Information Systems in Healthcare

     The patient-physician relationship is still the
cornerstone of the healthcare delivery system.  It is at
this level that procedures are ordered, diagnoses are made,
and treatments are prescribed.  Information systems play an
integral role in this process as the physician relies upon
the various clinical departments to perform diagnostic
testing on a patient, monitor a patient's response to
treatment, and administer therapeutic products and
procedures to a patient. The most effective information
systems are those which are designed from the ground up to
work together as a single, comprehensive system addressing
all aspects of the clinical process, ie. are intrarelated,
as opposed to those systems that use disparate computer
applications that communicate through interfaces.

     The demand for health information systems has
increased due to cost containment, forced shortened lengths
of stay, increased focus on reducing the variance in care
processes, a shift from acute to preventive care, and case
management philosophies in the healthcare industry.  In the
past, payment methods discouraged the efficient utilization
of resources by providing reimbursement based on charges for
the procedures performed.  Patient care and financial
management information systems were designed to help
healthcare providers maximize reimbursement under these
payment methods.  However, changes in the way healthcare
providers are reimbursed have put pressure on healthcare
managers to control and reduce costs while maintaining the
quality of patient care.  Today's payment methods, including
prospective fixed-price payments (DRGs), managed care
discounts, selective-price contracts, and capitated payment
arrangements, creates incentives to reduce the cost of care
and requires providers to have a better understanding of the
actual costs associated with providing healthcare products
and services.  The Company believes that approximately 25-35
percent of a typical healthcare provider's costs are
generated in the clinical departments.  Computer automation
of these departments is critical in measuring and
controlling costs.  In addition, computer automation can
improve the accuracy of clinical information and expedite
its distribution, thereby maintaining or improving patient
care.

Recent Developments

     A fundamental shift is occurring in the delivery
of healthcare in the United States as a result of financial
pressures on healthcare providers.  During the last century,
healthcare evolved into a series of independent
organizations representing the various aspects of managing
disease (for example, tertiary care centers, community
hospitals, and independent doctors, along with pharmacies
and other ancillary support services).  As a result of
financial pressures commencing in the early 1990's, these
thousands of service providers have begun combining into
larger organizations and are beginning to create a cohesive
system from the fragmented pieces that currently exist.
This is happening through the merger of community hospitals
and the acquisition by large community hospitals of other
healthcare providers within a large geographic area.  By the
end of this century, it is clear that the number of
healthcare institutions will decrease dramatically as they
combine into much larger integrated provider networks, each
commonly referred to as an Integrated Delivery System (IDS).
Cerner believes these entities will transcend their roles as
IDSs to become integrated health organizations (IHOs), which
will assume the financial risk for the health status of a
defined population as well as responsibility for the
healthcare of the defined population.

     Clearly, this environment creates a challenge for
the healthcare providers to "manage" the care process to
achieve the best clinical and economic outcomes.  None of
these changes can be made without a major capital investment
in information technology that automates the process of
healthcare across a network of providers and facilities in a
community.  Cerner believes these changes create an
opportunity to deliver systems that provide intrarelated
information to medical professionals responsible for patient
care over a broad range of facilities.  As a result of these
consolidations in healthcare Cerner added 21 HNA clients
during 1993 and 1994.  An HNA client is a client that has
two or more Cerner systems and Cerner's ProNet Orders
Management Information System.  It is through the use of
ProNet that a Cerner client achieves the greatest
intrarelationship among Cerner systems.  A majority of HNA
clients have committed to automating a number of clinical
processes by implementing a broad suite of Cerner's HNA
systems.

     In 1994, through several "alliance agreements"
creating joint marketing arrangements, the Company extended
HNA further to deliver the breadth of applications required
to meet the emerging needs of the IHO.  These alliance
agreements were entered into with ADVANTA (managed care
systems), SDK Healthcare Information Systems (patient
financial management systems) and MEDIC Computer Systems
(medical practice management systems).

     Also during 1994, the CareNet Nursing Information
System and the Open Engine Application Gateway System became
commercially available and Cerner commenced a development
program to enable its products to operate on a client/server
computer and network environment.

Products

     The cornerstone of Cerner's information systems is
HNA, the single architecture around which each of Cerner's
systems is developed.  The value of HNA is the creation of
systems that intrarelate as opposed to being integrated.
Today, virtually all healthcare organizations are using some
form of information technology to manage their clinical,
financial, and administrative operations.  Typically, a
multitude of systems on differing technology platforms from
various suppliers are used within a single organization.
These systems rely on a series of interfaces to transmit
information to one another.  The greatest drawback to this
approach is that care providers do not have automatic access
to comprehensive patient information.  In addition, the data
collected by the disparate systems is usually maintained in
a variety of formats, diluting its usefulness.

     Cerner's systems are intrarelated, which means
they are designed around a single architecture so that they
intuitively and spontaneously share patient information.
That patient information is available concurrently to all
care providers in formats tailored to their individual,
professional preferences.  In healthcare today, the average
patient receives care from a team composed of up to 150
caregivers.  Linked only by interfaces, as opposed to
intrarelated systems, it is unlikely that even a small
percentage of the 150 caregivers will have timely access to
the most current patient information.  With intrarelated
systems, however, all caregivers are kept apprised of each
patient's condition, allowing the activities of the care
team to be carefully and efficiently orchestrated so that
the highest quality of care is delivered.

     Cerner's products can be divided into eight
categories:  care management, clinical management,
repositories, health management, member management,
administrative management, knowledge, and provider network
systems.

     The Company currently markets the following major
information systems: pathology and clinical laboratories
(PathNet); radiology (RadNet); pharmacy (PharmNet and
MSmeds); admissions/discharges, orders, scheduling and
tracking (ProNet); nursing (CareNet); various areas of
internal medicine (MedNet); Open Engine (interface engine);
common clinical data storage (Open Clinical Foundation); and
managerial data storage (Open Management Foundation); as
well as related systems for clinical decision support, such
as PowerChart, which automates the physician's practice of
medicine, and Discern Expert, a rule-based expert system.
These systems can be acquired individually or as a fully
intrarelated health information system.  The individual
systems perform together even if installed at different
times.  Cerner also markets over 200 product options that
compliment Cerner's major information systems.

     The Company's major products are as follows:

     The PathNet Laboratory Information System
addresses the information management needs of five clinical
areas:  general laboratory, microbiology, blood bank
transfusion services, blood bank donor services, and
anatomic pathology.  PathNet automates the ordering and
reporting of procedures, the production of accurate and
timely reports, and the maintenance of accessible clinical
records.  PathNet can be interfaced with automated
instruments and databases, allowing for efficient and
accurate transfer of information.  PathNet communicates this
information to patient care areas and other information
systems.  Management attributes PathNet's acceptance to its
functional capability, ease of use, and event-level cost
accounting, which allows healthcare managers to better
control costs and assess profitability.  As of December 31,
1994, PathNet has been licensed to 363 Cerner clients in the
United States and Canada, to 17 Cerner clients in the United
Kingdom, to one Cerner client in Singapore, to three Cerner
clients in Saudi Arabia, to eight Cerner clients in
Australia, to two Cerner clients in Germany, and to one
Cerner client in Scotland.  Installations were in hospitals
ranging in size from approximately 70 to 2,300 beds.

     The MedNet Internal Medicine Information System is
a family of software products that addresses the clinical
information needs of various internal medicine areas within
the health organization.  Introduced as a pulmonary
information system in 1987, MedNet's functionality now
serves the disciplines of cardiology, neuro-diagnostics,
rehabilitation services, and nutritional services, as well
as many ancillary areas.  Like PathNet, MedNet automates
procedure requests, patient and therapist scheduling, and
the processing, validation, and presentation of results.
The system provides reports on clinical activity, workload,
and billing charges by drawing from the departmental
databases.   As of December 31, 1994, MedNet has been
licensed to 20 Cerner clients in the United States and
Canada and to one Cerner client in Scotland.

     The RadNet Radiology Information System addresses
the operational and management requirements of diagnostic
radiation and radiation oncology departments.  It allows a
department to replace its manual, paper-based system of
record-keeping with an efficient computer system.  RadNet is
designed to adapt easily to current operations.  Meanwhile,
such tasks as scheduling patients, modifying orders,
tracking patients, locating films, transcribing reports,
upgrading the quality and content of reports, and reporting
on productivity are accomplished with ease and accuracy.
RadNet has been licensed to 60 Cerner clients in the United
States and Canada, three Cerner clients in the United
Kingdom, three Cerner clients in Saudi Arabia, and two
Cerner clients in Australia as of December 31, 1994.

     The PharmNet Pharmacy Information System provides
intrarelation in an HNA environment for rapid pharmacy order
entry and unique support of clinical pharmacy in either an
inpatient or outpatient setting.  PharmNet streamlines order
entry, enabling the pharmacist or technician to place all
types of pharmaceutical orders on one easy-to-use screen.
Dispensing functions also are fully automated.  Medication,
intravenous fill lists, and medication administration
records are produced automatically or on demand.  Charges
are automatically captured at the time the fill list is
generated.  Patient profiles and pharmaceutical inventories
are maintained without the intervention of the pharmacist,
saving significant time and resources.  Features are
designed to address the special needs of the clinical
pharmacy, including on-line order entry screening for
drug-drug interactions, drug-food and drug-lab
interferences, drug-disease states, intravenous
incompatibilities, dose range, and therapeutic treatment
duplication.  Clinical notes can be recorded on-line and
sent to other clinicians for comment or follow-up.  PharmNet
has been licensed to 70 Cerner clients in the United States
and Canada, three Cerner clients in Saudi Arabia, and one
Cerner client in Scotland as of December 31, 1994.

     The ProNet Orders Management Information System
addresses the needs of care providers and medical staff in
the areas of order entry, order review and/or validation,
interdepartmental/interfacility communication, and order
result inquiry and reporting.  Management and use of the
system is driven by a comprehensive security matrix.  Orders
can be placed for any ancillary department by healthcare
personnel, depending on their security level and appropriate
interfaces with non-Cerner departmental systems.  Order and
result inquiries are secured in the same manner.  ProNet
also gives care providers and medical staff access to
patient demographic, admission, transfer, and discharge
information.  These data are retained on-line for a
specified period of time, making them easy to update.
Access to patient management functions is determined by
user-defined security levels, based on personnel
credentials.  ProNet also provides functionality to help
clinicians and medical staff track patients through the
health organization, and to establish and maintain patient
appointment schedules for locations within an institution.
ProNet has been licensed to 30 Cerner clients in the United
States and Canada, one Cerner client in Scotland and one
Cerner client in Saudi Arabia as of December 31, 1994.

     The MSmeds Pharmacy Information System focuses on
automating the pharmacy department.  MSmeds was developed by
a company acquired by Cerner in 1993 and is not an HNA
product.  Designed to meet the specialized and individual
needs of the pharmacy department, MSmeds incorporates
windows, on-line help, menu and table-driven entry, a built
in system customization tool, and an application generator.
The order entry application gives the pharmacist fast order
entry capabilities with a high level of quality control.
Safeguards that ensure the integrity of patient therapy
include:  dose level checking by 36 parameters, drug
warnings, drug/drug interaction checking, and
pharmacokinetics.  Reports to assure the appropriateness of
drug therapy include: drug interaction, a list of patients
on specific drugs, drug utilization by therapeutic category,
and dose checking reports.  On-line storage on removable
disks provides full patient detail for a period of up to ten
years.  MSmeds offers the availability of full detail
patient information for drug utilization evaluation, as well
as labor and cost efficiencies.  ADT, billing, results
display, and order entry interfaces are contained within the
system.  MSmeds is currently licensed to approximately 305
clients in the Unites States, France, Puerto Rico, Saudi
Arabia, England, and Canada.

     The CareNet Nursing Information System automates
documentation related to nursing care delivery.  All
information that nursing staff members enter into CareNet is
automatically transcribed to all appropriate locations in
the patient's computer-based health record.  This includes
information obtained from the delivery of nursing care
(vital signs, assessments, medication administration, and
data automatically captured from bedside equipment and
monitoring devices).  A direct benefit of using CareNet is
more time for patient care and greater job satisfaction for
an institution's nursing staff.  CareNet also facilitates
nursing staff activities for patient care.  It can be used
to plan and organize patient care activities from admission
to discharge. CareNet has been licensed to 19 Cerner clients
in the United States and Canada, and one Cerner client in
Scotland as of December 31, 1994.

     Open Clinical Foundation Data Repository (OCF) is
a structured repository of clinical information.  OCF forms
the foundation of Cerner's computer-based patient record
functionality.  This information can originate from numerous
sources and is maintained in an easily accessible,
standardized format.  OCF is dramatically more effective
when used as part of the comprehensive HNA solution.  For
most enterprises, in which the various laboratories and
ancillaries cooperatively share data over the entire
enterprise, OCF provides an invaluable means of storing and
retrieving data.  With OCF, the amount of on-line clinical
data that are retained in departmental systems can be
dramatically reduced.  Furthermore, enterprises can scale
OCF for a particular clinical area's use and integrate it
into an architecture containing products from different
suppliers.  The interfaces to OCF are available for use by
suppliers who comply with the interface requirements.  OCF
was commercially introduced in 1993 and has been licensed to
20 Cerner clients in the United States and Canada, one
Cerner client in Scotland, and one Cerner client in
Australia as of December 31, 1994.

     PowerChart enables care providers to
electronically view, sort, annotate, and amend a patient
record so that it is organized in a manner that allows them
to navigate through the chart using patient-provider and
encounter relations.  PowerChart gives healthcare providers
structured access to the clinical information contained
electronically in OCF.  The format of the on-line patient
chart consists of pages displayed from a patient's computer-
based patient record and information electronically
transmitted from connected systems.  Clinicians are able to
browse through pages much the same as with printed
documents.  Clinicians can access documents via tables of
contents or search for terms in the document text.  The
scope of documents available is limited only by the system
interfaces to OCF.  PowerChart was commercially introduced
in 1993 and has been licensed to 24 Cerner clients in the
United States and Canada as of December 31, 1994.

     Cerner's Open Engine Application Gateway System
facilitates the exchange of data and assists in the
management of point-to-point interfaces between foreign
systems and serves as a toolkit to help clients write
interface code.  Open Engine has been licensed to four
Cerner clients in the United States as of December 31, 1994.

     All current Cerner HNA systems are designed to
operate on computers manufactured by Digital Equipment
Corporation ("Digital").  In addition, Open Engine, PathNet,
RadNet and MSmeds are available on IBM's RISC System/6000
AIX (UNIX) platform.  Over time all HNA applications will be
available on both the Digital and IBM platforms.

Software Development

     The Company expects to continue development
efforts both for its current health information systems, as
well as for future product offerings.  As new clinical and
managerial information needs emerge, Cerner intends to
enhance its current HNA-based product lines with new
versions released to clients on a periodic basis.  In
addition, Cerner plans to expand the current product lines
by developing additional information systems applicable to
the clinical departments in healthcare and facilitating
multifacility use of Cerner's HNA products.

     All Cerner systems are developed under HNA using a
proprietary development methodology.  This methodology
defines and controls each task throughout the product
development cycle and ensures that current and future
products can be fully intrarelated.  The Company believes
this approach greatly reduces the costs of maintaining and
supporting the products long-term.  By implementing a
structured approach to development and continuing to invest
in existing as well as new products, the Company plans to
develop product lines that exceed the typical software life
cycle, minimizing the need for Cerner's clients to invest in
additional software technology.

     Significant resources are dedicated to developing
new health information system products.  As of December 31,
1994, 493 associates were engaged full-time in product
development activities.  The total expenditures during the
three-year period ended December 31, 1994, for the
development and enhancement of the Company's products were
approximately $60,851,000, which includes the amounts
capitalized and excludes the amounts amortized for financial
reporting purposes, of which approximately $26,897,000 was
expended in 1994.  Cerner expects to continue making
substantial investments in product development.

     Major new products scheduled to be commercially
available in 1995 include the following:

     Open Management Foundation Data Repository (OMF)
is a structured repository for process-and activity-related
information useful for management of the healthcare
institution.  Information can originate from numerous
sources and can be maintained in an easily accessible,
standardized format.  OMF can be scaled for a particular
department's use and can be integrated into an architecture
containing products from different suppliers.

     PowerVision is a comprehensive, PC-based health
management information system used to view information in
OMF in much the same manner as PowerChart is used with OCF.
This management access tool presents summary information
through an attractive, sophisticated graphical user
interface, making key information available to all levels of
management.  PowerVision is equipped with features that
allow the user to pursue "what if" and other investigatory
("drill down") information paths.  This enables an executive
to determine the "health" of the institution in many
critical areas, as well as provides managers with a quick,
up-to-the-minute view of leading business indicators
regarding the performance of a department or care area.

     The ProNet II Provider Network System applications
will extend Cerner's process automation and information to
community-based users.  The ProNet II Communication
Management application will control connections and enforce
access privileges to functional services throughout the IDS
and the IHO.  It performs translation and routing functions
for data feeds from external systems and provides electronic
mail and multifacility-wide calendar capabilities.

     Cerner's on-line Discern Reference Library will
provide healthcare professionals with on-line assistance
from third-party reference databases at the point of
decision making.

     Scheduled for commercial release in the first half
of 1996 is Cerner's SurgiNet Surgery Information System,
which will address the needs of the surgical department,
including automating the functions of resource and equipment
scheduling, inventory management, and operating room
management and MRNet Medical Records Department Information
System, which will help meet the operations management needs
of the medical records department.  MRNet will include
functionality for the various chart tracking and completion
tasks commonly associated with maintaining medical records.

Product Strategy

     Cerner's product strategy is to expand its
information system offerings to the broad range of clinical
departments, provider networks, IDSs, and IHOs, and to
provide a database of intrarelated patient information
useful to both the practitioner and the healthcare manager.
In addition, the Company's strategy is to design its
products so that they may be easily modified or enhanced to
take advantage of changes in medical and information system
technologies.

     To effect this strategy, Cerner developed its
proprietary Health Network Architecture, which provides
the structure and common software functions necessary for
the development of its clinical information systems.  Cerner
believes that HNA allows the Company to address a wide
spectrum of clinical information needs in healthcare
provider organizations.

Sales and Marketing

     The market for Cerner clinical information system
products includes hospitals, HMOs, clinics, free-standing
reference laboratories and commercial blood bank labs, IDSs,
and IHOs.  The majority of system sales to date have been in
hospital-based provider settings.  Providers currently using
PathNet represent the primary target market for MedNet,
RadNet, PharmNet, ProNet, and CareNet.  Cerner currently
services hospitals ranging from under 50 beds to over 2,000
beds.  The modular design of Cerner's HNA products and the
range of Digital and IBM hardware products allows Cerner
systems to be price-competitive across the full range of
size and organizational structures of healthcare providers.
The sale of a health  information system usually takes
approximately nine to fifteen months from the time of
initial contact to the execution of a contract.

     The Company's executive marketing management is
located in its Kansas City, Missouri, office, while its
account representatives are strategically located and
deployed through regional offices across the United States.
The Company, through subsidiaries, has offices and sales
staff in the United Kingdom, Australia, Germany, and has a
joint venture in Saudi Arabia.  The Company supports its
sales force with technical personnel who perform
demonstrations of Cerner's products and assist clients in
determining the proper hardware and software configurations.
The Company has developed a unique and effective
demonstration and presentation facility at its headquarters
in Kansas City, Missouri, called the Cerner Vision Center.
This facility enables the Company to actually demonstrate
the processes automated through HNA and adapt the
presentations to the client's environment.  The Company's
primary direct marketing strategy is to generate sales
contacts through presentations at industry seminars and
trade shows.  Cerner attends a number of major trade shows
each year and has begun to sponsor executive conferences,
which feature industry experts who address the information
system needs of IHOs.

Client Service

     The Company provides immediate and long-term
client  service and support.  Initial service consists of
education and installation services, documentation, and
training for the clinical staff.  The Company has regional
offices in Atlanta, Boston, Dallas, Detroit, Kansas City,
Los Angeles, Seattle, and Washington, D.C.  Each regional
office is focused on long-term project management and client
satisfaction for a group of clients within a specific
geographical region.

     All of Cerner's clients enter into software
maintenance agreements with Cerner for support of their
Cerner systems.  In addition to immediate software support
in the event of problems, these agreements allow these
clients the use of new releases of the Cerner products
covered by these agreements.  Each client has 24 hour access
to the client support staff located at Cerner's corporate
headquarters.  Most of Cerner's clients also enter into
hardware maintenance agreements with Cerner.  These
arrangements normally provide for a fixed monthly fee for
specified services.  In the majority of cases, Cerner
subcontracts hardware maintenance to the hardware
manufacturer.  At December 31, 1994, Cerner had a software
support and hardware maintenance backlog of approximately
$77,222,000 on an annual basis.  The annualized value of 
support and maintenance currently being billed is approximately
$46,000,000.  The value of amounts to be billed in the current
year for projects not complete at the beginning of the year
is estimated to be $9,000,000.

Clients and Backlog

     As of December 31, 1994, Cerner has issued
end-user licenses for the installation of its products to
approximately 715 clients representing 1,028 sites.
Cerner's clients are located throughout the United States
and in Canada, Germany, Puerto Rico, Saudi Arabia, the
United Kingdom, France, Australia, and Singapore.  Clients
include hospitals, clinics, reference laboratories, hybrid
reference laboratories and free-standing blood centers.  In
1994, sales to a single client did not comprise more than
10% of the Company's revenues.  Continuing hardware and
software support revenues from any one client  do not
constitute a material part of the Company's annual revenues,
and the loss of any one client would not have a material
adverse impact on the Company.

     As of December 31, 1994, the Company had
approximately $134,770,000 in its backlog, compared to
approximately $99,524,000 in its backlog as of December 31,
1993.  Approximately 76% of the December 31, 1994 backlog is
expected to be included in revenues in fiscal 1995.  Backlog
consists only of signed contracts (including all computer
equipment and software, as well as equipment maintenance and
software support for twelve months, that are part of those
contracts) that are not yet recorded as revenue.
Approximately $57,547,000 of the Company's December 31,
1994, backlog consists of computer equipment and software
that are part of such contracts.  The remaining backlog
represents twelve months' equipment maintenance and software
support on all existing Cerner contracts.

Competition

     The market for clinical information systems is
highly competitive.  The Company believes that the principal
competitive factors in this market are the company's
stability, features and capabilities of the information
systems, the user's evaluation of the ongoing support for
the system, and the potential for enhancements and future
compatible products.  The Company's departmental clinical
systems competition at this time is from companies that
primarily offer information systems applicable to a specific
clinical discipline.  There also are multiproduct healthcare
information systems companies that offer clinical
information system products that are becoming more
competitive.  The Company faces additional competitors in
the nursing,  order communications systems and electronic
medical records markets from the multiproduct healthcare
information systems companies.  Cerner's principal
competitors include HBO Corporation, Shared Medical Systems,
Meditech, First Data Corporation, Sunquest, Continental
Healthcare, Compucare, and Phamis.  The rapidly changing
structure of the healthcare industry in the United States
and its need for clinical information systems is likely to
attract new competitors into the market, some of which may
have significantly greater resources than the Company

Relationships with Key Suppliers

     Cerner's current products are designed to operate
on computers manufactured by Digital and IBM, and the
Company has value-added reseller agreements that expire
annually with both Digital and IBM.  These agreements are
typically renewed in the ordinary course of business, and
the Company has no reason to believe that they will not be
renewed.  In addition, Cerner purchases a variety of
peripheral equipment and sublicensed software from several
sources, none of which is a significant supplier to the
Company.  The Company also has a multiyear contract with
Oracle Systems for use of its relational database software.
The Company's work-station based products operate on the
Microsoft Windows environment.

     In addition to its software products, the Company
sells the computer equipment, including central processing
units, personal computers, operating system software, disk
drives, video display terminals, workstations, and printers,
that operate in connection with such products.  Although
clients could deal directly with a manufacturer or with
another distributor of such equipment, clients have
generally found it advantageous to deal with the Company as
a single source for both hardware and software.

     All of the Company's sales during 1994 used
Digital's Alpha and VAX lines of hardware using the OpenVMS
operating system or IBM's RISC System/6000 processor with
AIX/6000 (UNIX).

Product Protection

     The Company relies on a combination of trade
secret, copyright, and trademark laws, contractual
provisions, and technical measures to protect its rights in
its software technology.  The Company has not filed any
patent applications or copyrights covering its software
technology.  Due to the nature of the software, the Company
believes that patent, trade secret, and copyright protection
are less significant than the Company's ability to further
develop, enhance, and modify its products.

Government Regulation and Healthcare Reform

     The United States Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) has promulgated a policy for the regulation of certain
computer products as medical devices under the 1976 Medical
Device Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act
and the Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990.  To the extent
that computer software is a medical device under the policy,
the manufacturers of such products could be required,
depending on the product, to (a) register and list their
products with the FDA, (b) notify FDA and demonstrate
substantial equivalence to other products on the market
before marketing such products, (c) obtain FDA approval by
demonstrating safety and effectiveness before marketing a
product, or (d) communicate Medical Device Reports in
instances where a device is thought to have contributed to
personal injury or death.  In addition, those products would
be subject to such act's general controls, including those
relating to good manufacturing practices and adverse
experience reporting.  Considering the policies that FDA has
promulgated to-date concerning these matters, it is evident
that FDA intends to be increasingly active in the regulation
of computer software intended for use in clinical settings,
especially bloodbank transfusion and donor centers.  The
FDA, if it chooses to regulate such software, can impose
extensive requirements governing pre- and post-market
conditions, such as device investigation, approval, labeling
and manufacturing.

     The healthcare industry is subject to extensive
federal and state regulation governing, among other things,
addition of new services, certain capital expenditures and
reimbursement.  The effect of future legislation and
regulation upon prospective clients may, in certain
circumstances, have an adverse effect upon the Company's
business.  On the other hand, changes in the regulatory
environment have increased and may continue to increase the
needs of healthcare organizations for cost-effective data
management and thereby enhance the marketability of the
Company's products.  The Company believes there can be no
meaningful predictions as to the impact, if any, of future
legislation and regulation on its business.

     Most industry observers believe that the United
States Congress will not pass any form of significant
healthcare reform during 1995.  Although the effects of
state and federal initiatives for healthcare reform are
unknown at this time, the Company believes that
notwithstanding such reform competitive factors in the
healthcare industry will force healthcare providers to
continue to invest heavily in clinical information systems.

Personnel

     At December 31, 1994, the Company employed 1,091
persons of which 493 were in product development, 498 in
client service and support and sales and marketing and 100
in general management and administration.  The Company's
future success will depend in part upon its continued
ability to attract and retain qualified employees.  The
Company's employees are not represented by a labor union and
Cerner believes its relations with its employees are
excellent.

Quarterly Results

     The Company's quarterly revenues and net earnings
have historically been variable and cyclical.  The
variability is attributable primarily to the number and size
of system contracts for which revenue is recognized in any
fiscal quarter.  The Company expects the fluctuation in
quarterly financial results to continue until the
combination of the Company's recurring software and hardware
maintenance revenues and total sales are much larger as
compared to the size of the average system sale.

Item 2.  Properties

     During April, 1995 the Company purchased the
Rockcreek Office Park in North Kansas City, Missouri for
$20,000,000.  Prior to that date, the Company leased
approximately 165,000 of the office park's 409,000 square
feet of usable feet.  The Company's principle offices have
been located in the office park for approximately 15 years
and the Company had been leasing additional space as it
became available.  After investigating other possibilities,
the Company determined that purchasing the office park was
the most cost effective option considering the Company's
anticipated future needs for additional space.  As of
December 31, 1994, the Company was using approximately
222,000 square feet and substantially all of the remainder
was leased to tenants.  The Company has commenced
construction of a combination child care and exercise
facility at the office park for the use of the Company's
employees.  The Company believes that its employees are its
most important asset and that this facility will enable the
Company to attract and retain it's relatively young work
force which contains a large number of married women.  The
Company also leases offices space for its branch offices in
Atlanta, Boston, Dallas, Detroit, Los Angeles, Seattle and
Washington D.C.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

     The Company is not involved in any material pending litigation.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

     No matters were submitted to a vote of the
stockholders of the Company during the fourth quarter of the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.

Item 4A.  Executive Officers of the Company

     The following table sets forth the names, ages,
positions and certain other information regarding the
Company's executive officers as of March 1, 1995.  Officers
are elected annually and serve at the discretion of the
board of directors.

Name                        Age        Positions
----                        ---        ---------
Neal L. Patterson            45        Chairman of the Board of Directors and
                                       Chief Executive Officer

Clifford W. Illig            44        President,
                                       Chief Operating Officer and Director

Charles S. Runnion, III      47        Executive Vice President,
                                       Area General Manager and Director

David M. Margulies, M.D.     43        Executive Vice President
                                       of Product Engineering and Director

Jeffrey C. Reene             40        Executive Vice President and 
                                       Area General Manager
 
P. Michael Breedlove         50        Group Vice President and 
                                       Area General Manager

Alan D. Dietrich             32        Group Vice President and 
                                       Area General Manager

Charles O. Whitcraft         43        Group Vice President of
                                       of Product Engineering
 
Gary W. Willett              50        Group Vice President and 
                                       Chief Operating Officer of 
                                       Cerner International

     Neal L. Patterson was President, Chairman of the
Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the
Company from its incorporation to May 1987.  Since May 1987
he has been Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company.  Mr. Patterson has served
as a director of Home Office Reference Laboratory since
August 1988.

     Clifford W. Illig was Executive Vice President,
Secretary, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer and a
Director of the Company from its incorporation to May 1987.
From May 1987 to May 1993, he was a Director, President,
Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the
Company.  Since May 1993, he has been a Director, President
and Chief Operating Officer.

     Charles S. Runnion, III joined the Company in July
1989 and since that date has been an Executive Vice
President and Director of the Company.  Prior to working at
the Company, he spent fourteen years with the IBM
Corporation in a variety of marketing and management
positions.

     David M. Margulies, M.D. joined the Company in
February 1991 and since that date has been an Executive Vice
President of the Company.  Prior to joining the Company, for
four years, he was Vice President in charge of information
systems at Children's Hospital, a healthcare institution
located in Boston, Massachusetts.  During this time Dr.
Margulies also was the Director of the Program in Medical
Information Sciences at Harvard Medical School.  Dr.
Margulies has served as a Director of the Company since May
1991.

     Jeffrey C. Reene joined the Company in September
1991 as Group Vice President of Client Services.  He was
promoted to Executive Vice President in June of 1994.  Prior
to joining the Company, he was with Andersen Consulting from
July 1978 to August 1991, being a Partner with Andersen
Consulting since September, 1988.

     P. Michael Breedlove joined the Company as
National Sales Manager in May 1984 and has held various
executive positions with the Company since then.

     Alan D. Dietrich joined the Company in 1990 as
Director of Business, Planning and Development.  Prior to
joining the Company, he spent seven years with IBM
Corporation.

     Charles O. Whitcraft joined the Company as Vice
President of Technology in January 1984.  Since that time he
has served in several executive positions dealing with
technology and engineering.

     Gary W. Willett joined the Company in April 1990
as Group Vice President of Client Services and has served in
various executive capacities.  Prior to joining the Company,
he spent twenty-one years with IBM Corporation in a variety
of marketing and management positions.



PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and
         Related Security Holder Matters

     The Company's common stock is traded in the over-
the-counter market and is quoted through the NASDAQ National
Market System under the symbol CERN.  The following table
sets forth the high and low, and last sales prices for the
fiscal quarters of 1994 and 1993 as reported by the NASDAQ
National Market System.  These quotations represent prices
between dealers and do not include retail mark-up, mark-
down, or commissions, and do not necessarily represent
actual transactions.



     At February 10, 1995, there were approximately
1,036 owners of record.  To date, the Company has paid no
dividends and it does not intend to pay dividends in the
foreseeable future.  Management believes it is in the
stockholders' best interest to reinvest funds in the
operation of the business.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data



Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
         Results of Operations

     For a more thorough understanding of management's
analysis of results of operations and financial condition,
the following discussion should be read in conjunction with
the discussion of the Company's business operations.

Results of Operations - The Company's revenues increased
from $101,145,000 in 1992, to $120,572,000 (19%) in 1993, to
$155,917,000 (29%) in 1994.  Net earnings increased from
$9,932,000 in 1992, to $14,558,000 (47%) in 1993, to
$19,501,000 (34%) in 1994.

Revenues - In 1994, revenues increased due to an increase in
system sales and support of installed systems.  System sales
increased from $71,586,000 in 1992, to $84,024,000 (17%) in
1993, to $108,322,000 (29%) in 1994.  The lower percentage
increase in 1993 is due primarily to the 1993 sales having a
larger software component.  A significant amount of the
1994, 1993, and 1992 system sales revenue was in the backlog
at the beginning of each year, including portions of HNA
contracts that had been signed in prior years.  An HNA
contract is an initial contract that includes the Company's
ProNet Order Management product and at least two other
clinical systems, or a contract that brings an existing
client to this level.  ProNet Order Management gives clients
access to the full intrarelationship of the Company's
products.  The sale of additional hardware and software
products to the installed client base increased 40% in 1994,
9% in 1993, and 52% in 1992.

     The Company has seen a significant increase in the
number of clients who have purchased two or more clinical
system units on their initial contract, or clients from the
installed base who purchase one or more system units
subsequent to their initial contract.  Total sales to the
installed base in 1994, including new systems, incremental
hardware and software, and recurring and discrete services,
were 73% of total revenues in 1994, compared to 63% in 1993
and 51% in 1992.

     The HNA contracts signed in 1994 and prior years
will contribute significantly to future revenues and margin
due to the increasing size of the individual contracts and
the commensurate increase in project timeframes.  At the end
of 1994, the Company had $57.5 million in contract backlog
and $77.2 million in support backlog, compared to $42.2
million in contract backlog and $57.3 in support backlog at
the end of 1993.

     The Company entered the overseas market in 1991.
During 1993, the Company completed installations begun in
1992 and expanded its presence in this market with
additional signed contracts.  During 1994, the Company
generated revenues from systems sold and supported in
England, Australia, Scotland, Germany, and Saudi Arabia.
The increase in these revenues and margins from 1992 to 1993
was 37% and 61%, respectively, and from 1993 to 1994 was 41%
and 48%, respectively.

     Support and maintenance revenues increased 24% in
1994, 25% in 1993, and 28% in 1992.  These revenues
represented 27% of 1994 total revenues, 28% of 1993 total
revenues, and 26% of 1992 total revenues.  The number of
clients converted and paying monthly software support fees
was 581 at the end of 1994, compared to 527 at the end of
1993 and 264 at the end of 1992.  The numbers for 1994 and
1993 include clients of Megasource, Inc., which the Company
acquired on November 1, 1993.  The average support fee for
the Megasource clients is significantly lower than the
average support fee for the Company's other clients.  The
number of clients installed and paying monthly hardware
maintenance fees was 290 at the end of 1994, compared to 275
at the end of 1993 and 234 at the end of 1992.

     Other revenues have increased from $2,895,000 in
1992, to $3,348,000 (16%) in 1993, to $6,273,000 (87%) in
1994.  This increase is due primarily to real estate lease
revenues from unrelated parties and international
activities.

Cost of Revenues - The cost of revenues includes the cost of
computer hardware and sublicensed software purchased from
computer and software manufacturers for client contracts.
It also includes the cost of hardware maintenance and
sublicensed software support subcontracted to the
manufacturers.  The cost of revenues was 30% of total
revenues in 1994, 36% of total revenues in 1993, and 44% in
1992.  The percentage of costs relative to revenues
typically has varied as the mix of revenue (software,
hardware, and support) components carrying different margin
rates changes from period to period.  The percentages for
1994 and 1993 were affected positively because of three
factors.  First, system sales reflect an increase of multi-
Net projects, which carry a lower cost percentage.  Second,
the cost of support and maintenance decreased as more
systems were converted and the client began paying support.
Third, the incremental hardware and software sold to
existing clients had a larger software component.

Sales and Client Service -  Sales and client service costs
include salaries of client service personnel, communications
expenses, and unreimbursed travel expenses.  Also included
are sales and marketing salaries, travel expenses, tradeshow
costs, and advertising costs.  These expenses as a percent
of total revenues were 26%, 23%, and 20% in 1994, 1993, and
1992, respectively.  Increases in total sales and client
service expenses are attributable to the cost of a larger
field sales and services organization, marketing of new
products, and international marketing initiatives.

Software Development - Software development expenses include
salaries, documentation, and other direct expenses incurred
in product development and amortization of software
development costs.  Total expenditures for software
development, including both capitalized and noncapitalized
portions, for 1994, 1993, and 1992 were $26,897,000,
$19,432,000, and $14,522,000, respectively.  These amounts
exclude amortization.  Capitalized software costs were
$8,131,000, $6,181,000, and $4,098,000 for 1994, 1993, and
1992, respectively.  The increase in aggregate expenditures
for software development in 1994 is due to development of
more clinical information system products to complement the
existing product line.  The percentage of costs capitalized
should remain fairly constant as the Company continues to
develop new products.

General and Administrative - General and administrative
expenses include salaries for corporate, financial, and
administrative staffs, utilities, communications expenses,
and professional fees.  These expenses as a percent of total
revenues were 8%, 7%, and 7% for 1994, 1993, and 1992,
respectively.

Interest Expense - Net interest expense was considerably
higher in 1994 than 1993 and 1992.  This increase in
interest expense is due to financing the $20,000,000
purchase of the Company's headquarters complex.  The
financing initially consisted of a term loan for
$17,425,000, with the remainder provided by additional
borrowing under the Company's revolving line of credit.  On
July 19, 1994, the Company issued $30,000,000 in Senior
Notes bearing an interest rate of 8.3%.  The proceeds of the
Senior Notes were used to repay the term loan and reduce the
outstanding borrowings under the revolving line of credit.
The remaining proceeds will be used for capital improvements
to the headquarters complex.  The higher interest expense is
offset by a reduction in the Company's rent expense and an
increase in lease revenues from unrelated parties.

Income Taxes - The Company's effective tax rates were 40%,
40%, and 39% for 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively, which
are not significantly different from the combined federal
and state statutory rates.

Quarterly Results - The Company's quarterly revenues and net
earnings historically have been variable and cyclical.  The
variability is attributable primarily to the number and size
of project milestone events in any fiscal quarter.  The
Company expects the fluctuation in quarterly financial
results to continue.

Capital Resources and Liquidity - The Company's liquidity
position remains strong, with total cash and cash
equivalents of $15,305,000 at December 31, 1994, and working
capital of $52,370,000, compared to cash and cash
equivalents of $16,784,000 at December 31, 1993, and working
capital of $42,603,000.  The Company finances its
operations, capital expenditures (other than the purchase of
its Kansas City headquarters complex and its anticipated
capital improvements), and working capital needs from
internally generated funds and bank borrowings.  The Company
has an $18,000,000 long-term, revolving line of credit.  At
December 31, 1994, there were no borrowings on the revolving
line of credit.

     On April 19, 1994, the Company purchased its
Kansas City headquarters complex for $20,000,000.  The
purchase was initially funded by bank borrowings.  The
purchase has no material effect on operating cash flow,
since the reduction in lease payments and increase in net
rental income approximates the debt service payments.  The
Company anticipates investing an additional $6,000,000 to
$8,000,000 for the construction of a building and other
improvements.

     On July 29, 1994, the Company issued $30,000,000
of Senior Notes, due in 2004.  The proceeds were used to
repay the bank borrowings related to the purchase of the
Company's headquarters complex and retire existing debt.
The interest is paid semiannually; principal is due in five
equal installments beginning in 2000.

     The Company generated cash of $18,949,000,
$15,856,000, and $13,875,000, from operations in 1994, 1993,
and 1992, respectively.  Cash flow from operations has
increased primarily because of the increase in net earnings.

     Revenues provided under support and maintenance
agreements of the Company represent recurring cash flows.
Support and maintenance revenues increased 24%, 25%, and 28%
in 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively, and the Company
expects these revenues to continue to grow as the base of
installed systems grows.

     The Company believes its present cash and cash
equivalent position, together with cash generated from
operations and the current bank borrowing facility, will be
sufficient to meet anticipated cash requirements.

Inflation -  The effects of inflation were minimal on the
Company's business.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     The Financial Statements and Notes required by
this Item are submitted as a separate part of this report.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting 
         and Financial Disclosure

          None.



PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in
connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held on May 16, 1995, contains under the caption "Election
of Directors" certain information required by Item 10 of
Form 10-K and such information is incorporated herein by
this reference.  The information required by Item 10 of Form
10-K as to executive officers is set forth in Item 4A of
Part I hereof.

     The Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in
connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held on May 16, 1995, contains under the caption "Compliance
with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934"
certain information required by Item 10 of Form 10-K and
such information is incorporated herein by this reference.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

     The Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in
connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held on May 16, 1995, contains under the caption "Executive
Compensation" the information required by Item 11 of Form 10-
K and such information is incorporated herein by this
reference (except that the information set forth under the
following sub captions is expressly excluded from such
incorporation:  "Executive Compensation and Stock Option
Committee Report" and "Company Performance").

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
          and Management

     The Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in
connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held on May 16, 1995, contains under the caption "Voting
Securities and Principal Holders Thereof" the information
required by Item 12 of Form 10-K and such information is
incorporated herein by this reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

     The Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in
connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held on May 16, 1995, contains under the caption "Certain
Transactions" the information required by Item 13 of Form 10-
K and such information is incorporated herein by this
reference.



PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and
          Reports on Form 8-K

     (a)  Financial Statements.

          (1)  Consolidated Financial Statements:

               Independent Auditors' Report on Consolidated
               Financial Statements

               Consolidated Balance Sheets -
               December 31, 1994 and December 31, 1993

               Consolidated Statements of Earnings -
               Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992

               Consolidated Statements of Stockholders'
               Equity - Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993,
               and 1992

               Consolidated Statements of Cash
               Flows - Years Ended December 31, 1994,
               1993, and 1992

               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

          (2)  The following financial statement,
               schedule and independent auditors' report
               on financial statement schedule of the
               Registrant for the three-year period ended
               December 31, 1994 are included herein:

               Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts,

               Independent Auditors' Report on Consolidated
               Financial Statement Schedule.
          
     All other schedules are omitted, as the required
information is inapplicable or the information is presented
in the consolidated financial statements or related notes.

                    (3)  The exhibits required to be filed
               by this item are set forth below:

Number        Description
------        -----------

3(a)          Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as
              amended through December 31, 1993, (filed as
              Exhibit 3(a) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 and
              hereby incorporated by reference).

 3(b)         Bylaws, as amended (filed as Exhibit 4(a) to
              Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              year ended December 31, 1990, and hereby
              incorporated by reference).

 4(a)         Reference is made to the Restated Certificate
              of Incorporation and Bylaws of Registrant
              described above under 3(a) and 3(b), respectively.

 4(b)         Specimen stock certificate (filed as Exhibit
              4(a) to Registrant's Registration Statement on
              Form S-8 (File No. 33-15156) and hereby
              incorporated herein by reference).

 4(c)         Note Agreement between Cerner Corporation,
              Principal Mutual Life Insurance Company,  and
              Principal National Life Insurance Company dated
              July 1, 1994, (filed as Exhibit 10(a) to
              Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
              quarter ended September 30, 1994, and hereby
              incorporated by reference.

 4(d)         Credit Agreement between Cerner Corporation,
              Cerner Properties, Inc. Mark Twain Kansas Bank,
              and Harris Trust & Savings Bank dated April 18,
              1994, (filed as Exhibit 10(b) to Registrant's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
              ended June 30, 1994, and hereby incorporated by
              reference.

10(a)         Employment Agreement, dated January 1, 1990,
              between Clifford W. Illig and Registrant (filed as
              an Exhibit to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990, and
              hereby incorporated herein by reference).*

10(b)         Employment Agreement, dated January 1, 1990,
              between Neal L. Patterson and Registrant (filed as
              an Exhibit to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990, and
              hereby incorporated herein by reference).*

10(c)         Standard Volume Agreement, dated July 6,
              1989, between Digital Equipment Corporation and
              Registrant (filed as Exhibit 10(g) to Registrant's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 31, 1989, and hereby incorporated herein
              by reference).

10(d)         Incentive Stock Option Plan C of Registrant
              (filed as Exhibit 10(f) to Registrant's Annual
              Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
              31, 1993, and hereby incorporated herein by reference).*

10(e)         Indemnification Agreement, dated as of June
              1, 1987, between Clifford W. Illig and Registrant
              (filed as Exhibit 10(j) to Registrant's Annual
              Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
              31, 1987, and hereby incorporated herein by reference).

10(f)         Amended Nonqualified Stock Option Plan of
              Registrant (filed as Exhibit 4(d) to Registrant's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
              ended June 30, 1994, and hereby incorporated
              herein by reference).

10(g)         Employment Agreement dated February 22, 1991,
              between Cerner Corporation and David M. Margulies,
              M.D. (filed as Exhibit 10(1) to Registrant's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 31, 1991, and hereby incorporated herein
              by reference).*

10(h)         Incentive Stock Option Agreement
              (Non-Standard Vesting) dated February 22, 1991,
              between Cerner Corporation and David M. Margulies,
              M.D. (filed as Exhibit 10(m) to Registrant's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 31, 1991, and hereby incorporated herein
              by reference).*

10(i)         Stock Option Agreement
              (Non-Qualified-Milestone) dated February 22, 1991,
              between Cerner Corporation and David M. Margulies,
              M.D. (filed as Exhibit 10(n) to Registrant's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 31, 1991, and hereby incorporated herein
              by reference).*

10(j)         Cerner East Deferred Payout Plan dated March 7,
              1991, for the benefit David M. Margulies, M.D.
              and Edwin D. Trautman (filed as Exhibit 10(o) to
              Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              year ended December 31, 1991, and hereby
              incorporated herein by reference).*

10(k)         Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement dated
              February 19, 1991, between Cerner Corporation and
              David J. Hart (filed as Exhibit 10(q) to
              Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              year ended December 31, 1991, and hereby
              incorporated herein by reference).*

10(l)         Stock Option Agreement dated May 15, 1990,
              between Cerner Corporation and Gerald E. Bisbee,
              Jr. (filed as Exhibit 10(r) to Registrant's Annual
              Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
              1991, and hereby incorporated herein by reference).*

10(m)         Stock Option Agreement dated May 15, 1990,
              between Cerner Corporation and Thomas C. Tinstman
              (filed as Exhibit 10(s) to Registrant's Annual
              Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
              1991, and hereby incorporated herein by reference).*

10(n)         Cerner Performance Plan for 1993 (filed as
              Exhibit 10(v) to Registrant's Annual Report on
              Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993,
              and hereby incorporated herein by reference).*

10(o)         Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement dated July 20, 
              1994, between the Registrant and Alan E. Dietrich.*

10(p)         Incentive Stock Option Agreement dated September 12, 
              1990, between the Registrant and Alan E. Dietrich.*

10(q)         Incentive Stock Option Agreement dated August 22, 
              1991, between the Registrant and Jeffrey C. Reene.*

10(r)         Incentive Stock Option Agreement dated May 15, 
              1990, between the Registrant and Gary W. Willett.*

10(s)         Incentive Stock Option Agreement dated February 27, 
              1985, between the Registrant and Charles O. Whitcraft.*

10(t)         Incentive Stock Option Agreement dated May 15, 
              1990, between the Registrant and Charles O. Whitcraft.*

10(u)         Cerner Performance Plan for 1994.*

10(v)         Real Estate Sales Contract dated April 18, 1994, 
              between Northtown Devco and Cerner Corporation (filed 
              as Exhibit 10(c) to Registrant's Quarterly Report on 
              Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994, and 
              hereby incorporated herein by reference).

10(w)(i)      Standard Form of Agreement between Owner and
              Contractor dated September 1, 1994, between Cerner
              Properties, Inc. and J. E. Dunn Construction Company.

10(w)(ii)     Supplement to General Conditions of the Contractor
              for Construction dated September 1, 1994, between Cerner
              Properties, Inc. and J. E. Dunn Construction Company.

10(w)(iii)    Amendment No. 1 to the Agreement dated October 24, 1994, 
              between Cerner Properties, Inc. and J. E. Dunn Construction 
              Company.

10(x)         Standard Form of Agreement Between Owner and Architect 
              dated April 29, 1994, between Cerner Properties, Inc. 
              and The Hollis & Miller Group,Inc.

11            Computation of Registrant's Earnings Per Share.

22            Subsidiaries of Registrant.

23            Consent of Independent Auditors.

27            Financial Data Schedule.

* Management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements 
  required to be identified by Item 14(a)(3).

     (b)  Reports on Form 8-K.

     No reports on Form 8-K were filed by Registrant
during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended December
31, 1994.

     (c)  Exhibits.

     The response to this portion of Item 14 is
submitted as a separate section of this report.

     (d)  Financial Statement Schedules.

     The response to this portion of Item 14 is
submitted as a separate section of this report.


                           SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                       CERNER CORPORATION


Dated: March 29, 1995        By:/s/ Neal L. Patterson
                                    Neal L. Patterson
                                    Chairman of the Board and
                                    Chief Executive Officer


     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of 
the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

          Signature and Title                          Date
          -------------------                          ----


/s/Neal L. Patterson                              March  29, 1995
Neal L. Patterson, Chairman of the Board
  and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)



/s/Clifford W. Illig                              March  29, 1995
Clifford W. Illig, President, Chief
  Operating Officer and Director



/s/Maureen M. Evans                               March  29, 1995
Maureen M. Evans, Principal Financial
  and Accounting Officer



/s/David M. Margulies, M.D.                       March  29, 1995
David M. Margulies, M.D., Director



/s/Gerald E. Bisbee, Jr.                          March  29, 1995
Gerald E. Bisbee, Jr., Director



/s/Charles S. Runnion, III                        March  29, 1995
Charles S. Runnion, III, Director



/s/Thomas C. Tinstsman, M.D.                      March  29, 1995
Thomas C. Tinstman, M.D., Director



/s/David J. Hart                                  March  29, 1995
David J. Hart, Director



The Board of Directors and Stockholders Cerner Corporation:



     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets
of Cerner Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31,
1994 and 1993, and the related consolidated statements of
earnings, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of
the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1994.
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility 
of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express 
an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on 
our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards.  Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide
a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of Cerner Corporation and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1994,
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.



KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

Kansas City, Missouri
February 10, 1995



Managements Report
-----------------------------------------------------------------

     The management of Cerner Corporation is responsible for the
consolidated financial statements and all other information
presented in this report.  The financial statements have
been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting 
principles appropriate in the circumstances, and, therefore, 
included in the financial statements are certain amounts based on 
management's informed estimates and judgments.  Other financial 
information in this report is consistent with that in the 
consolidated financial statements.  The consolidated financial 
statements have been audited by Cerner Corporation's independent 
certified public accountants and have been reviewed by the audit 
committee of the Board of Directors.















Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

1    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

(a)  Principles of Consolidation - The consolidated
financial statements include the accounts of Cerner
Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.  All
significant intercompany transactions and balances have been
eliminated in consolidation.

(b)  Revenue Recognition - Revenues are derived primarily
from the sale of clinical information systems.  In addition,
revenue is generated from servicing installed clinical
information systems, which generally include support of
software and maintenance of hardware.  The Company also
derives revenue from the sale of computer hardware.

Clinical information system sales contracts are negotiated
separately and generally include the licensing of the
Company's clinical information system software and the sale
of computer hardware.  Clinical information system sales
contracts are noncancelable and provide for a right of
return only in the event the system fails to meet the
performance criteria set forth in the contracts.  The
Company recognizes revenue from sales of clinical
information systems using a percentage-of-completion method
based on meeting key milestone events over the term of the
contracts in accordance with Statement of Position 91-1,
"Software Revenue Recognition."

Revenue from the licensing of additional software is
recognized upon installation at the client's site.  Revenue
from the sale of computer hardware is recognized upon
shipment.  Revenue from ongoing software support and
equipment maintenance is recognized as the services are
rendered.

(c)  Software Development Costs - Costs incurred internally
in creating computer software products are expensed until
technological feasibility has been established upon
completion of a detail program design.  Thereafter, all
software development costs are capitalized and subsequently
reported at the lower of amortized cost or net realizable
value.  Capitalized costs are amortized based on current and
future revenue for each product with minimum annual
amortization equal to the straight-line amortization over
the estimated economic life of the product.  The Company is
amortizing capitalized costs on a straight-line basis over
five years.  During the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993,
and 1992, the Company capitalized $8,131,000, $6,181,000,
and $4,098,000, respectively, of total software development
costs of $26,897,000, $19,432,000, and $14,522,000,
respectively.  Amortization expense of capitalized software
development costs for the years ended December 31, 1994,
1993, and 1992, was $3,918,000, $2,652,000, and $2,538,000,
respectively, and accumulated amortization was $13,854,000,
$9,936,000, and $7,284,000, respectively.

(d)  Inventory - Inventory consists primarily of computer
hardware held for resale and is recorded at the lower of
cost (first-in, first-out) or market.

(e)  Property and Equipment - Property, equipment, and
leasehold improvements are stated at cost.  Depreciation of
property and equipment is computed using the straight-line
method over periods of 5 to 39 years.  Amortization of
leasehold improvements is computed using a straight-line
method over the lease terms, which range from periods of two
to five years.

(f)  Earnings Per Share - Earnings per share is based on the
weighted average number of common shares and common share
equivalents outstanding.  Common share equivalents consist
of shares issuable upon exercise of stock options using the
treasury stock method.  The computation of fully diluted
earnings per share reflects additional dilution under the
treasury stock method when the Company's stock price at the
end of a reporting period exceeds the average price.  Fully
diluted earnings per share is not materially different from
primary earnings per share.  Weighted average shares
outstanding utilized in the computation of primary earnings
per share were 14,881,104, 14,579,178, and 14,340,408, and
fully diluted earnings per share were 14,903,752,
14,642,899, and 14,506,958, for the years ended December 31,
1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.

(g)  Foreign Currency - Assets and liabilities in foreign
currencies are translated into dollars at rates prevailing
at the balance sheet date.  Revenues and expenses are
translated at average rates for the year.  The net exchange
differences resulting from these translations are reported
in stockholders' equity.  Gains and losses resulting from
foreign currency transactions are included in the
consolidated statements of earnings.  The net gain (loss)
resulting from foreign currency transactions was $107,000,
($83,000), and ($180,000),  in 1994, 1993, and 1992,
respectively.

(h)  Income Taxes - The Company accounts for income taxes
using the asset and liability method pursuant to Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for
Income Taxes."  Under the asset and liability method,
deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the
future tax consequences attributable to differences between
the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets
and liabilities and their respective tax bases.  Deferred
tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax
rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in
which those temporary differences are expected to be
recovered or settled.

(i)  Goodwill - Excess of cost over net assets acquired
(goodwill) is being amortized on a straight-line basis over
eight years.  Accumulated amortization was $916,000 at
December 31, 1994 and $151,000 at December 31, 1993.

(j)  Reclassifications - Certain prior year amounts have
been reclassified to conform with current year presentation.

2    Acquisition

On November 1, 1993, the Company completed the acquisition
of Megasource, Inc. through the merger of Megasource, Inc.
into a new wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.  The
Company issued 259,770 shares of common stock, valued at
approximately $6,773,000, in the merger.  Megasource, Inc.
was engaged in the design, sale, and support of several
clinical information systems, the most significant of which
was its pharmacy system.  The acquisition has been accounted
for as a purchase with the operating results of Megasource,
Inc. included in the Company's consolidated statement of
earnings from November 1, 1993.  The Company has determined
that the consolidated results of operations as if the
acquisition had occurred at the beginning of 1992 and 1993
would have had no material effect on the overall results of
the Company.

3    Cash and Cash Equivalents



The Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments
with original maturities of three months or less to be cash
equivalents.  Cash equivalents are carried at cost, which
approximates market.

The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates
fair value due to the short maturity of those instruments.

4    Receivables

Receivables consist of accounts receivable and contracts
receivable.  Accounts receivable represent recorded revenues
that have been billed.  Contracts receivable represent
recorded revenues that are billable by the Company at future
dates under the terms of a contract with a client.  Contract
receivables that are not expected to be collected within one
year are classified as noncurrent.  Billings on contracts in
excess of related revenues recognized under the percentage
of completion method are recorded as advanced billings.   A
summary of current receivables is as follows:



Substantially all receivables are derived from sales and
related support and maintenance of the Company's clinical
information systems to healthcare providers located
throughout the United States and in certain foreign
countries.  Included in receivables at December 31, 1994 and
1993, are amounts due from healthcare providers located in
foreign countries of $3,777,000 and $4,108,000,
respectively.  Consolidated revenues include foreign sales
of $13,274,000, $8,417,000, and $10,018,000, for the years
ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.

The Company provides an allowance for estimated
uncollectible accounts based upon historical experience and
management's judgment.

The fair value of the Company's noncurrent receivables is
estimated to be $4,155,000, based on current interest rates
offered to the Company for debt of the same maturities.

5    Property and Equipment



6    Indebtedness

At December 31, 1993, the Company had a loan agreement with
a bank that provided for a term loan, a line of credit for
financing contract receivables, and a long-term, revolving
line of credit for working capital purposes.  The lines of
credit were secured by eligible receivables, inventory,
property, and equipment, and bore interest at the bank's
prime rate.  At December 31, 1993, the Company had
borrowings of $481,000 under the contract receivables line
of credit and $10,251,000 under the long-term, revolving
line of credit.

On April 19, 1994, the Company entered into a loan agreement
with two banks that provided for a long-term revolving line
of credit for working capital purposes.  The long-term
revolving line of credit is unsecured and requires monthly
payments of interest only.  Interest is payable at the
Company's option at a rate based on prime (8.5% at December
31, 1994) or LIBOR plus 1.75% (7.75% at December 31, 1994).
The interest rate may be reduced by up to .5% if certain net
worth ratios are maintained.  At December 31, 1994, the
Company had no outstanding borrowings under this agreement
and had $18,000,000 available for working capital purposes.
The agreement contains certain net worth, current ratio, and
fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain
restrictions on the Company's ability to borrow, incur
liens, sell assets, and pay dividends.  A commitment fee of
3/16% is payable quarterly on the unused portion of the
revolving line of credit.

On April 19, 1994, the Company entered into a loan agreement
with two banks that provided for a term loan of $17,425,000
to fund the $20,000,00 purchase of its Kansas City
headquarters complex.  On July 29, 1994, the Company issued
$30,000,000 of Senior Notes.  The note proceeds were used to
repay the term loan, which then terminated, and reduce the
outstanding borrowings under the revolving line of credit.

The Senior Notes are payable in five equal annual
installments beginning in August 2000.  Interest is payable
on February 1 and August 1 at a rate of 8.3%.  The note
agreement contains certain net worth, current ratio, and
fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain
restrictions on the Company's ability to borrow, incur
liens, sell assets, and pay dividends.

The fair value of the Company's Senior Notes is estimated to
be $28,716,000, based on the quoted market prices for
similar issues offered to the Company for debt of the same
remaining maturities.  Although the fair value of the long-
term debt is less than the carrying amount, settlement at
the reported fair value does not include potential taxes and
other expenses that would be incurred in an actual
settlement.  The Company estimates that the fair value of
the long-term portion of capital leases approximates the
carrying value.






7    Interest Income and Expense




8    Stock Options

The Company has three incentive stock option plans and a
nonqualified stock option plan.  Stock Option Plan A (Plan
A) was approved by the Board of Directors on September 20,
1983, and expired on September 20, 1993.  Stock Option Plan
B (Plan B) was approved by the Board of Directors on
November 30, 1983, and expired on November 30, 1993.  Stock
Option Plan C (Plan C) was approved by the Board of
Directors on May 18, 1993.  The NonQualified Stock Option
Plan was approved by the Board of Directors on February 19,
1991.

All associate stock options authorized under Plan A were
granted prior to December 31, 1983.  Options granted under
Plan A were exercisable through September 20, 1993, at $.38
per share (fair market value on the date of grant) and
contained restrictions as to transferability and
exercisability after termination of employment.
Transactions for associate stock options under Plan A are
summarized as follows:



                                      
Under Plan B, the Company could grant to associates options
to purchase shares of common stock through November 30,
1993.  The options are exercisable at the fair market value
on the date of grant for a period determined by the Board of
Directors (not more than ten years from the date granted).
The options contain restrictions as to transferability and
exercisability after termination of employment.
Transactions for associate stock options under Plan B are
summarized as follows:




Under Plan C, the Company may grant to associates options to
purchase shares of common stock through May 18, 2003.  The
options are exercisable at the fair market value on the date
of grant for a period determined by the Board of Directors
(not more than ten years from the date granted).  The
options contain restrictions as to transferability and
exercisability after termination of employment.
Transactions for associate stock options under Plan C are
summarized as follows:




Under the NonQualified Stock Option Plan, the Company may
grant to associates, consultants, or advisors options to
purchase shares of common stock through January 1, 2000.
The options are exercisable at a price and during a period
determined by the Stock Option Committee.

Transactions under the NonQualified Stock Option Plan and
other nonqualified stock option agreements are summarized as
follows:



9    Income Taxes



Included in 1993 deferred income tax expense is
approximately $88,000 resulting from the increase in the
statutory tax rate.

Temporary differences between the financial statement
carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities
that give rise to significant portions of deferred income
taxes at December 31, 1994 and 1993, relate to the
following:




Net deferred income taxes at December 31, 1994, are composed
of deferred tax liabilities of $17,758,000 and deferred tax
assets of $1,988,000.  At December 31, 1993, deferred tax
liabilities were $11,113,000 and deferred tax assets were
$3,360,000.  There was no valuation allowance provided for
deferred tax assets at December 31, 1994 or 1993.

The effective income tax rates for 1994, 1993, and 1992 were
40%, 40%, and 39%, respectively.  These effective rates
differ from the federal statutory rate of 35% in 1994 and
1993 and 34% in 1992 as follows:




Income taxes payable at December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992,
are reduced by the tax benefit resulting from disqualifying
dispositions of stock acquired under the Company's stock
option plans.  The 1994, 1993, and 1992 benefits of
$1,000,000, $3,200,000, and $896,000, respectively, are
treated as increases to additional paid-in capital.

10   Associate Stock Purchase Retirement Plan

The Company established the Cerner Corporation Associate
Stock Purchase Retirement Plan (the Plan) under Section
401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code.  All full-time
associates are eligible to participate.  Participants may
elect to make pre-tax contributions from 1% to 15% of
compensation to the Plan, subject to annual limitations
determined by the Internal Revenue Service.  Participants
may direct contributions into mutual funds, a money market
fund, or a Company stock fund.  The Company makes matching
contributions to the Plan, on behalf of participants, in an
amount equal to 20% of the participant's contribution,
limited to a maximum of $600 per participant.  The Company's
expense for the plan amounted to $316,000, $275,000, and
$154,000 for 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.

11   Commitments

The Company is committed under operating leases for office
space through December 1999 and for computer equipment
through March 1995.  Rent expense for office and warehouse
space for the Company's regional and international offices
for 1994, 1993, and 1992 was $1,721,000, $2,195,000, and
$1,604,000, respectively.  Lease expense for computer
equipment was $328,000, $323,000, and $315,000, in 1994,
1993, and 1992, respectively.  Aggregate minimum future
payments (in thousands) under these noncancelable leases are
as follows:



At December 31, 1994, the Company was committed to spending
$3,332,000 under a construction contract for a new building
at its Kansas City headquarters complex.  The completed cost
of the new building is estimated to be $6,000,000 to
$8,000,000.

12   Real Estate Lease Revenue

The Company leases space to unrelated parties in its Kansas
City headquarters complex under noncancelable operating
leases.  Rental income from April 19, 1994 (the date of the
Company's purchase of its headquarters complex), to
December 31, 1994, was $1,843,000.  Future minimum lease
revenues (in thousands) under these noncancelable operating
leases expiring in 1999 are as follows:



13   Stockholders' Equity

At December 31, 1994 and 1993, the Company had 1,000,000
shares of authorized but unissued preferred stock, $.01 par
value.

14   Quarterly Results (unaudited)




SCHEDULE II





                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
                         ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
                         -------------------------------

The Board of Directors
Cerner Corporation:


Under date of February 10, 1995, we reported on the consolidated balance
sheets of Cerner Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993
and the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders' equity and
cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,
1994.  These consolidated financial statements in our report thereon are
included in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year 1994.  In
connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial 
statements, we also have audited the related financial statement schedule as 
listed in Item 14(a)(2).  This financial statement schedule is the 
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on the financial statement schedule based on our audits.  

In our opinion, this financial statement schedule, when considered in relation
to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents 
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.



KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

Kansas City, Missouri
February 10, 1995



