Item 1.Business

Incorporated in 1980, Lam Research Corporation (“Lam Research,” “Lam,” “we,” or the “Company”) is a Delaware corporation, headquartered in Fremont, California. We
maintain a network of facilities throughout Asia, Europe, and North America in order to meet the needs of our dynamic customer base.

Additional information about Lam Research is available on our website at www.lamresearch.com.

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Forms 10-Q, Current Reports on Forms 8-K, and any amendments to those reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practical after we
file them with or furnish them to the SEC and are also available online at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.

The Lam
Research logo, Lam Research, and all product and service names used in this report are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Lam Research Corporation or its subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries. All other marks mentioned
herein are the property of their respective holders.

Lam Research is a global supplier of innovative wafer fabrication
equipment and services to the semiconductor industry. We design, manufacture, market, refurbish, and service semiconductor processing systems that are used in the fabrication of integrated circuits (“ICs”). Our market-leading products are
designed to help our customers build the smaller, faster, and more power-efficient devices that are used in a variety of electronic products, including cell phones, computers, storage devices, and networking equipment.







The Company’s customer base includes leading semiconductor memory, foundry, and
integrated device manufacturers (“IDMs”) that make products such as DRAM, NAND memory, and logic devices. Semiconductor manufacturing, our customers’ business, involves the complete fabrication of multiple die, or ICs, on a wafer.
This involves the repetition of a set of core processes and can require hundreds of individual steps. On a silicon wafer, a tiny, intricate pattern is precisely replicated across the wafer surface to create identical miniature devices, where
features can be 1,000 times smaller than a grain of sand. Fabricating these devices requires highly sophisticated process technologies and precision control at the atomic scale. Along with meeting technical requirements, wafer processing equipment
must deliver high productivity and be cost-effective.

At Lam Research, we leverage our expertise in semiconductor device
processing to develop enabling technology and productivity solutions that typically benefit our customers through lower defect rates, enhanced yields, faster processing time, and/or reduced cost. We offer a broad portfolio of complementary products
that are used in several areas of the semiconductor manufacturing process flow, including plasma etch, thin film deposition, photoresist strip, and wafer cleaning. These processes, which are repeated numerous times during the wafer fabrication
cycle, are required to manufacture every type of semiconductor device.

Our products are used primarily in front-end wafer
processing, which involves the steps that create the active components of a device (transistor, capacitor) and their wiring (interconnect). Market demand for ever-smaller IC designs is driving the development of and migration to new fabrication
strategies, such as three-dimensional (“3D”) architectures and multiple patterning. We also address processes for back-end wafer-level packaging (“WLP”), which is an alternative to traditional two dimensional packaging and offers
a smaller form factor, increased interconnect speed and bandwidth, and lower power consumption, among other benefits. In addition, our products are well-suited for related markets that rely on semiconductor processes and require production-proven
manufacturing capability, such as micro-electromechanical systems (“MEMS”).

We are the market leader in plasma
etch, a highly critical process step that selectively removes materials from the wafer to create the features and patterns of a device. The Company’s high-productivity thin film deposition systems form a device’s sub-microscopic layers of
conducting (metal) or insulating (dielectric) materials. Our market-leading photoresist strip systems remove the photoresist mask before a wafer proceeds to the next processing step. Lam’s suite of single-wafer wet and plasma-based wafer
cleaning products remove particles and residues from the wafer surface before or after adjacent processes.

Our Customer
Support Business Group (“CSBG”) provides products and services to maximize installed equipment performance and operational efficiency. We offer a broad range of services to deliver value throughout the lifecycle of our equipment, including
customer service, spares, upgrades, and refurbishment of our etch, deposition, photoresist strip, and clean products. Many of the technical advances that we introduce in our newest products are also available as upgrades, which provide customers
with a cost-effective strategy for extending the performance and capabilities of their existing wafer fabrication lines. CSBG also offers refurbished and newly built previous-generation (legacy) equipment for those applications that do not require
the most advanced wafer processing capability.

Silfex and Peter Wolters are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Lam. Silfex is a
leading provider of high-purity custom silicon components and assemblies that serve technology markets including solar, optics, and semiconductor equipment. Peter Wolters is a leader in the design and manufacture of high-precision grinding, lapping,
polishing, and deburring systems used in the automotive, aerospace, medical, semiconductor manufacturing and other industries.







Products

Plasma Etch

As the semiconductor industry continues to improve
device performance and shrink critical feature sizes, plasma etch faces multiple challenges. These include processing smaller features, new materials, new transistor structures, increasingly complex film stacks, and ever higher aspect ratio
structures. For conductor etch, requirements include delivering atomic precision control for etching FinFET/3D gate transistors, multi–film stacks for high-k/metal gate structures, and multiple patterning structures. Dielectric etch processes
must be able to maintain etch profiles on increasingly high aspect ratio (“HAR”) structures such as in 3D NAND devices, etch new multi-layer photoresist materials and amorphous carbon hardmasks, and avoid damaging fragile low-k materials.
In emerging 3D integrated circuits (“3D ICs”), through-silicon vias (“TSVs”) are now used to provide interconnect capability for die-to-die and wafer-to-wafer stacking. Critical factors for TSV are etching a variety of materials
in the same chamber (in situ), as well as being able to use both conventional and special techniques for deep silicon etching. For all etch processes, it is important to provide excellent profile control and across-wafer uniformity while
maintaining high productivity and cost efficiency.

Conductor Etch — 2300®Kiyo®Product Family, 2300®Versys®Metal Product Family

The 2300 Kiyo product family delivers high-performance, high-productivity, low-risk solutions for conductor etch applications. Superior uniformity, uniformity control, and repeatability are enabled by a
symmetrical chamber design, leading electrostatic chuck technology, and independent tuning features. The Kiyo products deliver high productivity with low defectivity on multi-film stacks, enabled byin situetch capability, continuous plasma,
and advanced Waferless Autoclean technology. Applications include shallow trench isolation (“STI”), high-k/metal gate, FinFET and tri-gate, and multiple patterning. The 2300 Versys Metal product family provides a flexible platform for
back-end-of-line (“BEOL”) metal etch processes. Symmetrical chamber design and independent tuning features provide critical dimension, profile uniformity, and uniformity control for metal hardmask applications. The products’
proprietary chamber cleaning technology ensures high availability, high yield, and exceptional process repeatability for aluminum etching. Applications include metal hardmask, high-density aluminum line, and aluminum pad.

Dielectric Etch — 2300®Flex™ Product Family

The 2300 Flex
product family offers differentiated technologies and application-focused capabilities for critical dielectric etch applications. Exceptional uniformity, repeatability, and tunability are enabled by a unique multi-frequency, small-volume, confined
plasma design. The systems deliver high productivity with low defectivity, enabled byin situmulti-step etch and continuous plasma capability. Low-risk, cost-effective upgrades provide evolutionary product transitions that extend product
life and maximize return on investment. Applications include low-k and ultra low-k dual damascene, HAR and self-aligned contacts, capacitor cell, and mask open.

TSV Etch — 2300®Syndion®Product Family

Based on Lam’s production-proven conductor etch products, the 2300 Syndion TSV etch family provides low-risk, flexible solutions to address multiple TSV etch applications. The Syndion products
provide a low cost of ownership due to high etch rates, excellent repeatability, andin situetching of multiple materials in the TSV stack (silicon, dielectrics, conducting films). The systems support both conventional single-step etch and
rapidly alternating process (“RAP”). High process flexibility, superior profile control, and excellent uniformity enable successful TSV implementation for a variety of CMOS 3D IC and image sensor applications.

Thin Film Deposition

In leading-edge semiconductor designs, metal deposition processes face significant scaling and integration challenges. For advanced copper interconnect structures, challenges for electrochemical
deposition (“ECD”)







include providing complete, void-free fill of HAR structures with low defectivity and high productivity. Electroplating of copper and other metals is also used for TSV and WLP applications, such
as forming conductive bumps and redistribution layers (“RDLs”). These applications require excellent within-wafer uniformity at high plating rates, minimizing defects, and reducing costs. For tungsten chemical vapor deposition
(“CVD”) processes, key requirements are minimizing contact resistance to meet lower power consumption requirements and achieving void-free fill for narrow nanoscale structures. In addition, good barrier step coverage at reduced thicknesses
relative to physical vapor deposition/CVD barrier films is also needed to improve contact fill and reduce resistivity.

In
dielectric deposition, high-productivity, high-quality films are needed for a number of critical process steps. For example, next-generation FinFET transistor structures and BEOL self-aligned double patterning require highly conformal film
deposition and atomic level control of film dimensions to ensure device performance. The numerous alternating film layers used in new 3D NAND designs require exceptional stress and defectivity control and ultra-smooth film deposition.
Plasma-enhanced CVD (“PECVD”) is often used for these applications, as well as for advanced WLP, where depositing high-quality films without exceeding thermal budgets is essential. For gapfill deposition, achieving defect-free fills while
maintaining high throughput is essential. Preferred approaches are to use high-density plasma CVD (“HDP-CVD”) either as a complete gapfill solution or as a cap over other gapfill technologies to enhance process control and mitigate
integration risks. Lastly, innovative post-deposition film treatments such as ultraviolet thermal processing (“UVTP”) are being used to improve low-k film integrity and increase strain in nitride layers for improved device performance.

Copper Metal Films — SABRE®Product Family

The
SABRE ECD product family is the industry’s productivity-leading platform for copper damascene manufacturing.
Electrofill®technology provides high-throughput, void-free fill with superior defect density performance for
advanced technology nodes. SABRE chemistry packages provide leading-edge fill performance for the lowest defectivity, widest process window, and highest rates of bottom-up growth to fill the most challenging HAR features. System capabilities include
deposition of copper directly on various liner materials, important for next-generation metallization schemes. The number of yielding ICs per wafer has also been improved by increasing the usable die area through industry-leading process edge
exclusion. Applications include copper deposition for both advanced logic and memory interconnect. We also offer the SABRE 3D system to address TSV and WLP applications, such as copper pillar, RDL, underbump metallization, bumping, and microbumps
used in post-TSV processing.

Tungsten Metal Films — ALTUS®Product Family

Lam’s
market-leading ALTUS systems deposit highly conformal atomic layer films for advanced tungsten metallization applications. The patented Multi-Station Sequential Deposition (“MSSD”) architecture enables a nucleation layer to be formed using
Pulsed Nucleation Layer (“PNL”) technology and bulk CVD fill to be performedin situ. PNL, Lam’s atomic layer deposition (“ALD”) technology, is used in the deposition of tungsten nitride films to achieve high step
coverage with reduced thickness relative to conventional barrier films. PNL is also used to reduce thickness and alter CVD bulk fill grain growth, lowering the overall resistivity of thin tungsten films. The advanced ExtremeFill CVD tungsten
technology provides extendibility to fill the most challenging structures at advanced technology nodes. Applications include tungsten plug and via fill, low-stress composite interconnects, and tungsten nitride barrier for via and contact
metallization.

PECVD Dielectric Films — VECTOR®Product Family

Lam’s VECTOR family
of PECVD systems delivers superior thin film quality, wafer-to-wafer uniformity, productivity, and low cost of ownership. The MSSD architecture enables industry-leading performance with both sequential processing and parallel processing to provide
broad process flexibility for a range of applications. VECTOR products offer specialized systems for logic and memory applications. VECTOR Express offers a







small footprint with four processing stations. VECTOR Excel is a modular tool for advanced technology nodes where pre-and-post film deposition treatments are needed. VECTOR Extreme accommodates
up to 12 process stations for high-throughput memory processes. Applications include deposition of ashable hardmasks, oxides, nitrides, carbides, and anti-reflective layers.

Gapfill Dielectric Films — SPEED®Product Family

Lam’s SPEED
HDP-CVD products provide void-free gapfill of high-quality dielectric films with superior throughput and reliability. The unique source design provides excellent particle performance, while the ability to customize the deposition andin
situetching profile ensures best-of-breed across-wafer thickness and gapfill uniformity. Together, the chamber and plasma source designs allow large batch sizes between cleans and faster cleans to deliver superior throughput. Broad
process flexibility is available on the same platform, without requiring major hardware changes. Target applications include STI, pre-metal dielectrics, inter-layer dielectrics, inter-metal dielectrics, and passivation layers.

Film Treatment — SOLA®Product Family

The SOLA UVTP product
family is used for treatment of BEOL low-k dielectric films and front-end-of-line (“FEOL”) silicon nitride strained films. The systems incorporate a proprietary treatment process that modifies the physical characteristics of a previously
deposited film through exposure to ultraviolet light, gases and vapors, and heat. The Multi-Station Sequential Processing (“MSSP”) architecture allows independent control of temperature, wavelength, and intensity at each station of the
wafer path. This enables delivery of best-in-class film properties, within-wafer and wafer-to-wafer uniformity, and productivity.

Photoresist Strip

With the semiconductor industry’s migration to ultra-shallow junctions, multiple patterning, ultra low-k dielectrics, and 3D
architectures, photoresist strip processes need to manage more complex device structures. At the transistor level, small changes can affect junction resistivity, junction depth, and dopant activation, thereby affecting device performance. For
interconnect structures, unwanted changes in the properties of low-k dielectrics can also impact performance. These concerns are driving the development of new photoresist strip processes for advanced technology nodes. Challenges include removing
residues, minimizing oxidation and silicon loss, and providing damage-free results, while at the same time delivering high throughput and low cost of ownership.

Photoresist Strip — G400®, GxT®, G3D®

Lam’s photoresist strip systems
are based on our production-proven MSSP platform. The MSSP architecture provides multiple process stations, where both temperature and chemistry may be independently controlled, allowing bulk strip, high-dose implant strip (“HDIS”), and
dry clean processes to be performed all on the same platform. The high-productivity G400 is targeted for bulk strip and HDIS applications, primarily in large DRAM and NAND memory fabs. Enhanced source technology combined with faster wafer heating
provides high throughput for bulk strip and implant strip applications. The GxT system is designed for critical logic device manufacturing process steps that demand low silicon loss and ultra-low defectivity. The G3D system’s unique combination
of multi-station high-productivity, low-temperature, and directional processing capability delivers high-productivity strip and complete residue removal for advanced WLP applications.

Single-Wafer Clean

Wafer cleaning is a critical function that must
be repeated many times during the semiconductor manufacturing process, from device fabrication through packaging. As device geometries shrink and new materials are introduced, the number of cleaning steps continues to grow. Furthermore, each step
has different







selectivity and defectivity requirements that add to manufacturing complexity. For next-generation devices, fragile structures need to be cleaned without causing damage. In addition, cleaning
steps that target the bevel region can help eliminate the wafer edge as a source of yield-limiting defects as well as increase the number of good die at the wafer’s edge to improve yield.

Wet Clean — DV-Prime®, Da Vinci®, SP Series

Lam’s single-wafer spin technology pioneered the industry transition from batch to single-wafer wet processing. These
production-proven spin wet clean systems provide the productivity and flexibility needed for both high-volume manufacturing and leading-edge development across multiple technology nodes and for all device types. The products deliver excellent
process uniformity across the wafer, wafer-to-wafer, and lot-to-lot. Proprietary technologies enhance damage-free particle removal and dry wafers so that they are free of pattern collapse and watermarks. Offering the latest in dilute chemistry and
solvent systems, the products meet defectivity and material integrity requirements. Applications include particle, polymer, and residue removal; photoresist removal; and wafer backside/bevel cleaning. Our wet clean systems are also used for multiple
wet etch and clean applications for WLP, including silicon substrate thinning, wafer stress relief, and backside/bevel clean.

Plasma Bevel Clean — 2300®Coronus®

The 2300 Coronus plasma-based bevel clean system enhances die yield by removing residues and unwanted films from the wafer’s edge that can impact the device area. The system combines the ability of
plasma to selectively remove a wide variety of materials with a proprietary confinement technology that protects the die area. High system uptime and throughput, excellent process repeatability, and efficientin situremoval of multi-material
film stacks and residues ensure high productivity for increased wafer output. Applications include post-STI, gate, middle-of-line, and BEOL etch; pre- and post-deposition; and metal film removal to prevent arcing during plasma etch or deposition
steps. It is also the industry’s only bevel clean product that removes amorphous-carbon films and carbon-rich residues.

Legacy
Products

For applications that do not require the most advanced wafer processing capability, semiconductor
manufacturers can benefit from the proven performance of previous-generation products to increase their production capacity at a reduced economic investment. Purchasing through an original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) like Lam Research
minimizes the risks of unexpected costs and unpredictable time to production that are typically associated with used systems purchases. To meet semiconductor manufacturers’ needs for high-performance, maximum-predictability, and low-risk
equipment, Lam provides refurbished and newly built legacy products. Our products also provide production-worthy, cost-effective solutions for the MEMS and light emitting diode (“LED”) markets.







Products Table



MarketProcess/ApplicationProductsFront-End Wafer ProcessingPlasma EtchConductor EtchDielectric EtchTSV Etch2300®Kiyo®product family2300®Flex™ product family2300®Syndion®product
familyThin Film DepositionCopper Metal FilmsTungsten Metal FilmsPECVD Dielectric FilmsGapfill Dielectric FilmsFilm Treatment (UVTP)SABRE®product familyALTUS®product
familyVECTOR®product familySPEED®product familySOLA®product familyPhotoresist
StripPhotoresist StripG400®, GxT®Single-Wafer CleanSpin Wet CleanPlasma Bevel CleanDV-Prime®, Da Vinci®, SP Series2300®Coronus®Back-End Wafer-Level Packaging and Through Silicon ViaPlasma
EtchTSV Etch2300®Syndion®product familyThin Film
DepositionMetal FilmsSABRE®3DPhotoresist
StripPhotoresist StripG3D®Single-Wafer
CleanSpin Wet CleanSP SeriesRelated Manufacturing MarketsMEMSDeep Silicon Etch, PECVD
Dielectric Films, Spin Wet Clean, Dry Strip/DescumLEDPlasma Etch, PECVD Dielectrics,
Copper Metal Films, Dry Strip/Descum

Fiscal Periods Presented

All references to fiscal years apply to our fiscal years, which ended June 30, 2013, June 24, 2012, and June 26, 2011. In all sections of this document, the fiscal 2012 information
presented reflects 20 days of Novellus related activity. There is no Novellus related activity reflected in periods prior to fiscal year 2012.

Research and Development

The market for semiconductor capital equipment is characterized by rapid technological change and product innovation. Our ability to
achieve and maintain our competitive advantage depends in part on our continued and timely development of new products and enhancements to existing products. Accordingly, we devote a significant portion of our personnel and financial resources to
R&D programs and seek to maintain close and responsive relationships with our customers and suppliers.

Our R&D
expenses during fiscal years 2013, 2012, and 2011 were $683.7 million, $444.6 million, and $373.3 million, respectively. The majority of R&D spending over the past three years has been targeted at etch,







deposition, single-wafer clean, and other semiconductor manufacturing products. We believe current challenges for customers at various points in the semiconductor manufacturing process present
opportunities for us.

We expect to continue to make substantial investments in R&D to meet our customers’ product
needs, support our growth strategy, and enhance our competitive position.

Marketing, Sales, and Service

Our marketing, sales, and service efforts are focused on building long-term relationships with our customers and targeting product and
service solutions designed to meet their needs. These efforts are supported by a team of product marketing and sales professionals as well as equipment and process engineers who work closely with individual customers to develop solutions for their
wafer processing needs. We maintain ongoing service relationships with our customers and have an extensive network of service engineers in place throughout the United States, Europe, Taiwan, Korea, Japan, and Asia Pacific. We believe that
comprehensive support programs and close working relationships with customers are essential to maintaining high customer satisfaction and our competitiveness in the marketplace.

We provide standard warranties for our systems. The warranty provides that systems shall be free from defects in material and workmanship
and conform to agreed-upon specifications. The warranty is limited to repair of the defect or replacement with new or like-new equivalent goods and is valid when the buyer provides prompt notification within the warranty period of the claimed defect
or non-conformity and also makes the items available for inspection and repair. We also offer extended warranty packages to our customers to purchase as desired.

International Sales

A significant portion of our sales and operations
occur outside the United States and, therefore, may be subject to certain risks, including but not limited to tariffs and other barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing non-U.S. operations, adverse tax consequences, foreign currency exchange
rate fluctuations, changes in currency controls, compliance with U.S. and international laws and regulations, including U.S. export restrictions, and economic and political conditions. Any of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial position, and results of operations and cash flows. For geographical reporting, revenue is attributed to the geographic location in which the customers’ facilities are located. Revenue by region was as follows:



Year EndedJune 30,June 24,June 26,201320122011(in thousands)Revenue:Taiwan$1,026,548$467,922$766,910North America734,324458,531393,004Korea603,821893,549756,660Asia Pacific573,696292,963492,600Japan368,095308,189405,371Europe292,432244,038423,148Total revenue$3,598,916$2,665,192$3,237,693

Long-Lived Assets

Refer to Note 18 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 15 of this report, for information concerning the geographic locations of long-lived assets.







Customers

Our customers include many of the world’s leading semiconductor manufacturers. Customers continue to establish joint ventures, alliances and licensing arrangements which have the potential to
positively or negatively impact our competitive position and market opportunities. In fiscal year 2013, three customers, Samsung Electronics Company, Ltd., SK Hynix Inc., and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd., combined represented
approximately 46% of total revenues and each customer individually represented greater than 10% of total revenues. In fiscal year 2012, the same three customers combined represented approximately 50% of total revenues and each customer individually
represented greater than 10% of total revenues. In fiscal year 2011, Samsung Electronics Company, Ltd. represented approximately 24% of total revenues.

A material reduction in orders from our customers could adversely affect our results of operations and projected financial condition. Our business depends upon the expenditures of semiconductor
manufacturers. Semiconductor manufacturers’ businesses, in turn, depend on many factors, including their economic capability, the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits and the availability of equipment capacity to
support that demand.

Backlog

Manufacturing

Our
manufacturing operations consist mainly of assembling and testing components, sub-assemblies, and modules that are then integrated into finished systems prior to shipment to or at the location of our customers. Most of the assembly and testing of
our products is conducted in cleanroom environments.

We have agreements with third parties to outsource certain aspects of
our manufacturing, production warehousing, and logistics functions. We believe that these outsourcing contracts provide us more flexibility to scale our operations up or down in a timely and cost effective manner, enabling us to respond to the
cyclical nature of our business. We believe that we have selected reputable providers and have secured their performance on terms documented in written contracts. However, it is possible that one or more of these providers could fail to perform as
we expect, and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business and have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. Overall, we believe we have effective mechanisms to manage risks associated with our outsourcing
relationships. Refer to Note 14 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 15 of this report, for further information concerning our outsourcing commitments.

Certain components and sub-assemblies that we include in our products may only be obtained from a single supplier. We believe that, in
many cases, we could obtain and qualify alternative sources to supply these







products. Nevertheless, any prolonged inability to obtain these components could have an adverse effect on our operating results and could unfavorably impact our customer relationships.

Environmental Matters

We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to the management of hazardous materials that we use in our business operations. We are currently not aware of any pending notices of
violation, fines, lawsuits, or investigations arising from environmental matters that would have a material effect on our business. We believe that we are generally in compliance with these regulations and that we have obtained (or will obtain or
are otherwise addressing) all necessary environmental permits to conduct our business. Nevertheless, the failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, require us to suspend production or cease
operations or cause our customers to not accept our products. These regulations could require us to alter our current operations, to acquire significant additional equipment, or to incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental
regulations. Our failure to control the use, sale, transport or disposal of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities.

Employees

As of
August 20, 2013, we had approximately 6,600 regular employees. Although we have employment-related agreements with a number of key employees, these agreements do not guarantee continued service. Each of our employees is required to comply with
our policies relating to maintaining the confidentiality of our non-public information.

In the semiconductor and
semiconductor equipment industries, competition for highly skilled employees is intense. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon our continued ability to attract and retain qualified employees particularly in the R&D and
customer support functions.

Competition

We face significant competition with all of our products and services. Our
primary competitors in the etch market are Tokyo Electron, Ltd. and Applied Materials, Inc. Our primary competitors in the single-wafer wet clean market are Dainippon Screen Manufacturing Co. Ltd. and Tokyo Electron, Ltd. In the tungsten CVD, PECVD,
HDP-CVD, ECD and PVD markets, our primary competitor is Applied Materials, Inc. In the PECVD market, we also compete against ASM International. Our primary competitors in the surface preparation product arena are Mattson Technologies, Inc. and PSK,
Inc.







Certain of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial
resources and larger engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support organizations than we do. In addition, we face competition from a number of emerging companies in the industry. We expect our competitors to continue to
improve the design and performance of their current products and processes and to introduce new products and processes with enhanced price/performance characteristics. If our competitors make acquisitions or enter into strategic relationships with
leading semiconductor manufacturers, or other entities, covering products similar to those we sell, our ability to sell our products to those customers could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will continue to compete
successfully in the future.

Patents and Licenses

Our policy is to seek patents on inventions relating to new or enhanced products and processes developed as part of our ongoing research, engineering, manufacturing, and support activities. We currently
hold a number of United States and foreign patents covering various aspects of our products and processes. We believe that the duration of our patents generally exceeds the useful life of the technologies and processes disclosed and claimed in them.
Our patents, which cover material aspects of our past and present core products, have current durations ranging from approximately one to twenty years. We believe that, although the patents we own and may obtain in the future will be of value, they
alone will not determine our success. Our success depends principally upon our engineering, marketing, support, and delivery skills. However, in the absence of patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to imitate our
products, manufacturing techniques, and processes. In addition, other companies and inventors may receive patents that contain claims applicable or similar to our products and processes. The sale of products covered by patents of others could
require licenses that may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. For further discussion of legal matters, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” of this report.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

As of August 27, 2013, the
executive officers of Lam Research were as follows:



NameAgeTitleMartin B. Anstice46President and Chief Executive OfficerTimothy M. Archer46Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerDouglas R. Bettinger46Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting OfficerRichard A. Gottscho61Executive Vice President, Global Products GroupSarah A. O'Dowd63Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer

Martin B. Anstice is President and Chief Executive Officer of Lam Research. Mr. Anstice joined the
Company in April 2001 as Senior Director, Operations Controller. He was promoted to Chief Financial Officer in June 2004, appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer in September 2008, and promoted to President in December 2010.
In January 2012, Mr. Anstice was appointed Chief Executive Officer and in February 2012, appointed to the Lam Research Corporation board of directors. He began his career at Raychem Corporation where, during his 13-year tenure, he held numerous
finance roles of increasing responsibility in Europe and North America. After Tyco International, Ltd. acquired Raychem in 1999, Mr. Anstice assumed responsibility for supporting mergers and acquisitions at Tyco Electronics Corporation.
Mr. Anstice is an associate member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants in the United Kingdom.

Timothy
M. Archer joined Lam Research in June 2012 as the Company’s Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer. Prior to Lam Research, Mr. Archer spent 18 years at Novellus Systems in various technology development and business
leadership roles, including most recently as Chief Operating Officer from January 2011 to June 2012, Executive Vice President Worldwide Sales, Marketing, and Customer Satisfaction from September 2009 to January 2011, and Executive Vice President of
the PECVD and Electrofill Business Units from November 2008 to September 2009. Mr. Archer’s tenure at Novellus Systems also included assignments as







Senior Director of Technology for Novellus Systems Japan from 1999 to 2001 and Senior Director of Technology for the Electrofill Business Unit from April 2001 to April 2002. Mr. Archer
started his career in 1989 at Tektronix where he was responsible for process development for high-speed bipolar integrated circuits. Mr. Archer completed the Program for Management Development at Harvard Graduate School of Business and
holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Applied Physics from the California Institute of Technology.

Douglas R. Bettinger is
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Lam Research. Prior to joining the company, Mr. Bettinger served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Avago Technologies from August 2008 to February 2013. From 2007 to
2008, he served as Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller at Xilinx, Inc., and from 2004 to 2007, he was Chief Financial Cfficer at 24/7 Customer, a privately held company. Mr. Bettinger worked at Intel Corporation from 1993 to
2004, where he held several senior-level finance and manufacturing operations positions, including Corporate Planning and Reporting Controller and Malaysia Site Operations Controller. He earned a master’s degree in business administration in
finance from the University of Michigan and has a bachelor of science degree in economics from the University of Wisconsin in Madison.

Sarah A. O’Dowd joined Lam Research in September 2008 as Group Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, responsible for general legal matters, intellectual property and ethics &
compliance. In addition to her Legal function, in April 2009 she was appointed Vice President of Human Resources and served in this dual capacity from April 2009 through May 2012. Prior to joining Lam Research, Ms. O’Dowd was
Vice President and General Counsel for FibroGen, Inc. from February 2007 until September 2008. Until February 2007, Ms. O’Dowd was a shareholder in the law firm of Heller Ehrman LLP for more than twenty years, practicing in the
areas of corporate securities, governance and mergers and acquisitions for a variety of clients, principally publicly traded high technology companies. She served in a variety of leadership and management roles at Heller Ehrman, including
Managing Partner of the Silicon Valley and San Diego offices, member of the firm’s Policy Committee and, as head of the firm’s business practice groups, a member of the firm’s Executive Committee. Ms. O’Dowd earned her J.D.
and M.A. in communications from Stanford University and her bachelor of arts degree in mathematics from Immaculata College.



