Item 1.Business

Incorporated in 1980, Lam Research Corporation (“Lam Research,” “Lam,” “we,” or the “Company”) is a Delaware corporation, headquartered in Fremont, California, and
maintains a network of facilities throughout Asia, Europe, and North America in order to meet the needs of its global customer base.

Additional information about Lam Research is available on our website at www.lamresearch.com.

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Forms 10-Q, Current Reports on Forms 8-K, and any amendments to those reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practical after we
file them with or furnish them to the SEC and are also available online at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.

The
Lam Research logo, Lam Research, and all product and service names used in this report are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Lam Research Corporation or its subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries. All other marks
mentioned herein are the property of their respective holders.

All references to fiscal years apply to our fiscal years,
which ended June 24, 2012, June 26, 2011, and June 27, 2010.

Lam acquired Novellus Systems, Inc.
(“Novellus”) on June 4, 2012. As a result of the Novellus acquisition, Lam has enhanced its role as a leading supplier of wafer fabrication equipment and services to the worldwide semiconductor industry. In addition, Lam is better
positioned to serve our customer base by leveraging our technical expertise across a broader portfolio of product to address the increasingly complex business of manufacturing integrated circuits. Lam Research has been a leading supplier of wafer
fabrication equipment and services for more than thirty years by contributing to the advancement of semiconductor manufacturing processes that have led to the proliferation of a variety of electronic products that impact our everyday lives,
including cell phones, computers, memory, and networking equipment. The Company’s customer base includes leading semiconductor memory, foundry, and integrated device manufacturers (“IDMs”) that make integrated circuits for these
products such as DRAM, NAND, and logic devices.

We design, manufacture, market, refurbish, and service semiconductor
processing equipment used in the fabrication of integrated circuits. Semiconductor wafers are subjected to a complex series of process and preparation steps that result in the simultaneous creation of many individual integrated circuits. Our
products are used by every major semiconductor device manufacturer for their leading edge devices. Today, foundry customers are manufacturing leading edge devices at the 28nm technology node.

We leverage our expertise in semiconductor device processing to develop technology and productivity solutions that typically benefit our
customers through lower defect rates, enhanced yields, faster processing time, and/or reduced cost. Many of the technical advances that we introduce in our newest products are also available as upgrades to our installed base of equipment; this is a
benefit that can provide customers with a cost-effective strategy for extending the performance and capabilities of their existing wafer fabrication lines.

We are the market leader in plasma etch, a highly critical process step which shapes the microscopic conductive and dielectric/insulating layers into circuits that define a chip’s final use and
function. In addition, we offer a broad portfolio of single-wafer clean technologies, which allows our customers to implement customized yield-enhancing solutions. With the acquisition of Novellus, we have expanded into the areas of thin-film
deposition and surface preparation which, like single-wafer clean, are process steps often adjacent to etch. During deposition, alternating thin-film conductive and dielectric layers are applied to create metal wiring and insulating structures.
These technologies, together with other process steps, enable customers to build some of the world’s highest-performing integrated circuits. With each successive technology node,







additional requirements and challenges drive the need for advanced manufacturing solutions. We strive to consistently deliver these advanced capabilities with cost-effective production
performance. Lam Research understands the close relationship between customer trust and the timely delivery of new solutions that leads to shared success with our customers.

Our Customer Support Business Group (“CSBG”) provides products and services to maximize installed equipment performance and operational efficiency. We offer a broad range of services to deliver
value throughout the lifecycle of our equipment, including customer service, spares, upgrades, refurbishment of our etch, deposition, photoresist strip, and clean products. While most semiconductor device manufacturers have transitioned to 300 mm
wafer technology, there are still many who utilize 200 mm technology, requiring prior-generation equipment. To address this market and to meet customers’ needs for high-performance, low-risk equipment, our Reliant™ Systems Business offers
a suite of new and refurbished Lam legacy equipment.

With the acquisition of Novellus, we entered into the business of
developing, manufacturing, selling and supporting equipment used in grinding, lapping and polishing precision parts used in a broad spectrum of industrial applications. Our primary subsidiary in this area, Peter Wolters, is a leader in the design
and manufacturing of high precision grinding, lapping, polishing, and deburring systems used to achieve a highly precise or smooth surface on a finished material. Peter Wolters’ products are used in the semiconductor and LED manufacturing
industries, as well as in the automotive, aerospace, medical, and green energy industries.

Lam’s subsidiary, Silfex, is
a leading provider of high purity custom silicon components and assemblies that serve high technology markets including the solar, optics, and semiconductor equipment markets. In addition to its silicon growing and fabrication services, Silfex also
provides full vertical integration through the development of bonding, precision cleaning and clean room manufacturing necessary in the fabrication of critical components used by its customers.

Etch Process

Etch
processes, which are repeated numerous times during the wafer fabrication cycle, are required to manufacture every type of semiconductor device produced today. Our etch products selectively remove portions of various films from the wafer in the
creation of semiconductor devices. These products use various plasma-based technologies to create the desired critical device features at current and future technology nodes. Plasma consists of charged and neutral particles that react with exposed
portions of the wafer surface to remove dielectric or conductive materials and produce the finely defined features and patterns of an integrated circuit. Etch products are required to remove only the desired films and do so in a uniform fashion
across the entire surface of the wafer. This process is becoming increasingly challenging as device feature sizes shrink, the complexity of the films being removed increases, and the tolerance for variability between devices and wafers becomes
smaller.

Dielectric Etch

Dielectric etch often requires etching multi-layer film stacks. Smaller technology node sizes increase the complexity of the structures being etched, and repeatable on-wafer performance remains critical.
In addition to the challenges introduced by new materials and scaling, device manufacturers’ focus on reducing overall cost per wafer has placed an increased emphasis on the ability to etch multiple films in the same chamber(in situ).

Production-proven in high-volume manufacturing for the more than 15 years, our patented Dual Frequency Confined™
(“DFC”) technology has been extended to incorporate multi-frequency power with physically confined plasma. The application of power at different frequencies provides enhanced process flexibility and allows different materials to be etched
in the same chamber. Physical confinement of the plasma to an area directly above the wafer minimizes chemical interaction with the chamber walls, eliminating potential polymer build-up that could lead to defects on the wafer. Confinement also
enables our proprietaryin situWaferless Autoclean™ (“WAC”) technology to clean chamber components after each wafer has been etched. Used together, multi-frequency and WAC technologies provide a consistent process environment
for every wafer, preventing process drift and ensuring repeatable process results wafer-to-wafer and chamber-to-chamber.

2300 Flex Product
Family:

2300®Exelan®Flex™, 2300®Exelan®Flex45™, 2300®Flex™ D Series, 2300®Flex™ E Series

Our 2300 Flex dielectric etch product family represents a continuous evolution of the productivity and performance benefits of DFC
technology. The 2300 Flex family allows a single chamber design to meet the requirements of a wide range of applications at multiple nodes. Advances in system design, such as multiple frequencies, higher power capabilities and tunable wafer
temperature, meet the more demanding uniformity and profile requirements for applications at advanced technology nodes.

Conductor Etch

As the semiconductor industry continues to shrink critical feature sizes and improve device performance,
a variety of new etch challenges have emerged. For conductor etch, these challenges include processing smaller features, new materials, and 3-dimensional transistor structures on the wafer. Due to decreasing feature sizes, the etch process can
now require atomic-level control across a 300 mm wafer. The incorporation of new metal gates and high-k dielectric materials in the device stack requires advanced multi-film etching capability. Furthermore, the adoption of double patterning
techniques to address lithography challenges, which began at sub-40nm technology nodes, expands etch processing by defining the feature on the wafer and also transferring the pattern into the film. All of these challenges require today’s
conductor etch systems to provide advanced capabilities, while still providing high productivity.







Introduced in 1992, our Transformer Coupled Plasma™ (“TCP”) technology
continues to provide leading-edge capability for advanced conductor etch applications at leading edge technology nodes. By efficiently coupling radio frequency (“RF”) power into plasma at low pressures, the TCP technology provides
capability to etch nanoscale features into silicon and metal films. The advanced TCP source design ensures a uniform, high-density plasma across the wafer, without requiring magnetic enhancements that could cause device damage. With a wide process
window over a range of power, chemistry, and pressure combinations, TCP technology provides the flexibility required to perform multiple etch steps in the same chamber.

2300 Kiyo Product Family:

2300®Versys®Kiyo®, 2300®Versys®Kiyo45™, 2300®Kiyo®C Series, 2300®Kiyo®E Series

2300 Versys Metal Product Family:

2300®Versys®Metal, 2300®Versys®Metal45™, 2300®Versys®Metal L, 2300®Versys®Metal M

Now in its fourth generation,
the 2300 Kiyo product family combines iterative advances in technology to provide critical dimension (“CD”) uniformity and productivity for a wide range of conductor etch applications. The 2300 Versys Metal product family leverages
Lam’s proprietary TCP technology to provide a flexible platform for back-end-of-line metal etch processes. Our etch products perform production-provenin situetches of complex features. In addition, proprietary pre-coat and post-etch
chamber clean techniques provide the same environment for superior repeatability, as well as high uptime and yield wafer after wafer.

Through-Silicon Via Etch

The semiconductor industry is developing advanced, three-dimensional integrated circuits (“3D ICs”) using through-silicon vias (“TSVs”) to provide interconnect capability for
die-to-die and wafer-to-wafer stacking. In addition to a reduced form factor, 3D ICs can enhance device performance through increased speed and decreased power consumption. Manufacturers are currently considering a wide variety of 3D integration
schemes that present an equally broad range of TSV etch requirements. Plasma etch technology, which has been used extensively for deep silicon etching in memory devices and micro-electromechanical systems (“MEMS”) production, is well
suited for TSV creation.

2300 Syndion Product Family:

2300®Syndion®, 2300®Syndion®C

The 2300 Syndion etch system is based
on our patented TCP technology and the production-proven 2300 Versys Kiyo conductor etch system. The Syndion system can etch multiple film stacks in the same chamber; including silicon, dielectric, and conducting materials, thereby addressing
multiple TSV etch requirements.

MEMS and Deep Silicon Etch

Deep silicon etch is an enabling process for several emerging technologies, including MEMS devices, CMOS image sensors, and power devices.
Many of these technologies are increasingly being used in consumer applications, such as ink jet printer heads, accelerometers, and inertial sensors. This is driving a number of deep silicon etch applications to transition into high-volume
manufacturing, which requires the high levels of cost-effective production typically seen in commodity semiconductor memory devices. To achieve high yield in mass production, the deep silicon etch process requires wafer-to-wafer repeatability.

TCP 9400DSiE Product Family:

TCP®9400DSiE™, TCP®9400DSiE™ II

The TCP 9400DSiE system is based on our production-proven TCP 9400 silicon etch series. The system’s patented high-density TCP plasma source provides a configuration to meet the challenges of silicon
deep reactive ion etch. This offers broad process capability and flexibility for a wide range of MEMS, advanced packaging, power semiconductor applications, and TSV applications on 150 mm and 200 mm wafers. In addition, incorporation of our
proprietaryin situchamber cleaning technology provides etch rate stability.

Deposition Process

Our advanced deposition systems use chemical vapor deposition (“CVD”), physical vapor deposition (“PVD”), and
electrochemical deposition (“ECD”) processes to form transistor, capacitor, and interconnect layers in an integrated circuit. Our high-density plasma CVD (“HDP-CVD”) and plasma-enhanced CVD (“PECVD”) systems employ a
chemical plasma to deposit dielectric material within the gaps formed by the etching of aluminum or in a copper chip as a blanket film which can be etched with patterns for depositing conductive materials into the etched dielectric. Our CVD tungsten
systems are used to deposit conductive contacts between transistors and interconnects or between layers of metal interconnect wiring. Our PVD systems deposit conductive aluminum and copper metal layers by sputtering metal atoms from the surface of a
target source. Our ECD systems deposit copper to form the conductive wiring on integrated circuits using copper interconnects.

CVD
Technologies

In the CVD process, manufacturers place wafers in a reaction chamber, introduce a variety of pure and
precisely metered gases into the chamber, and then add a form of energy to activate a chemical reaction that deposits a film on the wafers. The CVD process is the traditional method used to deposit dielectric films on wafers. Manufacturers also use
CVD to deposit conductive metal layers, particularly tungsten, as it is difficult to deposit such layers on devices with very small features when using conventional PVD or other deposition technologies.







ALTUS Product Family:

ALTUS®,ALTUS®Max, ALTUS®Max ExtremeFill™, ALTUS®DirectFill™

The ALTUS tungsten CVD
deposition systems deliver leading productivity and technology for contact and local interconnect applications. The system delivers advanced contact and via fill technology using a Pulsed Nucleation Layer (PNL™) Lam’s advanced Atomic Layer
Deposition (ALD) nucleation technology with chemical vapor deposition processes, and the ALTUS multi-station sequential deposition (“MSSD”) architecture allows the nucleation layer and CVD fill to be performed within the same ALTUS Max
chamber. The latest advancement of the product, ALTUS Max ExtremeFill, has recently been introduced for challenging conventional applications and 3D fill applications requiring greater than 100% step coverage, and can be upgraded onto existing ALTUS
or ALTUS Max systems. The ALTUS DirectFill barrier deposition system delivers a highly conformal tungsten nitride barrier film using PNL™ technology. The system is adapted from the ALTUS Max platform with the sequential deposition architecture
providing maximum productivity and high reliability, resulting in low cost of ownership. ALTUS DirectFill technology extends contact metallization to future technology nodes, enabling superior electrical performance and low power consumption.

SPEED Product Family:

SPEED®, SPEED®NExT, SPEED®Max

For gapfill HDP-CVD applications, the SPEED Max 300 mm system offers significant flexibility and productivity benefits
while extending HDP- CVD into leading edge technology nodes and beyond. SPEED Max’s ability to run multiple processes for various devices in one platform, without any hardware changes, improves customer development times and tool utilizations
across product lines. The SPEED Max isothermal chamber design, combined with an enlarged remote plasma source, allows more wafers to be processed between plasma cleans and delivers superior throughput per system. In addition, the multi-port
injection, together with isolated source technology, customizes the deposition andin situetching profile for optimal thickness and gap fill uniformity across the wafer.

VECTOR Product Family:

VECTOR®, VECTOR®Express, VECTOR®Express AHM,
VECTOR®Extreme, VECTOR®Extreme AHM, VECTOR®Extreme
TEOS xT, VECTOR®Excel

The VECTOR PECVD products are used for depositing dielectric films on 300 mm wafers. With over 1,000 systems installed in logic fabs, memory fabs, and foundries around the world, VECTOR has the highest
installed base of 300mm PECVD systems in the industry. The VECTOR multi-station sequential deposition architecture not only provides excellent wafer-to-wafer repeatability, but also allows independent temperature and RF control of each processing
station, critical in meeting the integration needs for advanced technology nodes. VECTOR is available in a number of different models for different end applications. The VECTOR Express delivers capital productivity with high reliability. VECTOR
Extreme is designed for memory megafabs, and the VECTOR Extreme TEOS xT version runs at industry leading throughputs. Both VECTOR Express and VECTOR Extreme can also be configured to deposit ashable hard mask (“AHM”) films. Finally, the
VECTOR Excel is a modular system designed to address the needs of advanced technology nodes that require pre- or post-deposition treatment of the dielectric film.

SOLA Product Family:

SOLA®, SOLA®xT

SOLA is an innovative ultraviolet
thermal processing (“UVTP”) system used for the post-deposition treatment of dielectric films. SOLA is based on multi-station sequential treatment architecture to improve film properties and resulting device yields. The SOLA architecture
is both highly productive and flexible and allows the use of different lamps, light intensities, and temperatures at each processing station, resulting in superior post-treatment film performance and improved wafer to wafer uniformity. A variety of
applications benefit from SOLA technology, including high-stress silicon nitrides and ultra-low-k dielectrics used to deliver increased device speeds and lower power consumption for advanced technology nodes.

PVD Technologies

PVD, also known as “sputtering,” is a process in which ions of an inert gas, such as argon, are electrically accelerated in a
high vacuum toward a target of pure metal, such as tantalum or copper. Upon impact, the argon ions sputter off the target material, which is then deposited as a thin film on a silicon wafer. PVD processes are used to create the barrier and seed
layers in copper damascene interconnect applications, as well as in front-end-of-line applications such as high-k/metal gate schemes for logic devices.

INOVA Product Family:

INOVA®, INOVA®xT, INOVA®NExT

The latest generation INOVA NExT is a 300 mm PVD system designed for both copper damascene and subtractive aluminum
manufacturing processes. For copper applications, the INOVA NExT features the patented Hollow Cathode Magnetron (HCM™) source technology to provide ion-induced copper seed flow (IonFlow™) enabling the sidewall coverage, film quality, and
scalable seed layers required for advanced technology nodes. Coupled with the HCM IONX™ tantalum or titanium barrier technology, the INOVA NExT system enables PVD copper barrier seed ensures extendibility. For aluminum applications, the INOVA
NExT production-proven Q300 Planar Magnetron Source provides industry-leading system productivity with lowest cost of consumables and defects, our highest manufacturing throughput, and excellent process control for robust integration.







ECD Technologies

Lam’s Electrofill®products are used to build the copper primary conductive wires in advanced integrated circuits. Electrofill uses a copper electrolytic solution to create lines and
vias in a dielectric layer which has been etched with the pattern of the circuitry, in a process called copper damascene.

SABRE Product
Family:

SABRE®, SABRE®xT, SABRE®NExT, SABRE®Extreme, SABRE®Excel

The latest-generation SABRE Excel system features a deposition module that incorporates our patented IRISCell™
technology that enables the deposition of very thin seeds for advanced technology nodes. SABRE Excel’s Multiwave entry and low-corrosion electrolyte also dramatically improve on-wafer performance, reduce cost of consumables, and significantly
reduce production halting defects.

Surface Preparation Process

Chip manufacturers use surface preparation products to remove photoresist from a wafer’s surface after the photolithographic
circuitry patterning process to remove any film residues and particles before proceeding with the next deposition step in the manufacturing process. Both wet chemistry and dry chemistry strip processes may be used in semiconductor manufacturing. In
dry strip, a combination of plasma energy and gaseous chemistries are combined to achieve the desired result.

Standalone Photoresist Strip
Products:

GxT®, G400®

Our family of photoresist strip products are tailored to the specific needs of memory and logic customers. The GxT
photoresist strip system is intended for critical logic device cleaning steps that demand low material loss, full temperature and chemistry flexibility, and ultra-low defect rates. The GxT’s MSSP architecture facilitates complex, multi-step
ashing processes, while the ultra-low silicon loss (“ULSi”) H2-based process provides non-oxidizing chemistries for near-zero material loss. Our G400 system, the industry’s most productive photoresist system, is targeted for memory manufacturers and provides
bulk strip and high-dose implant strip capabilities. Enhanced source technology combined with faster wafer heating provides the G400 with industry leading throughputs for bulk strip applications and implant strip.

Clean Process

The
manufacture of semiconductor devices involves a series of processes such as etch, deposition, and implantation, which leave particles and residues on the surface of the wafer. The wafer must generally be cleaned after these steps to remove particles
and residues that could adversely impact the processes that immediately follow them and degrade device performance. Common wafer cleaning steps include post-etch and post-strip cleans and pre-diffusion and pre-deposition cleans, among others.

As customers transition to smaller geometries, it becomes increasingly more challenging to efficiently remove particles and
residues while at the same time minimizing substrate material loss, protecting structures with fragile new materials and smaller feature sizes, and efficient drying. Similarly, as manufacturers transition to smaller technology nodes, managing
particle build-up on the back-side of the wafer surface is becoming more critical. Single-wafer wet processing provides an advantage over batch cleaning by preventing particles from migrating from the back-side of a wafer to the front-side during
the cleaning steps. In addition, management of potential defect sources at the wafer edge becomes increasingly challenging as new materials are introduced in the process flow.

Single-Wafer Wet Clean

As device geometries shrink and new
materials are introduced, device flows become more complex, and the number of wafer cleaning steps increases. The need to have better control of the cleaning process, to increase overall clean efficiency, and to clean fragile structures without
causing damage are reasons why chipmakers are turning to single-wafer wet clean processing technology for next-generation devices.

Single-wafer wet processing is particularly advantageous for those applications where improved defect performance (removing particles without damaging the wafer pattern) or enhanced selectivity and CD
control can improve yield. Over the past decade, the transition from batch to single-wafer processing has occurred for back-end-of-line wet clean applications. More recently device manufacturers have transitioned to single-wafer processing for
front-end-of-line wet clean applications as the need for higher particle removal efficiency without device structure damage has increased.

Spin Wet Clean Products:

SP Series, Da Vinci®, DV-Prime®

Introduced over 20 years ago, our spin technology for cleaning and removing films has assisted the industry transition from batch to single-wafer wet processing. This proven technology provides the
productivity and flexibility needed for both high-volume manufacturing and leading-edge development across multiple technology nodes and for all device types. By offering advanced dilute chemistry and solvent solutions in our systems, our spin wet
clean systems address certain defectivity and material integrity requirements. In addition, our unique wafer chuck design provides the ability to effectively clean the back-side of the wafer without damaging the devices on the front-side of the
wafer surface.







Plasma-Based Bevel Clean

Semiconductor manufacturers clean the wafer edge or bevel to properly remove yield limiting defects. New materials like porous low-k and
organic films often do not adhere as well as traditional silicon or polymer-based films and have the potential to be significant defect sources. By including cleaning steps that target the bevel region, the number of good die at the wafer’s
edge can be increased to maximize yield.

2300®Coronus®Plasma Bevel Clean
System

The 2300 Coronus plasma bevel clean system incorporates plasma technology to remove yield limiting defect sources.
The system combines the ability of plasma to selectively remove a wide variety of materials with a proprietary confinement technology that protects the die area. Incorporating our Dynamic Alignment technology on the production-proven 2300 platform,
the Coronus system provides highly accurate wafer placement for repeatable process results and superior encroachment control and is designed to remove a wide range of material types, in multiple applications, throughout the manufacturing process
flow.

Advanced Wafer-Level Packaging or “Back End” Systems

3D wafer level packaging (“WLP”) is emerging as an alternative to traditional two dimensional packaging as the 3D approach
offers a smaller form factor in the final chip package, increased interconnect speed and bandwidth, and lower power consumption, among other benefits. To address this emerging trend, we currently offer WLP versions of our ECD, PVD, PECVD and
photoresist strip systems.

ECD: SABRE®3D —Designed for advanced wafer-level packaging applications including through-silicon vias, redistribution layers, pillars, under-bump metallization, and
bumping. The system’s innovative modular design maximizes footprint density, enables integrated multi-layer processing, and supports field extendibility, making capacity additions easy and cost effective. The SABRE 3D incorporates many of the
same technologies found on the standard SABRE platform, including sealed dry contacts, innovative clamshell and cell design, and SmartDose™ plating bath control.

PVD: INOVA®3D —Designed for depositing copper
barrier/seed films for TSVs, the INOVA 3D uses our next-generation patented HCM sputtering source coupled with our IonFlow technology to provide superior copper sidewall coverage and ultra-low defects in high aspect ratio TSVs. The ion-induced
copper flow process enables void-free fill to be achieved while using a much thinner seed layer compared to competitive PVD approaches, reducing the manufacturing cost of consumables for the TSV PVD process step by greater than 50%.

PECVD:
VECTOR®3D —Used to deposit high quality dielectric liners for TSV structures, as well as other low
temperature films such as silicon nitride and silicon oxide that are compatible with bonded substrates. The system incorporates technology to tune the hermiticity and electrical performance of these low temperature films to match the film quality
typically obtained with a higher temperature dielectric deposition. VECTOR 3D also uses the same patented MSSD technology that is incorporated into the more than 1,000 VECTOR PECVD systems that have been shipped worldwide.

Photoresist Strip: G3D™— Introduced in 2010, the G3D is a version of the GxT platform designed for advanced WLP applications, including
contact clean and TSV photoresist strip. The G3D photoresist strip system has been designed to quickly remove thick (20-100 micron) photoresists used in the manufacture of redistribution layers and pillars and to achieve residue-free strip and clean
of high aspect ratio TSVs. G3D’s competitive edge comes from a unique combination of high productivity, low temperature processing, and a deep cleaning capability that is enabled by the system’s high ash rate inductively-coupled plasma
source. With flexible RF power and gas distribution controls, and a low-temperature processing capability, the G3D affords a wide process window for residue-free removal at industry leading throughputs.

LED Manufacturing Systems

For the LED sub-segment of the general lighting marketplace, we offer a suite of highly productive deposition, strip, and polishing/grinding process equipment solutions for LED manufacturing. Our products
for LED manufacturing include the L3510®line of photoresist strip systems for de-scum and dry strip cleaning
processes, the INOVA and SABRE systems for LED metallization steps, the SEQUEL®and VECTOR systems for PECVD
deposition, and the AC-1500-P3 double-side polishing system from Peter Wolters for polishing and backside grinding. Our LED manufacturing products are designed for substrates of sapphire, silicon carbide, silicon, gallium arsenide and gallium
nitride, and can be used with wafers ranging from 2 inches (50 mm) to 12 inches (300 mm) in diameter. All systems are supported by our worldwide field service organization.

Fiscal Periods Presented

All references to fiscal years apply to our
fiscal years, which ended June 24, 2012, June 26, 2011, and June 27, 2010. In all sections of this document, the fiscal 2012 information presented reflects 20 days of Novellus related activity.

Research and Development

The market for semiconductor capital equipment is characterized by rapid technological change and product innovation. Our ability to
achieve and maintain our competitive advantage depends in part on our continued and timely development of new products and enhancements to existing products. Accordingly, we devote a significant portion of our personnel and financial resources to
R&D programs and seek to maintain close and responsive relationships with our customers and suppliers.

Our R&D
expenses during fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010 were $444.6 million, $373.3 million, and $320.9 million, respectively. The majority of R&D spending over the past three years has been targeted at etch and other plasma-based technologies,
single-wafer clean, and other semiconductor manufacturing products. We believe current challenges for customers at various points in the semiconductor manufacturing process present opportunities for us.







We expect to continue to make substantial investments in R&D to meet our customers’
product needs, support our growth strategy, and enhance our competitive position.

Marketing, Sales, and Service

Our marketing, sales, and service efforts are focused on building long-term relationships with our customers and targeting product and
service solutions designed to meet their needs. These efforts are supported by a team of product marketing and sales professionals as well as equipment and process engineers who work closely with individual customers to develop solutions for their
wafer processing needs. We maintain ongoing service relationships with our customers and have an extensive network of service engineers in place throughout the United States, Europe, Taiwan, Korea, Japan, and Asia Pacific. We believe that
comprehensive support programs and close working relationships with customers are essential to maintaining high customer satisfaction and our competitiveness in the marketplace.

We provide standard warranties for our systems. The warranty provides that systems shall be free from defects in material and workmanship
and conform to agreed-upon specifications. The warranty is limited to repair of the defect or replacement with new or like-new equivalent goods and is valid when the buyer provides prompt notification within the warranty period of the claimed defect
or non-conformity and also makes the items available for inspection and repair. We also offer extended warranty packages to our customers to purchase as desired.

International Sales

A significant portion of our sales and operations
occur outside the United States and, therefore, may be subject to certain risks, including but not limited to tariffs and other barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing non-U.S. operations, adverse tax consequences, foreign currency exchange
rate fluctuations, changes in currency controls, compliance with U.S. and international laws and regulations, including U.S. export restrictions, and economic and political conditions. Any of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial position, and results of operations and cash flows. Revenue by region was as follows:



Year EndedJune 24,June 26,June 27,201220112010(in thousands)Revenue:Korea$893,549$756,660$539,312Taiwan467,922766,910703,854North America458,531393,004186,036Japan308,189405,371318,641Asia Pacific292,963492,600252,248Europe244,038423,148133,685Total revenue$2,665,192$3,237,693$2,133,776

Customers

Our customers include many of the world’s leading semiconductor manufacturers. Customers continue to establish joint ventures, alliances and licensing arrangements which have the potential to
positively or negatively impact our competitive position and market opportunities. In fiscal year 2012, three customers, Samsung Electronics Company, Ltd., SK Hynix Inc., and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd., combined represented
approximately 50% of total revenues and each customer individually represented greater than 10% of total revenues. In fiscal year 2011, Samsung Electronics Company, Ltd. represented approximately 24% of total revenues. In fiscal year 2010, three
customers, Samsung Electronics Company, Ltd., Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd., and Toshiba Corporation, combined represented approximately 50% of total revenues and each customer individually represented greater than 10% of total
revenues.

A material reduction in orders from our customers could adversely affect our results of operations and projected
financial condition. Our business depends upon the expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers. Semiconductor manufacturers’ businesses, in turn, depend on many factors, including their economic capability, the current and anticipated market
demand for integrated circuits and the availability of equipment capacity to support that demand.

Backlog

In general, we schedule production of our systems based upon our customers’ delivery requirements. In order for a system to be
included in our backlog, the following conditions must be met: 1) we have received a written customer request that has been accepted, 2) we have an agreement on prices and product specifications, and 3) there is a scheduled shipment
within the next 12 months. In order for spares and services to be included in our backlog, the following conditions must be met: 1) we have received a written customer request that has been accepted and (2) delivery of products or
provision of services is anticipated within the next 12 months. Where specific spare parts and customer service purchase contracts do not contain discrete delivery dates, we use volume estimates at the contract price and over the contract
period, not to exceed 12 months, in calculating backlog amounts. Our policy is to revise our backlog for order cancellations and to make adjustments to reflect, among other things, changes in spares volume estimates and customer delivery date
changes. At June 24, 2012 and June 26, 2011, our backlog was approximately $870 million and $641 million, respectively. Generally, orders for our products and services are subject to cancellation by our







customers with limited penalties. Because some orders are received and shipped in the same quarter and because customers may change delivery dates and cancel orders, our backlog at any particular
date is not necessarily indicative of business volumes or actual revenue levels for succeeding periods.

Manufacturing

Our manufacturing operations consist mainly of assembling and testing components, sub-assemblies, and modules that are then integrated
into finished systems prior to shipment to or at the location of our customers. Most of the assembly and testing of our products is conducted in cleanroom environments.

We have agreements with third parties to outsource certain aspects of our manufacturing, production warehousing, and logistics functions. We believe that these outsourcing contracts provide us more
flexibility to scale our operations up or down in a timely and cost effective manner, enabling us to respond to the cyclical nature of our business. We believe that we have selected reputable providers and have secured their performance on terms
documented in written contracts. However, it is possible that one or more of these providers could fail to perform as we expect, and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business and have a negative effect on our operating results and
financial condition. Overall, we believe we have effective mechanisms to manage risks associated with our outsourcing relationships. Refer to Note 14 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 15 of this report, for further
information concerning our outsourcing commitments.

Certain components and sub-assemblies that we include in our products may
only be obtained from a single supplier. We believe that, in many cases, we could obtain and qualify alternative sources to supply these products. Nevertheless, any prolonged inability to obtain these components could have an adverse effect on our
operating results and could unfavorably impact our customer relationships.

Environmental Matters

We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to the management of hazardous materials that we use in our business
operations. We are currently not aware of any pending notices of violation, fines, lawsuits, or investigations arising from environmental matters that would have a material effect on our business. We believe that we are generally in compliance with
these regulations and that we have obtained (or will obtain or are otherwise addressing) all necessary environmental permits to conduct our business. Nevertheless, the failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being
imposed on us, require us to suspend production or cease operations or cause our customers to not accept our products. These regulations could require us to alter our current operations, to acquire significant additional equipment, or to incur
substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Our failure to control the use, sale, transport or disposal of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities.

Employees

As of
August 14, 2012, we had approximately 6,600 regular employees. Although we have employment-related agreements with a number of key employees, these agreements do not guarantee continued service. Each of our employees is required to comply with
our policies relating to maintaining the confidentiality of our non-public information.

In the semiconductor and
semiconductor equipment industries, competition for highly skilled employees is intense. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon our continued ability to attract and retain qualified employees particularly in the R&D and
customer support functions.

Competition

We face significant competition with all of our products and services. Our
primary competitors in the etch market are Tokyo Electron, Ltd. and Applied Materials, Inc. Our primary competitors in the single-wafer wet clean market are Dainippon Screen Manufacturing Co. Ltd. and Tokyo Electron, Ltd. In the tungsten CVD, PECVD,
HDP-CVD, ECD and PVD markets, our primary competitor is Applied Materials, Inc. In the PECVD market, we also compete against ASM International. Our primary competitors in the surface preparation product arena are Mattson Technologies, Inc. and PSK,
Inc.

Certain of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial resources and larger engineering,
manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support organizations than we do. In addition, we face competition from a number of emerging companies in the industry. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of
their current products and processes and to introduce new products and processes with enhanced price/performance characteristics. If our competitors make acquisitions or enter into strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers, or
other entities, covering products similar to those we sell, our ability to sell our products to those customers could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will continue to compete successfully in the future.







Patents and Licenses

Our policy is to seek patents on inventions relating to new or enhanced products and processes developed as part of our ongoing research, engineering, manufacturing, and support activities. We currently
hold a number of United States and foreign patents covering various aspects of our products and processes. We believe that the duration of our patents generally exceeds the useful life of the technologies and processes disclosed and claimed in them.
Our patents, which cover material aspects of our past and present core products, have current durations ranging from approximately one to twenty years. We believe that, although the patents we own and may obtain in the future will be of value, they
alone will not determine our success. Our success depends principally upon our engineering, marketing, support, and delivery skills. However, in the absence of patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to imitate our
products, manufacturing techniques, and processes. In addition, other companies and inventors may receive patents that contain claims applicable or similar to our products and processes. The sale of products covered by patents of others could
require licenses that may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. For further discussion of legal matters, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” of this report.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

As of August 22, 2012, the
executive officers of Lam Research were as follows:



NameAgeTitleMartin B. Anstice45President and Chief Executive OfficerTimothy M. Archer45Chief Operating OfficerErnest E. Maddock54Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting OfficerRichard A. Gottscho60Senior Vice President, Global ProductsSarah A. O’Dowd62Group Vice President, Chief Legal Officer

Martin B. Anstice is President and Chief Executive Officer of Lam Research. He joined Lam Research in
April 2001 as Senior Director, Operations Controller, was promoted to the position of Managing Director and Corporate Controller in May 2002, was promoted to Group Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer in
June 2004, was named Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer in March 2007, was promoted to Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, in September 2008, and promoted to President, Chief Operating Officer,
in December 2010. In January 2012, Mr. Anstice was appointed President, Chief Executive Officer, and in February 2012, was appointed to the Lam Research Corporation Board of Directors. Mr. Anstice began his career at Raychem
Corporation where, during his 13-year tenure, he held numerous finance roles of increasing responsibility in Europe and North America. Subsequent to Tyco International’s acquisition of Raychem in 1999, he assumed responsibilities supporting
mergers and acquisition activities of Tyco Electronics. Mr. Anstice is an associate member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants in the United Kingdom.

Timothy M. Archer joined Lam Research in June 2012 as the Company’s Chief Operating Officer. Prior to Lam Research, Mr. Archer spent 18 years at Novellus Systems in various technology
development and business leadership roles, including most recently as Chief Operating Officer from January 2011 to June 2012, Executive Vice President Worldwide Sales, Marketing, and Customer Satisfaction from September 2009 to January 2011, and
Executive Vice President of the PECVD and Electrofill Business Units from November 2008 to September 2009. Mr. Archer’s tenure at Novellus Systems also included assignments as Senior Director of Technology for Novellus Systems Japan
from 1999 to 2001 and Senior Director of Technology for the Electrofill Business Unit from April 2001 to April 2002. Mr. Archer started his career in 1989 at Tektronix where he was responsible for process development for high-speed bipolar
integrated circuits. Mr. Archer completed the Program for Management Development at Harvard Graduate School of Business and holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Applied Physics from the California Institute of Technology.

Ernest E. Maddock was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Lam Research in September 2008. Additionally,
Mr. Maddock oversees Information Technology and heads Silfex Incorporated (formerly Bullen Semiconductor Corporation), a division of Lam Research. From October 2003 through September 2008, Mr. Maddock held the position of Senior Vice
President of Global Operations at Lam Research, overseeing Information Technology, Global Supply Chain, Production Operations, Corporate Quality, Global Security, and Global Real Estate & Facilities. Mr. Maddock also held the position
of Vice President of the Customer Support Business Group (CSBG) with the Company. Mr. Maddock joined the Company in November 1997. Prior to his employment with Lam Research, Mr. Maddock was Managing Director, Global Logistics and
Repair Services Operations, and Chief Financial Officer, Software Products Division, of NCR Corporation. He has also held a variety of executive roles in finance and operations in several industries ranging from commercial real estate to
telecommunications.

Richard A. Gottscho is the Company’s Senior Vice President, Global Products Group, a position he has
held since August 2010. Prior to that time, he had been Group Vice President and General Manager, Etch Businesses since March 2007. Dr. Gottscho joined the Company in January 1996 and has served at various Director and Vice President
levels in support of etch products, CVD products, and corporate research. Prior to joining Lam Research, Dr. Gottscho was a member of Bell Laboratories for 15 years where he started his career working in plasma processing. During his tenure at
Bell, he headed research departments in electronics materials, electronics packaging, and flat panel displays. Dr. Gottscho is the author of numerous papers, patents, and lectures in plasma processing and process control. He is a recipient of
the American Vacuum Society’s Peter Mark Memorial Award and Plasma Science and Technology Division Prize, the Gaseous Electronics Conference Foundation Lecturer, the Dry Process Symposium Nishizawa Award, and the Tegal Thinker Award. He is a
fellow of the American Physical and American Vacuum Societies and has served on numerous editorial boards of refereed technical publications, program committees for major







conferences in plasma science and engineering, and was vice-chair of a National Research Council study on plasma science in the 1980s. Dr. Gottscho earned Ph.D. and B.S. degrees in physical
chemistry from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Pennsylvania State University, respectively.

Sarah A.
O’Dowd joined Lam Research in September 2008 as Group Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, responsible for general legal matters, intellectual property and ethics & compliance. In addition to her Legal function, in April
2009 she was appointed Vice President of Human Resources and served in this dual capacity from April 2009 through May 2012. Prior to joining Lam Research, Ms. O’Dowd was Vice President and General Counsel for FibroGen, Inc. from
February 2007 until September 2008. Until February 2007, Ms. O’Dowd was a shareholder in the law firm of Heller Ehrman LLP for more than twenty years, practicing in the areas of corporate securities, governance and mergers and
acquisitions for a variety of clients, principally publicly traded high technology companies. She served in a variety of leadership and management roles at Heller Ehrman, including Managing Partner of the Silicon Valley and San Diego offices,
member of the firm’s Policy Committee and, as head of the firm’s business practice groups, a member of the firm’s Executive Committee.



