Item 1.Business

Incorporated in 1980, Lam Research Corporation (“Lam Research,” “Lam,” “we,” or the “Company”) is headquartered in Fremont, California, and maintains a network of
facilities throughout Asia, Europe, and North America in order to meet the needs of its global customer base.

Additional
information about Lam Research is available on our website at www.lamresearch.com.

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Forms 10-Q, Current Reports on Forms 8-K, and any amendments to those reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practical after we file them with or furnish them to the SEC and are also available online at the SEC’s
website at http://www.sec.gov.

The Lam Research logo, Lam Research, and all product and service names used in this report are
either registered trademarks or trademarks of Lam Research Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. All other marks mentioned herein are the property of their respective holders.

All references to fiscal years apply to our fiscal years, which ended June 26, 2011, June 27, 2010, and June 28, 2009.

Lam Research is a leading supplier of wafer fabrication equipment and services to the worldwide semiconductor industry. For
more than thirty years, we have contributed to the advancement of semiconductor manufacturing processes that have led to the proliferation of a variety of electronic products that impact our everyday lives, including cell phones, computers, memory,
and networking equipment. The Company’s customer base includes leading semiconductor memory, foundry, and integrated device manufacturers (“IDMs”) that make DRAM, NAND, and logic devices for these products.

We design, manufacture, market, refurbish, and service semiconductor processing equipment used in the fabrication of integrated circuits.
Semiconductor wafers are subjected to a complex series of process and







preparation steps that result in the simultaneous creation of many individual integrated circuits. We leverage our expertise in the areas of etch and single-wafer clean processing to develop
technology and productivity solutions that typically benefit our customers through lower defect rates, enhanced yields, faster processing time, and/or reduced cost. Many of the technical advances that we introduce in our newest products are also
available as upgrades to our installed base of equipment; this is a benefit that can provide customers with a cost-effective strategy for extending the performance and capabilities of their existing wafer fabrication lines.

Our innovative etch and clean technologies enable customers to build some of the world’s highest-performing integrated circuits. Our
etch systems shape the microscopic conductive and dielectric layers into circuits that define a chip’s final use and function. Our broad portfolio of single-wafer clean technologies allows our customers to implement customized yield-enhancing
solutions. With each successive technology node, additional requirements and challenges drive the need for advanced manufacturing solutions. We strive to consistently deliver these advanced capabilities with cost-effective production performance.
Lam Research understands the close relationship between customer trust and the timely delivery of new solutions that leads to shared success with our customers.

Our Customer Support Business Group (“CSBG”) provides products and services to maximize installed equipment performance and operational efficiency. We offer a broad range of services to deliver
value throughout the lifecycle of our equipment, including customer service, spares, upgrades, and refurbishment of our etch and clean products. While most semiconductor device manufacturers have transitioned to 300 mm wafer technology, there are
still many who utilize 200 mm technology, requiring prior-generation equipment. To address this market and to meet customers’ needs for high-performance, low-risk equipment, our Reliant™ Systems Business offers a suite of new and
refurbished Lam legacy equipment for etch and spin clean.

Etch Process

Etch processes, which are repeated numerous times during the wafer fabrication cycle, are required to manufacture every type of
semiconductor device produced today. Our etch products selectively remove portions of various films from the wafer in the creation of semiconductor devices. These products use various plasma-based technologies to create the desired critical device
features at current and future technology nodes. Plasma consists of charged and neutral particles that react with exposed portions of the wafer surface to remove dielectric or conductive materials and produce the finely defined features and patterns
of an integrated circuit. Etch products are required to remove only the desired films and do so in a uniform fashion across the entire surface of the wafer. This process is becoming increasingly challenging as device feature sizes shrink, the
complexity of the films being removed increases, and the tolerance for variability between devices and wafers becomes smaller.

Dielectric Etch

Dielectric etch often requires etching multi-layer film stacks. Smaller technology node sizes increase the complexity of the structures
being etched, and repeatable on-wafer performance remains critical. In addition to the challenges introduced by new materials and scaling, device manufacturers’ focus on reducing overall cost per wafer has placed an increased emphasis on the
ability to etch multiple films in the same chamber(in situ).

DFC Technology

Production-proven in high-volume manufacturing for the more than 15 years, our patented Dual Frequency Confined™ technology has been
extended to incorporate multi-frequency power with physically confined plasma. The application of power at different frequencies provides enhanced process flexibility and allows different materials to be etched in the same chamber. Physical
confinement of the plasma to an area directly above the wafer minimizes chemical interaction with the chamber walls, eliminating potential polymer build-up that could lead to defects on the wafer. Confinement also enables our proprietaryin situWaferless Autoclean™ (“WAC”) technology to clean chamber components after each wafer has been etched. Used together, multi-frequency and WAC technologies provide a consistent process environment for every wafer, preventing process
drift and ensuring repeatable process results wafer-to-wafer and chamber-to-chamber.







2300®Exelan®Flex™, 2300®Exelan®Flex45™, 2300®Flex™D, 2300®Flex™E Series Dielectric
Etch Systems

Our 2300 Flex dielectric etch product family represents a continuous evolution of the productivity and
performance benefits of DFC technology. The 2300 Flex family allows a single chamber design to meet the requirements of a wide range of applications at multiple nodes. Advances in system design, such as multiple frequencies, higher power
capabilities and tunable wafer temperature, meet the more demanding uniformity and profile requirements for applications at the 32 nm node and beyond.

Conductor Etch

As the semiconductor industry continues to shrink
critical feature sizes and improve device performance, a variety of new etch challenges have emerged. For conductor etch, these challenges include processing smaller features, new materials, and new 3-dimensional transistor structures on the
wafer. Due to decreasing feature sizes, the etch process can now require atomic-level control across a 300 mm wafer. The incorporation of new metal gates and high-k dielectric materials in the device stack requires advanced multi-film etching
capability. Furthermore, the adoption of double patterning techniques to address lithography challenges starting with the 3x technology node and beyond is driving the etch process to define the feature on the wafer as well as to transfer the pattern
into the film. All of these challenges require today’s conductor etch systems to provide advanced capabilities, while still providing high productivity.

TCP Technology

Introduced in 1992, our Transformer
Coupled Plasma™(“TCP”) technology continues to provide leading-edge capability for advanced
conductor etch applications at the 32 nm node and beyond. By efficiently coupling radio frequency (“RF”) power into plasma at low pressures, the TCP technology provides capability to etch nanoscale features into silicon and metal films.
The advanced TCP source design ensures a uniform, high-density plasma across the wafer, without requiring magnetic enhancements that could cause device damage. With a wide process window over a range of power, chemistry, and pressure combinations,
TCP technology provides the flexibility required to perform multiple etch steps in the same chamber.

2300®Versys®Kiyo®, 2300®Versys®Kiyo45™, 2300®Kiyo®C Series, 2300®Kiyo®E Series, 2300®Versys®Metal, 2300®Versys®Metal45™, 2300®Versys®Metal L Conductor Etch Systems

Now in
its fourth generation, the 2300 Kiyo product family combines iterative advances in technology to provide critical dimension (“CD”) uniformity and productivity for a wide range of conductor etch applications. The 2300 Versys Metal product
family leverages Lam’s proprietary TCP technology to provide a flexible platform for back-end-of-line metal etch processes. Our etch products perform production-provenin situetches of complex features. In addition, proprietary pre-coat
and post-etch chamber clean techniques provide the same environment for superior repeatability, as well as high uptime and yield wafer after wafer.

Three-Dimensional Integrated Circuit Etch

The semiconductor
industry is developing advanced, three-dimensional integrated circuits (“3DICs”) using through-silicon vias (“TSVs”) to provide interconnect capability for die-to-die and wafer-to-wafer stacking. In addition to a reduced form
factor, 3D ICs can enhance device performance through increased speed and decreased power consumption. Manufacturers are currently considering a wide variety of 3D integration schemes that present an equally broad range of TSV etch requirements.
Plasma etch technology, which has been used extensively for deep silicon etching in memory devices and micro-electromechanical systems (“MEMS”) production, is well suited for TSV creation.

2300®Syndion®Through-Silicon Via Etch System

The 2300 Syndion etch system is based on our patented TCP technology and the production-proven 2300 Versys Kiyo conductor etch system. The
Syndion system can etch multiple film stacks in the same chamber, including silicon, dielectric, and conducting materials, thereby addressing multiple TSV etch requirements.







MEMS and Deep Silicon Etch

Deep silicon etch is an enabling process for several emerging technologies, including MEMS devices, CMOS image sensors, and power devices.
Many of these technologies are increasingly being used in consumer applications, such as ink jet printer heads, accelerometers, and inertial sensors. This is driving a number of deep silicon etch applications to transition into high-volume
manufacturing, which requires the high levels of cost-effective production typically seen in commodity semiconductor memory devices. To achieve high yield in mass production, the deep silicon etch process requires wafer-to-wafer repeatability.

TCP®9400DSiE™Deep Silicon Etch
System

The TCP 9400DSiE system is based on our production-proven TCP 9400 silicon etch series. The system’s patented
high-density TCP plasma source provides a configuration to meet the challenges of silicon deep reactive ion etch. This offers broad process capability and flexibility for a wide range of MEMS, advanced packaging, power semiconductor applications,
and TSV applications on 150 mm and 200 mm wafers. In addition, incorporation of our proprietaryin situchamber cleaning technology provides etch rate stability.

Clean Process

The manufacture of semiconductor devices involves a series
of processes such as etch, deposition, and implantation, which leave particles and residues on the surface of the wafer. The wafer must generally be cleaned after these steps to remove particles and residues that could adversely impact the processes
that immediately follow them and degrade device performance. Common wafer cleaning steps include post-etch and post-strip cleans and pre-diffusion and pre-deposition cleans, among others.

As device manufacturers transition to the 32 nm and 28 nm technology nodes, it becomes increasingly more challenging to efficiently remove
particles and residues while at the same time minimizing substrate material loss, protecting structures with fragile new materials and smaller feature sizes, and efficient drying. Similarly, as manufacturers transition to smaller technology nodes,
managing particle build-up on the back-side of the wafer surface is becoming more critical. Single-wafer wet processing provides an advantage over batch cleaning by preventing particles from migrating from the back-side of a wafer to the front-side
during the cleaning steps. In addition, management of potential defect sources at the wafer edge becomes increasingly challenging as new materials are introduced in the process flow.

Single-Wafer Wet Clean

As device geometries shrink and new
materials are introduced, device flows become more complex, and the number of wafer cleaning steps increases. The need to have better control of the cleaning process, to increase overall clean efficiency, and to clean fragile structures without
causing damage are reasons why chipmakers are turning to single-wafer wet clean processing technology for next-generation devices.

Over the past decade, a transition from batch to single-wafer processing has occurred for back-end-of-line wet clean applications. More recently the migration for front-end-of-line wet clean applications
has started to accelerate as the need for higher particle removal efficiency without device structure damage becomes more critical. Single-wafer wet processing is particularly advantageous for those applications where improved defect performance
(removing particles without damaging the wafer pattern) or enhanced selectivity and CD control can improve yield.

Spin
Clean Products: SP Series, Da Vinci®, DV-Prime®

Introduced over 20 years ago, our spin
technology for cleaning and removing films has assisted the industry transition from batch to single-wafer wet processing. This proven technology provides the productivity and flexibility needed for both high-volume manufacturing and leading-edge
development across multiple technology nodes and for all device types. By offering advanced dilute chemistry and solvent solutions in our systems, our spin wet clean systems address certain defectivity and material integrity requirements. In
addition, our unique wafer chuck design provides the ability to effectively clean the back-side of the wafer without damaging the devices on the front-side of the wafer surface.







Linear Clean Product: 2300®Serene®

To meet the challenges of smaller critical dimensions, increasing aspect ratios, and new materials integration, our
2300 Serene wet clean system is targeted at applications requiring high-selectivity residue removal without damaging sensitive device structures. The system’s C3®(Confined Chemical Cleaning) technology combines linear wafer motion with chemically-driven single-wafer cleaning to remove residues with chemical exposure times
as short as a few seconds. The cleaning exposure time is optimized for efficient removal of the target materials, while limiting the impact on critical materials. This technology addresses applications that require high-selectivity cleaning, such as
high-k metal gate post-etch clean.

Plasma-Based Bevel Clean

Semiconductor manufacturers are paying increasing attention to the wafer edge as a source of yield limiting defects. New materials like
porous low-k and organic films often do not adhere as well as traditional silicon or polymer-based films and have the potential to be significant defect sources. By including cleaning steps that target the bevel region, the number of good die at the
wafer’s edge can be increased to maximize yield.

2300®Coronus®Plasma Bevel Clean
System

The 2300 Coronus plasma bevel clean system incorporates plasma technology to remove yield limiting defect sources.
The system combines the ability of plasma to selectively remove a wide variety of materials with a proprietary confinement technology that protects the die area. Incorporating our Dynamic Alignment technology on the production-proven 2300 platform,
the Coronus system provides highly accurate wafer placement for repeatable process results and superior encroachment control and is designed to remove a wide range of material types, in multiple applications, throughout the manufacturing process
flow.

Research and Development

The market for semiconductor capital equipment is characterized by rapid technological change and product innovation. Our ability to achieve and maintain our competitive advantage depends in part on our
continued and timely development of new products and enhancements to existing products. Accordingly, we devote a significant portion of our personnel and financial resources to R&D programs and seek to maintain close and responsive relationships
with our customers and suppliers.

Our R&D expenses during fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009 were $373.3 million, $320.9
million, and $288.3 million, respectively. The majority of R&D spending over the past three years has been targeted at etch and other plasma-based technologies, single-wafer clean, and other semiconductor manufacturing products. We believe
current challenges for customers at various points in the semiconductor manufacturing process present opportunities for us.

We
expect to continue to make substantial investments in R&D to meet our customers’ product needs, support our growth strategy, and enhance our competitive position.

Marketing, Sales, and Service

Our marketing, sales, and service efforts
are focused on building long-term relationships with our customers and targeting product and service solutions designed to meet their needs. These efforts are supported by a team of product marketing and sales professionals as well as equipment and
process engineers who work closely with individual customers to develop solutions for their wafer processing needs. We maintain ongoing service relationships with our customers and have an extensive network of service engineers in place throughout
the United States, Europe, Taiwan, Korea, Japan, and Asia Pacific. We believe that comprehensive support programs and close working relationships with customers are essential to maintaining high customer satisfaction and our competitiveness in the
marketplace.

We provide standard warranties for our systems. The warranty provides that systems shall be free from defects in
material and workmanship and conform to agreed-upon specifications. The warranty is limited to repair of the defect or replacement with new or like-new equivalent goods and is valid when the buyer provides







prompt notification within the warranty period of the claimed defect or non-conformity and also makes the items available for inspection and repair. We also offer extended warranty packages to
our customers to purchase as desired.

International Sales

A significant portion of our sales and operations occur outside the United States and, therefore, may be subject to certain risks, including but not limited to tariffs and other barriers, difficulties in
staffing and managing non-U.S. operations, adverse tax consequences, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes in currency controls, compliance with U.S. and international laws and regulations, including U.S. export restrictions, and
economic and political conditions. Any of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations and cash flows. Revenue by region was as follows:



Year EndedJune 26,2011June 27,2010June 28,2009(in thousands)Revenue:United States$393,004$186,036$171,359Europe423,148133,685121,178Japan405,371318,641234,070Korea756,660539,312239,911Taiwan766,910703,854208,053Asia Pacific492,600252,248141,375Total revenue$3,237,693$2,133,776$1,115,946

Customers

Our customers include many of the world’s leading semiconductor manufacturers. Customers continue to establish joint ventures, alliances and licensing arrangements which have the potential to
positively or negatively impact our competitive position and market opportunities. In fiscal year 2011, revenues from Samsung Electronics Company, Ltd. accounted for approximately 24% of total revenues. In fiscal year 2010, revenues from Samsung
Electronics Company, Ltd., Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd., and Toshiba Corporation accounted for approximately 24%, 15%, and 11%, respectively, of total revenues. In fiscal year 2009, revenues from Samsung Electronics Company, Ltd.
and Toshiba Corporation accounted for approximately 19% and 11%, respectively, of total revenues.

A material reduction in
orders from our customers in the semiconductor industry could adversely affect our results of operations and projected financial condition. Our business depends upon the expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers. Semiconductor manufacturers’
businesses, in turn, depend on many factors, including their economic capability, the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits and the availability of equipment capacity to support that demand.

Backlog

In general, we
schedule production of our systems based upon our customers’ delivery requirements. In order for a system to be included in our backlog, the following conditions must be met: 1) we have received a written customer request that has been
accepted, 2) we have an agreement on prices and product specifications, and 3) there is a scheduled shipment within the next 12 months. The spares and services backlog includes customer orders where written customer requests have been
accepted and the delivery of products or provision of services is anticipated within the next 12 months. Where specific spare parts and customer service purchase contracts do not contain discrete delivery dates, we use volume estimates at the
contract price and over the contract period, not exceeding 12 months, in calculating backlog amounts. Our policy is to revise our backlog for order cancellations and to make adjustments to reflect, among other things, changes in spares volume
estimates and customer delivery date changes. At June 26, 2011 and June 27, 2010, our backlog was approximately $641 million and $667 million, respectively. Generally, orders for our products and services are subject to cancellation







by our customers with limited penalties. Because some orders are received and shipped in the same quarter and because customers may change delivery dates and cancel orders, our backlog at any
particular date is not necessarily indicative of business volumes or actual revenue levels for succeeding periods.

Manufacturing

Our manufacturing operations consist mainly of assembling and testing components, sub-assemblies, and modules that are
then integrated into finished systems prior to shipment to or at the location of our customers. Most of the assembly and testing of our products is conducted in cleanroom environments.

We have agreements with third parties to outsource certain aspects of our manufacturing, production warehousing, and logistics functions.
We believe that these outsourcing contracts provide us more flexibility to scale our operations up or down in a timely and cost effective manner, enabling us to respond to the cyclical nature of our business. We believe that we have selected
reputable providers and have secured their performance on terms documented in written contracts. However, it is possible that one or more of these providers could fail to perform as we expect, and such failure could have an adverse impact on our
business and have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. Overall, we believe we have effective mechanisms to manage risks associated with our outsourcing relationships. Refer to Note 14 of our Consolidated Financial
Statements, included in Item 15 of this report, for further information concerning our outsourcing commitments.

Certain
components and sub-assemblies that we include in our products may only be obtained from a single supplier. We believe that, in many cases, we could obtain and qualify alternative sources to supply these products. Nevertheless, any prolonged
inability to obtain these components could have an adverse effect on our operating results and could unfavorably impact our customer relationships.

Environmental Matters

We are subject to a variety of governmental
regulations related to the management of hazardous materials that we use in our business operations. We are currently not aware of any pending notices of violation, fines, lawsuits, or investigations arising from environmental matters that would
have a material effect on our business. We believe that we are generally in compliance with these regulations and that we have obtained (or will obtain or are otherwise addressing) all necessary environmental permits to conduct our business.
Nevertheless, the failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, require us to suspend production or cease operations or cause our customers to not accept our products. These regulations could require
us to alter our current operations, to acquire significant additional equipment, or to incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Our failure to control the use, sale, transport or disposal of hazardous substances
could subject us to future liabilities.

Employees

As of August 12, 2011, we had approximately 3,700 regular employees. Although we have employment-related agreements with a number of key employees, these agreements do not guarantee continued
service. Each of our employees is required to comply with our policies relating to maintaining the confidentiality of our non-public information.

In the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industries, competition for highly skilled employees is intense. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon our continued ability to attract
and retain qualified employees particularly in the R&D and customer support functions.

Competition

The semiconductor capital equipment industry is characterized by rapid change and is highly competitive throughout the world. To compete
effectively, we invest significant financial resources to continue to strengthen and enhance our product and services portfolio and to maintain customer service and support locations globally. Semiconductor manufacturers evaluate capital equipment
suppliers in many areas, including, but not limited to, process performance, productivity, customer support, defect control, and overall cost of ownership, which can be affected by many factors such as equipment design, reliability, software
advancements, etc. Our ability to







succeed in the marketplace depends upon our ability to maintain existing products and introduce product enhancements and new products that meet customer requirements on a timely basis. In
addition, semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate new capital equipment into semiconductor production lines. As a result, once a semiconductor manufacturer has selected a particular supplier’s
equipment and qualified it for production, the manufacturer generally maintains that selection for that specific production application and technology node as long as the supplier’s products demonstrate performance to specification in the
installed base. Accordingly, we may experience difficulty in selling to a given customer if that customer has qualified a competitor’s equipment. We must also continue to meet the expectations of our installed base of customers through the
delivery of high-quality and cost-efficient spare parts in the presence of third-party spare parts provider competition.

We
face significant competition with all of our products and services. Our primary competitors in the etch market are Tokyo Electron, Ltd. and Applied Materials, Inc. Our primary competitor in the single-wafer wet clean market is Dainippon Screen
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.

Certain of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial resources and
larger engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support organizations than we do. In addition, we face competition from a number of emerging companies in the industry. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the
design and performance of their current products and processes and to introduce new products and processes with enhanced price/performance characteristics. If our competitors make acquisitions or enter into strategic relationships with leading
semiconductor manufacturers, or other entities, covering products similar to those we sell, our ability to sell our products to those customers could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will continue to compete successfully in
the future.

Patents and Licenses

Our policy is to seek patents on inventions relating to new or enhanced products and processes developed as part of our ongoing research, engineering, manufacturing, and support activities. We currently
hold a number of United States and foreign patents covering various aspects of our products and processes. We believe that the duration of our patents generally exceeds the useful life of the technologies and processes disclosed and claimed in them.
Our patents, which cover material aspects of our past and present core products, have current durations ranging from approximately one to twenty years. We believe that, although the patents we own and may obtain in the future will be of value, they
alone will not determine our success. Our success depends principally upon our engineering, marketing, support, and delivery skills. However, in the absence of patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to imitate our
products, manufacturing techniques, and processes. In addition, other companies and inventors may receive patents that contain claims applicable or similar to our products and processes. The sale of products covered by patents of others could
require licenses that may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. For further discussion of legal matters, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” of this report.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

As of August 19, 2011, the
executive officers of Lam Research were as follows:



NameAgeTitleStephen G. Newberry57Chief Executive Officer and Vice ChairmanMartin B. Anstice44President and Chief Operating OfficerErnest E. Maddock53Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officerand Chief Accounting OfficerRichard A. Gottscho59Senior Vice President, Global Products and General Manager, Etch Product GroupMike Morita62Vice President, Business DevelopmentMukund Srinivasan42Vice President and General Manager, Clean Product GroupSarah A. O’Dowd61Group Vice President, Human Resources and Chief Legal Officer

Stephen G. Newberry is Lam’s Chief Executive Officer and was named vice chairman of the
Company’s Board of Directors in December 2010. He joined Lam Research in August 1997 as Executive Vice President and







Chief Operating Officer and was promoted to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer in July 1998. In June 2005, he was named President and Chief Executive Officer.
Mr. Newberry currently serves as a director of Lam Research, Nanometrics Inc., and Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI), the industry’s trade association. He also serves as a member of the Haas Advisory Board,
Haas School of Business, University of California at Berkeley and as a member of the Dean’s Advisory Council, University of California at Davis Graduate School of Management. Prior to joining Lam Research, Mr. Newberry was Group Vice
President of Global Operations and Planning at Applied Materials, Inc. Mr. Newberry served five years in naval aviation prior to joining Applied Materials. He is a graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy and the Harvard Graduate School of
Business Program for Management Development.

Martin Anstice serves as the Company’s Chief Operating Officer and was
promoted to President in December 2010. He joined Lam Research in April 2001 as Senior Director, Operations Controller, was promoted to the position of Managing Director and Corporate Controller in May 2002, and was promoted to Group Vice
President, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Accounting Officer in June 2004, was named Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer in March 2007, and was promoted to Executive Vice President, Chief Operating
Officer, in September 2008. Mr. Anstice began his career at Raychem Corporation where, during his 13-year tenure, he held numerous finance roles of increasing responsibility in Europe and North America. Subsequent to Tyco
International’s acquisition of Raychem in 1999, he assumed responsibilities supporting mergers and acquisition activities of Tyco Electronics. Mr. Anstice is an associate member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants in the
United Kingdom.

Ernest E. Maddock was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Lam Research in September
2008. Additionally, Mr. Maddock oversees Information Technology and heads Silfex Incorporated (formerly Bullen Semiconductor Corporation), a division of Lam Research. From October 2003 through September 2008, Mr. Maddock held the
position of Senior Vice President of Global Operations at Lam Research, overseeing Information Technology, Global Supply Chain, Production Operations, Corporate Quality, Global Security, and Global Real Estate & Facilities. Mr. Maddock
also held the position of Vice President of the Customer Support Business Group (CSBG) with the Company. Mr. Maddock joined the Company in November 1997. Prior to his employment with Lam Research, Mr. Maddock was Managing
Director, Global Logistics and Repair Services Operations, and Chief Financial Officer, Software Products Division, of NCR Corporation. He has also held a variety of executive roles in finance and operations in several industries ranging from
commercial real estate to telecommunications.

Richard A. Gottscho, Senior Vice President of Global Products and General
Manager, Etch Product Group since March 2007, joined the Company in January 1996 and has served at various Director and Vice Presidential levels in support of etch products, CVD products, and corporate research. Prior to joining Lam
Research, Dr. Gottscho was a member of Bell Laboratories for 15 years where he started his career working in plasma processing. During his tenure at Bell, he headed research departments in electronics materials, electronics packaging, and
flat panel displays. Dr. Gottscho is the author of numerous papers, patents, and lectures in plasma processing and process control. He is a recipient of the American Vacuum Society’s Peter Mark Memorial Award and is a fellow of the
American Physical and American Vacuum Societies, has served on numerous editorial boards of refereed technical publications, program committees for major conferences in plasma science and engineering, and was vice-chair of a National Research
Council study on plasma science in the 1980s. Dr. Gottscho earned Ph.D. and B.S. degrees in physical chemistry from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Pennsylvania State University, respectively.

Mike Morita was appointed Vice-President of Business Development and Chairman of Lam Research Japan in January 2011. Mr. Morita
joined Lam Research in January 2004 as Regional Vice President for Lam Research Japan. Prior to joining Lam Research, he spent 20 years at Applied Materials where he held numerous positions such as Group Vice President of Etch Product Group,
President of Applied Materials, Japan, General Manager of Metal Etch and Director of PVD/CVD/EP I Product Group. Mr. Morita began his career at Komatsu International Manufacturing Company where during his 10-year tenure, he held roles in
planning, marketing and business management. Mr. Morita holds a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering degree from the Science University of Tokyo.







Mukund Srinivasan joined Lam Research in 1996 after completing his Ph.D. in Mechanical
Engineering from the University of California at Berkeley. Over the past 14 years he held various positions in the Dielectric Etch organization in product and process engineering, managing customer technology groups, and eventually as the product
line head for three years. After a brief stint as the head of the Business Development organization, he assumed the role of General Manager, Clean Product Group in August 2010.

Sarah A. O’Dowd joined Lam Research in September 2008 as Group Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, and was appointed Group Vice President, Human Resources and Chief Legal Officer in April
2009. Prior to joining Lam Research, Ms. O’Dowd served as Vice President and General Counsel for FibroGen, Inc. from February 2007 until September 2008. Until February 2007, Ms. O’Dowd was a shareholder in the law firm of Heller
Ehrman LLP for more than twenty years.



