ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Teleflex Incorporated is referred to herein
as “we,” “us,” “our,” “Teleflex” and the “Company.”

THE COMPANY

Teleflex is a global provider of medical technology products that enhance clinical benefits, improve patient and provider safety and reduce total
procedural costs. To achieve this mission, Teleflex is committed to the following: investing in technology and developing our pipeline; leveraging and building our core franchises and distribution channels; attracting, developing and retaining
talented employees around the world; and continuing to build financial strength by expanding our margins and maintaining strong cash flow all in an effort to successfully grow our reputation as a solid investment and a profitable, strong employer.
We primarily design, develop, manufacture and supply single-use medical devices used by hospitals and healthcare providers for common diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in critical care and surgical applications. We sell our products to hospitals
and healthcare providers in more than 130 countries through a combination of our direct sales force and distributors. Our products are used in a wide variety of markets and are not dependent upon any one end-market or procedure.

We are focused on achieving consistent, sustainable and profitable growth by increasing our market share and improving our operating efficiencies
through:



•the development of new products and product line extensions;



•the investment in new technologies and broadening their applications;



•the expansion of the use of existing products in existing markets, as well as in new geographic markets;



•leveraging our direct sales force and distribution network with new products, manufacturing and distribution facility rationalization and achieving economies of
scale as we continue to expand; and



•the potential broadening of our product portfolio through select acquisitions, licensing arrangements and partnerships that enhance, extend or expedite our
development initiatives or our ability to increase our market share.

Our research and development capabilities,
commitment to engineering excellence and focus on low-cost manufacturing enable us to consistently bring cost effective, innovative products to market that improve the safety, efficacy and quality of healthcare. Our research and development
initiatives focus on developing new, innovative products for existing and new therapeutic applications as well as enhancements to, and line extensions of, existing products. We introduced over 20 new products and line extensions during 2011. Our
portfolio of existing products and pipeline of potential new products consist primarily of Class I and Class II devices, which require 510(k) clearance by the FDA for sale in the United States. We believe the 510(k) clearance expedites the process
of introducing new products and reduces our research and development costs and risks as compared to the process that would be required for Class III devices.

Over the past several years we have focused on transitioning into a pure-play medical technology company through an extensive acquisition and divestiture program. We significantly changed the composition of our
portfolio of businesses, expanding our presence in the medical technology industry, while divesting all of our businesses serving the aerospace and commercial markets, including the sale of our cargo systems and container businesses on
December 2, 2011, a part of our former Aerospace Segment, and the sale of our marine business on March 22, 2011, a part of our former Commercial Segment. Our cargo systems, cargo container and marine businesses are classified as
discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements incorporated by reference herein.







OUR BUSINESS

As of December 31, 2011, Teleflex is entirely focused on healthcare and operates as a diversified, global medical technology company. We provide a broad-based platform of products, which we categorize into four
groups: Critical Care, Surgical Care, Cardiac Care and OEM and Development Services.

Net Revenues

The following table sets forth our net revenues for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by product category.



201120102009(Dollars in thousands)Critical Care$1,004,126$943,367$939,390Surgical Care277,440262,683260,666Cardiac Care79,96170,55970,770OEM and Development Services166,331154,214149,829Other1,0532,45914,230Total net revenues$1,528,911$1,433,282$1,434,885

Our products generally serve three end-markets; hospitals and healthcare providers, medical device manufacturers and
home health. These markets are influenced by a number of factors, including demographics, utilization and reimbursement patterns. The following table sets forth the percentage of net revenues for 2011, 2010 and 2009 by end market.



201120102009Hospitals / Healthcare Providers81%82%83%Medical Device Manufacturers11%11%10%Home Health8%7%7%

We sell and market our products in over 130 countries through a combination of our direct sales force and
independent distributors. The following table sets forth the percentage of net revenues (based on business unit location) for 2011, 2010 and 2009 derived from the major geographic areas we serve.



201120102009United States52%55%55%Europe, Middle East and Africa36%35%36%Asia, Latin America and, Canada12%10%9%

Additional geographic information is presented in Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We operate 23 manufacturing sites, with major manufacturing operations located in the Czech Republic,
Malaysia, Mexico and the United States.

Critical Care

We are a leading provider of specialty products for critical care, which is predominantly comprised of single-use products. The large majority of sales for single-use products are made to the hospital/healthcare
provider market, with a smaller percentage sold to alternate sites.

Critical Care is our largest product group representing 66% of net
revenues. Our products are used in a wide range of critical care procedures for vascular access, anesthesia and airway management, respiratory care, treatment of urologic conditions and other specialty procedures.







Vascular Access Products

Our vascular access products, which accounted for 44 percent of our Critical Care net revenues in 2011, are generally catheter-based products used
in a variety of clinical procedures to facilitate multiple critical care therapies including the administration of intravenous medications, other therapies and the measurement of blood pressure and taking of blood samples through a single puncture
site.

Our vascular access catheters and related devices consist principally of central venous access catheters such as the following:



•the ARROW multi-lumen catheter, a catheter equipped with three or four channels, or lumens;



•ARROW double-and single-lumen catheters, which are designed for use in a variety of clinical procedures;



•the ARROW pressure injectable central venous catheter, or CVC, which gives clinicians who perform contrast-enhanced CT scans the option of using an indwelling
pressure injectable ARROW CVC without having to insert another catheter for their scan;



•ARROW percutaneous sheath introducers, which are used to insert cardiovascular and other catheterization devices into the vascular system during critical care
procedures; and



•ARROW arterial catheterization sets, which facilitate arterial pressure monitoring and blood withdrawal for glucose, blood-gas and electrolyte measurement in a
wide variety of critical care and intensive care settings.

Many of our vascular access catheters are treated with the
ARROWg+ard or ARROWg+ard Blue Plus antimicrobial surface treatments to reduce the risk of catheter related bloodstream infection. ARROWg+ard Blue Plus provides antimicrobial treatment of the interior lumens and hubs of each catheter.

We also provide a range of peripherally inserted central catheters, or PICCs, which are soft, flexible catheters inserted in the upper arm and
advanced into the superior vena cava that are used to administer various types of intravenous medications and therapies. Our offerings include a pressure injectable peripherally inserted catheter which addresses the therapeutic need for a catheter
that can withstand the higher pressures required by the injection of contrast media for CT scans. The two newest additions to the PICC portfolio in the United States include:



•ARROWEVOLUTION PICC with Chlorag+ard technology, a pressure-injectable PICC treated with a chlorhexidine-based solution from tip to hub on both the inner and
outer lumen surfaces; and



•ARROW’s VasoNova catheter tip location system, which collects data from its single use biosensor and uses a proprietary ECG and Doppler algorithm to
accurately confirm catheter location in the vasculature. The biosensor can be used with any suitable diameter CVC or PICC catheter. It is FDA cleared as an alternative to chest x-ray confirmation, shortening hospital stays and lowering costs
associated with catheter insertion procedures.

Introduced in 2010, Chlorag+ard is our newest coating technology for
use on some peripherally inserted central catheters, providing a reduction in colonization of pathogens responsible for causing catheter-related bloodstream infections for up to 30 days.

As part of our ongoing efforts to meet physicians’ needs for safety and management of risk of infection in the hospital setting, we offer many
of our vascular access catheters in a Maximal Barrier Precautions Tray. The tray is available for central venous (CVC), multi access (MAC) and peripheral venous access (PICC) and includes a full body drape, coated or non-coated catheter and other
accessories. These kits were created to assist healthcare providers in complying with guidelines for reducing catheter-related bloodstream infections that have been established by a variety of health







regulatory agencies, such as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Joint Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations.

Our newest offering is the ErgoPack system designed to support consistent compliance with established guidelines for infection prevention and safety
measures during catheter insertion. The system provides components which are packaged in the tray in the order in which they will be needed during the procedure and incorporates features intended to enhance ease of use and patient and provider
safety. The ErgoPack system is offered for CVC, PICC, MAC and Acute Hemodialysis product offerings.

Anesthesia and Airway Management

Our anesthesia and airway management products, which accounted for 22 percent of our Critical Care product net revenues in 2011,
include single-use devices used in the administration of general and regional anesthesia. Teleflex airway management products include endotracheal tubes, oral and nasal airways, laryngoscopes, face masks, anesthesia circuits and laryngeal masks,
which are used to maintain a patent airway for patients under general anesthesia. In 2011 we continued global efforts to expand the market for our ISIS HVT endotracheal tube. The Teleflex ISIS HVT is the first convertible endotracheal tube that
increases access to the clinical best practice of subglottic secretion suctioning, which has been shown to aid in the prevention of early onset ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP). We also continued the expansion of our market share in the EMEA
region (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) with the Crystal Clear Plus and TracFlex Plus tracheostomy products and the SureSeal laryngeal mask with Cuff Pilot.

Respiratory Care

Teleflex’s respiratory products accounted for 18 percent of our Critical Care product net revenues in 2011. These products are
used in a variety of clinical settings including hospitals, long-term care facilities, rehabilitation centers and patients’ homes to treat respiratory ailments such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), pneumonia, cystic fibrosis and
asthma. We market respiratory products under the Hudson RCI, Gibeck, Voldyne, MicroMist and ConchaTherm brand names.

Our respiratory
portfolio includes:



•oxygen therapy products, including oxygen masks, cannulas, humidifiers and tubing;



•aerosol therapy products, including small volume nebulizers, peak flow meters, aerosol chambers and large volume nebulizers;







•spirometry products, including incentive breathing exercisers; and



•ventilation management products, including ventilator circuits, humidification devices and bacteria/virus filters.

ConchaTherm Neptune, a key product within our respiratory portfolio, is a heated humidifier that features an adjustable airway temperature and
temperature gradient control that allows for customized treatment to improve caregiver efficiency, maximize patient outcomes and enhance the quality of care. The universal design allows for use in invasive and non-invasive applications, including
high flow oxygen therapy, an emerging technology for the treatment of respiratory disorders.

A new addition to the
Teleflex respiratory portfolio is the Gibeck®Humid-Flo 72-Hour Integrated Kit, which includes all of the components
necessary to initiate passive humidification and promote best practices to help reduce the risk of VAP. The Gibeck Humid-Flo Heat & Moisture Exchanger (HME) is validated, through our internal testing, to remain in-line during the first 3
days of mechanical ventilation, reducing circuit breaks and enabling adherence to clinical practice guidelines designed to maximize clinical outcomes while reducing costs.

Another key product within our respiratory portfolio is the Hudson RCI Softech nasal cannula line, which features an exceptionally soft material, resulting in greater comfort for patients receiving long-term oxygen
therapy. This recently expanded product line includes the Comfort Fit™ cannula with cushions, designed to relieve chafing and pressure around a patient’s ears in the Critical Care environment. The Comfort Fit cannula offering helps
hospitals reduce the risk of hospital acquired pressure ulcers (HAPU), a preventable hospital acquired condition (HAC) the treatment of which will no longer be reimbursed by insurance providers.

Urology

Our line of urology
products, which accounted for 16 percent of our Critical Care product net revenues in 2011, provides bladder management for patients in the hospital and home care markets. Our product portfolio consists principally of a wide range of catheters
(including Foley, intermittent, external and suprapubic), urine collectors, catheterization accessories and products for operative endurology marketed under the Rusch brand name.

Our urology business in Europe and the United States also serves home care markets and patient care outside of the hospital. Over the past few
years, we have expanded our offerings for these markets to include a wider range of intermittent catheters, catheter insertion kits and accessories used by quadriplegic and paraplegic people. Many of these products are designed to support patient
safety and infection prevention efforts. For example, we recently introduced an intermittent catheter with hydrophilic coating, an Ergothan tip, protective sleeve and saline solution in our EMEA region.

Home care markets are subject to local and regional reimbursement regulations that can impact volumes and pricing. For example, in the United
States, reimbursement regulations were implemented in 2008 that permit reimbursement for up to 200 catheters per month, replacing the previous limit of four catheters per month. The change promoted a shift from re-useable catheters, with their
inherent risk of infections, to single-use intermittent catheters. Sales of our intermittent catheters in the United States have benefited from this change in reimbursement policy.

Surgical Care

Surgical
Care, which is predominantly comprised of single-use products, represented 18 percent of net revenues in 2011. Our surgical products include: ligation and closure products, including appliers, clips and sutures used in a variety of surgical
procedures; access ports used in minimally invasive surgical procedures, including robotic surgery; and fluid management products used for chest drainage. Our surgical products also include hand-held instruments for general and specialty surgical
procedures. We market surgical products under the Deknatel, Pleur-evac, Pilling, Taut and Weck brand names.







Hem-o-lok, a significant part of the Weck portfolio, is a unique locking polymer ligation clip that
combines the security of a suture with the speed of a metal clip for open and laparoscopic surgery. Hem-o-lok clips have special applications in robotic, laparoscopic and cardiovascular surgery.

Recently introduced products include Deklene Maxx, a line of high performing polypropelene sutures utilized extensively in Cardiovascular surgery,
continued upgrades to the Taut laparoscopic access ports to incorporate a Universal Seal design, and improvements to the chest drainage line to expand capabilities to a broader range of facilities with low-flow technology.

Cardiac Care

Cardiac Care
products accounted for approximately 5 percent of net revenues in 2011. Products in this category include diagnostic catheters and capital equipment. Our diagnostic catheters include thermodilution and wedge pressure catheters; specialized
angiographic catheters, such as Berman and Reverse Berman catheters; therapeutic delivery catheters, such as temporary pacing catheters; sheaths for femoral and trans-radial aortic access used in diagnostic and therapeutic procedures; and
intra-aortic balloon, or IAB, catheters. Capital equipment includes our intra-aortic balloon pump, or IABP, consoles. IABP products are used to augment oxygen delivery to the cardiac muscle and reduce the oxygen demand after cardiac surgery, serious
heart attack or interventional procedures.

The IAB and IABP product lines feature the AutoCAT 2 WAVE console and the FiberOptix
catheter, which together utilize fiber optic technology for arterial pressure signal acquisition and enable the patented WAVE timing algorithm to support the broadest range of patient heart rhythms, including severely arrhythmic patients.

OEM and Development Services

Customized extrusion, performance fibers and devices sold to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, represented 11 percent of our net revenues in 2011. Teleflex Medical OEM designs and delivers products that
touch nearly every organ and system in the human body. We are known for our expertise and comprehensive product development and outsourcing services, which include design, engineering, regulatory affairs, prototyping, manufacturing, assembly and
packaging.

Our OEM products, which are marketed under the Beere Medical, KMedic, SMD, Deknatel, and TFX OEM brand names, encompass
custom-configured extrusion, introducer systems, specialty sutures, resins, yarns, surgical instruments for orthopedic and spinal procedures and micro-machined fixation devices and components.

HISTORY AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

Teleflex
was founded in 1943 as a manufacturer of precision mechanical push/pull controls for military aircraft. From this original single market, single product orientation, we have grown through an active program of development of new products,
introduction of products into new geographic or end-markets and through acquisitions of companies with related market, technology or industry expertise. Throughout our history, we have continually focused on providing innovative, technology-driven,
specialty-engineered products that help our customers meet their business requirements.

Over the past several years, we have
significantly changed the composition of our portfolio of businesses, expanding our presence in the medical device industry, while divesting all of our businesses serving the aerospace and commercial markets. The most significant of these
transactions occurred in 2007 with our acquisition of ARROW International, a leading global supplier of catheter-based medical technology products used for vascular access and cardiac care, and the divestiture of our automotive and industrial
businesses. Our acquisition of ARROW significantly expanded our single-use product offerings for critical care, enhanced our global footprint and added to our research and development capabilities. With the divestitures of our marine business and
cargo container and systems businesses in 2011, we have become exclusively a medical device company.







We expect to continue to increase the relative composition of our business through a combination of
portfolio management and organic growth initiatives. From time to time, we explore and engage in discussions regarding acquisitions that would augment our existing technology platform.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

Government agencies in a number of countries regulate our products and
the products sold by our customers that incorporate our products. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration and government agencies in other countries regulate the approval, manufacturing, sale and marketing of many of our healthcare products. For more
information, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”

COMPETITION

The medical device industry is highly competitive. We compete with many companies, ranging from small start-up enterprises to companies that are larger and more established than us with access to significant
financial resources. Furthermore, extensive product research and development and rapid technological advances characterize the market in which we compete. We must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies for our businesses to
remain competitive. We believe that we compete primarily on the basis of clinical superiority and innovative features that enhance patient benefit, product reliability, performance, customer and sales support, and cost-effectiveness. Our competitors
include C. R. Bard, Inc., Covidien and CareFusion.

SALES AND MARKETING

Our products are sold directly to hospitals, healthcare providers, distributors and to original equipment manufacturers of medical devices through our own sales forces and through independent representatives and
independent distributor networks.

BACKLOG

Most of our products are sold to hospitals or healthcare providers on orders calling for delivery within a few days or weeks, with longer order times for products sold to medical device manufacturers. Therefore,
our backlog of orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

We own a portfolio of patents, patents pending and trademarks. We also license various patents and trademarks. Patents for individual products
extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. Trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are
dependent upon national laws and use of the marks. All capitalized product names throughout this document are trademarks owned by, or licensed to, us or our subsidiaries. Although these have been of value and are expected to continue to be of value
in the future, we do not consider any single patent or trademark, except for the Teleflex and ARROW brands, to be essential to the operation of our business.

SUPPLIERS AND MATERIALS

Materials used in the manufacture of our products are purchased from a
large number of suppliers in diverse geographic locations. We are not dependent on any single supplier for a substantial amount of the materials used or components supplied for our overall operations. Most of the materials and components we use are
available from multiple sources, and where practical, we attempt to identify alternative suppliers. Volatility in commodity markets, particularly steel and plastic resins, can have a significant impact on the cost of producing certain of our
products. We may not be able to successfully pass these cost increases through to all of our customers, particularly original equipment manufacturers.







RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

We are engaged in both internal and external research and development. Our research and development costs principally relate to our efforts to bring innovative new products to the markets we serve, and our efforts
to enhance the clinical value, ease of use, safety and reliability of our existing product lines. Our research and development efforts support our strategic objectives to provide safe and effective products that reduce infections, improve patient
and clinician safety, enhance patient outcomes and enable less invasive procedures.

We also acquire or license products and technologies
that are consistent with our strategic objectives and enhance our ability to provide a full range of product and service options to our customers.

SEASONALITY

Portions of our revenues are
subject to seasonal fluctuations. Incidence of flu and other disease patterns as well as the frequency of elective medical procedures affect revenues related to single-use products.

EMPLOYEES

We employed approximately 11,500 full-time and temporary employees at
December 31, 2011. Of these employees, approximately 3,300 were employed in the United States and 8,200 in countries outside of the United States. Less than 5% percent of our employees in the United States were covered by union contracts. We
also have collective-bargaining arrangements or union contracts that cover employees in other countries. We believe we have good relationships with our employees.

INVESTOR INFORMATION

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Therefore, we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies of such reports, proxy statements, and other information may be
obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a web site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and
information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

You can access financial and other
information about us in the Investors section of our website, which can be accessed atwww.teleflex.com. We make available through our website, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the SEC. The
information on our website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K. The reference to our website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only.

We are a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1943. Our executive offices are located at 155 South Limerick Road, Limerick, PA 19468. Our telephone number is (610) 948-5100.







EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The names and ages of all of our executive officers and the positions and offices held by each such officer are as follows:



NameAgePositions and Offices with CompanyBenson F. Smith64Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorRichard A. Meier52Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerLaurence G. Miller57Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary

Mr. Smith was appointed our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer in January 2011, and has served as
a Director since April 2005. Prior to January 2011, Mr. Smith was the managing partner of Sales Research Group, a research and consulting organization, and also served as the Chief Executive Officer of BFS & Associates LLC, which
specialized in strategic planning and venture investing. Prior to that, Mr. Smith worked for C.R. Bard, Inc., a company specializing in medical devices, for approximately 25 years, where he held various executive and senior level
positions. Most recently, Mr. Smith served as President and Chief Operating Officer of C.R. Bard from 1994 to 1998.

Mr. Meier
joined Teleflex as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in January 2010. Prior to joining Teleflex, Mr. Meier held various executive-level positions with Advanced Medical Optics, Inc., a global ophthalmic medical device company,
from April 2002 to May 2009. He most recently served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Advanced Medical Optics from November 2007 to May 2009. Before joining Advanced Medical Optics, Mr. Meier worked at Valeant Pharmaceuticals (ICN
Pharmaceuticals), a company specializing in specialty pharmaceuticals from 1998 through 2002 where he held various executive positions, including Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Mr. Miller has been Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since February 2008 and has also served as Chief Administrative
Officer since April 26, 2011. From November 2004 to February 2008, Mr. Miller was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. From November 2001 until November 2004, he was Senior Vice President and Associate General Counsel for
the Food & Support Services division of Aramark Corporation, a diversified management services company providing food, refreshment, facility and other support services for a variety of organizations.

Our officers are elected annually by our board of directors. Each officer serves at the discretion of the board.

