ITEM 1.BUSINESS



Teleflex Incorporated is referred to herein as “we,”
    “us,” “our,” “Teleflex” and the
    “Company.”



THE
    COMPANY



Teleflex is principally a global provider of medical technology
    products that enable healthcare providers to improve patient
    outcomes and enhance patient and provider safety. We primarily
    develop, manufacture and supply single-use medical devices used
    to provide access to the body for common diagnostic and
    therapeutic procedures in critical care and surgery. Our focus
    is on medical technology solutions that providecost-effectiveclinical benefits and enable healthcare providers to reduce
    infection, provide less invasive access and improve patient
    safety. We serve hospitals and healthcare providers in more than
    130 countries.



While we are committed to becoming exclusively a medical
    technology company, we continue to operate businesses that serve
    non-medical niche segments of the aerospace and commercial
    markets with specialty engineered products. We expect to
    strategically divest these businesses over time. Our aerospace
    products include cargo-handling systems, containers and pallets
    for commercial air cargo. Our commercial products include driver
    controls, engine assemblies and drive parts for the marine
    industry.



We are focused on achieving consistent, sustainable, profitable
    growth. We believe that we will achieve revenue growth by
    introducing new products and product line extensions, expanding
    our geographic reach, leveraging our existing distribution
    channels, and further investing in global sales channels. We may
    also achieve revenue growth through select acquisitions that
    enhance or expedite our development initiatives and our ability
    to increase our market share.



We anticipate that margin expansion will be achieved by
    increasing our focus on sales of higher margin product lines and
    through initiatives intended to improve operational
    effectiveness. Our margin expansion initiatives may include
    consolidation and improvements in the efficiency of our
    distribution and supply chain, consolidation and productivity
    improvements of manufacturing locations, and further initiatives
    to reduce general and administrative expenses. We expect that
    some of these cost savings will be offset by increases in
    spending in research and development designed to support new
    product activity.



We believe our research and development capabilities,
    established global sales channels, and lean low cost
    manufacturing allow us to bring cost-effective innovative
    products to market that help clinicians to improve the safety,
    efficacy and quality of patient care.



Teleflex provides a broad-based platform of medical technology
    products, which we categorize into four groups: Critical Care,
    Surgical Care, Cardiac Care and OEM and Development Services.



Critical
    Care



Critical care products represent our largest product group and
    include medical devices used in vascular access, anesthesia,
    urology and respiratory care applications. Our primary critical
    care products and product brands include the following:



•Arrow vascular access products, including a range of catheter
    based technologies used to facilitate multiple critical care
    therapies:



•Arrow central venous access catheters, or CVCs, featuring the
    ARROWg+ard, or ARROWg+ard Blue Plus antimicrobial surface
    treatments;•Arrow peripherally inserted central catheters, or PICCs,
    including the ArrowEVOLUTION PICC with Chlorag+ard technology, a
    new Chlorhexidine-based antimicrobial technology designed to





reduce colonization of resistant bacterial and fungal pathogens
    responsible for catheter related bloodstream infections;



•Arrow hemodialysis catheters used in the treatment of both
    chronic and acute conditions; and•catheters and accessories used in critical care monitoring and
    treatment.



•The VasoNova Vascular Positioning System is a central venous
    catheter tip navigation system that is designed to provide
    clinicians precise and consistent tip location;•Arrow regional anesthesia products, which include catheters used
    in acute pain management in epidural, spinal and peripheral
    nerve block procedures;•Rüsch and Sheridan endotracheal tubes, laryngoscopes,
    laryngeal masks, airways and face masks used for access to and
    management of the airway;•Hudson RCI and Gibeck brand humidifiers, circuits, nebulizers,
    filters, masks, tubing and cannulas used in aerosol and
    medication delivery, oxygen therapy and ventilation management;
    and•Rüsch urology catheters (including Foley, intermittent,
    external and suprapubic), urine collectors, used to provide
    access for bladder management, catheterization accessories and
    products for operative endurology.



Surgical
    Care



We provide surgical devices and instruments used in general and
    specialty surgical procedures, including:



•Weck ligation products, clips and appliers;•Deknatel sutures;•Pilling hand-held instruments for general and specialty surgical
    procedures;•Pleur-evac fluid management products used for chest drainage; and•Taut access ports used in minimally invasive surgical
    procedures, including robotic surgery.



Cardiac
    Care



We are a global provider of devices used in the treatment of
    patients with severe cardiac conditions, including:



•Arrow AutoCAT2 WAVE Intra Aortic Balloon Pump System; and•Arrow Intra Aortic Balloon Catheters and accessories.



OEM and
    Development Services



We also design and manufacture instruments and devices for other
    medical device manufacturers, which include our Beere Medical,
    KMedic, Specialized Medical Devices, Deknatel and TFXOEM
    customized medical instruments, implants and components.



HISTORY AND
    RECENT DEVELOPMENTS



Teleflex was founded in 1943 as a manufacturer of precision
    mechanical push/pull controls for military aircraft. From this
    original single market, single product orientation, we have
    grown through an active program of development of new products,
    introduction of products into new geographic or end-markets and
    through acquisitions of companies with related market,
    technology or industry expertise. Throughout our history, we
    have continually focused on providing innovative,
    technology-driven, specialty-engineered products that help our
    customers meet their business requirements.



Over the past several years, we have engaged in an extensive
    acquisition and divestiture program to improve margins, reduce
    cyclicality and focus our resources on the development of our
    healthcare business. We





have significantly changed the composition of our portfolio of
    businesses, expanding our presence in the medical device
    industry, while divesting many of our businesses serving the
    aerospace and industrial markets. The most significant of these
    transactions occurred in 2007 with our acquisition of Arrow
    International, a leading global supplier of catheter-based
    medical technology products used for vascular access and cardiac
    care, and the divestiture of our automotive and industrial
    businesses. Our acquisition of Arrow significantly expanded our
    disposable medical product offerings for critical care, enhanced
    our global footprint and added to our research and development
    capabilities.



We regularly evaluate the composition of the portfolio of our
    products and businesses to ensure alignment with our overall
    objectives. We strive to maintain a portfolio of products and
    businesses that provide consistency of performance, improved
    profitability and sustainable growth.



On January 30, 2011, Benson F. Smith was named Chairman,
    President and Chief Executive Officer replacing Jeffrey P.
    Black, who resigned by mutual agreement with our Board of
    Directors. Mr. Smith has served as a Director on our Board since
    April 2005. For more information regarding Mr. Smith’s
    background and experience, see “Executive Officers.”



OUR BUSINESS
    SEGMENTS



We operate our businesses through three segments, the largest of
    which is our Medical Segment, which represented 80 percent
    of our consolidated revenues and 87 percent of our segment
    operating profit in 2010. Our Aerospace and Commercial segments
    represented 10 percent and 10 percent of consolidated
    revenues, respectively, and 7 percent and 6 percent of
    segment operating profit, respectively, in 2010.



Additional information regarding our segments and geographic
    areas is presented in Note 17 to our consolidated financial
    statements included in this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Medical



Our Medical Segment designs, develops, manufactures and supplies
    medical devices for critical care and surgical applications. We
    categorize our medical products into four product groups:
    Critical Care, Surgical Care, Cardiac Care, and OEM and
    Development Services.



Approximately 50 percent of our segment revenues are
    derived from customers outside the United States. Our Medical
    Segment operates 30 manufacturing sites, with major
    manufacturing operations located in Czech Republic, Malaysia,
    Mexico and the United States.



The following is an overview of the four product groups within
    our Medical Segment.



Critical
    Care



Critical care, which is predominantly comprised of single use
    products, constitutes the largest product category within our
    Medical Segment, representing 66 percent of segment
    revenues in 2010. Our medical products are used in a wide range
    of critical care procedures for vascular access, respiratory
    care, anesthesia and airway management, treatment of urologic
    conditions and other specialty procedures.



We are a leading provider of specialty products for critical
    care. Our products are generally marketed under the brand names
    of Arrow, Rüsch, HudsonRCI, Gibeck and Sheridan. The large
    majority of sales for disposable medical products are made to
    the hospital/healthcare provider market, with a smaller
    percentage sold to alternate sites.



Vascular Access
    Products



Our vascular access products, which accounted for
    29 percent of Medical Segment revenues in 2010, are
    generally catheter-based products used in a variety of clinical
    procedures to facilitate multiple critical care





therapies including the administration of intravenous
    medications and other therapies, and the measurement of blood
    pressure and taking of blood samples through a single puncture
    site.



Our vascular access catheters and related devices consist
    principally of central venous access catheters such as the
    following:



•the Arrow-Howe’s Multi-Lumen Catheter, a catheter equipped
    with three or four channels, or lumens;•double-and single-lumen catheters, which are designed for use in
    a variety of clinical procedures;•the Arrow Pressure Injectable CVC, which gives clinicians who
    perform contrast-enhanced CT scans the option of using an
    indwelling pressure injectable Arrow CVC without having to
    insert another catheter for their scan; and•percutaneous sheath introducers, which are used as a means for
    inserting cardiovascular and other catheterization devices into
    the vascular system during critical care procedures.



Many of our vascular access catheters are treated with the
    ARROWg+ard or ARROWg+ard Blue Plus antimicrobial surface
    treatments to reduce the risk of catheter related bloodstream
    infections. ARROWg+ard Blue Plus provides antimicrobial
    treatment of the interior lumens and hubs of each catheter.



We also provide a range of peripherally inserted central
    catheters, or PICCs, which are soft, flexible catheters inserted
    in the upper arm and advanced into the superior vena cava and
    are accessed for administration of various types of intravenous
    medications and therapies, Our offerings include a pressure
    injectable peripherally inserted catheter which addresses the
    therapeutic need for a catheter that can withstand the higher
    pressures required by the injection of contrast media for CT
    scans. The three newest additions to the PICC portfolio in the
    United States include:



•ArrowEVOLUTION PICC with Chlorag+ard technology, a
    pressure-injectable PICC treated with a chlorhexidine-based
    solution from tip to hub on both the inner and outer lumen
    surfaces;•a device utilizing Accelerated Seldinger Technique to make the
    placement of PICCs faster, safer and simpler; and•The VasoNova Vascular Positioning System is a central venous
    catheter tip navigation system designed to provide clinicians
    precise and consistent placement of the catheter tip,
    significantly increasing the success rate of first time
    placement, shortening hospital stays and lowering costs
    associated with catheter insertion procedures.



Introduced in 2010, Chlorag+ard is our newest coating technology
    for use on some peripherally inserted central catheters,
    providing a reduction in colonization of pathogens responsible
    for causing catheter — related bloodstream infections
    for up to 30 days.



As part of our ongoing efforts to meet physicians’ needs
    for safety and management of risk of infection in the hospital
    setting, we offer many of our vascular access catheters in a
    Maximal Barrier Precautions Tray. The tray is available for
    central venous (CVC), multi access (MAC) and peripheral venous
    access (PICC) and includes a full body drape, coated or
    non-coated catheter and other accessories.



The features of these kits were created to assist healthcare
    providers in complying with guidelines for reducing
    catheter-related bloodstream infections that have been
    established by a variety of health regulatory agencies, such as
    the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Joint
    Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations.



Our newest offering is the ErgoPack system designed to support
    consistent compliance with established guidelines for infection
    prevention and safety measures during catheter insertion. The
    system provides components which are packaged in the tray in the
    order in which they will be needed during the procedure and





incorporates features intended to enhance ease of use and
    patient and provider safety. The ErgoPack system is offered for
    CVC, PICC, MAC and Acute Hemodialysis product offerings.



Our vascular access products also include specialty catheters
    and related products used in a range of other procedures and
    include percutaneous thrombolytic devices, which are designed
    for clearance of thrombosed hemodialysis grafts in chronic
    hemodialysis patients; hemodialysis access catheters, including
    the
    Cannon®Catheter, which is used to facilitate dialysis treatment, and
    radial artery catheters, which are used for measuring arterial
    blood pressure and taking blood samples.



Respiratory
    Care



Our respiratory care products, which accounted for
    12 percent of Medical Segment revenues in 2010, principally
    consist of devices used in aerosol and medication delivery,
    oxygen therapy and ventilation management. We offer an extensive
    range of aerosol therapy products, including: the Micromist
    Nebulizer for small volumes; the Neb-U-Mask System, which is a
    combination device that enables concurrent delivery of
    aerosolized medications and high concentrations of oxygen or
    heliox; and the Opti-Neb Pro Compressor, which is a compact
    compressor available with both reusable and disposable
    nebulizers. We are also a global provider of oxygen supplies,
    offering a broad range of products to deliver oxygen therapy
    safely and comfortably. These include masks, cannulas, tubing
    and humidifiers. These products are used in a variety of
    clinical settings including hospitals, long-term care
    facilities, rehabilitation centers and patients’ homes to
    treat respiratory ailments such as chronic lung disease,
    pneumonia, cystic fibrosis and asthma.



Our ventilation management products are designed to promote
    patient safety and maximize clinician efficiency. These products
    include ventilator circuits with an extended life to support
    clinical practice guidelines, high efficiency particulate air
    (HEPA) filters that provide protection against the transmission
    of bacteria and viruses, heat and moisture exchangers that
    reduce circuit manipulation and cross-contamination risk and
    heated humidifiers that promote patient compliance to
    non-invasive respiratory strategies, such as non-invasive
    ventilation and high flow oxygen therapy. Recently introduced
    products include the Gibeck HumidFlo heat and moisture
    exchanger, which enables medication to be delivered without
    breaking the breathing circuit or interrupting ventilation, and
    OSMO, a product that enables maintenance free water removal from
    the expiratory limb of the breathing circuit during mechanical
    ventilation (breathing systems used to deliver medical gases
    from a ventilator to a patient’s lungs).



Our ConchaTherm Neptune is a heated humidification solution. It
    is designed to enable the caregiver to customize patient
    treatment to enhance patient outcomes while maintaining
    clinician efficiency.



During 2010, we launched the Gibeck Humid-Flo72-HourPassive Humidification Kit, an integrated system that promotes
    best practices for Ventilator Associated Pneumonia (VAP) risk
    reduction. This unique kit includes all the components the
    caregiver needs to begin passive humidification for mechanically
    ventilated patients.



Anesthesia and
    Airway Management



Our anesthesia and airway management products, which accounted
    for 15 percent of our Medical Segment revenues in 2010,
    include endotracheal tubes, laryngeal masks, airways and face
    masks to deliver anesthetic agents and oxygen. To assist in the
    placement of endotracheal tubes, we provide a comprehensive and
    unique line of laryngoscope blades and handles, including
    standard halogen and fiber optic light sources. In 2010, we
    expanded our endotracheal tube offerings with the introduction,
    in both the United States and Europe, of the Teleflex ISIS HVT,
    which features an integrated suction port and separate suction
    line allowing for subglottic secretion suctioning on demand.
    When needed, the suction tube attaches to the ISIS HVT via a
    secure locking connection. We also extended our tracheostomy
    product line offered in the EMEA region (Europe, the Middle





East and Africa) with the introduction of Crystal Clear Trach
    and TracFlex Plus and our laryngeal mask product offerings with
    the introduction of SureSeal laryngeal mask with Cuff Pilot.



Our regional anesthesia or acute pain management products
    include epidural, spinal and peripheral nerve block catheters.
    Nerve blocks provide pain relief during and after surgical
    procedures and help clinicians better manage each patient’s
    pain. We offer the first stimulating continuous nerve block
    catheter, the Arrow StimuCath, which confirms the positive
    placement of the catheter next to the nerve. The Arrow Flex Tip
    Plus continuous epidural catheter features a soft, flexible tip
    that helps reduce the incidence of complications, such as
    transient paresthesia (a sensation of tingling, pricking, or
    numbness of a person’s skin) and inadvertent penetration of
    blood vessels or the dura, while improving the clinician’s
    ability to thread the catheter into the epidural space. Our
    Arrow TheraCath epidural catheter, with high compression
    strength for direction-ability and enhanced radiopacity (the
    ability to stop the passage of x-rays), was designed for pain
    management procedures where increased steer-ability is
    important. Additional integral components create a range of
    standard and custom procedural kits. In 2009, we introduced a
    new line of kits designed for administration of anesthesia,
    marketed under the Arrow SureBlock Spinal Anesthesia brand name.



Urology



Our line of urology products, which accounted for
    10 percent of our Medical Segment revenues in 2010,
    provides bladder management for patients in the hospital and
    home care markets. Our product portfolio consists principally of
    a wide range of catheters (including Foley, intermittent,
    external and suprapubic), urine collectors, catheterization
    accessories and products for operative endurology marketed under
    the Rusch brand name.



Our urology business in Europe and the United States also serves
    home care markets and patient care outside of the hospital. Over
    the past few years, we have expanded our offerings for these
    markets to include a wider range of intermittent catheters,
    catheter insertion kits and accessories used by quadriplegic and
    paraplegic people. Many of these products are designed to
    support patient safety and infection prevention efforts. For
    example, we recently introduced an intermittent catheter with
    hydrophilic coating, an Ergothan tip, protective sleeve and
    saline solution in our EMEA region.



Home care markets are subject to local and regional
    reimbursement regulations that can impact volumes and pricing.
    For example, in the United States, reimbursement regulations
    were implemented in 2008 that permit reimbursement for up to 200
    catheters per month, replacing the previous limit of four
    catheters per month. The change promoted a shift from re-useable
    catheters, with their inherent risk of infections, to single use
    intermittent catheters. Sales of our intermittent catheters in
    the U.S. have benefited from this change in reimbursement
    policy.



Surgical
    Care



Surgical care, which is predominantly comprised of single use
    products, represented 18 percent of Medical Segment
    revenues in 2010. Our surgical products include: ligation and
    closure products, including appliers, clips, and sutures used in
    a variety of surgical procedures; access ports used in minimally
    invasive surgical procedures including robotic surgery; and
    fluid management products used for chest drainage. Our surgical
    products also include hand-held instruments for general and
    specialty surgical procedures. We market surgical products under
    the Deknatel, Pleur-evac, Pilling, Taut and Weck brand names.



Hem-o-lok, a significant part of the Weck portfolio, is a unique
    locking polymer ligation clip that combines the security of a
    suture with the speed of a metal clip for open and laparoscopic
    surgery. Hem-o-lok clips have special applications in robotic,
    laparoscopic and cardiovascular surgery.



Recently introduced products include the Taut Universal Seal
    designed for use with the ADAPt line of bladeless laparoscopic
    access devices, a rotating head stapler and a new long
    endoscopic clip applier. In 2010, we extended our line of
    cardiovascular sutures with the introduction of Deklene Maxx.





Cardiac
    Care



Cardiac care products accounted for approximately 5 percent
    of Medical Segment revenues in fiscal 2010. Products in this
    category include diagnostic catheters and capital equipment. Our
    diagnostic catheters include thermodilution and wedge pressure
    catheters; specialized angiographic catheters, such as Berman
    and Reverse Berman catheters; therapeutic delivery catheters,
    such as temporary pacing catheters; and intra-aortic balloon, or
    IAB, catheters. Capital equipment includes our intra-aortic
    balloon pump, or IABP, consoles. IABP products are used to
    augment oxygen delivery to the cardiac muscle and reduce the
    oxygen demand after cardiac surgery, serious heart attack or
    interventional procedures.



The IAB and IABP product lines feature the AutoCAT 2 WAVE
    console and the FiberOptix catheter, which together utilize
    fiber optic technology for arterial pressure signal acquisition
    and enable the patented WAVE timing algorithm to support the
    broadest range of patient heart rhythms, including severely
    arrhythmic patients.



OEM and
    Development Services



Customized medical instruments, implants and components sold to
    original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, represented
    11 percent of Medical Segment revenues in 2010. Under the
    Beere Medical, KMedic, Specialized Medical Devices, Deknatel and
    TFXOEM brand names, we provide specialized product development
    services, which include design engineering, prototyping and
    testing, manufacturing, assembly and packaging. Our OEM product
    development and manufacturing facilities are located globally in
    close proximity to major medical device manufacturers in
    Germany, Ireland, Mexico and the United States.



The OEM category includes custom extrusion, catheter
    fabrication, introducer systems, sheath/dilator sets, specialty
    sutures, resins and performance fibers. We also provide machined
    and forged instrumentation for general and specialty procedures,
    Ortho-Grip®instrument handles and fixation devices used primarily for
    orthopedic procedures.



Medical Segment
    Revenues



The following table sets forth revenues for 2010, 2009 and 2008
    by product category for the Medical Segment.



201020092008(Dollars in thousands)Critical Care$943,367$939,390$957,129Surgical Care262,683260,666272,504Cardiac Care70,55970,77072,871OEM and Development Services154,214149,829158,343Other2,45914,23014,774Total net revenues$1,433,282$1,434,885$1,475,621





The following table sets forth the percentage of revenues for
    2010, 2009 and 2008 by end market for the Medical Segment.



201020092008Hospitals / Healthcare Providers82%83%84%Medical Device Manufacturers11%10%11%Home Health7%7%5%





Markets for these products are influenced by a number of factors
    including demographics, utilization and reimbursement patterns.
    Our products are sold through direct sales or distribution in
    over 130 countries. The





following table sets forth the percentage of revenues for 2010,
    2009 and 2008 derived from the major geographic areas we serve.



201020092008North America52%52%52%Europe, Middle East and Africa35%36%37%Asia, Latin America13%12%11%





Aerospace



Our Aerospace Segment businesses provide cargo handling systems
    and equipment for wide body and narrow body aircraft and cargo
    containment devices for air cargo and passenger baggage. We are
    a leading global provider of cargo handling systems and
    equipment and cargo containers for commercial aircraft. Our
    brand names, Telair International and Nordisk, are well known
    and respected on a global basis.



Markets for our commercial aviation products are influenced by
    the level of general economic activity, investment patterns in
    new passenger and cargo aircraft, cargo market trends and flight
    hours. Major locations for manufacturing and service are located
    in Germany, Norway, Sweden, Singapore and China.



Cargo-handling
    Systems and Equipment



Our cargo-handling systems include on-board automated
    cargo-loading systems for wide-body aircraft, baggage-handling
    systems for narrow body aircraft, aftermarket spare parts and
    repair services. Marketed under the Telair International brand
    name, our wide-body cargo-handling systems are sold to aircraft
    original equipment manufacturers or to airlines and air freight
    carriers as “sellerand/orbuyer
    furnished equipment” for original installations or as
    retrofits for existing equipment. Cargo-handling systems require
    a high degree of engineering sophistication.



Telair International is the exclusive supplier of main deck and
    lower deck cargo systems for the new Boeing747-8airliner. Telair is also the exclusive provider of lower deck
    systems for the Airbus A330/A340-200 and 300 aircraft. Telair
    has been selected to supply cargo systems for the Airbus A350
    XWB airframe when it enters production. Telair is also the
    exclusive supplier of sliding carpet systems for bulk-loading of
    narrow body aircraft such as 737 and A320 passenger planes. The
    Telair narrowbody system speeds loading and unloading of baggage
    and cargo to reduce turnaround time and increase aircraft
    utilization. This system is being installed in new 737’s
    for American Airlines and Continental Airlines, as well as in
    737’s and the A320 family aircraft for airlines all over
    the world. Telair also provides bin loading systems for Canadair
    (Bombardier) aircraft. In addition to the design and manufacture
    of cargo systems, we provide customers with aftermarket spare
    parts and repair services for their Telair systems.



Cargo
    Containment



We design, manufacture and repair unit loading devices, or ULDs,
    which include both cargo containers and pallets. Our Nordisk
    Aviation Products subsidiary has the widest ULD product line in
    the industry and specializes in ULDs that either reduce weight
    or maximize cargo volume by closely matching the interior
    contour of the aircraft. Nordisk recently introduced the
    Ultralite 55kg AKE container, which offers a weight reduction of
    approximately 25 percent compared to aluminum containers.
    Weight reduction is a key factor in extending the range of
    aircraft, increasing payload and reducing fuel costs. Nordisk
    provides global support of its products with worldwide spare
    parts stocking and a network of affiliated repair stations.



Aerospace Segment
    Revenue Information



During 2010, 2009 and 2008, commercial aviation markets
    represented all of the revenues in the Aerospace Segment.





Commercial



Our Commercial Segment businesses principally design,
    manufacture and distribute steering and throttle controls and
    engine and drive assemblies primarily for the recreational
    marine market. Major manufacturing operations are located in
    Canada, the United States and Singapore.



Marine Steering
    and Throttle Controls and Engine and Drive Assemblies



This product category represents 87 percent of the
    Commercial Segment revenues in 2010. Products in this category
    include: shift and throttle cables; mechanical, hydraulic and
    electronic steering systems and throttle controls; engine drive
    parts; associated parts and products; and outdoor power
    components.



We are a leading global provider of both mechanical and
    hydraulic steering systems and mechanical, hydraulic, and
    electronic throttle controls for recreational powerboats. We
    also are a leading distributor of engine assemblies and drive
    parts, which are marketed under the well-known Sierra brand
    name. Our marine products are sold to OEMs, such as SeaRay,
    Bayliner, Volvo Penta, Mercury and Yamaha; and to the
    aftermarket through distributors, dealers and retail outlets and
    are widely available at marinas and retail outlets such as West
    Marine and Bass Pro Shops. Our major product brands include
    Teleflex Marine, TFXtreme, SeaStar, BayStar and Sierra.



We also manufacture and sell heaters that provide cold weather
    auxiliary heating solutions for commercial vehicles under the
    Proheat name and burner units that provide a heat source for
    military field feeding appliances.



Commercial
    Segment Revenue Information



The following table sets forth revenues for 2010, 2009 and 2008
    by product category for the Commercial Segment.



201020092008(Dollars in thousands)Marine Driver Controls and Engine and Drive Parts$169,895$136,588$198,960Heater Products$11,872$11,888$13,362Modern Burner Units$13,138$19,649$28





The following table sets forth the percentage of revenues for
    2010, 2009 and 2008 by end market for the Commercial Segment.



201020092008Recreational Marine76%69%79%Commercial Vehicles17%19%21%Military7%12%—





GOVERNMENT
    REGULATION



Government agencies in a number of countries regulate our
    products and the products sold by our customers that incorporate
    our products. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration and
    government agencies in other countries regulate the approval,
    manufacturing, sale and marketing of many of our healthcare
    products. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration and the
    European Aviation Safety Agency regulate the manufacture and
    sale of most of our aerospace products and license the operation
    of our repair stations. For more information, see Item 1A.
    “Risk Factors.”





COMPETITION



Medical
    Segment



The medical device industry is highly competitive. We compete
    with many companies, ranging from smallstart-upenterprises to companies that are larger and more established
    than us with access to significant financial resources.
    Furthermore, new product development and technological change
    characterize the market in which we compete. We must continue to
    develop and acquire new products and technologies for our
    Medical Segment businesses to remain competitive. We believe
    that we compete primarily on the basis of clinical superiority
    and innovative features that enhance patient benefit, product
    reliability, performance, customer and sales support, and
    cost-effectiveness. Competitors of our Medical Segment include
    C. R. Bard, Inc., Covidien and CareFusion.



Aerospace and
    Commercial Segments



The businesses within our Aerospace and Commercial segments
    generally face significant competition from competitors of
    varying sizes. We believe that our competitive position depends
    on the technical competence and creative ability of our
    engineering personnel, the know-how and skill of our
    manufacturing personnel, and the strength and scope of our
    sales, service and distribution networks. Competitors of the
    businesses with our Aerospace Segment include Goodrich
    Corporation, AAR Corp and Driessen Aerospace Group. Competition
    for our Commercial business tends to be fragmented.



SALES AND
    MARKETING



Medical
    Segment



Our medical products are sold directly to hospitals, healthcare
    providers, distributors and to original equipment manufacturers
    of medical devices through our own sales forces and through
    independent representatives and independent distributor networks.



Aerospace and
    Commercial Segments



Products sold to the aerospace market are sold through our own
    field representatives and distributors. The majority of our
    Commercial Segment products are sold through a direct sales
    force of field representatives and technical specialists. Marine
    driver controls and engine and drive parts are sold directly to
    boat builders and engine manufacturers as well as through
    distributors, dealers and retail outlets to reach recreational
    boaters.



BACKLOG



Medical
    Segment



Most of our medical products are sold to hospitals or healthcare
    providers on orders calling for delivery within a few days or
    weeks, with longer order times for products sold to medical
    device manufacturers. Therefore, the backlog of our Medical
    Segment orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any
    future12-monthperiod.



Aerospace
    Segment



As of December 31, 2010, our backlog of firm orders for our
    Aerospace Segment was $74 million, of which we expect
    approximately 100 percent to be filled in 2011. Our backlog
    for our Aerospace Segment on December 31, 2009 was
    $35 million.





Commercial
    Segment



Standard Commercial Segment products are typically shipped
    between a few days and three months after receipt of order.
    Therefore, the backlog of such orders is not indicative of
    probable revenues in any future12-monthperiod.



PATENTS AND
    TRADEMARKS



We own a portfolio of patents, patents pending and trademarks.
    We also license various patents and trademarks. Patents for
    individual products extend for varying periods according to the
    date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in
    the various countries where patent protection is obtained.
    Trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of
    time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the marks.
    All capitalized product names throughout this document are
    trademarks owned by, or licensed to, us or our subsidiaries.
    Although these have been of value and are expected to continue
    to be of value in the future, we do not consider any single
    patent or trademark, except for the Teleflex and Arrow brands,
    to be essential to the operation of our business.



SUPPLIERS AND
    MATERIALS



Materials used in the manufacture of our products are purchased
    from a large number of suppliers in diverse geographic
    locations. We are not dependent on any single supplier for a
    substantial amount of the materials used or components supplied
    for our overall operations. Most of the materials and components
    we use are available from multiple sources, and where practical,
    we attempt to identify alternative suppliers. Volatility in
    commodity markets, particularly steel and plastic resins, can
    have a significant impact on the cost of producing certain of
    our products. We cannot be assured of successfully passing these
    cost increases through to all of our customers, particularly
    original equipment manufacturers.



RESEARCH AND
    DEVELOPMENT



We are engaged in both internal and external research and
    development in our Medical, Aerospace and Commercial segments.
    Our research and development costs in our Medical business
    principally relate to our efforts to bring innovative new
    products to the markets we serve, and our efforts to enhance the
    clinical value, ease of use, safety and reliability of our
    existing product lines. Our research and development efforts
    support our strategic objectives to provide safe and effective
    products that reduce infections, improve patient and clinician
    safety, enhance patient outcomes and enable less invasive
    procedures.



Research and development in our Aerospace and Commercial
    businesses is focused on the development of lighter, more
    durable and more automated systems and products that facilitate
    cargo loading and containment on commercial aircraft and improve
    the performance of recreational boats.



We also acquire or license products and technologies that are
    consistent with our strategic objectives and enhance our ability
    to provide a full range of product and service options to our
    customers.



SEASONALITY



Portions of our revenues, particularly in the Commercial and
    Medical segments, are subject to seasonal fluctuations. Revenues
    in the marine aftermarket generally increase in the second
    quarter as boat owners prepare their watercraft for the upcoming
    season. Incidence of flu and other disease patterns as well as
    the frequency of elective medical procedures affect revenues
    related to disposable medical products.



EMPLOYEES



We employed approximately 12,500 full-time and temporary
    employees at December 31, 2010. Of these employees,
    approximately 3,600 were employed in the United States and 8,900
    in countries outside of the United States. Less than 8% percent
    of our employees in the United States were covered by union
    contracts. We





also have collective-bargaining arrangements or union contracts
    that cover employees in other countries. We believe we have good
    relationships with our employees.



INVESTOR
    INFORMATION



We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934. Therefore, we file reports, proxy
    statements and other information with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies of such reports, proxy
    statements, and other information may be obtained by visiting
    the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street,
    NE, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site
    (http://www.sec.gov)
    that contains reports, proxy and information statements and
    other information regarding issuers that file electronically
    with the SEC.



You can access financial and other information about us in the
    Investors section of our website, which can be accessed atwww.teleflex.com. We make available through our website,
    free of charge, copies of our annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the
    SEC under Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
    Act as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically
    filing or furnishing such material to the SEC. The information
    on our website is not part of this annual report onForm 10-K.The reference to our website address is intended to be an
    inactive textual reference only.



We are a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1943. Our
    executive offices are located at 155 South Limerick Road,
    Limerick, PA 19468. Our telephone number is(610) 948-5100.



EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS



The names and ages of all of our executive officers as of
    February 1, 2011 and the positions and offices held by each
    such officer are as follows:



NameAgePositions and Offices with CompanyBenson F. Smith63Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorRichard A. Meier51Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerLaurence G. Miller56Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryJohn Suddarth51President — Aerospace, Commercial and Medical OEMVince Northfield47Executive Vice President, Global Operations — Medical





Mr. Smith was appointed our Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer in January 2011, and has served as a Director
    since April 2005. Prior to January 2011, Mr. Smith was the
    managing partner of Sales Research Group, a research and
    consulting organization, and also served as the Chief Executive
    Officer of BFS & Associates LLC, which specialized in
    strategic planning and venture investing. Prior to that,
    Mr. Smith worked for C.R. Bard, Inc., a company
    specializing in medical devices, for approximately
    25 years, where he held various executive and senior level
    positions. Most recently, Mr. Smith served as President and
    Chief Operating Officer of C.R. Bard from 1994 to 1998.



Mr. Meier joined Teleflex as Executive Vice President and
    Chief Financial Officer in January 2010. Prior to joining
    Teleflex, Mr. Meier held various executive-level positions
    with Advanced Medical Optics, Inc., a global ophthalmic medical
    device company, from April 2002 to May 2009, including President
    and Chief Operating Officer from November 2007 to May 2009.



Mr. Miller has been Executive Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary since February 2008. From November 2004 to
    February 2008, Mr. Miller was Senior Vice President,
    General Counsel and Secretary. From November 2001 until November
    2004, he was Senior Vice President and Associate General Counsel
    for the





Food & Support Services division of Aramark
    Corporation, a diversified management services company providing
    food, refreshment, facility and other support services for a
    variety of organizations.



Mr. Suddarth has been the President of our Aerospace and
    Commercial segments since March 2009. In December 2010,
    Mr. Suddarth also assumed responsibility for the OEM
    division of our Medical Segment. From July 2004 to March 2009,
    Mr. Suddarth was the President of Teleflex Aerospace. From
    2003 to 2004, Mr. Suddarth was the President of Techsonic
    Industries Inc., a former subsidiary of Teleflex that
    manufactured underwater sonar and video viewing equipment, which
    was divested in 2004.



Mr. Northfield, who was our Executive Vice President for
    Global Operations, Teleflex Medical since September 2008 advised
    us on February 15, 2011 that he had elected to resign from
    this position, effective June 30, 2011. From 2005 to 2008,
    Mr. Northfield was the President of Teleflex Commercial.
    From 2004 to 2005, Mr. Northfield was the President of
    Teleflex Automotive and the Vice President of Strategic
    Development. Mr. Northfield held the position of Vice
    President of Strategic Development from 2001 to 2004.



Our officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors.
    Each officer serves at the pleasure of the Board until their
    respective successors have been elected.



