ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Teleflex Incorporated is referred to herein
as “we,” “us,” “our,” “Teleflex” and the “Company.”

THE COMPANY

Teleflex is a global provider of medical technology products that enhance clinical benefits, improve patient and provider safety and reduce total
procedural costs. We primarily design, develop, manufacture and supply single-use medical devices used by hospitals and healthcare providers for common diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in critical care and surgical applications. We sell our
products to hospitals and healthcare providers in more than 140 countries through a combination of our direct sales force and distributors. Because our products are used in numerous markets and for a variety of procedures, we are not dependent upon
any one end-market or procedure.

We are focused on achieving consistent, sustainable and profitable growth by increasing our market
share and improving our operating efficiencies through:



•the development of new products and product line extensions;



•the investment in new technologies and broadening their applications;



•the expansion of the use of our products in existing markets, as well as the introduction of our products into new geographic markets;



•leveraging our direct sales force and distribution network with new products, manufacturing and distribution facility rationalization and achieving economies of
scale as we continue to expand; and



•the potential broadening of our product portfolio through select acquisitions, licensing arrangements and partnerships that enhance, extend or expedite our
development initiatives or our ability to increase our market share.

Our research and development capabilities,
commitment to engineering excellence and focus on low-cost manufacturing enable us to consistently bring cost effective, innovative products to market that improve the safety, efficacy and quality of healthcare. Our research and development
initiatives focus on developing new, innovative products for existing and new therapeutic applications as well as enhancements to, and line extensions of, existing products. We introduced 20 new products and line extensions during 2012. Our
portfolio of existing products and pipeline of potential new products consist primarily of Class I and Class II devices, which require 510(k) clearance by the FDA for sale in the United States. We believe that 510(k) clearance reduces our research
and development costs and risks, and typically results in a shorter timetable for new product introductions as compared to the premarket approval, or PMA, process that would be required for Class III devices.

Over the past several years we have evolved into a pure-play medical technology company. Through an extensive acquisition and divestiture program,
we have significantly changed the composition of our portfolio of businesses, expanding our presence in the medical technology industry, while divesting all of our businesses serving the aerospace and commercial markets.

During 2012, we continued to expand our presence in the anesthesia market through the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of LMA
International N.V. (“LMA”) a global market leader in laryngeal masks with a portfolio of innovative products used extensively in anesthesia and emergency care. In addition, consistent with our strategy to invest in new technologies and
research and development to support our future growth, we completed four late-stage technology acquisitions in 2012. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for a discussion of the acquisitions.







During 2012, we sold the orthopedics business line of our OEM Segment. See Note 19 to the consolidated
financial statements included in this report for a discussion of the disposition.

OUR BUSINESS

We provide a broad-based platform of products, which we categorize into four groups: Critical Care, Surgical Care, Cardiac Care and OEM and
Development Services.

Net Revenues

The following table sets forth our net revenues for 2012, 2011 and 2010 by product category.



201220112010(Dollars in thousands)Critical Care$1,040,547$1,003,792$943,367Surgical Care291,219277,440262,683Cardiac Care78,58479,96170,559OEM and Development Services140,230129,630118,364Other4291,7052,749Total net revenues$1,551,009$1,492,528$1,397,722

Our products generally serve three end-markets: hospitals and healthcare providers, medical device manufacturers and
home care. These markets are influenced by a number of factors, including demographics, utilization and reimbursement patterns. The following table sets forth the percentage of net revenues for 2012, 2011 and 2010 by end market.



201220112010Hospitals / Healthcare Providers84%83%84%Medical Device Manufacturers10%9%9%Home Care6%8%7%

We sell and market our products in over 140 countries through a combination of our direct sales force and
independent distributors. The following table sets forth the percentage of net revenues (based on business unit location) for 2012, 2011 and 2010 derived from the major geographic areas we serve.



201220112010United States51%51%54%Europe, Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”)34%37%36%Asia, Latin America and Canada15%12%10%

Additional geographic information is presented in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We operate 25 manufacturing sites, with major manufacturing operations located in the Czech Republic,
Malaysia, Mexico and the United States.

Critical Care

We are a leading provider of specialty products for critical care, which is predominantly comprised of single-use products. The large majority of our sales for single-use products are made to the
hospital/healthcare provider market, with a smaller percentage sold to alternate sites.

Critical Care is our largest product group
representing 67% of net revenues in 2012. Our products are used in a wide range of critical care procedures for vascular access, anesthesia and airway management, respiratory therapy, treatment of urologic conditions and other specialty procedures.







Vascular Access Products

Our vascular access products, which accounted for 36 percent of our Critical Care net revenues in 2012, are generally catheter-based products used
in a variety of clinical procedures to facilitate a variety of critical care therapies, including the administration of intravenous medications and other therapies and the measurement of blood pressure and taking of blood samples through a single
puncture site.

Our vascular access catheters and related devices consist principally of central venous access catheters such as the
following:



•the ARROW multi-lumen catheter, a catheter equipped with three or four channels, or lumens;



•ARROW double-and single-lumen catheters, which are designed for use in a number of clinical procedures;



•the ARROW pressure injectable central venous catheter, or CVC, which gives clinicians who perform contrast-enhanced CT scans the ability to use an indwelling
pressure injectable ARROW CVC to inject contrast dye for their scan without having to insert a second catheter;



•ARROW percutaneous sheath introducers, which are used to insert cardiovascular and other catheterization devices into the vascular system during critical care
procedures; and



•ARROW arterial catheterization sets, which facilitate arterial pressure monitoring and blood withdrawal for glucose, blood-gas and electrolyte measurement in a
wide variety of critical care and intensive care settings.

Many of our vascular access catheters are treated with the
ARROWg+ard or ARROWg+ard Blue Plus antimicrobial surface treatments to reduce the risk of catheter related bloodstream infection. ARROWg+ard Blue Plus provides antimicrobial treatment of the interior lumens and hubs of each catheter.

We also provide a range of peripherally inserted central catheters, or PICCs, which are soft, flexible catheters inserted in the upper arm and
advanced into the superior vena cava that are used to administer various types of intravenous medications and therapies. Our offerings include a pressure injectable peripherally inserted catheter, which addresses the therapeutic need for a catheter
that can withstand the higher pressures required by the injection of contrast media for CT scans. The two newest additions to the PICC portfolio in the United States include:



•ARROWEVOLUTION PICC with Chlorag+ard technology, a pressure-injectable PICC treated with a chlorhexidine-based solution from tip to hub on both the inner and
outer lumen surfaces. Introduced in 2010, Chlorag+ard is our newest coating technology for use on some peripherally inserted central catheters, providing a reduction in colonization of pathogens responsible for causing catheter-related bloodstream
infections for up to 30 days.



•ARROW’s VasoNova Positioning System (VPS) collects data from its single use biosensor and uses proprietary algorithms to accurately confirm catheter
location in the vasculature. The biosensor can be used with any suitable diameter CVC or PICC catheter. It is FDA cleared as an alternative to chest x-ray confirmation, shortening hospital stays and lowering costs associated with catheter insertion
procedures.

As part of our ongoing efforts to meet physicians’ needs for safety and management of risk of
infection in the hospital setting, we offer many of our vascular access catheters in a Maximal Barrier Precautions Tray. The tray is available for central venous (CVC), multi access (MAC) and peripheral venous access (PICC) and includes a full body
drape, coated or non-coated catheter and other accessories. These kits were created to assist healthcare providers in complying with guidelines for reducing catheter-related bloodstream infections that have been established by a variety of health
regulatory agencies, such as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Joint Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations.







Our newest offering is the ErgoPack system designed to support consistent compliance with established
guidelines for infection prevention and safety measures during catheter insertion. The system provides components which are packaged in the tray in the order in which they will be needed during the procedure and incorporates features intended to
enhance ease of use and patient and provider safety. The ErgoPack system is offered for CVC, PICC, MAC and Acute Hemodialysis product offerings.

These advanced ErgoPack systems are designed to reduce procedural time and the risk of catheter-related blood stream infection. Combined with the ARROW VPS™ system, which has been approved by the FDA as a
replacement for chest x-ray following the insertion of a central venous catheter, these products collectively offer the opportunity to reduce injuries to the healthcare provider, expedite placement of a central venous catheter, reduce patient
exposure to x-ray, expedite infusion of medication and reduce the risk of catheter related infection and thrombosis for the patient. The intended net result is a more cost-effective and safer approach to management of the insertion and use of
central venous catheter.

Anesthesia

Our anesthesia portfolio, which includes airway and pain management products, accounted for 23 percent of our Critical
Care product net revenues in 2012. Teleflex airway management products are used to maintain a patent airway for patients in surgical, critical care and emergency settings. These products are primarily marketed under the Rusch®brand and include endotracheal tubes, tracheostomy tubes, oral and nasal airways, laryngoscopes, face masks, and anesthesia
circuits.

In 2012, Teleflex expanded our anesthesia franchise with the acquisition of LMA International N.V.
(“LMA”). LMA®is a global market leader in laryngeal masks with a portfolio of innovative products used
extensively in anesthesia and emergency care. The addition of this business significantly strengthens and expands our global anesthesia product portfolio, providing opportunities with respect to key clinical U.S. and international call points, while
also further strengthening our Group Purchasing Organizations (GPO) relationships.

Teleflex also acquired and
commercialized a late-stage airway management technology in 2012. The Rusch®EZ-Blocker™ disposable catheter is an
innovative technology that improves Teleflex’s competitive position. The EZ-Blocker catheter is used in lung isolation procedures to achieve one-lung ventilation and is designed to provide benefits that overcome the significant drawbacks of
currently used products. The design of the EZ-Blocker catheter allows for use in combination with a standard endotracheal tube and enables positioning over the carina. We acquired the device in May of 2012.

Our pain management, or regional anesthesia, products include epidural catheters and trays, spinal needles and trays and
peripheral nerve block needles, catheters and trays. Teleflex’s comprehensive portfolio of pain management products are marketed under the ARROW®brand and are designed to provide pain relief during a broad range of surgical and obstetric procedures to help clinicians better manage each patient’s
individual pain, while reducing complications and associated costs.

In 2012, we strengthened our Pain Management
portfolio with the launch of the ARROW®FlexTip®Plus Multi-Port Catheter, an epidural catheter that uses the same technology as our ARROW®FlexTip Plus open tip, single-port catheter, which has been proven to significantly reduce complications, such as vein cannulations and paresthesia. The unique
polyurethane FlexTip Plus Multi-Port catheter provides a solution for clinicians who believe a better block is achieved with a multi-orifice catheter rather than with a single-hole, open tip catheter.

In late 2012, the Anesthesia business also launched the ARROW®FlexBlock™ Continuous Peripheral Nerve Block Catheter, which is intended for clinicians who use ultrasound-guidance when placing continuous peripheral nerve
block catheters. The FlexBlock catheter’s coil-reinforced, polyurethane body is designed to help improve continuous nerve blocking by providing clinicians with







an echogenic catheter. The coil reinforcement also makes FlexBlock kink resistant to better maintain patency, even in some situations that might cause ordinary nylon catheters to fail. The unique
Tuohy introducer needles are designed to enable clinicians to retract the catheter back into the needle, if necessary, without withdrawing the needle and resticking the patient.

Respiratory Care

Teleflex’s respiratory products accounted for 16 percent of our Critical Care product net revenues in 2012. Our Hudson RCI brand has been a
leader in respiratory care for more than 65 years, providing innovative products that are designed to help clinicians improve patient outcomes while reducing costs. Our comprehensive portfolio is used in a variety of care settings and includes:



•oxygen therapy products, including oxygen masks, cannulas, humidifiers and tubing;



•aerosol therapy products, including small and large volume nebulizers, peak flow meters and aerosol chambers;



•spirometry products, including incentive breathing exercisers; and



•ventilation management products, including ventilator circuits, humidification devices and bacteria/virus filters.

In 2012, we launched several new products to complement the popular ConchaTherm®Neptune®Heated Humidifier. The
ConchaTherm Neptune enables clinicians to optimize humidification to improve patient outcomes. Featuring adjustable temperature and gradient control, the ConchaTherm®Neptune®supports clinical practice
guidelines for humidification delivery during invasive and noninvasive ventilation. Because of the ConchaTherm®Neptune®’s flexibility in operation, therapists can easily adjust the humidifier after routine clinical assessments.

Launched in late 2012, ISO-Gard®Circuit Technology is used in conjunction with the ConchaTherm Neptune. This disposable circuit promotes a closed system ventilation approach by integrating
reservoirs into the breathing circuit that collect excess condensate or secretions, which can be easily emptied with a suction wand. This closed system minimizes circuit breaks, which reduces the risk of cross contamination and eliminates the need
to interrupt ventilation. As a result, the ISO-Gard Circuit Technology helps to reduce both patient and clinician exposure to mucosal secretions and supports strategies for reducing the risk of ventilator-associated pneumonia in acute care
hospitals.

In 2012, Teleflex also launched the Softech®Plus line of adult, pediatric, infant and neonatal oxygen cannulas that feature a new material blend resulting in softness that provides optimal patient comfort with
an ideal fit. The Softech Plus’ non-DEHP construction helps customers comply with evolving patient safety standards.

Specialty
Markets

Teleflex’s Specialty products accounted for 25 percent of our Critical Care product net revenues in 2012. Our Specialty
Markets business sells Respiratory, Anesthesia, Interventional Access and Urology products into the Homecare and other alternative channels of care.

Our line of Urology products provides bladder management for patients in the hospital and home care markets. Our product portfolio consists principally of a wide range of catheters (including Foley, intermittent,
external and suprapubic), urine collectors, catheterization accessories and products for operative endurology marketed under the
Rusch®brand name.

Our Urology business serves home care markets and patient care outside of the hospital. Over the past few years, we have expanded our offerings for these markets to include a wider range of intermittent
catheters, catheter insertion kits and accessories used by quadriplegic and paraplegic people. Many of these products are designed to support patient safety and infection prevention







efforts. For example, we market an intermittent catheter with hydrophilic coating, an Ergothan tip, protective sleeve and saline solution in our EMEA region. In the United States, we
recently expanded our hydrophilic coated intermittent catheter line to include female lengths as well as complete sterile insertion kits for both standard (male) and female lengths. The uncoated intermittent catheter line in the United States was
also expanded recently to include a full range of female length catheters and a complete offering of sterile insertion kits for the standard (male), Coudé, and female styles.

Home care markets are subject to local and regional reimbursement regulations that can impact volumes and pricing. For example, in the United
States, reimbursement regulations were implemented in 2008 that permit reimbursement for up to 200 catheters per month, replacing the previous limit of four catheters per month. The change promoted a shift from re-useable catheters, with their
inherent risk of infections, to single-use intermittent catheters. Sales of our intermittent catheters in the United States have benefited from this change in reimbursement policy.

The
Gibeck®TRACH-VENT®HME (Heat & Moisture Exchanger) family of products are designed to provide excellent humidification for spontaneously breathing tracheostomized patients. In
November 2012, we introduced the Gibeck®TRACH VENT T with 5mm Collar. This HME provides optimal moisture via Gibeck
Microwell paper while accommodating all patient sizes.

Interventional Access products include tunneled hemodialysis catheters, acute
hemodialysis catheters, Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) balloons, embolectomy balloons, a mechanical thrombectomy device, reinforced percutaneous sheath introducers and diagnostic and drainage kits.

The line of tunneled dialysis catheters offers antegrade and retrograde catheters in the split tipped ARROW Edge Catheter and the ARROW Cannon II
Plus Catheter. In the step tip catheter the antegrade and retrograde NextStep Catheter is offered with a reverse port configuration. The acute hemodialysis catheters are treated with the ARROWg+ard antimicrobial surface treatments to reduce the risk
of catheter related bloodstream infection. In May of 2012, we acquired Semprus BioSciences, a biomedical company that developed Sustain™, a long-lasting, covalently bonded, non-leaching polymer designed to reduce infections and thrombus related
complications. Our tunneled hemodialysis catheters will be treated with Sustain™, in order to reduce the attachment of platelets and blood proteins at the device surface.

In connection with the acquisition of Hotspur Technologies, a developer of catheter-based technologies designed to restore blood flow in patients with obstructed vessels, we obtained the VisioValve™ Injection
System, a patented technology that is the basis for a portfolio of multi-function catheters, such as the GPSCath Balloon Dilitation Catheter. The GPSCath is a specialty two-in-one device intended for dialysis access and peripheral vascular
interventions that enables physicians to conduct angioplasty and inject fluid while maintaining guidewire position.

Surgical Care

Surgical Care, which is predominantly comprised of single-use products, represented 19 percent of net revenues
in 2012. Our surgical products include: ligation and closure products, including appliers, clips and sutures used in a variety of surgical procedures; access ports used in minimally invasive surgical procedures, including robotic surgery; and fluid
management products used for chest drainage. Our surgical products also include reusable hand-held instruments for general and specialty surgical procedures. We market surgical products under the Deknatel, Pilling, Pleur-evac, Taut and Weck brand
names. In April 2012 we expanded our Surgical product offerings through acquisition of technology enabling us to launch the Weck
EFxTMEndo Fascial Closure System, a port site closure device used in
laparoscopic surgical procedures.

Hem-o-lok, a significant part of the Weck portfolio, is a unique locking polymer ligation clip that
combines the security of a suture with the speed of a metal clip for open and laparoscopic surgery. Hem-o-lok clips have special applications in robotic, laparoscopic and cardiovascular surgery.







In addition to the launch of the Weck EFxTMEndo Fascial Closure System, recently introduced products include a new comprehensive
line of bladeless laparoscopic access ports under the Weck brand featuring optical trocars, universal balloons and a line of sustainable, reusable obturators and Deklene Maxx, a line of high performing polypropylene sutures utilized extensively in
Cardiovascular surgery.

Cardiac Care

Cardiac Care products accounted for approximately 5 percent of net revenues in 2012. Products in this category include diagnostic catheters and capital equipment. Our diagnostic catheters include thermodilution and
wedge pressure catheters; specialized angiographic catheters, such as Berman and Reverse Berman catheters; therapeutic delivery catheters, such as temporary pacing catheters; sheaths for femoral and trans-radial aortic access used in diagnostic and
therapeutic procedures; and intra-aortic balloon, or IAB, catheters. Capital equipment includes our intra-aortic balloon pump, or IABP, consoles. IABP products are used to augment oxygen delivery to the cardiac muscle and reduce the oxygen demand
after cardiac surgery, serious heart attack or interventional procedures.

The IAB and IABP product lines feature the AutoCAT 2 WAVE
console and the FiberOptix catheter, which together utilize fiber optic technology for arterial pressure signal acquisition and enable the patented WAVE timing algorithm to support the broadest range of patient heart rhythms, including severely
arrhythmic patients.

OEM and Development Services

Customized extrusion, performance fibers and devices sold to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, represented 9 percent of our net revenues in 2012. Teleflex Medical OEM designs and delivers products that
have applications for a wide variety of organs and systems in the human body. We offer comprehensive product development and outsourcing services, which include design, engineering, regulatory affairs, prototyping, manufacturing, assembly and
packaging.

Our OEM products which are marketed under the TFX OEM brand name, include custom-manufactured extrusions, catheters,
introducers, dilators and other devices. OEM also markets specialty sutures, resins and yarns for cardiovascular and orthopedic applications under the Deknatel brand.

HISTORY AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

Teleflex was founded in 1943 as a manufacturer of precision
mechanical push/pull controls for military aircraft. From this original single market, single product orientation, we have grown through an active program of development of new products, introduction of products into new geographic or end-markets
and through acquisitions of companies with related market, technology or industry expertise. Throughout our history, we have continually focused on providing innovative, technology-driven, specialty-engineered products that help our customers meet
their business requirements.

Over the past several years, we have significantly changed the composition of our portfolio of businesses,
expanding our presence in the medical device industry, while divesting all of our businesses serving the aerospace and commercial markets. The most significant of these transactions occurred in 2007 with our acquisition of Arrow International, a
leading global supplier of catheter-based medical technology products used for vascular access and cardiac care, and the divestiture of our automotive and industrial businesses. Our acquisition of Arrow significantly expanded our single-use product
offerings for critical care, enhanced our global footprint and added to our research and development capabilities. With the divestitures of our marine business and cargo container and systems businesses in 2011, we have become exclusively a medical
device company.

We expect to continue to increase the relative composition of our business through a combination of portfolio management
and organic growth initiatives. From time to time, we explore and engage in discussions regarding acquisitions that would augment our existing technology platform.







CHANGE IN REPORTING SEGMENTS AND BUSINESS UNIT STRUCTURE

Effective January 1, 2012, we changed our segment reporting from a single reportable segment to four reportable segments. As initially changed,
our reportable segments included three geographically-based segments, North America, EMEA (representing our operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa) and AJLA (representing our Asian and Latin American operations) and a fourth reportable
segment comprised of our OEM business. In addition, in the first quarter of 2012, we changed the number of our reporting units. Previously, we had six reporting units comprised of North America, EMEA, OEM, Japan, Asia Pacific and Latin America. In
2012, in addition to establishing a new North America segment, we established five reporting units within that segment: Vascular, Anesthesia/Respiratory, Cardiac, Surgical and Specialty. Due to the change in the reporting unit structure in
North America, we were required to conduct a goodwill impairment test with respect to each of the North American reporting units in the first quarter of 2012, and determined that the goodwill of three of the reporting units was impaired. As a
result, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $332 million in the first quarter of 2012. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for a discussion of the goodwill impairment.

During the third quarter of 2012, due to changes in our management and internal reporting structure, our Latin America operations were moved from
the AJLA Segment into the North America Segment. As a result of this change, the North America Segment is now referred to as the Americas Segment and the AJLA Segment is now referred to as the Asia Segment. The change did not affect our reporting
unit structure. All prior comparative periods have been restated to reflect this change. See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for a discussion of the segments.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

Government agencies
in a number of countries regulate our products and the products sold by our customers that incorporate our products. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration and government agencies in other countries regulate the approval, manufacturing, sale and
marketing of many of our healthcare products. For more information, see “We are subject to extensive government regulation, which may require us to incur significant expenses to ensure compliance. Our failure to comply with those regulations
could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.” appearing in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of this report.

COMPETITION

The medical device industry is highly competitive. We compete with many companies,
ranging from small start-up enterprises to companies that are larger and more established than us and have access to significantly greater financial resources. Furthermore, extensive product research and development and rapid technological advances
characterize the market in which we compete. We must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies for our businesses to remain competitive. We believe that we compete primarily on the basis of clinical superiority and innovative
features that enhance patient benefit, product reliability, performance, customer and sales support, and cost-effectiveness. Our competitors include C. R. Bard, Inc., Covidien and CareFusion.

SALES AND MARKETING

Our products are sold directly to hospitals, healthcare providers,
distributors and to original equipment manufacturers of medical devices through our own sales forces and through independent representatives and independent distributor networks.







BACKLOG

Most of our products are sold to hospitals or healthcare providers on orders calling for delivery within a few days or weeks, with longer order times for products sold to medical device manufacturers. Therefore,
our backlog of orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

We own a portfolio of patents, patents pending and trademarks. We also license various patents and trademarks. Patents for individual products
extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. Trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are
dependent upon national laws and use of the marks. All capitalized product names throughout this document are trademarks owned by, or licensed to, us or our subsidiaries. Although these have been of value and are expected to continue to be of value
in the future, we do not consider any single patent or trademark, except for the Teleflex and Arrow brands, to be essential to the operation of our business.

SUPPLIERS AND MATERIALS

Materials used in the manufacture of our products are purchased from a
large number of suppliers in diverse geographic locations. We are not dependent on any single supplier for a substantial amount of the materials used or components supplied for our overall operations. Most of the materials and components we use are
available from multiple sources, and where practical, we attempt to identify alternative suppliers. Volatility in commodity markets, particularly steel and plastic resins, can have a significant impact on the cost of producing certain of our
products. We may not be able to successfully pass these cost increases through to all of our customers, particularly original equipment manufacturers.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

We are engaged in
both internal and external research and development. Our research and development costs principally relate to our efforts to bring innovative new products to the markets we serve, and our efforts to enhance the clinical value, ease of use, safety
and reliability of our existing product lines. Our research and development efforts support our strategic objectives to provide safe and effective products that reduce infections, improve patient and clinician safety, enhance patient outcomes and
enable less invasive procedures.

We also acquire or license products and technologies that are consistent with our strategic objectives
and enhance our ability to provide a full range of product and service options to our customers.

SEASONALITY

Portions of our revenues are subject to seasonal fluctuations. Incidence of flu and other disease patterns as well as the frequency of elective
medical procedures affect revenues related to single-use products.

EMPLOYEES

We employed approximately 11,600 full-time and temporary employees at December 31, 2012. Of these employees, approximately 3,100 were employed
in the United States and 8,500 in countries outside of the United States. Less than 5% of our employees in the United States were covered by union contracts. We also have collective-bargaining arrangements or union contracts that cover employees in
other countries. We believe we have good relationships with our employees.







INVESTOR INFORMATION

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Therefore, we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies of such reports, proxy statements, and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In
addition, the SEC maintains a website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

You can access financial and other information about us in the Investors section of our website, which can be accessed at www.teleflex.com. We make
available through our website, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under Section 13(a) or 15(d)
of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the SEC. The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The reference to our website address is intended
to be an inactive textual reference only.

We are a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1943. Our executive offices are located at
155 South Limerick Road, Limerick, PA 19468. Our telephone number is (610) 948-5100.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The names and ages of all of our executive officers and the positions and offices held by each such officer are as follows:



NameAgePositions and Offices with CompanyBenson F. Smith65Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorLiam Kelly46Executive Vice President and President, InternationalLaurence G. Miller58Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, General Counsel and SecretaryThomas E. Powell51Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Mr. Smith has been our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer since January 2011, and has served as a
Director since April 2005. Prior to January 2011, Mr. Smith was the managing partner of Sales Research Group, a research and consulting organization. From 1999 to January 2011, he also served as the Chief Executive Officer of BFS &
Associates LLC, which specialized in strategic planning and venture investing. From 2000 until 2005, Mr. Smith also served as a speaker and author at The Gallup Organization, a global research-based consultancy firm. Prior to that,
Mr. Smith worked for C.R. Bard, Inc., a company specializing in medical devices, for approximately 25 years, where he held various executive and senior level positions most recently as President and Chief Operating Officer from 1994 to
1998.

Mr. Kelly has been our Executive Vice President, President, International since June 2012. From June 2011 to June 2012, he
served as President, EMEA. From November 2009 to June 2011, Mr. Kelly served as Executive Vice President, EMEA. From April 2009 to November 2009, he served as Vice President of Marketing, EMEA. Prior to joining Teleflex,
Mr. Kelly held various senior level positions with Hill-Rom Holdings, Inc., a medical device company, from October 2002 to August 2009, serving as its Vice President of International Marketing and R&D from August 2006 to February 2009.

Mr. Miller has been our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since February 2008 and has also served as Chief
Administrative Officer since April 26, 2011. From November 2004 to February 2008, Mr. Miller was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. From November 2001 until November 2004, he was Senior Vice President and Associate
General Counsel







for the Food & Support Services division of Aramark Corporation, a diversified management services company providing food, refreshment, facility and other support services for a variety
of organizations.

Mr. Powell has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since February 2013. From March 2012
to February 2013, Mr. Powell was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. He joined Teleflex in August 2011 as Senior Vice President, Global Finance. Prior to joining Teleflex, Mr. Powell served as Chief Financial Officer
and Treasurer of Tomotherapy Incorporated, a medical device company, from June 2009 until June 2011. In 2008, he served as Chief Financial Officer of Textura Corporation, a software provider. From April 2001 until January 2008, Mr. Powell was
employed by Midway Games, Inc., a software provider, serving as its Executive Vice President, CFO and Treasurer from September 2001 until January 2008. Mr. Powell has also held leadership positions with Dade Behring, Inc. (now Siemens
Healthcare Diagnostics), PepsiCo, Bain & Company, Tenneco Inc. and Arthur Andersen & Company.

Our officers are elected
annually by our board of directors. Each officer serves at the discretion of the board.



