ITEM 1. BUSINESS

“Delphi,” the
“Company,” the “Successor,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Delphi Automotive PLC, a public limited company which was formed under the laws of Jersey on May 19, 2011, together with its subsidiaries,
including Delphi Automotive LLP, a limited liability partnership incorporated under the laws of England and Wales which was formed on August 19, 2009 for the purpose of acquiring certain assets of the former Delphi Corporation, and became a
subsidiary of Delphi Automotive PLC in connection with the completion of the Company’s initial public offering on November 22, 2011. The former Delphi Corporation and, as the context may require, its subsidiaries and affiliates, are referred to
herein as the “Predecessor” or “Old Delphi”.

We are a leading global vehicle components manufacturer and
provide electrical and electronic, powertrain, safety and thermal technology solutions to the global automotive and commercial vehicle markets. We are one of the largest vehicle component manufacturers, and our customers include 24 of the 25 largest
automotive original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) in the world. We operate 114 major manufacturing facilities and 15 major technical centers utilizing a regional service model that enables us to efficiently and effectively serve our
global customers from low cost countries. We have a presence in 30 countries and have over 17,000 scientists, engineers and technicians focused on developing market relevant product solutions for our customers. In line with the growth in emerging
markets, we have been increasing our focus on these markets, particularly China, where we have a major manufacturing base and strong customer relationships.

Website Access to Company’s Reports

Delphi’s internet website
address iswww.delphi.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available
free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Our History

On August 19, 2009, Delphi Automotive LLP, a limited liability partnership organized under the laws of England and Wales, was formed for the purpose of acquiring certain assets and subsidiaries of the
Predecessor, as discussed below.

On the Acquisition Date, the Predecessor (i) consummated the transactions contemplated by
the Modified Plan and (ii) exited chapter 11 as DPH Holdings Corp. and its subsidiaries and affiliates (“DPHH”), except that







two of the Predecessor’s debtor subsidiaries became subsidiaries of Delphi Automotive LLP. As a result of the Acquisition, Delphi Automotive LLP acquired the major portion of the business of
the Predecessor and this business constituted the entirety of the operations of the Successor, as defined below.

On
March 31, 2011, all of the outstanding Class A and Class C membership interests held by GM and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (“PBGC”) were redeemed, respectively, for approximately $4.4 billion. The redemption
transaction was funded by a $3.0 billion credit facility entered into on March 31, 2011 (the “Credit Facility”) and existing cash.

On May 19, 2011, Delphi Automotive PLC was formed as a Jersey public limited company, and had nominal assets, no liabilities and had conducted no operations prior to its initial public offering. On
November 22, 2011, in conjunction with the completion of its initial public offering by the selling shareholders, all of the outstanding equity of Delphi Automotive LLP was exchanged for ordinary shares in Delphi Automotive PLC. As a result,
Delphi Automotive LLP became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Delphi Automotive PLC.

Our Company

We believe the automotive industry is being shaped by increasing government regulations for vehicle safety, fuel efficiency and emissions
control, as well as rapidly increasing consumer demand for connectivity. These industry mega trends, which we refer to as “Safe,” “Green” and “Connected,” are driving higher growth in products that address these trends
than growth in the automotive industry overall. We have organized our business into four diversified segments, which enable us to develop solutions and manufacture highly-engineered products that enable our customers to respond to these mega trends:



•Electrical / Electronic Architecture—This segment provides complete design of the vehicle’s electrical architecture, including
connectors, wiring assemblies and harnesses, electrical centers and hybrid high voltage and safety distribution systems. Our products provide the critical electrical and electronics backbone that supports increased vehicle content and
electrification, reduced emissions and higher fuel economy through weight savings.



•Powertrain Systems—This segment provides systems integration of full end-to-end gasoline and diesel engine management systems
including fuel handling, fuel injection, combustion, electronic controls, test and validation capabilities, diesel and automotive aftermarket, and original equipment services. We design solutions to optimize powertrain power and performance while
helping our customers meet new emissions and fuel economy regulations.



•Electronics and Safety—This segment provides critical components, systems and advanced software for passenger safety, security,
comfort and infotainment, as well as vehicle operation, including body controls, reception systems, infotainment and connectivity systems, hybrid vehicle power electronics, passive and active safety electronics, displays and mechatronics. Our
products integrate and optimize electronic content, which improves fuel economy, reduces emissions, increases safety and provides occupant infotainment and connectivity.



•Thermal Systems—This segment provides powertrain cooling and heating, ventilating and air conditioning (“HVAC”) systems,
such as compressors, systems and controls, and heat exchangers for the vehicle markets. Our products improve the efficiency by which the powertrain and cabin temperatures are managed, which are critical factors in achieving increased fuel economy
and reduced emissions.

Financial Information about Business Segments

We operate our core business along four operating segments, which are grouped on the basis of similar product, market, and operating
factors.







Net Sales by Segment



SuccessorPredecessorYear Ended December 31, 2011Year Ended December 31, 2010Period from August 19 toDecember 31, 2009Period from January 1to October 6, 2009Net sales% of TotalNet sales% of TotalNet sales% of TotalNet sales% of Total(in millions excluding percentages)(in millions excludingpercentages)Electrical/Electronic Architecture$6,64241%$5,62041%$1,32539%$2,97036%Powertrain Systems4,97031%4,08629%95728%2,66732%Electronics and Safety2,93118%2,72120%76122%1,80121%Thermal Systems1,75511%1,60312%36511%1,00812%Eliminations and Other(257)(1)%(213)(2)%130%(112)(1)%Total$16,041$13,817$3,421$8,334

Refer to Results of Operations by Segment in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis and
Note 23. Segment Reporting of the notes to the consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for further financial information about business segments.

Our business is diversified across end-markets, regions, customers, vehicle platforms and products. Our customer base includes 24 of the
25 largest automotive OEMs in the world, and, in 2011, 23% of our net sales came from emerging markets (Asia Pacific and South America). Our six largest platforms in 2011 were with six different OEMs. In addition, in 2011 our products were found in
17 of the 20 top-selling vehicle models in the United States, in all of the 20 top-selling vehicle models in Europe and in 13 of the 20 top-selling vehicle models in China. We have further diversified our business by increasing our sales in the
commercial vehicle market, which is typically on a different business cycle than the light vehicle market and has grown to 8% of our 2011 net sales. In addition, approximately 7% of our 2011 net sales were to the aftermarket, which meets the ongoing
need for replacement parts required for vehicle servicing.

We have established a worldwide design and manufacturing footprint
with a regional service model that enables us to efficiently and effectively serve our global customers from low cost countries. This regional model is structured primarily to service the North American market from Mexico, the South American market
from Brazil, the European market from Eastern Europe and North Africa, and the Asia Pacific market from China. Our global scale and regional service model enables us to engineer globally and execute regionally to serve the largest OEMs, which are
seeking suppliers that can serve them on a worldwide basis. Our footprint also enables us to adapt to the regional design variations the global OEMs require and serve the emerging market OEMs.

Our Industry

The
automotive parts industry provides components, systems, subsystems and modules to OEMs for the manufacture of new vehicles, as well as to the aftermarket for use as replacement parts for current production and older vehicles. Overall, we expect
long-term growth of vehicle sales and production in the OEM market. In 2010 and 2011, the industry has seen increased customer sales and production schedules, and an improved sales mix with greater per vehicle content. However, current OEM
production volumes in North America and Western Europe remain substantially lower than OEM production volumes prior to the disruptions that the economic and credit markets experienced in 2008 and 2009. Demand for automotive parts in the OEM market
is generally a function of the number of new vehicles produced, which is primarily driven by macro-economic factors such as credit availability, interest rates, fuel prices, consumer confidence, employment and other trends. Although OEM demand is
tied to actual vehicle production, participants in the automotive parts industry also have the opportunity to grow through increasing product content per vehicle by further penetrating business with existing customers and in existing markets,
gaining new customers and increasing their presence in global markets. We believe that as a company with a global presence and advanced technology, engineering, manufacturing and customer support capabilities, we are well-positioned to benefit from
these opportunities.







We believe that continuously increasing demands of society have created the emergence of
three “mega trends” that will serve as the basis for the next wave of market-driven technology advancement. Our challenge is to continue developing leading edge technology focused on addressing these mega trends, and apply that technology
toward products with sustainable margins that enable our customers, both OEMs and others, to produce distinctive market-leading products. We have identified a core portfolio of products that draw on our technical strengths and align with these
“mega trends” where we believe we can provide differentiation to our automotive, commercial vehicle and aftermarket customers.

Safe.The first mega-trend, “Safe,” represents technologies aimed not just at protecting vehicle occupants when a crash occurs, but those that actually
proactively reduce the risk of a crash occurring. OEMs continue to focus on improving occupant and pedestrian safety in order to meet increasingly stringent regulatory requirements in various markets, such as the recent proposal by the U.S. National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration to mandate rear view cameras in all vehicles by 2014. As a result, suppliers are focused on developing technologies aimed at protecting vehicle occupants when a crash occurs, as well as those that proactively
mitigate the risk of a crash occurring. Examples of new and alternative technologies are lane departure warning systems and collision avoidance technologies, which incorporate sophisticated electronics and advanced software.

Green.The second mega-trend, “Green,” represents
technologies designed to help reduce emissions, increase fuel economy and minimize the environmental impact of vehicles. Green is a key mega-trend today because of the convergence of several issues: climate change, higher oil prices, increased
concern about oil dependence and recent and pending legislation in the U.S. and overseas regarding fuel economy and carbon dioxide emissions. OEMs continue to focus on improving fuel efficiency and reducing emissions in order to meet increasingly
stringent regulatory requirements in various markets. On a worldwide basis, the relevant authorities in the European Union, the United States, China, India, Japan, Brazil, South Korea and Argentina have already instituted regulations requiring
further reductions in emissions and/or increased fuel economy through 2016. In many cases, the same authorities have initiated legislation that would further tighten the standards through 2020 and beyond. Based on proposed European legislation, we
believe OEMs may be required to reduce fleet average CO


emissions for passenger cars by approximately 20% from 120 grams/kilometer, or approximately 194 grams/mile, in 2012 to 95 grams/kilometer, or approximately 153 grams/mile, by 2020. Based on the current regulatory environment, we believe that
OEMs in other parts of the world, including the U.S. and China, will be subject to even greater reductions in
CO


emissions from their current levels over the next ten
years. These standards will require meaningful innovation as OEMs and suppliers are forced to find ways to improve thermal management, engine management, electrical power consumption, vehicle weight and integration of alternative powertrains (e.g.,
electric/hybrid engines). As a result, suppliers are developing innovations that result in significant improvements in fuel economy, emissions and performance from gasoline and diesel internal combustion engines. At the same time, suppliers are
also developing and marketing new and alternative technologies that support hybrid vehicles, electric vehicles and fuel cell products to improve fuel economy and emissions.

Connected.The third mega-trend, “Connected,” represents technologies designed
to seamlessly integrate the highly complex electronic world in which automotive consumers live into the cars they drive, so that time in a vehicle is more productive and enjoyable. The technology content of vehicles continues to increase as
consumers demand greater safety, personalization, infotainment, productivity and convenience while driving. Advanced technologies offering mobile voice and data communication, while minimizing driver distraction such as those used in our mobile
electronics products coupled with global positioning systems and in-vehicle infotainment will continue to grow in importance and be key products in the transportation industry.

We expect these mega trends to create growth and opportunity for us. We believe we are well-positioned to provide solutions and products
to OEMs to expand the electronic and technological content of their vehicles. We







believe electronics integration, which generally refers to products that combine integrated circuits, software algorithms, sensor technologies and mechanical components within the vehicle will
allow OEMs to achieve substantial reductions in weight and mechanical complexity, resulting in easier assembly, enhanced fuel economy, improved emissions control and better vehicle performance.

Standardization of Sourcing by OEMs

Many OEMs are adopting global vehicle platforms to increase standardization, reduce per unit cost and increase capital efficiency and profitability. As a result, OEMs are selecting suppliers that have the
capability to manufacture products on a worldwide basis as well as the flexibility to adapt to regional variations. Suppliers with global scale and strong design, engineering and manufacturing capabilities, are best positioned to benefit from this
trend. OEMs are also increasingly looking to their suppliers to simplify vehicle design and assembly processes to reduce costs. As a result, suppliers that sell vehicle components directly to manufacturers (Tier I suppliers) have assumed many of the
design, engineering, research and development and assembly functions traditionally performed by vehicle manufacturers. Suppliers that can provide fully-engineered solutions, systems and pre-assembled combinations of component parts are positioned to
leverage the trend toward system sourcing.

Shorter Product Development Cycles

As a result of government regulations and customer preferences, OEMs are requiring suppliers to respond faster with new designs and
product innovations. While these trends are more prevalent in mature markets, the emerging markets are advancing rapidly towards the regulatory standards and consumer preferences of the more mature markets. Suppliers with strong technologies, robust
global engineering and development capabilities will be best positioned to meet the OEM demands for rapid innovation.

Products

Our organizational structure and management reporting support the management of these core product lines:

Electrical/Electronic Architecture.This segment offers complete electrical and electronic architectures for our
customer-specific needs that help reduce production cost, weight and mass, and improve reliability and ease of assembly.



•High quality connectors are engineered primarily for use in the automotive and related markets, but also have applications in the aerospace, military
and telematics sectors.



•Electrical centers provide centralized electrical power and signal distribution and all of the associated circuit protection and switching devices,
thereby optimizing the overall vehicle electrical system.



•Distribution systems, including hybrid high voltage and safety systems, are integrated into one optimized vehicle electrical system that can utilize
smaller cable and gauge sizes and ultra-thin wall insulation (which product line makes up approximately 35% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011).

Powertrain Systems.  This segment offers high quality products for complete engine management systems
(“EMS”) and other products to help optimize performance, emissions and fuel economy.



•The gasoline EMS portfolio features fuel injection and air/fuel control, valvetrain, ignition, sensors and actuators, transmission control products,
and powertrain electronic control modules with software, algorithms and calibration.







•The diesel EMS product line offers high quality common rail fuel and air injection system technologies.



•The Powertrain Systems segment also supplies integrated fuel handling systems for gasoline, diesel, flexfuel and biofuel configurations, and innovative
evaporative emissions systems that are recognized as industry-leading technologies.

We also include diesel
and automotive aftermarket and original equipment service in the Powertrain Systems segment.

Electronics and
Safety.  This segment offers a wide range of electronic and safety equipment in the areas of controls, security, infotainment, communications, safety systems and power electronics.



•Electronic controls products primarily consist of body computers and security systems.



•Infotainment and driver interface portfolio primarily consists of receivers, advanced reception systems, digital receivers, satellite audio receivers,
navigation systems, displays and mechatronics.



•Passive and active safety electronics primarily includes occupant detection systems, collision warning systems, advanced cruise control technologies
and collision sensing.



•Electric and hybrid electric vehicle power electronics comprises power modules, inverters and converters and battery packs.

Thermal Systems.  This segment offers energy efficient thermal system and component
solutions for the automotive market and continues to develop applications for the non-automotive market. Our Automotive Thermal Products are designed to meet customers’ needs for powertrain thermal management and cabin thermal comfort (climate
control).



•Main powertrain cooling products include condenser, radiator, fan module and charge air cooling heat exchangers assemblies.



•Climate control portfolio includes HVAC modules, with evaporator and heater core components, air conditioning compressors and controls.

Competition

Although the overall number of our top competitors has decreased due to ongoing industry consolidation, the automotive parts industry remains extremely competitive. OEMs rigorously evaluate suppliers on
the basis of product quality, price, reliability and timeliness of delivery, product design capability, technical expertise and development capability, new product innovation, financial viability, application of lean principles, operational
flexibility, customer service and overall management. In addition, our customers generally require that we demonstrate improved efficiencies, through cost reductions and/or price improvement, on a year-over-year basis.







Our competitors in each of our operating segments are as follows:



SegmentCompetitorsElectrical/Electronic Architecture•  FCI SA•  Lear
Corporation•  Leoni AG•  Molex Inc.•  TE Connectivity, Ltd. (formerly Tyco International, Ltd.)•  Sumitomo
Corporation•  Yazaki CorporationPowertrain Systems•  BorgWarner Inc.•  Bosch Group•  Continental AG•  Denso
Corporation•  Hitachi, Ltd.•  Magneti Marelli S.p.A.Electronics and Safety•  Aisin Seiki Co., Ltd.•  Autoliv AB•  Bosch Group•  Continental AG•  Denso
Corporation•  Harman International Industries•  Panasonic
CorporationThermal Systems•  Denso Corporation•  MAHLE Behr
Industry•  Sanden
Corporation•  Valeo Inc.•  Visteon Corporation

Customers

We sell our products and services to the major global OEMs in every region of the world. We also sell our products to the worldwide aftermarket for replacement parts, including the aftermarket operations
of our OEM customers and to other distributors and retailers. The following table provides the percentage of net sales to our largest customers for the year ended December 31, 2011:



Customer% of ourrevenueGeneral Motors Company19%Volkswagen Group (“VW”)9%Ford Motor Company (“Ford”)7%Daimler AG (“Daimler”)7%PSA Peugeot Citroën (“PSA”)5%Shanghai General Motors Company Limited5%Renault S.A.5%Fiat Group Automobiles S.p.A.3%Toyota Motor Corporation3%Geely Automobile Holdings Limited2%







Supply Relationships with Our Customers

We typically supply products to our OEM customers through purchase orders, which are generally governed by general terms and conditions
established by each OEM. Although the terms and conditions vary from customer to customer, they typically contemplate a relationship under which our customers place orders for their requirements of specific components supplied for particular
vehicles. These relationships typically extend over the life of the related vehicle. Prices are negotiated with respect to each purchase order, which may be subject to adjustments under certain circumstances, such as commodity or foreign exchange
escalation/de-escalation clauses or for cost reductions achieved by us. In most instances our OEM customers agree to purchase their requirements for specific products but are not required to purchase any minimum amount of products from us. The terms
and conditions typically provide that we are subject to a warranty on the products supplied; in most cases, the duration of such warranty is coterminous with the warranty offered by the OEM to the end-user of the vehicle. We may also be obligated to
share in all or a part of recall costs if the OEM recalls its vehicles for defects attributable to our products.

Individual
purchase orders are terminable for cause or non-performance and, in most cases, upon our insolvency and certain change of control events. In addition, many of our OEM customers have the option to terminate for convenience, which permits our
customers to impose pressure on pricing during the life of the vehicle program, and have the ability to issue purchase contracts for less than the duration of the vehicle program, which potentially reduces our profit margins and increases the risk
of our losing future sales under those purchase contracts. Additionally, our largest customer, GM, expressly reserves a right to terminate for competitiveness on certain of our long-term supply contracts. We manufacture and ship based on customer
release schedules, normally provided on a weekly basis, which can vary due to cyclical automobile production or dealer inventory levels.

Although customer programs typically extend to future periods, and although there is an expectation that we will supply certain levels of OEM production during such future periods, customer agreements
including applicable terms and conditions do not necessarily constitute firm orders. Firm orders are generally limited to specific and authorized customer purchase order releases placed with our manufacturing and distribution centers for actual
production and order fulfillment. Firm orders are typically fulfilled as promptly as possible from the conversion of available raw materials, sub-components and work-in-process inventory for OEM orders and from current on-hand finished goods
inventory for aftermarket orders. The dollar amount of such purchase order releases on hand and not processed at any point in time is not believed to be significant based upon the timeframe involved.







Our Global Operations

Information concerning principal geographic areas for our continuing operations is set forth below. Net sales data reflects the manufacturing location for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010,
the periods from August 19 to December 31, 2009 and January 1 to October 6, 2009. Net property data is as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.



SuccessorPredecessorYear endedDecember 31, 2011Year endedDecember 31, 2010Period from August 19 toDecember 31, 2009Period fromJanuary 1 toOctober 6,2009(in millions)(in millions)Net SalesNetProperty(1)Net SalesNetProperty(1)Net SalesNetProperty(1)Net SalesUnited States$4,993$506$4,529$417$1,083$430$3,107Other North America118129761341610924Europe, Middle East & Africa(2)7,2641,1075,8921,0451,4481,0473,330Asia Pacific2,4644222,1773255902721,223South America1,2021511,143146284102650Total$16,041$2,315$13,817$2,067$3,421$1,960$8,334



(1)Net property data represents property, plant and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation.



(2)Includes our country of domicile, Jersey, and the country of our principal executive offices, the United Kingdom. We had no sales in Jersey in any period. We had net
sales of $866 million, $690 million, $159 million, and $394 million in the United Kingdom for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the period from August 19 to December 31, 2009, the period from January 1 to
October 6, 2009, respectively. We had net property in the United Kingdom of $138 million, $137 million, and $141 million as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Research, Development and Intellectual Property

We maintain technical engineering centers in major regions of the world to develop and provide advanced products, processes and manufacturing support for all of our manufacturing sites, and to provide our
customers with local engineering capabilities and design development on a global basis. As of December 31, 2011, we employed over 17,000 scientists, engineers and technicians around the world. Total expenditures for research and development
activities, which include engineering, were approximately $1.2 billion, $1.0 billion, $0.3 billion, and $1.0 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the period from August 19 to December 31, 2009, and the period from
January 1 to October 6, 2009, respectively. Each year we share some engineering expenses with OEMs and government agencies. While this amount varies from year-to-year, it is generally in the range of 20% to 25% of engineering expenses.

We believe that our engineering and technical expertise, together with our emphasis on continuing research and development,
allow us to use the latest technologies, materials and processes to solve problems for our customers and to bring new, innovative products to market. We believe that continued engineering activities are critical to maintaining our pipeline of
technologically advanced products. Given our strong financial discipline, we seek to effectively manage fixed costs and efficiently rationalize capital spending by critically evaluating the profit potential of new and existing customer programs,
including investment in innovation and technology. We maintain our engineering activities around our focused product portfolio and allocate our capital and resources to those products with distinctive technologies. We expect expenditures for
engineering activities to be approximately $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2012.

We maintain a large
portfolio of patents in the operation of our business. While no individual patent or group of patents, taken alone, is considered material to our business, taken in the aggregate, these patents provide







meaningful protection for our products and technical innovations. Similarly, while our trademarks (particularly those protecting the Delphi brand) are important to identify our position in the
industry, we do not believe that any of these are individually material to our business. We are actively pursuing marketing opportunities to commercialize and license our technology to both automotive and non-automotive industries and we have
selectively taken licenses from others to support our business interests. These activities foster optimization of intellectual property rights.

Materials

We procure
our raw materials from a variety of suppliers around the world. Generally, we seek to obtain materials in the region in which our products are manufactured in order to minimize transportation and other costs. The most significant raw materials we
use to manufacture our products include aluminum, copper and resins. As of December 31, 2011, we have not experienced any significant shortages of raw materials and normally do not carry inventories of such raw materials in excess of those
reasonably required to meet our production and shipping schedules.

Commodity cost volatility, most notably related to copper,
aluminum, petroleum-based resin products and fuel is a challenge for us and our industry. We are continually seeking to manage these and other material-related cost pressures using a combination of strategies, including working with our suppliers to
mitigate costs, seeking alternative product designs and material specifications, combining our purchase requirements with our customers and/or suppliers, changing suppliers, hedging of certain commodities and other means. In the case of copper,
which primarily affects our Electrical/Electronic Architecture segment, and aluminum, which primarily affects our Thermal segment, contract escalation clauses have enabled us to pass on some of the price increases to our customers and thereby
partially offset the impact of increased commodity costs on operating income for the related products. However, other than in the case of copper and aluminum, our overall success in passing commodity cost increases on to our customers has been
limited. We will continue our efforts to pass market-driven commodity cost increases to our customers in an effort to mitigate all or some of the adverse earnings impacts, including by seeking to renegotiate terms as contracts with our customers
expire.

Seasonality

Our business is moderately seasonal, as our primary North American customers historically halt operations for approximately two weeks in July and approximately one week in December. Our European customers
generally reduce production during the months of July and August and for one week in December. Shut-down periods in the rest of the world generally vary by country. In addition, automotive production is traditionally reduced in the months of July,
August and September due to the launch of parts production for new vehicle models. Accordingly, our results reflect this seasonality.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 104,000 people (5,000 in the U.S., and 99,000 outside of the U.S.): 24,000 salaried employees and 80,000 hourly employees. In addition, we maintain an alternative workforce of 39,000 contract and
temporary workers. Our employees are represented worldwide by numerous unions and works councils, including the IUE-CWA, the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union
and its Local Union 87L (together, the “USW”), and Confederacion De Trabajadores Mexicanos. In the U.S., our employees are represented by only the IUE-CWA and the USW, with which we have competitive wage and benefit packages.

Environmental Compliance

We are subject to the requirements of U.S. federal, state and local, and non-U.S., environmental and safety and health laws and
regulations. These include laws regulating air emissions, water discharge, hazardous materials and waste management. We have an environmental management structure designed to facilitate and







support our compliance with these requirements globally. Although it is our intent to comply with all such requirements and regulations, we cannot provide assurance that we are at all times in
compliance. Environmental requirements are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Accordingly, we cannot assure that environmental requirements will not change or become more stringent over time or that our
eventual environmental costs and liabilities will not be material.

Certain environmental laws assess liability on current or
previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances. In addition to clean-up actions brought by U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. agencies, plaintiffs could raise personal injury or
other private claims due to the presence of hazardous substances on or from a property. We are currently in the process of investigating and cleaning up some of our current or former sites. In addition, there may be soil or groundwater contamination
at several of our properties resulting from historical, ongoing or nearby activities.

At December 31,
2011, December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the reserve for environmental investigation and remediation was approximately $22 million, $23 million and $21 million, respectively, of which $7 million, $8 million and $5 million,
respectively, related to sites within the U.S. We cannot ensure that our eventual environmental remediation costs and liabilities will not exceed the amount of our current reserves. In the event that such liabilities were to significantly exceed the
amounts recorded, our results of operations could be materially affected.

SUPPLEMENTARYITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
OF THE REGISTRANT

The name, age (as of February 1, 2012), current positions and description of business experience of
each of our executive officers are listed below. Our executive officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors and hold office until their successors are elected and qualified or until the officer’s resignation or removal. Positions
noted below reflect service to both Delphi Automotive PLC and Delphi Automotive LLP. Each officer listed below as a senior vice president was a vice president until February 2012.

Mr.RodneyO’Neal, 58,is president and chief executive officer (CEO) of Delphi and is a member of the
company’s board of directors. He was named president and CEO in October 2009 and became a member of the board in May 2011. Mr. O’Neal was president and CEO of Old Delphi from January 2007. He was president and chief operating officer (COO)
of Old Delphi from January 1, 2005. Prior to the president and COO position, Mr. O’Neal served as president of Old Delphi’s former Dynamics, Propulsion and Thermal sector from January 2003 and as executive vice president and president of
Old Delphi’s former Safety, Thermal and Electrical Architecture sector from January 2000. Previously, he served as vice president and president of Delphi Interior Systems since November 1998 and general manager of the former Delphi Interior
& Lighting Systems since May 1997. Mr. O’Neal serves on the board of directors for the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company and the Sprint/Nextel Corporation.

Mr.Kevin P.Clark, 49,is senior vice president and chief financial officer of Delphi. He was named to his current position in July 2010. Previously, Mr. Clark was a founding
partner of Liberty Lane Partners, LLC, a private-equity investment firm focused on building and improving middle-market companies. Prior to Liberty Lane Partners, Mr. Clark served as the chief financial officer of Fisher-Scientific International
Inc., a manufacturer, distributor and service provider to the global healthcare market. Mr. Clark served as Fisher-Scientific’s chief financial officer from the company’s initial public offering in 2001 through the completion of its merger
with Thermo Electron Corporation in 2006. Prior to becoming chief financial officer, Mr. Clark served as Fisher-Scientific’s corporate controller and treasurer.

Mr.MajdiAbulaban, 48, is senior vice president of Delphi and president of Delphi Electrical/Electronic Architecture (E/EA) effective February 2012. He also continues to serve
as president of Delphi Asia-Pacific. Mr. Abulaban was most recently president of the Connection Systems product business unit for Delphi E/EA. Mr. Abulaban was appointed managing director for the former Packard Electric Systems’ Asia
Pacific operations







and became chairman of the board for Delphi Packard Electric Systems Co., Ltd, (China) in July 2002. He previously held a variety of assignments, including business line executive for cockpits at
Old Delphi’s former Safety & Interior division since 2001 and director of Asia Pacific Operations for Delphi Harrison Thermal Systems since January 2000.

Mr.James A.Bertrand, 54,is senior vice president of Delphi and president of Delphi Thermal Systems. He was named to his current position in October 2009 and was previously
vice president of Old Delphi and president of Delphi Thermal Systems since May 2008. Earlier, Mr. Bertrand served a dual role beginning in January 2003 as president of Delphi Automotive Holdings Group and president of Old Delphi’s former Safety
& Interior Systems, to which he was named president in January 2000.

Mr.Kevin M.Butler, 56,is senior vice president of human resource management and global business services for Delphi. He was named to his current position in November 2009 and previously served as vice president, human resource management and an officer of Old Delphi
from 2000 to 2009. From 1997 to 2009, Mr. Butler was general director of human resources at Delphi Delco Electronics Systems.

Mr.Steven A.Kiefer, 48,is senior vice president of Delphi and president of Delphi Powertrain Systems. He
was named to his current position in July 2011and previously served as general director of engineering and executive director for the HVAC product line within Delphi Thermal Systems from 2009 until his current assignment. In 2005, Mr. Kiefer was
named managing director, Delphi Thermal Systems-Europe. Previously, Mr. Kiefer served as chief engineer and business line executive in Delphi’s Powertrain division in Luxembourg and in the Asia Pacific and North America regions.

Ms.Lùcia V.Moretti, 47,is senior vice president of Delphi and president of Delphi Product and
Service Solutions (DPSS). She was named to her current position in August 2011 and was most recently director of the Global Independent Aftermarket product business unit at DPSS, a position she held since September 2010. Previously, she held a
variety of assignments, including director of Aftermarket for South America, director of global marketing for DPSS and managing director for DPSS Europe. Ms. Moretti began her career at Delphi at Delphi Powertrain Systems in 1998.

Mr.Jeffrey J.Owens, 57,is senior vice president and chief technology officer of Delphi. He was most
recently vice president of Delphi Electronics and Safety since October 2009 and was previously vice president of Old Delphi and president of Delphi Electronics and Safety, from September 2001 to September 2009. He also served as president of Delphi
Asia Pacific from 2006 to 2009.

Mr.David M.Sherbin, 52,is senior vice president, general
counsel, secretary and chief compliance officer of Delphi. He was named to his current position in October 2009 and previously was vice president, general counsel of Old Delphi, from October 2005 to October 2009. He was appointed chief compliance
officer in January 2006. Prior to joining Delphi, Mr. Sherbin was vice president, general counsel and secretary for Pulte Homes, Inc., a national homebuilder, from January 2005 through September 2005. Mr. Sherbin joined Federal-Mogul Corporation in
1997 and was named senior vice president, general counsel, secretary and chief compliance officer in 2003.

Mr.James A.Spencer, 58,is senior vice president of Delphi and sector president of Electrical and Electronics. He was named to his current position in February 2012 and was most recently vice president and president of Delphi
Electrical/Electronic Architecture since October 2009. Mr. Spencer was vice president of Old Delphi and president of Delphi Electrical/Electronic Architecture, formerly Packard Electric Systems, since 1999 and previously was president of Delphi Asia
Pacific from 1999 to 2000. He also has served as president of Delphi Latin America since July 2006.







Mr.Jugal K.Vijayvargiya, 43,is senior vice president of Delphi and
president of Delphi Electronics and Safety (E&S). He was named to his current position in February 2012 and was most recently vice president of the Infotainment & Driver Interface product business unit (PBU) for Delphi E&S since August
2009. He was previously general director of the Controls & Security PBU since 2006. Earlier, Mr. Vijayvargiya was global business line executive (BLE) for Body Security & Mechatronics at Delphi Electrical/Electronic Architecture. Prior to
his BLE assignment, Mr. Vijayvargiya was director of program management before being named product line manager of Audio Systems in 2002.







