Item 1. Business

Honeywell International Inc. (Honeywell or the Company) is a diversified technology and manufacturing company, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services, turbochargers, control, sensing and security technologies for buildings, homes and industry, specialty chemicals, electronic and advanced
  materials, process technology for refining and petrochemicals, and energy efficient products and solutions for homes, business and transportation. Honeywell was incorporated in Delaware in 1985.

We maintain an internet website at http://www.honeywell.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge on our website under the heading “Investor Relations” (see “SEC Filings &
  Reports”) immediately after they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, in this Form 10-K, the Company incorporates by reference certain information from parts of its proxy statement for the 2015 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which we expect to file with the
  SEC on or about March 12, 2015, and which will also be available free of charge on our website.

Major Businesses

We globally manage our business operations through three businesses that are reported as operating segments: Aerospace, Automation and Control Solutions (ACS), and Performance Materials and Technologies (PMT). Financial information related to our operating segments is included in Note 21 Segment
  Financial Data of Notes to Financial Statements.

The major products/services, customers/uses and key competitors of each of our operating segments are as follows:

Aerospace

Our Aerospace segment is a leading global supplier of aircraft engines, integrated avionics, systems and service solutions, and related products and services for aircraft manufacturers, airlines, aircraft operators, military services, and defense and space contractors. Aerospace is also a leading manufacturer
  of turbochargers to improve performance and efficiency of passenger cars and commercial vehicles. Our Aerospace products and services include auxiliary power units, propulsion engines, environmental control systems, electric power systems, engine controls, flight safety, communications, navigation, radar
  and surveillance systems, aircraft lighting, management and technical services, logistics services, advanced systems and instruments, aircraft wheels and brakes, repair and overhaul services and turbochargers and thermal systems. Aerospace sells its products to original equipment (OE) manufacturers in the air
  transport, regional, business and general aviation aircraft, and automotive and truck manufacturers segments, and provides spare parts and repair and maintenance services (principally to aircraft operators) for the aftermarket.

Automation and Control Solutions

Our ACS segment is a leading global provider of environmental and combustion controls, sensing controls, security and life safety products and services, scanning and mobility devices and building solutions and services for homes, commercial buildings and industrial facilities. Our ACS products and services
  include controls and displays for heating, cooling, indoor air quality, ventilation, humidification, combustion, lighting and home automation; advanced software applications for home/building control and optimization; sensors, switches, control systems and instruments for measuring pressure, air flow, temperature
  and electrical current; security, fire and gas detection; personal protection equipment; access control; video surveillance; remote patient monitoring systems; products for automatic identification and data collection; installation, maintenance and upgrades of systems that keep buildings safe, comfortable and
  productive; and automation and control solutions for industrial plants, including field instruments and advanced software and automation systems that integrate, control and






monitor complex processes in many types of industrial settings as well as equipment that controls, measures and analyzes natural gas production and transportation.

Performance Materials and Technologies

Our PMT segment is a global leader in developing and manufacturing advanced materials, process technologies and automation solutions. PMT’s UOP business provides process technology, products, including catalysts and adsorbents, equipment and consulting services to efficiently produce gasoline,
  diesel, jet fuel, petrochemicals and renewable fuels for the petroleum refining, gas processing, petrochemical, and other industries. PMT’s Process Solutions business is a pioneer in automation control, instrumentation and services for the oil and gas, refining, pulp and paper, industrial power generation,
  chemicals and petrochemicals, biofuels, life sciences, and metals, minerals and mining industries. PMT’s Advanced Materials businesses manufacture a wide variety of high-performance products, including fluorocarbons, hydrofluoroolefins, caprolactam, resins, ammonium sulfate fertilizer, phenol, specialty films,
  waxes, additives, advanced fibers, customized research chemicals and intermediates, and electronic materials and chemicals.

Competition

We are subject to active competition in substantially all product and service areas. Some of our key competitors are as follows:

•Aerospace: Borg-Warner (automotive), Garmin, General Electric, Rockwell Collins, Thales and United Technologies•ACS: 3M, Johnson Controls, Schneider, Siemens and Zebra-Motorola•PMT: Albemarle, BASF, Dow, Dupont, Emerson and Sinopec

Our businesses compete on a variety of factors, such as price, quality, reliability, delivery, customer service, performance, applied technology, product innovation and product recognition. Brand identity, service to customers and quality are important competitive factors for our products and services, and there
  is considerable price competition. Other competitive factors include breadth of product line, research and development efforts and technical and managerial capability. While our competitive position varies among our products and services, we believe we are a significant competitor in each of our major product
  and service classes. A number of our products and services are sold in competition with those of a large number of other companies, some of which have substantial financial resources and significant technological capabilities. In addition, some of our products compete with the captive component divisions of
  original equipment manufacturers.

Aerospace Sales

Our sales to aerospace customers were 39%, 40%, and 41% of our total sales in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our sales to commercial aerospace original equipment manufacturers were 6%, 7%, and 7% of our total sales in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. In addition, our sales to commercial
  aftermarket customers of aerospace products and services were 11%, 11%, and 12% of our total sales in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.

U.S. Government Sales

Sales to the U.S. Government (principally by our Aerospace segment), acting through its various departments and agencies and through prime contractors, amounted to $3,693 million, $3,856 million and $4,109 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, which included sales to the U.S. Department of
  Defense, as a prime contractor and subcontractor, of $2,792 million, $3,066 million and $3,273 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. U.S. defense spending decreased in 2014 compared to 2013. We do not expect our overall operating results to be significantly affected by any proposed changes in 2015
  federal defense spending due principally to the varied mix of the government programs which impact us (Original Equipment Manufacturers’ production, engineering






development programs, aftermarket spares and repairs and overhaul programs), increases in direct foreign defense and space market sales, as well as our diversified commercial businesses.

Backlog

Our total backlog at December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $18,313 million and $17,512 million, respectively. We anticipate that approximately $12,605 million of the 2014 backlog will be filled in 2015. We believe that backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of our future sales because a substantial portion
  of the orders constituting this backlog may be canceled at the customer’s option.

International Operations

We are engaged in manufacturing, sales, service and research and development globally. U.S. exports and foreign manufactured products are significant to our operations. U.S. exports comprised 14% of our total sales in each of 2014, 2013 and 2012. Foreign manufactured products and services, mainly in
  Europe and Asia, were 41% of our total sales in each of 2014, 2013 and 2012.

Manufactured Products and Systems andPerformance of ServicesYear Ended December 31, 2014AerospaceAutomation andControl SolutionsPerformanceMaterials andTechnologies(% of Total Sales)U.S. Exports20%3%21%Non-U.S.32%67%16%

Raw Materials

The principal raw materials used in our operations are generally readily available. Although we occasionally experience disruption in raw materials supply, we experienced no significant problems in the purchase of key raw materials or commodities in 2014. We are not dependent on any one supplier for a
  material amount of our raw materials, except related to R240 (a key component in foam blowing agents), a raw material used in our PMT segment.

The costs of certain key raw materials, including cumene, fluorspar, R240, natural gas, perchloroethylene, sulfur and ethylene in our PMT business and nickel, steel, titanium and other metals in our Aerospace business, are expected to continue to fluctuate. We will continue to attempt to offset raw material
  cost increases with formula or long-term supply agreements, price increases and hedging activities where feasible. We do not presently anticipate that a shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impacts during 2015.

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses and Distribution Rights

Our segments are not dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents, or any licenses or distribution rights. In our judgment, our intellectual property rights are adequate for the conduct of our business. We believe that, in the aggregate, the rights under our patents, trademarks and licenses are
  generally important to our operations, but we do not consider any individual patent, trademark or any licensing or distribution rights related to a specific process or product, to be of material importance in relation to our total business.

Research and Development

The Company’s principal research and development activities are in the U.S., India, Europe and China. Research and development (R&D) expense totaled $1,892 million, $1,804 million and $1,847 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The increase in R&D expense of 5% in 2014 compared to 2013 was
  primarily due to increased expenditures for new product development in our ACS and PMT segments. Customer-sponsored (principally the U.S. Government) R&D activities amounted to an additional $1,034 million, $969 million and $835 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.






Environment

We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regarding protection of human health and the environment. We believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage, and of
  resulting financial liability, in connection with our business. Some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in some of our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses.

We are and have been engaged in the handling, manufacture, use and disposal of many substances classified as hazardous by one or more regulatory agencies. We believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental
  damage and personal injury, and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of these substances are in accord with environmental and safety laws and regulations. It is also possible that future knowledge or other developments, such as improved capability to detect substances in the environment or
  increasingly strict environmental laws and standards and enforcement policies, could bring into question our current or past handling, manufacture, use or disposal of these substances.

Among other environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal Superfund and similar state and foreign laws and regulations, under which we have been designated as a potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup costs associated with current and former operating sites and various
  hazardous waste sites, some of which are on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s National Priority List. Although there is a possibility that a responsible party might have to bear more than its proportional share of the cleanup costs if it is unable to obtain appropriate contribution from other responsible
  parties, to date we have not had to bear significantly more than our proportional share in multi-party situations taken as a whole.

We do not believe that existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation, or international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a material effect in the foreseeable future on the Company’s business or markets that it serves, nor on its results of operations, capital expenditures or financial
  position. We will continue to monitor emerging developments in this area.

Employees

We have approximately 127,000 employees at December 31, 2014, of whom approximately 50,000 are located in the United States.






Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of Honeywell, listed as follows, are elected annually by the Board of Directors. There are no family relationships among them.





Name, Age,Date FirstElected anExecutive OfficerBusiness Experience

David M. Cote, 622002(a)Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since July
      2002.



Darius Adamczyk, 492014President and Chief Executive Officer Performance Materials and
      Technologies since April 2014. President of Honeywell
      Process Solutions from April 2012 to April 2014. President of
      Honeywell Scanning & Mobility from July 2008 to April 2012.



Katherine L. Adams, 502009Senior Vice President and General Counsel since April 2009.
      Vice President and General Counsel from September 2008 to
      April 2009.



Roger Fradin, 612004Vice Chairman since April 2014. President and Chief Executive
      Officer Automation and Control Solutions from January 2004 to
      April 2014.



Alexandre Ismail, 492009President and Chief Executive Officer Automation and Control
      Solutions since April 2014. President Energy, Safety and
      Security from May 2013 to April 2014. President and Chief
      Executive Officer Transportation Systems from April 2009 to
      May 2013.



Mark R. James, 532007Senior Vice President Human Resources, Procurement and
      Communications since November 2007.



Andreas C. Kramvis, 622008Vice Chairman since April 2014. President and Chief Executive
      Officer Performance Materials and Technologies from March
      2008 to April 2014.



Timothy O. Mahoney, 582009President and Chief Executive Officer Aerospace since September 2009. Vice President Aerospace Engineering and Technology and Chief Technology Officer from March 2007 to August
      2009.



Krishna Mikkilineni, 552010Senior Vice President Engineering, Operations and Information
      Technology since April 2013. Senior Vice President Engineering and Operations from April 2010 to April 2013 and President
      Honeywell Technology Solutions from January 2009 to April
      2013. Vice President Honeywell Technology Solutions from
      July 2002 to January 2009.



Thomas A. Szlosek, 512014Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April
      2014. Vice President of Corporate Finance from April 2013 to
      April 2014. Chief Financial Officer of Automation and Control
      Solutions from February 2007 to April 2013.



(a)Also a Director.






