ITEM 1.Business.



Ford Motor Company was incorporated in Delaware in 1919.  We acquired the business of a Michigan company, also known as Ford Motor Company, which had been incorporated in 1903 to produce and sell automobiles designed and engineered by Henry Ford.  We are a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Michigan.  We manufacture or distribute automobiles across six continents.  With about 187,000 employees and 62 plants worldwide, our automotive brands include Ford and Lincoln.  We provide financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.



In addition to the information about Ford and our subsidiaries contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 (“2014 Form 10-K Report” or “Report”), extensive information about our Company can be found athttp://corporate.ford.com, including information about our management team, our brands and products, and our corporate governance principles.



The corporate governance information on our website includes our Corporate Governance Principles, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Personnel, Code of Ethics for the Board of Directors, Code of Corporate Conduct for all employees, and the Charters for each of the Committees of our Board of Directors.  In addition, any amendments to our Code of Ethics or waivers granted to our directors and executive officers will be posted on our corporate website.  All of these documents may be accessed by going to our corporate website, or may be obtained free of charge by writing to our Shareholder Relations Department, Ford Motor Company, One American Road, P.O. Box 1899, Dearborn, Michigan 48126-1899.



Our recent periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge athttp://shareholder.ford.com.  This includes recent Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those Reports.  Recent Section 16 filings made with the SEC by the Company or any of our executive officers or directors with respect to our Common Stock also are made available free of charge through our website.  We post each of these documents on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after it is electronically filed with the SEC.  Our reports filed with the SEC also may be found on the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov.



The foregoing information regarding our website and its content is for convenience only and not deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Report nor filed with the SEC.








Item 1.  Business (Continued)



OVERVIEW



Segments.We review and present our business results in two sectors:  Automotive and Financial Services.  Within these sectors, our business is divided into reportable segments (referred to herein as “segments,” “business units,” or “regions”) based on the organizational structure that we use to evaluate performance and make decisions on resource allocation, as well as availability and materiality of separate financial results consistent with that structure.



The reportable segments within our Automotive and Financial Services sectors at December 31, 2014 were as described in the table below:





Business SectorReportable SegmentsDescription

Automotive:North AmericaPrimarily includes the sale of Ford and Lincoln vehicles, service parts, and accessories in North America (the United States, Canada, and Mexico), together with the associated costs to develop, manufacture, distribute, and service the vehicles, parts, and accessories.

South AmericaPrimarily includes the sale of Ford vehicles, service parts, and accessories in South America, together with the associated costs to develop, manufacture, distribute, and service the vehicles, parts, and accessories.

EuropePrimarily includes the sale of Ford vehicles, components, service parts, and accessories in Europe, Turkey, and Russia, together with the associated costs to develop, manufacture, distribute, and service the vehicles, parts, and accessories.

Middle East & AfricaPrimarily includes the sale of Ford and Lincoln vehicles, service parts, and accessories in the Middle East and Africa, together with the associated costs to develop, manufacture, distribute, and service the vehicles, parts, and accessories.

Asia PacificPrimarily includes the sale of Ford and Lincoln vehicles, service parts, and accessories in the Asia Pacific region, together with the associated costs to develop, manufacture, distribute, and service the vehicles, parts, and accessories.

Financial Services:Ford CreditPrimarily includes vehicle-related financing and leasing.

Other Financial ServicesIncludes a variety of businesses, including holding companies and real estate-related activities.





AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR



General



Our vehicle brands are Ford and Lincoln.  In 2014, we sold approximately 6,323,000 vehicles at wholesale throughout the world.  See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (“Item 7”) for discussion of our calculation of wholesale unit volumes.



Substantially all of our vehicles, parts, and accessories are sold through distributors and dealers (collectively, “dealerships”), the substantial majority of which are independently owned.  At December 31, 2014, the approximate number of dealerships worldwide distributing our vehicle brands was as follows:

BrandNumber of Dealershipsat December 31, 2014Ford10,938Ford-Lincoln (combined)869Lincoln173Total11,980



We do not depend on any single customer or a few customers to the extent that the loss of such customers would have a material adverse effect on our business.



In addition to the products we sell to our dealerships for retail sale, we also sell vehicles to our dealerships for sale to fleet customers, including commercial fleet customers, daily rental car companies, and governments.  We also sell parts and accessories, primarily to our dealerships (which in turn sell these products to retail customers) and to authorized parts distributors (which in turn primarily sell these products to retailers).  We also offer extended service contracts.



The worldwide automotive industry is affected significantly by general economic conditions over which we have little control.  Vehicles are durable goods, and consumers have latitude in determining whether and when to replace an existing vehicle.  The decision whether to purchase a vehicle may be affected significantly by slowing economic growth,






Item 1.  Business (Continued)



geopolitical events, and other factors (including the cost of purchasing and operating cars and trucks and the availability and cost of financing and fuel).  As we recently have seen in the United States and Europe, in particular, the number of cars and trucks sold may vary substantially from year to year.  Further, the automotive industry is a highly competitive business that has a wide and growing variety of product offerings from a growing number of manufacturers.



Our wholesale unit volumes vary with the level of total industry demand and our share of that industry demand.  Our wholesale unit volumes also are influenced by the level of dealer inventory.  Our share is influenced by how our products are perceived in comparison to those offered by other manufacturers based on many factors, including price, quality, styling, reliability, safety, fuel efficiency, functionality, and reputation.  Our share also is affected by the timing and frequency of new model introductions.  Our ability to satisfy changing consumer preferences with respect to type or size of vehicle, as well as design and performance characteristics, affects our sales and earnings significantly.



As with other manufacturers, the profitability of our business is affected by many factors, including:



•Wholesale unit volumes

•Margin of profit on each vehicle sold - which in turn is affected by many factors, such as:

◦Market factors - volume and mix of vehicles and options sold, and net pricing (reflecting, among other factors, incentive programs)

◦Costs of components and raw materials necessary for production of vehicles

◦Costs for customer warranty claims and additional service actions

◦Costs for safety, emissions, and fuel economy technology and equipment

•A high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, so that small changes in wholesale unit volumes can significantly affect overall profitability



Our industry has a very competitive pricing environment, driven in part by industry excess capacity, which is concentrated in Europe and Asia but affects other markets because much of this capacity can be redirected to other markets.  The decline in the value of the yen during the past three years also has contributed significantly to competitive pressures in many of our markets.  For the past several decades, manufacturers typically have given price discounts and other marketing incentives to maintain market share and production levels.  A discussion of our strategies to compete in this pricing environment is set forth in the “Overview” section in Item 7.



Competitive Position.The worldwide automotive industry consists of many producers, with no single dominant producer.  Certain manufacturers, however, account for the major percentage of total sales within particular countries, especially their countries of origin.  Key competitors with global presence include Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, General Motors Company, Honda Motor Company, Hyundai-Kia Automotive Group, PSA Peugeot Citroen, Renault-Nissan B.V., Suzuki Motor Corporation, Toyota Motor Corporation, and Volkswagen AG Group.



Seasonality.We generally record the sale of a vehicle (and recognize revenue) when it is produced and shipped or delivered to our customer (i.e., the dealership).  See the “Overview” section in Item 7 for additional discussion of revenue recognition practices.



We manage our vehicle production schedule based on a number of factors, including retail sales (i.e., units sold by our dealerships to their customers at retail) and dealer stock levels (i.e., the number of units held in inventory by our dealerships for sale to their customers).  Historically, we have experienced some seasonal fluctuation in the business, with production in many markets tending to be higher in the first half of the year to meet demand in the spring and summer (typically the strongest sales months of the year).



Raw Materials.We purchase a wide variety of raw materials from numerous suppliers around the world for use in production of our vehicles.  These materials include base metals (e.g., steel, iron castings, and aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), energy (e.g., natural gas), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene).  We believe we have adequate supplies or sources of availability of raw materials necessary to meet our needs.  There always are risks and uncertainties with respect to the supply of raw materials, however, which could impact availability in sufficient quantities to meet our needs.  See the “Overview” section of Item 7 for a discussion of commodity and energy price trends, and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” (“Item 7A”) for a discussion of commodity price risks.



Backlog Orders.We generally produce and ship our products on average within approximately 20 days after an order is deemed to become firm.  Therefore, no significant amount of backlog orders accumulates during any period.








Item 1.  Business (Continued)



Intellectual Property.We own or hold licenses to use numerous patents, copyrights, and trademarks on a global basis.  Our policy is to protect our competitive position by, among other methods, filing U.S. and international patent applications to protect technology and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business.  We have generated a large number of patents, and expect this portfolio to continue to grow as we actively pursue additional technological innovation.  We currently have approximately 30,400 active patents and pending patent applications globally, with an average age for patents in our active patent portfolio of just under five and a half years.  In addition to this intellectual property, we also rely on our proprietary knowledge and ongoing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position.  Although we believe these patents, patent applications, and know-how, in the aggregate, are important to the conduct of our business, and we obtain licenses to use certain intellectual property owned by others, none is individually considered material to our business.  We also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of our Company and its products and services globally.  Certain of these marks are integral to the conduct of our business, a loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.



Warranty Coverage, Field Service Actions, and Customer Satisfaction Actions.We currently provide warranties on vehicles we sell.  Warranties are offered for specific periods of time and/or mileage, and vary depending upon the type of product and the geographic location of its sale.   Pursuant to these warranties, we will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship during the specified warranty period.  In addition to the costs associated with this warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also incur costs as a result of field service actions (i.e., safety recalls, emission recalls, and other product campaigns), and for customer satisfaction actions.



For additional information regarding warranty and related costs, see “Critical Accounting Estimates” in Item 7 and Note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.












Item 1.  Business (Continued)



Industry Sales Volume



Industry sales volume in each region and in certain key markets within each region during the past three years were as follows (in millions of units):

Industry Sales Volume (a)201420132012United States16.815.914.8Canada1.91.81.7Mexico1.21.11.0North America20.219.117.8Brazil3.53.83.8Argentina0.70.90.8South America5.35.95.9Britain2.82.62.3Germany3.43.33.4Russia2.52.83.0Turkey0.80.90.8Europe (b)18.618.318.6Middle East & Africa4.23.94.0China24.022.219.0Australia1.11.11.1India3.23.33.6ASEAN (c)3.13.53.4Asia Pacific39.637.834.8Global87.985.081.1

______________

(a)Industry sales volume is an internal estimate based on publicly-available data collected from various government, private, and public sources around the globe and is based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations.

(b)Europe 20 industry sales volume was 14.6 million, 13.8 million, and 14.1 million in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.  Europe 20 consists of Austria, Belgium, Britain, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland.

(c)ASEAN includes Indonesia, Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam, and Malaysia.










Item 1.  Business (Continued)



Wholesales



Our wholesale unit volumes in each region and in certain key markets within each region during the past three years were as follows (in thousands of units):

Wholesales (a)(b)201420132012United States2,4572,6082,302Canada288283281Mexico779183North America2,8423,0062,693Brazil320364336Argentina94118107South America463538498Britain425379337Germany237227208Russia57105134Turkey91114108Europe1,3871,3171,295Middle East & Africa192199221China1,116936627Australia808594India778087ASEAN949995Asia Pacific1,4391,270961Total Company6,3236,3305,668

______________

(a)Wholesale unit volumes include sales of medium and heavy trucks.

(b)Wholesale unit volumes include all Ford and Lincoln badged units (whether produced by Ford or by an unconsolidated affiliate) that are sold to dealerships, units manufactured by Ford that are sold to other manufacturers, units distributed for other manufacturers, and local brand units produced by our unconsolidated Chinese joint venture Jiangling Motors Corporation, Ltd. (“JMC”) that are sold to dealerships.  Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option (i.e., rental repurchase), as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), also are included in wholesale unit volumes.  Revenue from certain vehicles in wholesale unit volumes (specifically, Ford badged vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates, as well as JMC brand vehicles) are not included in our revenue.










Item 1.  Business (Continued)



Market Share



Our market share in each region and in certain key markets within each region during the past three years was as follows:

Market Share (a)201420132012United States14.7%15.7%15.2%Canada15.515.916.1Mexico6.98.08.2North America14.215.214.8Brazil9.4%9.4%9.1%Argentina14.112.612.3South America8.98.98.6Britain14.5%14.6%14.9%Germany7.16.96.8Russia2.63.84.3Turkey11.712.913.8Europe (b)7.27.37.4Middle East & Africa4.7%5.0%4.3%China4.5%4.1%3.2%Australia7.27.78.1India2.42.52.4ASEAN3.12.72.6Asia Pacific (c)3.53.32.6Global7.2%7.3%6.9%

______________

(a)Market share represents reported retail sales of our brands as a percent of total industry sales volume in the relevant market or region.  Market share is based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations; includes medium and heavy trucks.

(b)Europe 20 market share was 8.0%, 7.8%, and 7.9% in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.

(c)Asia Pacific market share includes Ford brand and JMC brand vehicles produced and sold by our unconsolidated affiliates.












Item 1.  Business (Continued)



FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR



Ford Motor Credit Company LLC



Our wholly-owned subsidiary Ford Motor Credit Company LLC (“Ford Credit”) offers a wide variety of automotive financing products to and through automotive dealers throughout the world.  The predominant share of Ford Credit’s business consists of financing our vehicles and supporting our dealers.  Ford Credit earns its revenue primarily from payments made under retail installment sale and lease contracts that it originates and purchases; interest rate supplements and other support payments from us and our subsidiaries; and payments made under dealer financing programs.



As a result of these financing activities, Ford Credit has a large portfolio of finance receivables and operating leases which it classifies into two portfolios— “consumer” and “non-consumer.”  Finance receivables and operating leases in the consumer portfolio include products offered to individuals and businesses that finance the acquisition of our vehicles from dealers for personal and commercial use.  Retail financing includes retail installment sale contracts for new and used vehicles and direct financing leases for new vehicles to retail customers, government entities, daily rental car companies, and fleet customers.  Finance receivables in the non-consumer portfolio include products offered to automotive dealers.  Ford Credit makes wholesale loans to dealers to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory (i.e., floorplan financing), as well as loans to dealers to finance working capital and improvements to dealership facilities, finance the purchase of dealership real estate, and finance other dealer vehicle programs.  Ford Credit also purchases receivables generated by us and our subsidiaries, primarily related to the sale of parts and accessories to dealers, receivables from Ford-related loans, and certain used vehicles from daily rental fleet companies.



Ford Credit does business in the United States and Canada through business centers.  Outside of the United States, Europe is Ford Credit’s largest operation.  Ford Credit’s European operation is managed through its United Kingdom-based subsidiary, FCE Bank plc (“FCE”).  Within Europe, FCE’s largest markets are the United Kingdom and Germany, representing approximately 67% of FCE’s finance receivables and operating leases.



The following table shows Ford Credit’s financing shares of new Ford and Lincoln vehicles sold by dealers in the United States and new Ford vehicles sold by dealers in Europe, as well as its wholesale financing shares of new Ford and Lincoln vehicles acquired by dealers in the United States (excluding fleet) and new Ford vehicles acquired by dealers in Europe:

Years Ended December 31,201420132012United States - Financing ShareRetail installment and lease45%40%38%Wholesale777778Europe - Financing ShareRetail installment and lease36%34%32%Wholesale989898



See Item 7 and Notes 5, 6, and 7 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of Ford Credit’s receivables, credit losses, allowance for credit losses, loss-to-receivables ratios, funding sources, and funding strategies. See Item 7A for discussion of how Ford Credit manages its financial market risks.



We routinely sponsor special retail and lease incentives to dealers’ customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from Ford Credit.  In order to compensate Ford Credit for the lower interest or lease payments offered to the retail customer, we pay the value of the incentive directly to Ford Credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract.  These programs increase Ford Credit’s financing volume and share.  See Note 2 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for information about our accounting for these programs.



On April 30, 2014, we entered into a Relationship Agreement with Ford Credit, pursuant to which, if Ford Credit’s managed leverage for a calendar quarter were to be higher than 11.5 to 1 (as reported in its most recent periodic report), Ford Credit could require us to make or cause to be made a capital contribution to it in an amount sufficient to have caused such managed leverage to have been 11.5 to 1.  No capital contributions have been made pursuant to this agreement.  The agreement also limits to $2 billion the amount Ford Credit may borrow under our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of April 30, 2014.  In a separate agreement with FCE, Ford Credit also has agreed to maintain FCE’s net worth in excess of $500 million; no payments have been made pursuant to that agreement.








Item 1.  Business (Continued)



GOVERNMENTAL STANDARDS



Many governmental standards and regulations relating to safety, fuel economy, emissions control, noise control, vehicle recycling, substances of concern, vehicle damage, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor vehicles, engines, and equipment manufactured for sale in the United States, Europe, and elsewhere.In addition, manufacturing and other automotive assembly facilities in the United States, Europe, and elsewhere are subject to stringent standards regulating air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances.  The most significant of the standards and regulations affecting us are discussed below:



Vehicle Emissions Control



U.S. Requirements - Federal Emissions Standards.The federal Clean Air Act imposes stringent limits on the amount of regulated pollutants that lawfully may be emitted by new vehicles and engines produced for sale in the United States.  In2014, the EPA finalized new “Tier 3” regulations that phase in increasingly stringent motor vehicle emissions standards beginning with the 2017 model year; compliance with these standards could be challenging.  Compliance with automobile emission standards depends in part on the widespread availability of high-quality and consistent automotive fuels that the vehicles were designed to use.  Fuel variables that can affect vehicle emissions include ethanol content, octane rating, and the use of metallic-based fuel additives, among other things.  There are various ongoing regulatory and judicial proceedings related to fuel quality at the national and state level, and the outcome of these proceedings could affect vehicle manufacturers’ warranty costs as well as their ability to comply with vehicle emission standards.



U.S. Requirements - California and Other State Emissions Standards.Pursuant to the Clean Air Act, California may establish its own unique vehicle emissions control standards; the California standards can also be adopted by other states.  The California Air Resources Board has adopted “LEV III” standards, which took effect with the 2015 model year and impose increasingly stringent tailpipe and evaporative emissions requirements for light and medium duty vehicles.  Thirteen states, primarily located in the Northeast and Northwest, have adopted the LEV III standards.



The California vehicle emissions program also includes requirements for manufacturers to produce and deliver for sale so-called zero-emission vehicles (“ZEVs”).  The current ZEV regulations mandate substantial annual increases in the production and sale of battery-electric, fuel cell, and plug-in hybrid vehicles, particularly for the 2018 - 2025 model years.  By the 2025 model year, approximately 15% of a manufacturer’s total California sales volume will need to be made up of such vehicles.  Compliance with the 2018 - 2025 model year ZEV rules could have a substantial adverse effect on our sales volumes and profits.  We are concerned that the market and infrastructure in California may not support the large volumes of advanced-technology vehicles that manufacturers will be required to produce, especially if gasoline prices remain relatively low.We also are concerned about enforcement of the ZEV mandate in other states that have adopted California’s ZEV program, where the existence of a market for such vehicles is even less certain.  CARB conducts periodic reviews of its upcoming ZEV requirements, taking into account factors such as technology developments and market acceptance.  Ford and the industry will be active participants in such reviews, with the goal of ensuring that ZEV requirements are feasible and not excessively burdensome.



European Requirements.European Union (“EU”) directives and related legislation limit the amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines sold in the EU.Stringent new “Stage V” emissions standards took effect for vehicle registrations starting in January 2011; StageVI requirements apply from September2014, with a second phase beginning in September 2017.Stage V particulate standards drove the deployment of particulate filters in diesel engines, and Stage VI further tightens the standard for oxides of nitrogen.Thiswill drive the need for additional diesel exhaust after-treatment, which will add cost and potentially impact the diesel CO2advantage.These technology requirements add cost and further erode the fuel economy cost/benefit advantage of diesel vehicles.  The additional requirements for the second phase of Stage VI will further increase the stringency of particle emissions for direct injection gasoline vehicles, and apply more demanding on-board diagnostic thresholds for all vehicles.  The costs associated with additional testing that may be required for the second phase of Stage VI concerning real driving emissions could be significant.














Item 1.  Business (Continued)



Other National Requirements.Many countries, in an effort to address air quality concerns, are adopting previous versions of European or United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (“UN-ECE”) mobile source emissions regulations.  Some countries have adopted more advanced regulations based on the most recent version of European or U.S. regulations; for example, China adopted emission regulations for large cities based on European Stage V emissions standards.  Korea and Taiwan have adopted very stringent U.S.-based standards for gasoline vehicles, and European-based standards for diesel vehicles.Although these countries have adopted regulations based UN-ECE or U.S. standards, there may be some unique testing provisions that require emission-control systems to be redesigned for these markets.Canadian criteria emissions regulations are aligned with U.S. Tier 2 requirements discussed above.  In September 2014, the Canadian federal government published the proposed amendments to theOn-Road Vehicle and Engine Emission Regulationsand theSulphur in Gasoline Regulations.  The final regulations are expected to align standards with the U.S. Tier 3 regulations.



Furthermore, not all countries have adopted appropriate fuel quality standards to accompany the stringent emissions standards adopted.This could lead to compliance problems, particularly if on-board diagnostic or in-use surveillance requirements are implemented.  Japan has unique standards and test procedures, which may require that unique emissions control systems be designed for the Japanese market.



Brazil, Argentina, and Chile have also introduced more stringent emissions standards.  Since 2012, Brazil has applied European Stage V emissions and on-board diagnostic standards for heavy trucks, and more stringent light vehicle limits.  Argentina also will apply light vehicle Stage V standards beginning in 2015 (for new vehicle homologations) and 2017 (for new vehicle registrations).  Chile introduced more stringent emission standards (i.e., European Stage V or corresponding U.S. emissions standards) nationwide for light and medium duty vehiclesin September 2014.  Since October 2014, new heavy duty vehicle models are required to meet Stage V (or corresponding U.S. emissions standards).  All other new heavy vehicles are required to meet these standards beginning October 2015.



Vehicle Fuel Economy and Greenhouse Gas Standards



U.S. Requirements - Light Duty Vehicles.Federal law requires that light duty vehicles meet minimum corporate average fuel economy (“CAFE”) standards set by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”).A manufacturer is subject to substantial civil penalties if it fails to meet the CAFE standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for the preceding three model years and expected credits for the five succeeding model years.  The law requires NHTSA to promulgate and enforce separate CAFE standards applicable to each manufacturer’s fleet of domestic passenger cars, imported passenger cars, and light trucks, respectively.



The EPA also regulates vehicle greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act.  Because the vast majority of greenhouse gases emitted by a vehicle are the result of fuel combustion, greenhouse gas emission standards effectively are fuel economy standards.  Thus, it is necessary for NHTSA and EPA to coordinate with each other on their fuel economy and greenhouse gas (“GHG”) standards, respectively, to avoid potential inconsistencies.



In 2010, EPA and NHTSA jointly promulgated regulations establishing the “One National Program” of CAFE and GHG regulations for light duty vehicles for the 2012-2016 model years.  In 2012, EPA and NHTSA jointly promulgated regulations extending the One National Program framework through the 2025 model year.  These rules require manufacturers to achieve, across the industry, a light duty fleet average fuel economy of approximately 35.5 mpg by the 2016 model year, 45 mpg by the 2021 model year, and 54.5 mpg by the 2025model year.  Each manufacturer’s specific task depends on the mix of vehicles it sells. The rules include the opportunity for manufacturers to earn credits for technologies that achieve real-world CO2reductions, and fuel economy improvements that are not captured by EPA fuel economy test procedures.  Manufacturers also can earn credits for GHG reductions not specifically tied to fuel economy, such as improvements in air conditioning systems.



The One National Program standards become increasingly stringent over time, and they will be difficult to meet if fuel prices remain relatively low and market conditions do not drive consumers to purchase electric vehicles and other highly fuel-efficient vehicles in large numbers.  The rules provide for a midterm evaluation process under which, by 2018, EPA and NHTSA will re-evaluate their standards for model years 2022-2025 in order to ensure that those standards are feasible and optimal in light of intervening events.  We are particularly concerned about the commercial feasibility of meeting the 2022-2025 model year GHG and CAFE standards, and therefore the midterm evaluation process is very important to Ford and the auto industry.  Ford’s ability to comply with the 2022-2025 model year standards remains unclear because of the many unknowns regarding technology development, market conditions, and other factors so far into the future.  We intend to be an active participant in the midterm evaluation process for these standards.  Our concern about the feasibility of the fuel economy / GHG standards also extends to some of the pre-2022 model year standards, which are not covered by the midterm evaluation.








Item 1.  Business (Continued)



If the agencies seek to impose and enforce fuel economy and GHG standards that are misaligned with market conditions, we likely would be forced to take various actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume and profits.  Such actions likely would include restricting offerings of selected engines and popular options; increasing market support programs for our most fuel-efficient cars and light trucks; and ultimately curtailing the production and sale of certain vehicles such as high-performance cars, utilities, and/or full-size light trucks, in order to maintain compliance.



California has asserted the right to regulate motor vehicle GHG emissions, and other states have asserted the right to adopt the California standards.  With the adoption of the federal One National Program standards discussed above, California and the other states have agreed that compliance with the federal program would satisfy compliance with any purported state GHG requirements for the 2012-2025 model years.  This avoids a patchwork of potentially conflicting federal and state GHG standards.  Should California and other states ever renew their efforts to enforce state-specific motor vehicle GHG rules, this would impose significant costs on automotive manufacturers.



U.S. Requirements - Heavy Duty Vehicles.EPA and NHTSA have jointly promulgated GHG and fuel economy standards on heavy duty vehicles (generally, vehicles over 8,500pounds gross vehicle weight rating).  In our case, the standards primarily affect our heavy duty pickup trucks and vans, plus vocational vehicles such as shuttle buses and delivery trucks.  In 2015, EPA and NHTSA are expected to issue a notice of proposed rulemaking on a new round of standards for these vehicles, covering model year 2019 and beyond.  Ford plans to review and comment on the proposed standards.  As the heavy-duty standards increase in stringency, it may become more difficult to comply while continuing to offer a full lineup of heavy duty trucks.



European Requirements.

In December 2008, the EU approved regulation of passenger car CO


emissions beginning in 2012 that limits the industry fleet average to a maximum of 130 grams per kilometer (“g/km”), using a sliding scale based on vehicle weight.  This regulation provides different targets for each manufacturer based on the respective average vehicle weight for its fleet of vehicles.  Limited credits are available for CO


off-cycle actions (“eco-innovations”), certain alternative fuels, and vehicles with CO


emissions below 50 g/km.  A penalty system will apply for manufacturers failing to meet targets, with fees ranging from

€

5 to

€

95 per vehicle per g/km shortfall in the years 2012–2018, and

€

95 per g/km shortfall beginning in 2019.  Manufacturers will be permitted to use a pooling agreement between wholly-owned brands to share the burden.  Further pooling agreements between different manufacturers also are possible, although it is not clear that these will be of much practical benefit under the regulations.  Starting in 2020, an industry target of 95 g/km has been set.  Other non-EU European countries are likely to follow with similar regulations.  For example, Switzerland has introduced similar rules, which began phasing-in starting in July 2012 with the same targets (which likely also will include a 2020 target of 95 g/km), although the industry average emission target is significantly higher.  We face the risk of advance premium payment requirements if, for example, unexpected market fluctuation within a quarter negatively impact our average fleet performance.



In separate legislation, “complementary measures” have been mandated, including requirements related to fuel economy indicators, and more-efficient low-CO2mobile air conditioning systems.The EU Commission, Council and Parliament have approved a target for commercial light duty vehicles to be at an industry average of 175 g/km (with phase-in from 2014–2017), and 147 g/km in 2020;it is likely that other European countries, like Switzerland, will implement similar rules but under even more difficult conditions.  This regulation also provides different targets for each manufacturer based on its respective average vehicle weight in its fleet of vehicles.The final mass and CO2requirements for so-called “multi-stage vehicles” (e.g., our Transit chassis cabs) are fully allocated to the base manufacturer (e.g., Ford) so that the base manufacturer is fully responsible for the CO2performance of the final up-fitted vehicles.The EU proposal also includes a penalty system, “super-credits” for vehicles below 50g/km, and limited credits for CO2off-cycle eco-innovations, pooling, etc., similar to the passenger car CO2regulation.



The United Nations has a project underway to develop a new technical regulation for passenger car emissions and CO2.This new world light duty test procedure (“WLTP”) is focused primarily on delivering realistic CO2and fuel consumption figures.  The introduction of WLTP in Europe is likely to start with updates to CO2labeling beginning in 2019 and could lower certain consumer label values.  Costs associated with new or incremental testing for WLTP could be significant.  The European Commission continues to apply political pressure for mandatory WLTP testing for regulated emissions and CO2starting in September 2017.  The European Commission has assured equivalent stringency to the existing fleet average rules for each automobile manufacturer if the 2020 fleet average targets are required to be measured on WLTP instead of under the current European NEDC requirements.










Item 1.  Business (Continued)



Some European countries have implemented or are considering other initiatives for reducing CO2vehicle emissions, including fiscal measures and CO2labeling.For example, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Spain, Portugal, and the Netherlands, among others, have introduced taxation based on CO2emissions.The EU CO2requirements are likely to trigger further measures.  To limit GHG emissions, the EU directive on mobile air conditioning currently requires the replacement of the current refrigerant with a lower “global warming potential” refrigerant for new vehicle types, and for all newly registered vehicles starting in January 2017.  A refrigerant change adds considerable costs along the whole value chain.



Other National Requirements.The Canadian federal government has regulated vehicle GHG emissions under the Canadian Environmental Protection Act, beginning with the 2011 model year.The standards track the new U.S. CAFE standards for the 2011 model year and U.S. EPA GHG regulations for the 2012-2016 model years.In October, 2014, the Canadian federal government published the final changes to the regulation for light duty vehicles, which maintain alignment with U.S. EPA vehicle GHG standards for the 2017-2025 model years.  The final regulation for 2014-2018 heavy duty vehicles was published in February 2013.



Mexico adopted fuel economy/CO2standards, based on the U.S. One National Program framework, that took effect in 2014.



Many Asia Pacific countries (such as Australia, China, Japan, India, South Korea, Taiwan, and Vietnam) are developing or enforcing fuel efficiency or labeling targets.  For example, South Korea and Japan have set fuel efficiency targets for 2020, with incentives for early adoption.  China published standards for Stage IV fuel efficiency targets for 2016–2020.  The fuel efficiency targets will impact the cost of vehicle technology in the future.



In South America, Brazil introduced a voluntary vehicle energy-efficiency labeling program, indicating fuel consumption rates for light duty vehicles with a spark ignition engine.  Brazil also published a new automotive regime which requires participation in the fuel economy labeling program.  It establishes a minimum absolute CAFE value as a function of Fleet Corporate Average Mass for 2017 light duty vehicles with a spark ignition engine in order to qualify for industrialized products tax reduction for customers.  Additional tax reductions are available if further fuel efficiency improvements are achieved.  A severe penalty system will apply to qualified manufacturers failing to meet fuel efficiency requirement for the 2013–2017 sales period.  Chile introduced requirements for fuel consumption and CO2emissions levels of light duty vehicles to be posted at sales locations and in owner manuals beginning in February 2013.  Chile introduced a tax based on urban fuel consumption and NOx emission for light and medium vehicles beginning in late 2014.  In general, fuel efficiency targets may impact the cost of technology of our models in the future.



Vehicle Safety



U.S. Requirements.The National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 (the “Safety Act”) regulates vehicles and vehicle equipment in two primary ways.  First, the Safety Act prohibits the sale in the United States of any new vehicle or equipment that does not conform to applicable vehicle safety standards established by NHTSA.  Meeting or exceeding many safety standards is costly, in part because the standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards.  Second, the Safety Act requires that defects related to motor vehicle safety be remedied through safety recall campaigns.  A manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard.  Should we or NHTSA determine that either a safety defect or noncompliance exists with respect to any of our vehicles, the cost of such recall campaigns could be substantial.














Item 1.  Business (Continued)



Other National Requirements.



The EU and many countries around the world have established vehicle safety standards and regulations, and are likely to adopt additional or more stringent requirements in the future.



The European General Safety Regulation introduced United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (“UN-ECE”) regulations, which will be required for the European Type Approval process.



EU regulators also are focusing on active safety features such as lane departure warning systems, electronic stability control, and automatic brake assist.



Globally, governments generally have been adopting UN-ECE based regulations with minor variations to address local concerns.



Any difference between North American and UN-ECE based regulations can add complexity and costs to the development of global platform vehicles, and we continue to support efforts to harmonize regulations to reduce vehicle design complexity while providing a common level of safety performance; several recently launched bilateral negotiations on free trade can potentially contribute to this goal.  New safety and recall requirements in China, India, and Gulf Cooperation Council countries also may add substantial costs and complexity to our global recall practice.  In South America, additional safety requirements are being introduced or proposed in Argentina, Brazil, Chile (mainly for heavy vehicles), Ecuador, and Uruguay, influenced by Latin NCAP, which may be a driver for similar actions in other countries.  In Canada, regulatory requirements are currently aligned with U.S. regulations.  However, recent amendments to the Canadian Motor Vehicle Safety Act could introduce broad powers to the Minister of Transport to order manufacturers to submit a notice of defect or non-compliance when the Minister considers it would be in the interest of safety.





EMPLOYMENT DATA



The approximate number of individuals employed by us and entities that we consolidated as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 was as follows (in thousands):

20142013AutomotiveNorth America9084South America1618Europe4750Middle East & Africa33Asia Pacific2520Financial ServicesFord Credit66Total187181



The year-over-year increase in employment primarily reflects hiring in North America and Asia Pacific to support product-led growth initiatives and increased vehicle production.



Substantially all of the hourly employees in our Automotive operations are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements.  In the United States, approximately 99% of these unionized hourly employees in our Automotive sector are represented by the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (“UAW” or “United Auto Workers”).  Approximately 1.5% of our U.S. salaried employees are represented by unions.  Most hourly employees and many non-management salaried employees at our operations outside of the United States also are represented by unions.



In 2011, we entered into a four-year collective bargaining agreement with the UAW.  The agreement covers approximately 50,000 employees, and maintained our progress on improving competitiveness in the United States by providing for lump-sum payments (in lieu of general wage increases and cost of living increases) and continuation of an entry-level wage structure.



In 2014, we negotiated collective bargaining agreements (covering wages, benefits and/or other employment provisions) with labor unions in Argentina, Brazil, France, Germany, Italy, Mexico, and Thailand.



In 2015, we will negotiate collective bargaining agreements (covering wages, benefits and/or other employment provisions) with labor unions in Brazil, China, France, Germany, Italy, Mexico, Romania, Russia, Thailand, United Kingdom, and United States.





ENGINEERING, RESEARCH, AND DEVELOPMENT



We engage in engineering, research, and development primarily to improve the performance (including fuel efficiency), safety, and customer satisfaction of our products, and to develop new products.  Engineering, research, and development expenses for 2014, 2013, and 2012 were $6.9 billion, $6.4 billion, and $5.5 billion, respectively.












