ITEM 1.Business



Ford
Motor Company (referred to herein as "Ford", the "Company", "we", "our" or "us")
was incorporated in Delaware in 1919.  We acquired the business of a
Michigan company, also known as Ford Motor Company, that had been incorporated
in 1903 to produce and sell automobiles designed and engineered by Henry
Ford.  We are one of the world’s largest producers of cars and
trucks.  We and our subsidiaries also engage in other businesses,
including financing vehicles.



In
addition to the information about Ford and its subsidiaries contained in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 ("2009
Form 10-K Report" or "Report"), extensive information about our Company can be
found atwww.ford.com,
including information about our management team, our brands and products, and
our corporate governance principles.



The
corporate governance information on our website includes our Corporate
Governance Principles, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Personnel, Code of
Ethics for Directors, Standards of Corporate Conduct for all employees, and the
Charters for each of the Committees of our Board of Directors.  In
addition, any amendments to our Code of Ethics or waivers granted to our
directors and executive officers will be posted in this area of our
website.  All of these documents may be accessed by logging onto our
website and clicking on "Investors," then "Company Information," and then
"Corporate Governance," or may be obtained free of charge by writing to our
Shareholder Relations Department, Ford Motor Company, One American Road,
P.O. Box 1899, Dearborn, Michigan 48126-1899.



In
addition, all of our recent periodic report filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission ("SEC") pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge through our
website.  This includes recent Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any
amendments to those Reports.  Recent Section 16 filings made with
the SEC by the Company or any of its executive officers or directors with
respect to our Common Stock also are made available free of charge through our
website.  We post each of these documents on our website as soon as
reasonably practicable after it is electronically filed with the
SEC.



To access
our SEC reports or amendments or the Section 16 filings, log onto our website
and click "Investors," then "Company Reports," and then "View SEC Filings,"
which links to a list of reports filed with the SEC.



The
foregoing information regarding our website and its content is for convenience
only.  The content of our website is not deemed to be incorporated by
reference into this Report nor should it be deemed to have been filed with the
SEC.



1ITEM
1. Business (continued)





OVERVIEW



Segments.We
review and present our business results in two sectors:  Automotive
and Financial Services.  Within these sectors, our business is divided
into reportable segments based upon the organizational structure that we use to
evaluate performance and make decisions on resource allocation, as well as
availability and materiality of separate financial results consistent with that
structure.



Our
Automotive and Financial Services segments as of December 31, 2009 are
described in the table below:



Business SectorReportable
      Segments*Description



Automotive:Ford
      North AmericaPrimarily
      includes the sale of Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles and related
      service parts in North America (the United States, Canada and Mexico),
      together with the associated costs to design, develop, manufacture and
      service these vehicles and parts,as well as, for
      periods prior to January 1, 2010, the sale of Mazda6 vehicles
      produced by our consolidated subsidiary AutoAlliance International, Inc.
      ("AAI").



Ford
      South AmericaPrimarily
      includes the sale of Ford-brand vehicles and related service parts in
      South America, together with the associated costs to design, develop,
      manufacture and service these vehicles and parts.



Ford
      EuropePrimarily
      includes the sale of Ford-brand vehicles and related service parts in
      Europe, Turkey and Russia, together with the associated costs to design,
      develop, manufacture and service these vehicles and
  parts.



Ford
      Asia Pacific AfricaPrimarily
      includes the sale of Ford-brand vehicles and related service parts in the
      Asia Pacific region and South Africa, together with the associated costs
      to design, develop, manufacture and service these vehicles and parts.



VolvoPrimarily
      includes the sale of Volvo-brand
      vehicles and related service parts throughout the world (including Europe,
      North and South America, and Asia Pacific Africa), together with the
      associated costs to design, develop, manufacture and service these
      vehicles and parts.



Financial
      Services:Ford
      Motor Credit CompanyPrimarily
      includes vehicle-related financing, leasing, and
  insurance.



Other
      Financial ServicesIncludes
      a variety of businesses including holding companies, real estate, and the
      financing and leasing of some Volvo vehicles in
  Europe.

__________

*We
      have experienced changes to our reportable segments in recent years,
      including:§As
      first reported in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
      March 31, 2009, Volvo currently is held for
  sale.§During
      the fourth quarter of 2008, we sold a portion of our equity in Mazda Motor
      Corporation ("Mazda"), reducing our ownership percentage from
      approximately 33.4% at the time of sale to about 11% ownership
      currently.  As a result, beginning with the fourth quarter of
      2008, we account for our interest in Mazda as a marketable security and no
      longer report Mazda as an operating
segment.§As reported in our
      Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
      June 30, 2008, we soldour Jaguar Land
      Rover operations onJune 2, 2008.§As
      reported in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
      June 30, 2007, we sold Aston MartinonMay 31, 2007.



We
provide financial information (such as revenue, income, and assets) for each
business sector and reportable segment in three areas of this
Report:  (1) "Item 6. Selected Financial Data;"
(2) "Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" ("Item 7"); and (3) Note 28
of the Notes to the Financial Statements located at the end of this
Report.  Financial information relating to certain geographic areas is
included in Note 29 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.



2ITEM
1. Business (continued)





AUTOMOTIVE
SECTOR



General



We sell
cars and trucks throughout the world.  In 2009, our total ongoing
Automotive operations (including unconsolidated affiliates in China) sold
approximately 4,817,000 vehicles at wholesale throughout the
world.  See Item 7 for additional discussion of wholesale unit
volumes.



As of
December 31, 2009, our vehicle brands included Ford, Mercury, Lincoln,
and Volvo, although Volvo is held for sale.  Substantially all of our
cars, trucks and parts are marketed through retail dealers in North America, and
through distributors and dealers (collectively, "dealerships") outside of North
America, the substantial majority of which are independently
owned.  At December 31, 2009, the approximate number of
dealerships worldwide distributing our vehicle brands was as
follows:



BrandNumber
      of Dealershipsat December 31,
      2009*Ford11,682Mercury1,780Lincoln1,376Volvo2,269

__________

*Because
      many of these dealerships distribute more than one of our brands from the
      same sales location, a single dealership may be counted under more than
      one brand.



In
addition to the products we sell to our dealerships for retail sale, we also
sell cars and trucks to our dealerships for sale to fleet customers, including
daily rental car companies, commercial fleet customers, leasing companies, and
governments.  We do not depend on any single customer or small group
of customers to the extent that the loss of such customer or group of customers
would have a material adverse effect on our business.



Through
our dealer network and other channels, we provide retail customers with a wide
range of after-sale vehicle services and products, including maintenance and
light repair, heavy repair, collision, vehicle accessories and extended service
warranty.  In North America, we market these products and services
under several brands, including Genuine Ford and Lincoln-Mercury Parts and
ServiceSM,
Ford Custom AccessoriesTM,
Ford Extended Service PlanSM, and
MotorcraftSM.



The
worldwide automotive industry, Ford included, is affected significantly by
general economic conditions (among other factors) over which we have little
control.  This is especially so because vehicles are durable goods,
which provide consumers latitude in determining whether and when to replace an
existing vehicle.  The decision whether to purchase a vehicle may be
affected significantly by slowing economic growth, geo-political events, and
other factors (including the cost of purchasing and operating cars and trucks
and the availability and cost of credit and fuel).  As we recently
have seen in the United States and Europe in particular, the number of cars and
trucks sold may vary substantially from year to year.  Further, the
automotive industry is a highly competitive, cyclical business that has a wide
and growing variety of product offerings from a growing number of
manufacturers.



Our
wholesale unit volumes vary with the level of total industry demand and our
share of that industry demand.  In the short term, our wholesale unit
volumes also are influenced by the level of dealer inventory.  Our
share is influenced by how our products are perceived in comparison to those
offered by other manufacturers based on many factors, including price, quality,
styling, reliability, safety, fuel efficiency, functionality, and
reputation.  Our share also is affected by the timing and frequency of
new model introductions.  Our ability to satisfy changing consumer
preferences with respect to type or size of vehicle, as well as design and
performance characteristics, impacts our sales and earnings
significantly.



3ITEM
1. Business (continued)

The
profitability of our business is affected by many factors,
including:



§Wholesale
      unit volumes;

§Margin
      of profit on each vehicle sold; which in turn is affected by many factors,
      including:

·Mix
      of vehicles and options sold;

·Costs
      of components and raw materials necessary for production of
      vehicles;

·Level
      of "incentives" (e.g., price discounts) and other marketing
      costs;

·Costs
      for customer warranty claims and additional service actions;
      and

·Costs
      for safety, emissions and fuel economy technology and equipment;
      and

§As
      with other manufacturers, a high proportion of relatively fixed structural
      costs, including labor costs, which mean that small changes in wholesale
      unit volumes can significantly affect overall
    profitability.



Our
industry continues to face a very competitive pricing environment, driven in
part by industry excess capacity.  For the past several decades,
manufacturers typically have given price discounts and other marketing
incentives to maintain market share and production levels.  A
discussion of our strategies to compete in this pricing environment is set forth
in the "Overview" section in Item 7.



Competitive
Position.The worldwide automotive industry consists of many
producers, with no single dominant producer.  Certain manufacturers,
however, account for the major percentage of total sales within particular
countries, especially their countries of origin.  Detailed information
regarding our competitive position in the principal markets where we compete may
be found below as part of the overall discussion of the automotive industry in
those markets.



Seasonality.We
generally record the sale of a vehicle (and recognize sales proceeds in revenue)
when it is produced and shipped or delivered to our customer (i.e., the
dealership).  See the "Overview" section in Item 7 for additional
discussion of revenue recognition practices.



We manage
our vehicle production schedule based on a number of factors, including retail
sales (i.e., units sold by our dealerships to their customers at retail) and
dealer stock levels (i.e., the number of units held in inventory by our
dealerships for sale to retail and fleet customers).  In the past, we
have experienced some seasonal fluctuation in the business, with production in
many markets tending to be higher in the first half of the year to meet demand
in the spring and summer (typically the strongest sales months of the
year).  Third quarter production has tended to be the
lowest.  As a result, operating results for the third quarter
typically have been less favorable than other quarters.



Raw Materials.We
purchase a wide variety of raw materials from numerous suppliers around the
world for use in production of our vehicles.  These materials include
non-ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous
metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas), and resins
(e.g., polypropylene).  We believe that we have adequate supplies or
sources of availability of the raw materials necessary to meet our
needs.  There are always risks and uncertainties, however, with
respect to the supply of raw materials that could impact availability in
sufficient quantities to meet our needs.  See the "Overview" section
of Item 7 for a discussion of commodity and energy price trends, and
"Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk"
("Item 7A") for a discussion of commodity price risks.



Backlog Orders.We
generally produce and ship our products on average within approximately 20 days
after an order is deemed to become firm.  Therefore, no significant
amount of backlog orders accumulates during any period.



Intellectual
Property.We own or hold licenses to use numerous patents,
copyrights and trademarks on a global basis.  Our policy is to protect
our competitive position by, among other methods, filing U.S. and international
patent applications to protect technology and improvements that we consider
important to the development of our business.  We have generated a
large number of patents, and expect this portfolio to continue to grow as we
actively pursue additional technological innovation.  We currently
have approximately 15,900 active patents and pending patent applications
globally, with an average age for patents in our active patent portfolio of just
over 5 years.  In addition to this intellectual property, we also rely
on our proprietary knowledge and ongoing technological innovation to develop and
maintain our competitive position.  Although we believe that these
patents, patent applications, and know-how, in the aggregate, are important to
the conduct of our business, and we obtain licenses to use certain intellectual
property owned by others, none is individually considered material to our
business.  We also own numerous trademarks and service marks that
contribute to the identity and recognition of our Company and its products and
services globally.  Certain of these marks are integral to the conduct
of our business, a loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on
our business.



4ITEM
1. Business (continued)

Warranty Coverage and Additional
Service Actions.We currently provide warranties on vehicles
we sell.  Warranties are offered for specific periods of time and/or
mileage, and vary depending upon the type of product, usage of the product and
the geographic location of its sale.  Types of warranty coverage
offered include base coverage (e.g., "bumper-to-bumper" coverage in the United
States on Ford-brand vehicles for 36 months or 36,000 miles, whichever occurs
first), safety restraint coverage, and corrosion coverage.  Beginning
with 2007 model-year passenger cars and light trucks, Ford extended the
powertrain warranty coverage offered on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury vehicles sold
in the United States, Canada, and select U.S. export markets (e.g., powertrain
coverage for certain vehicles sold in the United States from three years or
36,000 miles to five years or 60,000 miles on Ford and Mercury brands, and
from four years or 50,000 miles to six years or 70,000 miles on the Lincoln
brand).  In compliance with regulatory requirements, we also provide
emissions-defects and emissions-performance warranty
coverage.  Pursuant to these warranties, Ford will repair, replace, or
adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials
or workmanship during the specified warranty period.



In
addition to the costs associated with the warranty coverage provided on our
vehicles, we also incur costs as a result of additional service actions not
covered by our warranties, including product recalls and customer satisfaction
actions.



Estimated
warranty and service action costs for each vehicle sold by us are accrued for at
the time of sale.  Accruals for estimated warranty and service action
costs are based on historical experience and subject to adjustment from time to
time depending on actual experience.  Warranty accrual adjustments
required when actual warranty claim experience differs from our estimates may
have a material impact on our results.



For
additional information with respect to costs for warranty and additional service
actions, see "Critical Accounting Estimates" in Item 7, as well as
Note 31 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.



Industry
Sales Volume



The
following chart shows industry sales volume for the United States, and for the
markets we track in Europe, South America and Asia Pacific Africa for the last
five years (in millions of units):



Industry
      Sales Volume *20092008200720062005United
      States10.613.516.517.117.5Europe15.816.618.017.817.6South
      America4.24.34.13.22.7Asia
      Pacific Africa24.520.920.418.617.3

__________

*Throughout
      this section, industry sales volume includes sales of medium and heavy
      trucks.  See discussion of each market below for definition of
      the markets we track.



U.S. and
European industry sales volume declined in 2009 compared with 2008, reflecting
weak economic conditions in both markets.  The decline in Europe was
more modest because the impact of the economic slowdown was offset somewhat by
substantial government-sponsored vehicle scrappage program
incentives.  Asia Pacific Africa industry sales increased in 2009 as
compared to 2008, largely driven by growth in China.



United
States



Industry Sales
Data.The following table shows U.S. industry sales of cars
and trucks (in millions of units):



U.S.
      Industry SalesYears
      Ended December 31,20092008200720062005Cars5.67.17.98.17.9Trucks5.06.48.69.09.6




ITEM
1. Business (continued)

We
classify cars by small, medium, large, and premium segments, and trucks by
compact pickup, bus/van (including minivans), full-size pickup, crossover
utility vehicles ("CUVs") and traditional sport utility vehicles ("SUVs"),
and medium/heavy segments.  We refer to CUVs, which are based on car
platforms, and SUVs, which are based on truck platforms, collectively as
"utilities" or "utility vehicles."  In the tables, we have classified
all of our luxury cars as "premium," regardless of size.  Annually, we
review various factors to determine the appropriate classification of vehicle
segments and the vehicles within those segments, and this review occasionally
results in a change of classification for certain vehicles.



The
following tables show the proportion of U.S. car and truck unit sales by segment
for the industry (including domestic and foreign-based manufacturers) and for
Ford:



U.S.
      Industry Vehicle Mix of Sales by SegmentYears
      Ended December 31,20092008200720062005CARSSmall23.7%22.9%19.8%19.0%17.1%Medium16.115.513.613.113.1Large5.46.17.07.57.4Premium7.37.87.87.67.8Total
      U.S. Industry Car Sales52.552.348.247.245.4TRUCKSCompact
      Pickup2.62.83.23.53.9Bus/Van5.56.16.67.88.1Full-Size
      Pickup10.811.913.513.314.6Utilities27.124.926.525.225.5Medium/Heavy1.52.02.03.02.5Total
      U.S. Industry Truck Sales47.547.751.852.854.6Total
      U.S. Industry Vehicle Sales100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%



Ford
      U.S. Vehicle Mix of Sales by Segment*Years
      Ended December 31,20092008200720062005CARSSmall14.0%15.0%12.8%12.5%11.6%Medium12.89.37.812.98.2Large6.87.78.48.28.9Premium3.13.12.53.12.8Total
      Ford U.S. Car Sales36.735.131.536.731.5TRUCKSCompact
      Pickup3.43.43.03.44.1Bus/Van5.86.57.28.68.9Full-Size
      Pickup25.627.229.129.630.7Utilities28.227.428.621.124.3Medium/Heavy0.30.40.60.60.5Total
      Ford U.S. Truck Sales63.364.968.563.368.5Total
      Ford U.S. Vehicle Sales100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%

__________

*These
      data include sales of Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury
  vehicles.



As the
tables above indicate, the shift from cars to trucks that began in the 1980s
started to reverse in 2005.  Prior to 2005, the proportion of trucks
sold in the industry and by Ford had been increasing, reflecting higher sales of
SUVs and full-size pickups.  In recent years, the percentage of cars
sold in the overall market and by Ford has trended higher, primarily due to a
shift in consumer preferences to smaller, more fuel-efficient
vehicles.  In 2009, overall changes in our U.S. vehicle mix generally
followed the overall direction of U.S. industry trends.  Our
year-over-year growth in car mix, however, outpaced the industry, primarily
fueled by the strength of our medium-car mix and sales led by our redesigned
Ford Fusion, Fusion Hybrid, Mercury Milan and Milan Hybrid.



Market Share
Data.The competitive environment in the United States has
intensified and is expected to continue to intensify as Japanese and Korean
manufacturers increase imports to the United States and increase production
capacity in North America.  Our principal competitors in the United
States include General Motors Company ("General Motors"),
Chrysler Group LLC ("Chrysler"), Toyota Motor Corporation ("Toyota"),
Honda Motor Company ("Honda"), and NissanMotor
Company ("Nissan").  The following tables show U.S. car and truck
market share for Ford (Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brand vehicles only) and for
the other five leading vehicle manufacturers.  The percentages in each
of the following tables represent percentages of the combined car and truck
industry:




ITEM
1. Business (continued)

U.S.
      Car Market Shares (a)Years
      Ended December 31,20092008200720062005Ford5.5%5.0%4.6%5.8%5.4%General
      Motors9.110.09.810.010.2Chrysler2.53.64.24.14.0Toyota10.010.09.28.67.4Honda6.56.65.34.94.8Nissan4.84.43.83.23.3All
      Other (b)14.112.711.310.610.3Total
      U.S. Car Deliveries52.5%52.3%48.2%47.2%45.4%



U.S.
      Truck Market Shares (a)Years
      Ended December 31,20092008200720062005Ford9.8%9.2%10.0%10.2%11.6%General
      Motors10.612.113.614.115.6Chrysler6.37.28.48.49.2Toyota6.76.46.76.35.6Honda4.34.04.13.93.6Nissan2.52.72.72.82.9All
      Other (b)7.36.16.37.16.1Total
      U.S. Truck Deliveries47.5%47.7%51.8%52.8%54.6%



U.S.
      Combined Car and TruckMarket
      Shares (a)Years
      Ended December 31,20092008200720062005Ford15.3%14.2%14.6%16.0%17.0%General
      Motors19.722.123.424.125.8Chrysler8.810.812.612.513.2Toyota16.716.415.914.913.0Honda10.810.69.48.88.4Nissan7.37.16.56.06.2All
      Other (b)21.418.817.617.716.4Total
      U.S. Car and Truck Deliveries100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%

__________

(a)All
      U.S. sales data are based on publicly available information from the media
      and trade publications.

(b)"All
      Other" primarily includes companies based in Korea, other Japanese
      manufacturers and various European manufacturers, and, with respect to the
      U.S. Truck Market Shares table and U.S. Combined Car and Truck Market
      Shares table, includes heavy truck
  manufacturers.



Our
improvement in overall market share primarily is the result of several factors,
including favorable acceptance of our redesigned products, product focus on
industry growth segments, and customers' increasing awareness and acceptance of
our commitment to leadership in quality, fuel efficiency, safety, smart
technologies and value.



In
addition to the Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury vehicles we sell in the U.S. market,
we also sell a significant number of Volvo vehicles.  Our market share
for Volvo vehicles in the United States (which is reflected in "All Other" in
the tables above) was approximately 0.6% in 2009, up 0.1 percentage points
from 2008.  This increase in market share primarily reflected the
introduction of the new XC60 and improved sales of the V50.



Fleet Sales.The
sales data and market share information provided above include both retail and
fleet sales.  Fleet sales include sales to daily rental car companies,
commercial fleet customers, leasing companies, and governments.



7ITEM
1. Business (continued)

The table
below shows our fleet sales in the United States, and the amount of those
combined sales as a percentage of our total U.S. car and truck sales for the
last five years (in thousands):



Ford
      Fleet Sales*Years
      Ended December 31,20092008200720062005Daily
      Rental Units205237304447440Commercial
      and Other Units156217268277256Government
      Units127153158162141Total
      Fleet Units488607730886837Percent
      of Total U.S. Car and Truck Sales30%32%30%32%28%

__________

*These
      data include sales of Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury
  vehicles.



Lower
fleet sales in 2009 primarily reflected an overall industry decline in rental,
commercial and government sectors.  Although total fleet industry
volume decreased for the year, we improved year-over-year fleet segment market
share.  We continue to maintain profitable government and commercial
segment market share leadership over all brands.



Europe



Industry
Sales Data



Market Share
Information.Outside of the United States, Europe is our
largest market for the sale of cars and trucks.  The automotive
industry in Europe is intensely competitive.  Our principal
competitors in Europe include General Motors, Volkswagen A.G. Group, PSA Group,
Renault Group, and Fiat SpA.  For the past 10 years, the top six
manufacturers have collectively held between 70% and 77% of the total
market.  This competitive environment is expected to intensify further
as Japanese and Korean manufacturers increase their production capacity in
Europe, and as other manufacturers of premium brands (e.g., BMW, Mercedes-Benz,
and Audi) continue to broaden their product offerings.



For
purposes of this discussion, 2009 market data are based on estimated
registrations currently available; percentage change is measured from actual
2008 registrations.  We track industry sales in Europe for the
following 19 markets: Britain, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Austria, Belgium,
Ireland, Netherlands, Portugal, Switzerland, Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Norway,
Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary, and Poland.  In 2009, vehicle
manufacturers sold approximately 15.8 million cars and trucks in these 19
markets, down 4.8% from 2008.  Ford-brand combined car and truck
market share in Europe in 2009 was approximately 9.1% (up 0.5 percentage
points from the previous year); Volvo market share in Europe was 1.3% (about the
same as in 2008).



Britain
and Germany are our highest-volume markets within Europe.  Any change
in the British or German market has a significant effect on the results of our
Ford Europe segment.  The global economic crisis caused 2009 industry
sales in Britain to decline by 10.5% from 2008 levels (which were down
considerably from 2007 levels, as the economic crisis hit Britain earlier than
many other European countries).  As a result of government stimulus in
Germany, 2009 industry sales volume there actually increased by 18.2% compared
with 2008.  Our Ford-brand combined car and truck share in these
markets in 2009 was 16.8% in Britain (up 0.4 percentage points from the
previous year), and 7.6% in Germany (up 0.6 percentage points from the
previous year).



Although
not included in the 19 markets above, several additional markets in the region
contribute to our Ford Europe segment results.  In 2009, Ford's share
of the Turkish market increased by 0.4 percentage points to 15.1%, the
eighth year in a row that the Ford brand led the market in sales in
Turkey.  Industry sales volume in Russia decreased dramatically during
2009, shrinking by 1.6 million units or about half of its total volume as a
result of the economic crisis.  As a result, sales of Ford-brand
vehicles decreased by nearly 56% from 2008 to about 82,000 units in
2009.



Motor Vehicle Distribution in
Europe.In 2002, the Commission of the European Union
("Commission") adopted a new regulatory scheme that changed the way motor
vehicles are sold and repaired ("Block Exemption
Regulation").  Pursuant to this regulation, manufacturers must operate
either an "exclusive" distribution system – with exclusive dealer sales
territories, but with the possibility of sales to any reseller
(e.g., supermarket chains, internet agencies and other resellers not
authorized by the manufacturer), who in turn could sell to end customers both
within and outside of the dealer’s exclusive sales territory – or a "selective"
distribution system.



8ITEM
1. Business (continued)

We, like
most other automotive manufacturers, elected to establish a "selective"
distribution system, allowing us to restrict the dealer’s ability to sell our
vehicles to unauthorized resellers.  Under this "selective" system, we
are entitled to determine the number of dealers we establish but, since October
2005, not their locations.  Under either system permitted by the Block
Exemption Regulation, the rules make it easier for a dealer to display and sell
multiple brands in one store without the need to maintain separate
facilities.



Under the
Block Exemption Regulation, the Commission also adopted sweeping changes to the
repair industry.  Dealers no longer could be required by the
manufacturer to perform repair work.  Instead, dealers could
subcontract repair work to independent repair shops that met reasonable criteria
set by the manufacturer.  These authorized repair facilities could
perform warranty and recall work, in addition to other repair and maintenance
work.  While a manufacturer may continue to require the use of its
parts in warranty and recall work, for all other repair work the repair
facilities may use parts made by others that are of comparable
quality.  We have negotiated and implemented Dealer, Authorized
Repairer and Spare Part Supply contracts on a country-by-country level and,
therefore, the Block Exemption Regulation applies with respect to all of our
dealers.



With
these rules, the Commission intended to increase competition and narrow price
differences from country to country.  The Commission's Block Exemption
Regulation continues to contribute to an increasingly competitive market for
vehicles and parts, and to ongoing price convergence.  This has
contributed to an increase in marketing expenses, negatively affecting the
profitability of Ford Europe and Volvo.



The
current Block Exemption Regulation expires on
May 31, 2010.  In December 2009, the Commission launched a
public review process for a revised Block Exemption Regulation and guidelines on
motor vehicles sales and repair agreements.  The Commission proposes
to adopt a new block exemption for repair and maintenance services, in which
area the Commission believes competition to be more limited.  The
Commission also proposes to adopt guidelines dealing with specific issues for
both motor vehicle sales and repair.  It is expected that the
Commission will adopt final regulation in the spring of 2010.



Other
Markets



Canada and
Mexico.Canada and Mexico also are important markets for
us.  In Canada, industry sales volume for new cars and trucks in 2009
was approximately 1.48 million units, down 11% from 2008 levels; industry
sales volume in Mexico for new cars and trucks in 2009 was approximately
770,000 units, down 28% from 2008.  The decrease in industry
sales volume in these markets reflected the impact of the global economic
slowdown beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008.  Our combined car
and truck market share (including all of our brands sold in these markets) in
2009 was 15.2% for Canada (up 2.6 percentage points from a year ago), which
represents our highest full-year share since 2001 and made Ford the number-one
selling brand in Canada, and 11.8% in Mexico (down 0.3 percentage points
from the previous year).



South
America.Brazil, Argentina, and Venezuela are our principal
markets in South America.  Industry sales in 2009 were approximately
3.1 million units in Brazil (up 11.4% from 2008), 509,000 units in
Argentina (down 15.3% from 2008), and 136,000 units in Venezuela (down
49.9% from 2008).  Our combined car and truck share for Ford-brand
vehicles in these markets was 10.3% in Brazil (up 0.3 percentage points from
2008), 13.3% in Argentina (up 0.9 percentage points from 2008), and 20.9%
in Venezuela (up 5.2 percentage points from 2008).  In Brazil,
2009 industry sales were strong in comparison to other markets in South America
due to government stimulus actions taken in response to the global economic
slowdown.  We have announced plans for our largest-ever investment in
Brazil operations in a five-year period, investing R$4 billion in 2011-2015
to accelerate delivery of more fuel-efficient, high-quality vehicles in
Brazil.



Asia Pacific
Africa.Australia, China, India, South Africa, and Taiwan are
our principal markets in this region.  Industry sales in 2009 were
approximately 940,000 units in Australia (down 7.4% from 2008),
14.1 million units in China (up 42.1% from 2008), 2.3 million units in
India (up 12.2% from 2008), 350,000 units in South Africa (down 27.6% from
2008), and 290,000 units in Taiwan (up 28.4% from 2008).  Our
combined car and truck share in these markets (including sales of Ford-brand
vehicles, and market share for certain unconsolidated affiliates particularly in
China) was 10.3% in Australia (about the same as 2008), 1.9% in China (about the
same as 2008), 1.3% in India (down 0.1 percentage points from 2008), 7.6% in
South Africa (up 0.7 percentage points from 2008) and 6.1% in Taiwan (up
0.6 percentage points from 2008).  We anticipate that the ongoing
relaxation of import restrictions (including duty reductions) will continue to
intensify competition in the region.



9ITEM
1. Business (continued)

China and
India are the key emerging markets that will continue to drive economic growth
in the region.  Small cars account for 60% of Asia Pacific Africa
industry sales volume, and are anticipated to continue to benefit from
government fiscal policy.  In line with these trends, our
manufacturing capacity investments in both Thailand and India are nearing
completion.  At our joint venture assembly facility in Rayong,
Thailand we have invested $500 million in an expansion for the production of
small passenger cars.  In India, we have invested $500 million to
significantly increase our presence through expansion of our current
manufacturing facility in Chennai to begin production of our new Ford Figo,
and construction of a fully-integrated and flexible engine manufacturing
plant.  As previously announced in September 2009, we also have broken
ground on a new plant in Chongqing, China to meet anticipated demand and grow
Ford-brand market share.



FINANCIAL
SERVICES SECTOR



Ford
Motor Credit Company LLC



Ford
Motor Credit Company LLC ("Ford Credit") offers a wide variety of automotive
financing products to and through automotive dealers throughout the
world.  The predominant share of Ford Credit’s business consists of
financing our vehicles and supporting our dealers.  Ford Credit’s
primary financing products fall into the following three
categories:



•Retail
      financing.Purchasing retail installment sale contracts
      and retail lease contracts from dealers, and offering financing to
      commercial customers – primarily vehicle leasing companies and fleet
      purchasers – to purchase or lease vehicle
  fleets;



•Wholesale
      financing.Making loans to dealers to finance the
      purchase of vehicle inventory, also known as floorplan financing;
      and



•Other
      financing.Making loans to dealers for working capital,
      improvements to dealership facilities, and to purchase or finance
      dealership real estate.



Ford
Credit also services the finance receivables and leases that it originates and
purchases, makes loans to our affiliates, purchases certain receivables from us
and our subsidiaries, and provides insurance services related to its financing
programs.  Ford Credit’s revenues are earned primarily from payments
made under retail installment sale contracts and retail leases (including
interest supplements and other support payments it receives from us on
special-rate financing programs), and from payments made under wholesale and
other dealer loan financing programs.



Ford
Credit does business in all states in the United States and in all provinces in
Canada through regional business centers.  Outside of the United
States, FCE Bank plc ("FCE") is Ford Credit’s largest
operation.  FCE's primary business is to support the sale of our
vehicles in Europe through our dealer network.  FCE offers a variety
of retail, leasing and wholesale finance plans in most countries in which it
operates; FCE does business in the United Kingdom, Germany, and most other
European countries.  Ford Credit, through its subsidiaries, also
operates in the Asia Pacific and Latin American regions.  In addition,
FCE, through its Worldwide Trade Financing division, provides financing to
dealers in countries where typically we have no established local
presence.



Ford
Credit's share of retail financing for new Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brand
vehicles sold by dealers in the United States and new Ford-brand vehicles sold
by dealers in Europe, as well as Ford Credit's share of wholesale financing for
new Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles acquired by dealers in the United
States (excluding fleet) and of new Ford-brand vehicles acquired by dealers in
Europe, were as follows during the last three years:



United
      StatesYears
      EndedDecember
      31,Financing
      share – Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury200920082007Retail
      installment and lease29%39%38%Wholesale797778EuropeFinancing
      share – FordRetail
      installment and lease28%28%26%Wholesale999896



See
Item 7 for a detailed discussion of Ford Credit's receivables, credit
losses, allowance for credit losses, loss-to-receivables ratios, funding
sources, and funding strategies.  See Item 7A for a discussion of
how Ford Credit manages its financial market risks.



10ITEM
1. Business (continued)

We
routinely sponsor special-rate financing programs available only through Ford
Credit.  Pursuant to these programs, we make interest supplement or
other support payments to Ford Credit.  These programs increase Ford
Credit's financing volume and share of financing sales of our
vehicles.  See Note 1 of the Notes to the Financial Statements
and Item 7 for more information about these support payments.



On
November 6, 2008, we and Ford Credit entered into an Amended and
Restated Support Agreement (“Support Agreement”) (formerly known as the Amended
and Restated Profit Maintenance Agreement).  Pursuant to the Support
Agreement, if Ford Credit’s managed leverage for a calendar quarter were to be
higher than 11.5 to 1 (as reported in Ford Credit’s then-most recent
Form 10-Q Report or Form 10-K Report), Ford Credit could require us to
make or cause to be made a capital contribution to Ford Credit in an amount
sufficient to have caused such managed leverage to have been 11.5 to
1.  A copy of the Support Agreement was filed as Exhibit 10 to our
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30,
2008.  No capital contributions have been made to Ford Credit pursuant
to the Support Agreement.  In addition, Ford Credit has an agreement
to maintain FCE’s net worth in excess of $500 million.  No
payments have been made by Ford Credit to FCE pursuant to the agreement during
the 2007 through 2009 periods.



GOVERNMENTAL
STANDARDS



Many
governmental standards and regulations relating to safety, fuel economy,
emissions control, noise control, vehicle recycling, substances of concern,
vehicle damage, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor vehicles,
engines, and equipment manufactured for sale in the United States, Europe, and
elsewhere.  In addition, manufacturing and other automotive assembly
facilities in the United States, Europe, and elsewhere are subject to stringent
standards regulating air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and
disposal of hazardous substances.



Mobile
Source Emissions Control



U.S. Requirements – Federal
Emissions Standards.The federal Clean Air Act imposes
stringent limits on the amount of regulated pollutants that lawfully may be
emitted by new motor vehicles and engines produced for sale in the United
States.  The current ("Tier 2") emissions regulations promulgated by
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") set standards for cars and
light trucks.  The Tier 2 emissions standards also establish
durability requirements for emissions components to 120,000 or 150,000 miles
(depending on the specific standards to which the vehicle is
certified).  These standards present compliance challenges and make it
difficult to utilize light-duty diesel technology, which in turn restricts one
pathway for improving fuel economy for purposes of satisfying Corporate Average
Fuel Economy ("CAFE") standards and upcoming federal greenhouse gas ("GHG")
standards.



The EPA
also has standards and requirements for EPA-defined "heavy-duty" vehicles and
engines (generally, those vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating of
8,500-14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight).  These standards and
requirements include stringent evaporative hydrocarbon standards for gasoline
vehicles, and stringent exhaust emission standards for all
vehicles.  In order to meet the diesel standards, manufacturers must
employ after-treatment technologies, such as diesel particulate filters or
selective catalytic reduction ("SCR") systems, which require periodic customer
maintenance.  These technologies add significant cost to the emissions
control system, and present potential issues associated with consumer
acceptance.  The EPA has issued guidance regarding maintenance
intervals and the warning systems that will be used to alert motorists to the
need for maintenance of SCR systems, which are incorporated into some of our
heavy-duty vehicles.  One heavy-duty engine manufacturer that does not
rely on SCR technology is challenging EPA's 2010 model year heavy-duty standards
and related SCR guidance in federal court.  Should the litigation lead
to tightening of the EPA's SCR guidance, or a ruling that otherwise interferes
with our ability to use SCR technology, it could have an adverse effect on our
ability to produce and sell heavy-duty vehicles.



U.S. Requirements – California and
Other State Emissions Standards.Pursuant to the Clean Air
Act, California may seek a waiver from the EPA to establish unique emissions
control standards for motor vehicles; each new or modified proposal requires a
new waiver of preemption from the EPA.  California has received a
waiver from the EPA to establish its own unique emissions control standards for
certain regulated pollutants.  New vehicles and engines sold in
California must be certified by the California Air Resources Board
("CARB").  CARB's current low emission vehicle or "LEV II" emissions
standards treat most light-duty trucks the same as passenger cars, and require
both types of vehicles to meet stringent new emissions
requirements.  Like the EPA's Tier 2 emissions standards, CARB's LEV
II vehicle emissions standards also present a difficult engineering challenge,
and impose even greater barriers to the use of light-duty diesel
technology.



11ITEM
1. Business (continued)

Since
1990, the California program has included requirements for manufacturers to
produce and deliver for sale zero-emission vehicles ("ZEVs"), which emit no
regulated pollutants.  Initially, the goal of the ZEV mandate was to
require the production and sale of battery-electric vehicles, which were the
only vehicles capable of meeting the zero-emission requirements and of being
produced in significant volumes.  Such vehicles have had narrow
consumer appeal due to their limited range, reduced functionality, and
relatively high cost.



Over
time, the ZEV regulations have been modified several times to reflect the fact
that the development of battery-electric technology progressed at a slower pace
than anticipated by CARB.  CARB has adopted amendments to the ZEV
mandate that allow advanced-technology vehicles (e.g., hybrid electric vehicles
or natural gas vehicles) with extremely low tailpipe emissions to qualify for
ZEV credits.  The rules also give some ZEV credits for so-called
"partial zero-emission vehicles" ("PZEVs"), which can be internal combustion
engine vehicles certified to very low tailpipe emissions and zero evaporative
emissions.  In response to a 2007 review of battery technology and
other advanced vehicle technologies by a panel of independent experts, CARB
finalized its most recent set of revisions to its ZEV regulations in February
2009, revising requirements for the 2012 model year and beyond.  The
current rules require increasing volumes of battery electric and other advanced
technology vehicles with each passing model year.  Ford plans to
comply with the ZEV regulations through the sale of a variety of
battery-electric vehicles, hybrid vehicles, plug-in hybrid vehicles, and
PZEVs.  Ford's compliance plan entails significant costs, and has a
variety of inherent risks such as uncertain consumer demand for the vehicles and
potential component shortages that may make it difficult to produce vehicles in
sufficient quantities.



In 2004,
CARB enacted standards limiting emissions of GHGs (e.g., carbon dioxide) from
all new motor vehicles.  CARB asserts that its vehicle emissions
regulations provide authority for it to adopt such standards.  Because
GHG emission standards are functionally equivalent to fuel economy standards,
issues associated with motor vehicle GHG regulation are discussed more fully in
the "Motor Vehicle Fuel Economy" section below.



The Clean
Air Act permits other states that do not meet National Ambient Air Quality
Standards ("NAAQS") to adopt California's motor vehicle emissions standards no
later than two years before the affected model year.  In addition to
California, thirteen states, primarily located in the Northeast and Northwest,
have adopted the California standards (and eleven of these states also have
adopted the ZEV requirements).  These thirteen states, together with
California, account for more than 30% of Ford's current light-duty vehicle sales
volume in the United States.  Other states are considering adoption of
the California standards.  The adoption of California standards by
other states presents challenges for manufacturers, including the
following:  1) managing fleet average emissions standards and ZEV
mandate requirements on a state-by-state basis presents difficulties from the
standpoint of planning and distribution; 2) market acceptance of some
vehicles required by the ZEV program varies from state to state, depending on
weather and other factors; and 3) the states adopting the California
program have not adopted California's clean fuel regulations, which may impair
the ability of vehicles in other states to meet California's in-use
standards.



CARB has
indicated that it is planning a complete overhaul of its LEV, ZEV, and GHG
regulations; these changes would begin to take effect in the 2014-2015 model
year time frame.  CARB is expected to propose "LEV III" regulations in
the spring of 2010 and finalize those rules by the spring of 2011.  We
anticipate that the LEV III rules will contain a host of new and more stringent
requirements for tailpipe emissions, evaporative emissions, and component
durability.  Also in 2010, CARB is expected to propose modifications
to its ZEV regulations that would integrate them with its GHG regulations to
some extent.  The ZEV program is expected to focus on requirements to
produce ever-increasing numbers of vehicles using battery-electric, fuel cell,
plug-in hybrid, and hydrogen internal combustion engine
technologies.  Under the new regulatory approach, manufacturers that
produce higher numbers of vehicles specified as ZEVs may be allowed to meet less
stringent fleet average GHG levels.  The revised ZEV regulations would
likely take effect beginning with the 2015 model year, replacing the existing
rules for that model year and beyond.



In
general, compliance with the revised regulations is likely to require costly
actions that could have a substantial adverse effect on our sales volume and
profits, depending on such factors as the specific emission levels required in
the LEV III program and the volumes of advanced-technology vehicles required by
the ZEV mandate.   We are not able to assess the impact of these
pending regulatory changes until specific proposals have been
released.



U.S. Requirements – Warranty,
Recall, and On-Board Diagnostics.The Clean Air Act permits
the EPA and CARB to require manufacturers to recall and repair non-conforming
vehicles (which may be identified by testing or analysis done by the
manufacturer, the EPA or CARB), and we may voluntarily stop shipment of or
recall non-conforming vehicles.  The costs of related repairs or
inspections associated with such recalls, or a stop-shipment order, could be
substantial.



12ITEM
1. Business (continued)

Both CARB
and the EPA also have adopted on-board diagnostic ("OBD") regulations, which
require a vehicle to monitor its emissions control system and notify the vehicle
operator (via the "check engine" light) of any malfunction.  These
regulations have become extremely complicated, and require substantial
engineering resources to create compliant systems.  CARB's OBD rules
for vehicles under 14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight include a variety of
requirements that phased in between the 2006 and 2010 model
years.  CARB also has adopted engine manufacturer diagnostic
requirements for heavy-duty gasoline and diesel engines that apply to the 2007
to 2009 model years, and EPA has adopted light-duty and heavy-duty OBD
requirements that generally align with CARB's; the EPA also accepts
certification to CARB's OBD requirements.



The
complexity of the OBD requirements and the difficulties of meeting all of the
monitoring conditions and thresholds make OBD approval one of the most
challenging aspects of certifying vehicles for emissions
compliance.  CARB regulations contemplate this difficulty, and, in
certain instances, permit manufacturers to comply by paying per-vehicle
penalties in lieu of meeting the full array of OBD monitoring
requirements.  In other cases, CARB regulations provide for automatic
recalls of vehicles that fail to comply with specified core OBD
requirements.  Many states have implemented OBD tests as part of
inspection and maintenance programs.  Failure of in-service compliance
tests could lead to vehicle recalls with substantial costs for related
inspections or repairs.  CARB is in the process of finalizing
amendments to the OBD regulations for 2010-2017 model years; these rules will
relax or defer some requirements in the earlier model years, while phasing in
some additional requirements in the later model years.  CARB also is
required to undertake a biennial review of its OBD regulations for light-duty
vehicles, and this will occur in 2010.  Automobile manufacturers will
make suggestions for streamlining and improving the regulations, but it also is
possible that CARB may alter the rules in ways that make it more difficult for
manufacturers to comply.



European
Requirements.European Union ("EU") directives and related
legislation limit the amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new
motor vehicles and engines sold in the EU.  Stringent new emissions
standards ("Stage IV Standards") were applied to new passenger car
certifications beginning January 1, 2005, and to new passenger car
registrations beginning January 1, 2006.  The comparable
light commercial truck Stage IV Standards went into effect for new
certifications beginning January 1, 2006, and for new registrations
beginning January 1, 2007.  This directive on emissions also
introduced OBD requirements, more stringent evaporative emissions requirements,
and in-service compliance testing and recall provisions for emissions-related
defects that occur in the first five years or 100,000 kilometers of vehicle
life.  Failure of in-service compliance tests could lead to vehicle
recalls with substantial costs for related inspections or repairs.



In 2007,
the Commission published a proposed law for Stage V/VI emissions that further
restricted the amount of particulate and nitrogen oxide emissions from diesel
engines, and tightened some regulations for gasoline
engines.  Stage V emissions requirements began in September 2009
for vehicle registrations starting in January 2011.  Stage VI
requirements will apply from September 2014.  Stage V particulate
standards drove the deployment of particulate filters across diesels. 
Stage VI further reduces the standard for oxides of nitrogen. 
This will drive the need for additional diesel exhaust aftertreatment which
will add cost and potentially impact the diesel CO2advantage.  These technology requirements add cost and further erode
the fuel economy cost/benefit advantage of diesel vehicles.



Vehicles
equipped with SCR systems require a driver inducement and warning system to
prevent the vehicle being operated for a significant period of time if the
reductant (urea) dosing tank is empty.  The Stage V/VI emission
legislation also mandated the internet provision of all repair information (not
just emissions-related); information also must be provided to diagnostic tool
manufacturers.  Some aspects of this regulatory scheme are still being
finalized in an amendment package due for member state voting in early
2010.



13ITEM
1. Business (continued)

Other National
Requirements.Many countries, in an effort to address air
quality concerns, are adopting previous versions of European or United Nations
Economic Commission for Europe ("UN-ECE") mobile source emissions
regulations.  Some countries have adopted more advanced regulations
based on the most recent version of European or U.S. regulations; for example,
China plans to adopt the most recent European standards to be
implemented starting from 2012 in large cities.  Korea
and Taiwan have adopted very stringent U.S.-based standards for gasoline
vehicles, and European-based standards for diesel vehicles.  Because
fleet average requirements do not apply, some vehicle emissions control systems
may have to be redesigned to meet the requirements in these
markets.  Furthermore, not all of these countries have adopted
appropriate fuel quality standards to accompany the stringent emissions
standards adopted.  This could lead to compliance problems,
particularly if OBD or in-use surveillance requirements are
implemented.  Japan has unique standards and test procedures, and
implemented more stringent standards beginning in 2009.  This may
require unique emissions control systems be designed for the Japanese
market.  Canadian criteria emissions regulations are aligned with U.S.
federal Tier 2 requirements.



In South
America, Brazil, Argentina and Chile also are introducing more stringent
emissions standards.  Brazil approved Euro V emissions standards for
heavy trucks starting in 2012, and is developing more stringent light vehicle
limits starting in 2013.  Argentina approved Euro IV emissions
standards starting in 2009, and Euro V in 2012.  Chile is proposing a
new decontamination plan for its metropolitan region with more stringent
emission requirements based on U.S. or EU regulations.



Fuel
Quality and Content



U.S. Requirements.



Biomass-based
diesel fuel, known as "biodiesel," also is becoming more common in the United
States.  Biodiesel typically is a combination of petroleum-based
diesel fuel and fuel derived from "biomass" (biological material from plant or
animal sources).  Biodiesel is approved by the EPA as well as a number
of U.S. state agencies for use in motor vehicles.  While diesel fuel
containing 5% biomass-based fuel is now common, higher-concentration blends are
becoming more common as well.  The content and quality of biodiesel
fuels varies considerably.  Diesel fuel that contains higher
concentrations of biomass-based fuels, and/or that contains lower-quality
ingredients, can have adverse effects on the durability and performance of
diesel engines and on the exhaust emissions from such engines.



European
Requirements.In general, the use of automotive fuel derived
from biomass is increasing in the EU, primarily driven by the desire to reduce
carbon emissions.  Fuel content requirements have been amended to
allow "B5" diesel (including up to 5% biomass-based fuel) and "E5" gasoline
(including up to 5% ethanol).  France is moving forward with the
introduction of "E10" gasoline (including up to 10% ethanol), and
considering "B8" diesel (including up to 8% biomass-based fuel).  In
parallel, a renewable energy directive sets out long-term (i.e., 2020) targets
for renewable energy.  Currently, the automotive industry and the oil
industry are engaged in establishing a set of potential fuel scenarios and
assessing most likely routes to success.  In many other countries,
fuel may contain biomass from locally-produced crops, with varying quality and
stability; high-quality fuels are essential to support clean vehicles throughout
their lifetime.



14ITEM
1. Business (continued)

Stationary
Source Emissions Control



U.S.
Requirements.The Clean Air Act requires the EPA to
periodically review and update its NAAQS, and to designate whether counties or
other local areas are in compliance with the new standards.  If an
area or county does not meet the new standards ("non-attainment areas"), the
state must revise its implementation plans to achieve attainment.  In
2006, the EPA issued a final rule increasing the stringency of the NAAQS
standard for fine particulate matter (particles 2.5 micrometers in diameter
or less), while maintaining the existing standard for coarse particulate matter
(particles between 2.5 and 10 micrometers in diameter).  The EPA
now is in the process of developing new NAAQS for fine particulate matter and
ozone.  The EPA estimates that the new standard will put approximately
124 counties into non-attainment status for fine particulate
matter.  Various parties have filed petitions for review of the final
particulate matter rules in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit, in most cases seeking more stringent standards for both fine
and coarse particulate matter.  In February 2009, the Court ordered
the EPA to reconsider the fine particulate standards.  The EPA plans
to issue a new proposed fine particulate NAAQS standard by July 2010, and a
final rule by April 2011.  We expect the revised standards to be more
stringent than the 2006 standard.



In March
2008, the EPA promulgated rules setting a new ozone NAAQS at a level more
stringent than the previous standard.  The EPA estimates that as a
result of the new standard, the number of counties out of attainment for the
ozone NAAQS could triple.  A number of states and environmental groups
filed suit seeking to compel the EPA to issue an even more stringent ozone
standard.  The EPA agreed to reconsider the rule and issued a new
proposed rule in January 2010.  In the new proposal, the EPA is
considering a primary NAAQS standard of 0.060 – 0.070 parts per million measured
over eight hours (by comparison, the 2008 rule was set at 0.075 parts per
million).  Depending upon the standard that is ultimately chosen,
approximately 76% to 96% of all areas would be in non-attainment.  A
final rule is expected later this year.



After
issuance of the final ozone and particulate matter NAAQS and designation of
non-attainment areas, areas that do not meet the standards will need to revise
their implementation plans to require additional emissions control equipment and
impose more stringent permit requirements on facilities in those
areas.  The existence of additional non-attainment areas can lead to
increased pressure for more stringent mobile source emissions standards as
well.  The cost of complying with the requirements necessary to help
bring non-attainment areas into compliance with the revised NAAQS could be
substantial.



The EPA
proposed a new hourly NAAQS for oxides of nitrogen (as measured by ambient
concentrations of nitrogen dioxide ("NO2")) in
2009, and adopted a final NAAQS in January 2010.  The new rule
will result in a substantial number of new non-attainment areas for oxides of
nitrogen.  The NAAQS also incorporated a plan for monitoring NO2concentrations using a newly-developed roadside monitoring
network.  The roadside monitoring plan may tend to impose additional
scrutiny on mobile sources of NO2relative
to other sources that contribute to overall ambient levels.  The
revised NAAQS for oxides of nitrogen may lead to additional NO2standards
for both stationary and mobile sources that could be costly and technologically
challenging.



The EPA
also issued a final rule on September 22, 2009 establishing a national
GHG reporting system.  Facilities with production processes that fall
into certain industrial source categories, or that contain boilers and process
heaters and emit 25,000 or more metric tons per year of GHGs, will be required
to submit annual GHG emission reports to the EPA.  Facilities subject
to the rule were required to begin collecting data as of
January 1, 2010, and submit an annual report for calendar year 2010 by
March 31, 2011.  Many of our facilities in the United States
will be required to submit reports.  Under the rule, we also will be
required to report emissions of certain GHGs from heavy-duty engines and
vehicles; these requirements phase in beginning with the 2011 model
year.



On
September 30, 2009, the EPA issued a proposed rule (the "PSD Tailoring Rule")
that would define the circumstances under which certain GHGs would be regulated
under the Clean Air Act's New Source Review - Prevention of Significant
Deterioration ("PSD") rules and Title V operating permits
program.  The proposed PSD Tailoring Rule was issued due to concerns
that, once the EPA begins regulating GHGs from motor vehicles, GHGs will become
regulated air pollutants under PSD and Title V, triggering permit requirements
for many small sources not currently regulated under those
programs.  The PSD Tailoring Rule proposes to address this by
setting a 25,000 ton per year GHG emission level as the threshold for inclusion
in the PSD and Title V permit programs.  The proposal does not specify
what the best-available control technology would be for controlling GHG
emissions, but indicates that the agency would evaluate this and other
applicability issues during the first five years after issuance of the final
rule.  After this five-year period, the EPA would consider lowering
the applicability threshold.



15ITEM
1. Business (continued)

Depending
upon the scope of the final PSD Tailoring Rule, a large percentage of our
facilities could be required to obtain PSD and Title V permits for GHG
emissions.  These requirements could lead to the installation of
additional pollution control equipment, potential delay in the issuance of
permits due to changes at a facility, and increased operating
costs.



European
Requirements.In Europe, environmental legislation is driven
by EU law, in most cases in the form of EU directives that must be converted
into national legislation.  All of our European plants are located in
the EU region, with the exception of one in St. Petersburg, Russia and Ford
Otomotiv Sanayi Anonim Sirketi ("Ford Otosan") in Turkey.  One of the
core EU directives is the Directive on Integrated Pollution Prevention Control
("IPPC").  The IPPC regulates the permit process for facilities, and
thus the allowed emissions from these facilities.  As in the United
States, engine testing, surface coating, casting operations, and boiler houses
all fall under this regime.  The Solvent Emission Directive which came
into effect in October 2007 primarily affects vehicle manufacturing plants,
which must upgrade their paint shops to meet the new
requirements.  The cost of complying with these requirements could be
substantial.



The
European Emission Trading Scheme requires large emitters of carbon dioxide
within the EU to monitor and annually report CO2emissions,
and each is obliged every year to return an amount of emission allowances to the
government that is equivalent to its CO2emissions
in that year.  The impact of this regulation on Ford Europe primarily
involves our on-site combustion plants, and we expect that compliance with this
regulation may be costly as the system foresees stringent CO2emission
reductions in progressive stages.  Periodic emission reporting also is
required of EU Member States, in most cases defined in the permits of the
facility.  The Release and Transfer Register requires more reporting
regarding emissions into air, water and soil than its precursor.  The
information required by these reporting systems is publicly available on the
Internet.



Motor
Vehicle Safety



U.S.
Requirements.The National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1966 (the "Safety Act") regulates motor vehicles and motor vehicle
equipment in the United States in two primary ways.  First, the Safety
Act prohibits the sale in the United States of any new vehicle or equipment that
does not conform to applicable motor vehicle safety standards established by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration ("NHTSA").  Meeting or
exceeding many safety standards is costly, in part because the standards tend to
conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and
fuel economy standards.  Second, the Safety Act requires that defects
related to motor vehicle safety be remedied through safety recall
campaigns.  A manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it
determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety
standard.  Should we or NHTSA determine that either a safety defect or
a noncompliance exists with respect to any of our vehicles, the cost of such
recall campaigns could be substantial.  As of
February 12, 2010, there were pending before NHTSA six investigations
relating to alleged safety defects or potential compliance issues in our
vehicles.



The Safe,
Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for
Users was signed into law in 2005; the Cameron Gulbransen Kids Transportation
Safety Act of 2007 mandates that NHTSA enact regulations related to rearward
visibility and brake-to-shift interlock, and mandates that NHTSA consider
regulations related to automatic reversal functions on power
windows.  Both Acts establish substantive, safety-related rulemaking
mandates for NHTSA that already have resulted in or will result in new
regulations and product content requirements.  In 2009, NHTSA
published a final rule related to roof strength that increased the load
requirements, added new performance requirements, and extended the rule's
application to a wider range of vehicles.  Also in 2009, NHTSA issued
Notices of Proposed Rulemaking concerning ejection mitigation, automatic
reversal function on power windows, and rear visibility (advance notice
provided, with the final notice expected in the spring of 2010).  In
addition, the Department of Transportation has identified driver distraction as
its top priority in 2010, and new regulatory activity in this area is
anticipated.  Each of these regulatory actions may add substantial
cost to the design and development of new products, depending on the final rules
adopted.



Foreign
Requirements.



16ITEM
1. Business (continued)

Global
Technical Regulations ("GTRs") developed under the auspices of the United
Nations ("UN") continue to have increasing impact on automotive safety
activities.  The most recently adopted GTRs on Electronic Stability
Control, Head Restraints, and Pedestrian Protection by the UN "World Forum for
the Harmonisation of Vehicle Regulations" are now in different stages of
national implementation.  While global harmonization is fundamentally
supported by the auto industry in order to reduce complexity, national
implementation yet may introduce subtle differences into the
system.



In the
Asia Pacific Africa region, China is expected to focus on parts-marking and
anti-theft requirements.  Countries within this region continue to
adopt European requirements, with possible local modifications.  Among
other measures, Japanese regulators are pursuing accident avoidance measures for
vulnerable road users.



South
American countries are implementing requirements for features such as airbags,
safety belts, and anti-lock braking systems ("ABS") consistent with U.S. and
European requirements.  Examples of more stringent safety requirements
in South America include the approval in Brazil of more severe impact
requirements, the mandatory use of front airbags and ABS, and the introduction
of mandatory vehicle tracking and blocking systems.  In Argentina,
regulations will address mandatory front airbags and ABS.



Canadian
safety legislation and regulations are similar to those in the United States,
and the differences that do exist generally have not prevented the production of
common product for both markets.  Recent amendments to Canadian
standards have incorporated UN-ECE standards as a compliance option, where
equivalency exists.



For each
of these markets, the possibility of more stringent or different requirements
exists, and the cost to comply with new standards may be
substantial.



Motor
Vehicle Fuel Economy



There are
ever-increasing demands from regulators, public interest groups, and consumers
for improvements in motor vehicle fuel economy, for a variety of
reasons.  These include concerns over U.S. energy security, concerns
over GHG emissions, and consumer preferences for more fuel-efficient
vehicles.  In recent years, we have made significant changes to our
product cycle plan to improve the overall fuel economy of vehicles we produce in
upcoming model years.  These cycle plan changes involve both the
deployment of various fuel-saving technologies, some of which have been
announced publicly, and changes to the overall fleet mix of vehicles we offer,
in response to a recent increase in demand for smaller
vehicles.  There are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy
improvements over a given time frame, however, primarily related to the cost and
effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies
and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional
costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain
technologies for use in particular vehicles, and the human, engineering and
financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of
products and powertrains in a short time.





17ITEM
1. Business (continued)

U.S. Requirements – Federal
Standards.Federal law requires that light-duty vehicles meet
minimum corporate average fuel economy standards set by NHTSA.  A
manufacturer is subject to potentially substantial civil penalties if it fails
to meet the CAFE standard in any model year, after taking into account all
available credits for the preceding three model years and expected credits for
the three succeeding model years.



Federal
law established a passenger car CAFE standard of 27.5 miles per gallon for 1985
and later model years; light truck standards are set by NHTSA under a rulemaking
process.  In 2006, NHTSA issued a final rule changing the structure of
the light-truck fuel economy standards for model year 2008 and
beyond.  The final rule employs a new "reformed" approach to fuel
economy standards in which each manufacturer's CAFE obligation is based on the
specific mix of vehicles it sells.  A manufacturer's light truck CAFE
is now calculated on a basis that relates fuel economy targets to vehicle
size.  These fuel economy targets become increasingly stringent with
each new model year.  Through 2010, manufacturers have the option of
complying with the "reformed" program or an alternative set of "unreformed"
standards promulgated by NHTSA.  Beginning with the 2011 model year,
all manufacturers must comply under the reformed program.  Also in
model year 2011 and beyond, the truck CAFE standards will apply for the first
time to certain classes of heavier passenger vehicles (SUVs and passenger vans
with a gross vehicle weight between 8,500 and 10,000 pounds, or with a gross
vehicle weight below 8,500 pounds and a curb weight above 6,000
pounds).



In
December 2007, Congress enacted new energy legislation restructuring the CAFE
program and requiring NHTSA to set new CAFE standards beginning with the 2011
model year.  The key features of the bill are as
follows:  1) it maintains the current distinction between cars and
trucks; 2) it requires NHTSA to set "reformed" CAFE standards for cars along the
lines of the reformed truck standards described above; 3) it calls for NHTSA to
set car and truck standards such that the combined fleet of cars and trucks in
the United States achieves a 35 mile per gallon industry average by model year
2020; 4) it allows manufacturers to trade credits among their CAFE fleets;
and 5) it retains CAFE credits for the manufacture of flexible-fuel vehicles,
but phases them out by model year 2020.  Domestic passenger cars also
are subject to a minimum fleet average of the greater of 27.5 miles per gallon
or 92% of NHTSA's projected fleet average fuel economy for domestic and imported
passenger cars for that model year.  In 2008, NHTSA issued a Notice of
Proposed Rulemaking to establish CAFE standards for the 2011-2015 model years,
but the Bush Administration decided not to promulgate a final rule, and it was
left to the incoming Obama Administration to establish CAFE standards for these
model years.  In March 2009, NHTSA published a final rule setting CAFE
standards for the 2011 model year, and indicated that it would address 2012-2016
model year CAFE standards in a separate rulemaking.



Pressure
to increase CAFE standards stems in part from concerns about the impact of
carbon dioxide and other GHG emissions on the global climate.  In
1999, a petition was filed with the EPA requesting that it regulate carbon
dioxide emissions from motor vehicles under the Clean Air Act.  This
is functionally equivalent to imposing fuel economy standards, because the
amount of carbon dioxide emitted by a vehicle is directly proportional to the
amount of fuel consumed.  The EPA denied the petition on the grounds
that the Clean Air Act does not authorize the EPA to regulate GHG emissions
because they did not constitute "air pollutants," and only NHTSA is authorized
to regulate fuel economy under the CAFE law.  A number of states,
cities, and environmental groups filed for review of the EPA's
decision.



The
matter was eventually brought before the U.S. Supreme Court, which ruled that
GHGs did constitute "air pollutants" subject to regulation by the EPA pursuant
to the Clean Air Act.  Upon taking office, the Obama Administration
indicated its intention to promulgate rules to control mobile source GHG
emissions.  Under the Clean Air Act, EPA must issue a determination
that GHGs endanger the public health and welfare in order for EPA to finalize
GHG regulations for both mobile and stationary sources.  In December
2009, EPA issued its endangerment finding for GHGs.  In early 2010,
several industry groups filed a petition for review of the endangerment finding;
nevertheless, EPA is proceeding with rulemaking activity to regulate
GHGs.



As
described more fully below, the Obama Administration has brokered an agreement
in principle for a national program of mobile source CAFE and GHG regulation for
light-duty vehicles for the 2012-2016 model years.  Before describing
this program, it is necessary to discuss the GHG standards for light-duty
vehicles promulgated by California and other states.



To date,
fuel economy regulations have applied primarily to light-duty
vehicles.  Energy legislation enacted in 2007 directed the National
Academy of Sciences ("NAS") to undertake a study of the fuel efficiency of
heavy-duty vehicles (vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating over 8,500
pounds).  Once the NAS study is completed, the law directs NHTSA to
develop fuel efficiency regulations for these vehicles.  Such
regulations are unlikely to take effect before the 2016 model
year.  Separately, the EPA has begun work on the development of GHG
standards for heavy-duty vehicles.  The EPA has indicated that it will
release a set of proposed rules in 2010, and the GHG standards for heavy-duty
vehicles may take effect as early as the 2014 model year.



18ITEM
1. Business (continued)

U.S. Requirements – California and
Other State Standards.In July 2002, California enacted
Assembly Bill 1493 ("AB 1493"), a law mandating that CARB promulgate GHG
standards for light-duty vehicles beginning with model year 2009.  In
September 2004, CARB adopted California GHG emissions regulations applicable to
2009-2016 model-year cars and trucks, effectively imposing more stringent fuel
economy standards than those set by NHTSA.  These regulations imposed
standards equivalent to a CAFE standard of more than 43 miles per gallon for
passenger cars and small trucks, and approximately 27 miles per gallon for
large light trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles by model year
2016.



Whenever
California adopts new or modified vehicle emissions standards, the state must
apply to the EPA for a waiver of preemption of the new or modified standards
under Section 209 of the Clean Air Act.  After California's request
for a waiver of its AB 1493 standards was initially denied in 2008, the
Obama Administration granted the waiver in 2009.  The grant of the
waiver is being challenged in federal court by the National Automobile Dealers
Association and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Under the Clean Air Act, other
states may adopt and enforce emissions regulations for which California receives
a waiver. The following states have adopted CARB's GHG standards:  New
York, Massachusetts, Maine, Vermont, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Oregon, Washington, Maryland, New Mexico, and
Arizona.  Several other states are known to be considering the
adoption of such rules.



The
prospect of state-by-state regulation of motor vehicle GHG emissions and fuel
economy is very troubling to the automobile industry, which has significant
concerns about an unwieldy patchwork of regulations and the likely need to
implement product restrictions in some states in order to
comply.  Concerns about product restrictions were driven in part by
the fact that the AB 1493 standards became increasingly more stringent as time
passed, with especially steep increases in some model years.  In 2004,
the Alliance and other plaintiffs filed suit in federal district court in
California, seeking to overturn the AB 1493 standards on the grounds that they
are preempted by the federal CAFE law.  Similar suits were filed in
Vermont and Rhode Island challenging those states' adoption of California's AB
1493 rules.  District Courts in California and Vermont ruled that the
state GHG rules were not preempted; those decisions were appealed by the auto
industry.  The District Court in Rhode Island has not yet issued a
ruling.



U.S. Requirements – "One National
Standard" for Model Years 2012-2016.



Since the
May 2009 announcement, various steps have been taken to implement the agreement
in principle.  The automobile industry sought and obtained a stay of
the federal court litigation in California, Vermont, and Rhode Island, pending
the issuance of final rules consistent with the agreement in
principle.  The EPA has issued a revised decision granting a Clean Air
Act waiver for California's GHG regulations.  The automotive industry
has refrained from challenging that decision, although the waiver decision has
been challenged by the National Automobile Dealers Association and the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce.  CARB has adopted some of the modifications to
its regulations that will be required to implement the agreement in principle,
with additional modifications expected in 2010.  The EPA and NHTSA
have promulgated a joint Notice of Proposed Rulemaking setting forth their
proposal for harmonizing GHG and fuel economy standards for the 2012-2016 model
years, and interested members of the public, including Ford and the Alliance,
have filed comments on the proposed rules.  The rules are expected to
be finalized on or before April 1, 2010.



19ITEM
1. Business (continued)

The
agreement in principle would result in federal GHG and fuel economy standards
that are very challenging.  The proposed rules would require new
light-duty vehicles to achieve an industry average fuel economy of approximately
35.5 miles per gallon by the 2016 model year.  Assuming the agreement
in principle is implemented as envisioned, we believe that we will be able to
comply with the California GHG standards for the 2009-2011 period, and the
harmonized federal CAFE/GHG standards for the 2012-2016 period, as a result of
aggressive actions to improve fuel economy built into our cycle
plan.  In contrast, we were projecting that we would be unable to
comply with the state GHG standards throughout the 2012-2016 period without
undertaking costly product restrictions in some states.  Key
differences that enable us to project compliance with the national program
include:  1) the national program standards, although very stringent,
do not increase as steeply as the state standards they are replacing; and
2) the national program allows us to determine compliance based on
nationwide sales rather than state-by-state sales.  The ability to
average across the nation eliminates state-to-state sales variability and is a
critical element for Ford and the auto industry.





In
September 2006, California also enacted the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006
(also known as Assembly Bill 32 ("AB 32")).  This law mandates that
statewide GHG emissions be capped at 1990 levels by the year 2020, which would
represent a significant reduction from current levels.  It also
requires the monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions by all
"significant" sources, and delegates authority to CARB to develop and implement
GHG emissions reduction measures.  AB 32 also provides that, if the AB
1493 standards do not take effect, CARB must implement alternative regulations
to control mobile sources of GHG emissions to achieve equivalent or greater
reductions than mandated by AB 1493.  Although the full ramifications
of AB 32 are not known, CARB has issued proposed rules under AB 32 that would
require so-called "cool glazing" for automotive glass.  The glazing
requirements are intended to promote lower interior temperatures in vehicles,
thereby reducing the air conditioning load and leading to fewer GHG
emissions.  The current proposal would require significant
expenditures of resources to meet standards that would take effect beginning in
the 2012 model year, and increase in stringency for the 2016 model
year.  We are evaluating our ability to comply with the proposed
standards, and will comment on the proposal along with the rest of the
automobile industry.  CARB is expected to finalize its regulations in
2010.



European
Requirements.In December 2008, the EU approved a regulation
of passenger car carbon dioxide beginning in 2012 which limits the industry
fleet average to a maximum of 130 g/km, using a sliding scale based on vehicle
weight.  This regulation provides different targets for each
manufacturer based on its respective fleet of vehicles according to vehicle
weight and carbon dioxide output.  Limited credits are available for
CO2off-cycle actions ("eco-innovations"), certain alternative fuels, and vehicles
with CO2emissions
below 50 g/km.  For manufacturers failing to meet targets, a penalty
system will apply with fees ranging from €3 to €95 per each g/km shortfall in
the years 2012-18, and €95 for each g/km shortfall for
2019.  Manufacturers would be permitted to use a pooling agreement
between wholly-owned brands to share the burden.  Further pooling
agreements between different manufacturers are also possible, although it is not
clear that they will be of much practical benefit under the
regulations.  For 2020, an industry target of 95 g/km has been
set.  This target will be further detailed in a review in
2013.



20ITEM
1. Business (continued)

In
separate legislation, so-called "complementary measures" are
expected.  These may include, for example, tire-related requirements
and requirements related to gearshift indicators, fuel economy indicators, and
more-efficient low-CO2mobile air
conditioning systems.  These proposals are likely to be finalized in
2010.  The Commission has proposed a target for commercial light duty
vehicles to be at an industry average of 175 g/km (with phase-in 2014 – 2016),
and potentially more stringent long-term targets (proposed to be at 135 g/km in
2020); several EU Members have raised concerns about these
targets.  The EU proposal also includes a penalty system,
"super-credits" for vehicles below 50 g/km, and limited credits for CO2off-cycle
actions (“eco-innovations”).



Some
European countries have implemented or are still considering other initiatives
for reducing carbon dioxide emissions from motor vehicles, including fiscal
measures.  For example, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Spain,
Portugal, and the Netherlands among others have introduced taxation based on
carbon dioxide emissions.  The EU CO2requirements are likely to trigger further measures.



Other National
Requirements.Some Asian countries (such as China, Japan,
India, South Korea, and Taiwan) also have adopted fuel efficiency or labeling
targets.  For example, Japan has fuel efficiency targets for 2015
which are even more stringent than the 2010 targets, with incentives for early
adoption.  China implemented second-stage fuel economy targets from
2008, and is working on the third stage for 2012 phase-in.  All of
these fuel efficiency targets will impact the cost of technology of our models
in the future.





Chemical
Regulation and Substance Restrictions



U.S.
Requirements.Several states are considering moving beyond a
substance-by-substance approach to managing substances of concern, and are
moving towards adopting green chemistry legislation that give state governments
broad regulatory authority to determine, prioritize, and manage toxic
substances.  In 2008, California became the first state to enact a
broad Green Chemistry Program, which will commence regulations in
2011.  This new law may impose new vehicle end-of-life
responsibilities on vehicle manufacturers, and restrict, ban, or require
labeling of certain substances.  This broad authority to regulate
substances could require changes in product chemistry, and greater complication
of fleet mix.  Other states, such as Maine, are considering so-called
"product stewardship" bills that would require sellers of products to establish
elaborate plans, approved by the state agency, to address life-cycle impacts of
each product.  These programs would impose extensive reporting and
auditing requirements, along with penalties for non-compliance.  If
enacted, compliance with such legislation would be costly and
resource-intensive.



21ITEM
1. Business (continued)

European
Requirements.The Commission has implemented its regulatory
framework for a single system to register, evaluate, and authorize the use of
chemicals with a production volume above one ton per year
("REACH").  The rules took effect on June 1, 2007, with a
preparatory period through June 1, 2008 followed by a six-month
registration phase.  Compliance with the legislation is likely to be
administratively burdensome for all entities in the supply chain, and research
and development resources may be redirected from "market-driven" to
"REACH-driven" activities.  We and our suppliers have registered those
chemicals that were identified to fall within this requirement.  The
regulation also will accelerate restriction or banning of certain chemicals and
materials, which could increase the costs of certain products and processes used
to manufacture vehicles and parts.  We are implementing and ensuring
compliance within Ford and our suppliers through a common strategy together with
the global automotive industry.



The
European End-of-Life Vehicle directive and EU Battery directive prohibit the use
of the heavy metals lead, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and mercury with limited
exceptions that are regularly scrutinized.  These regulations also
include broad manufacturer responsibility for disposing of vehicle parts and
substances, including taking vehicles back without charge for disposal and
recycling requirements.  This legislation has triggered similar
regulatory actions around the globe, including, for example, in China, Korea,
and possibly India in the near future.  Other European regulatory
developments will ban the use of refrigerants with a "global warming potential"
higher than 150 on the European scale (which would include the refrigerant
commonly in use) beginning in 2011 in new vehicle models and in 2017 for all new
vehicles, which some other governments, such as Japan, have been closely
monitoring and are likely to adopt in some form.  This European
restriction is expected to lead to a general change in refrigerants for future
vehicles worldwide.



Regulations
requiring a globally-harmonized system of classification and labeling of
chemicals also took effect in January 2009.  This regulation is
the implementation of the UN regulation UN-GHS, and should harmonize the
classification and labeling of chemicals worldwide with impact of existing
storage facilities and labeling.



Pollution
Control Costs



During
the period 2010 through 2014, we expect to spend approximately $170 million
on our North American and European facilities to comply with stationary source
air and water pollution and hazardous waste control standards that are now in
effect or are scheduled to come into effect during this period.  Of
this total, we currently estimate spending approximately $29 million in
2010 and $35 million in 2011.  These amounts exclude projections
for Volvo, which is held for sale.  Specific environmental expenses
are difficult to isolate because expenditures may be made for more than one
purpose, making precise classification difficult.



EMPLOYMENT
DATA



The
approximate number of individuals employed by us and entities that we
consolidated (including entities that we did not control) as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008 was as follows (in thousands):



20092008AutomotiveFord
      North America7479Ford
      South America1415Ford
      Europe6670Ford
      Asia Pacific Africa1515Volvo2124Financial
      ServicesFord
      Credit810Total198213



The
year-over-year decrease in employment levels primarily reflects our
implementation of global personnel-reduction programs.



Substantially
all of the hourly employees in our Automotive operations are represented by
unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements.  In the United
States, approximately 99% of these unionized hourly employees in our Automotive
sector are represented by the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace
and Agricultural Implement Workers of America ("UAW" or "United Auto
Workers").  Approximately two percent of our U.S. salaried employees
are represented by unions.  Most hourly employees and many
non-management salaried employees of our subsidiaries outside of the United
States also are represented by unions.



22ITEM
1. Business (continued)

We have
entered into collective bargaining agreements with the UAW, and the National
Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada
("CAW").  In 2007, we negotiated with the UAW a transformational
agreement, enabling us to improve our competitiveness and establishing a
Voluntary Employee Benefit Association ("VEBA") trust ("UAW VEBA Trust") to fund
our retiree health care obligations.



In March
2009, Ford-UAW membership ratified modifications to the existing collective
bargaining agreement that significantly improved our competitiveness, saving us
up to $500 million annually and bringing us near to competitive parity with the
U.S. operations of foreign-owned automakers.  The operational
changes affected wage and benefit provisions, productivity, job security
programs, and capacity actions, allowing us to increase manufacturing efficiency
and flexibility.  In addition, modifications to the UAW VEBA Trust
allowed for smoothing of payment obligations and provided us the option to
satisfy up to approximately 50% of our future payment obligations to the UAW
VEBA Trust in Ford Common Stock; see "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in
Item 7 and Note 18 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional
discussion of the UAW VEBA Trust.



On November 1, 2009, the CAW announced
that a majority of its members employed by Ford Canada had voted to ratify
modifications to the terms of the existing collective bargaining agreement
between Ford Canada and the CAW.  The modifications are patterned off
of the modifications agreed to by the CAW for its agreements with the Canadian
operations of General Motors Company and Chrysler LLC and are expected to result
in annual cost savings.  The agreement also confirms the end of
production at the St. Thomas Assembly Plant in 2011.



On November 2, 2009, the UAW announced
that a majority of its members employed by Ford had voted against ratification
of a tentative agreement that would have further modified the terms of the
existing collective bargaining agreement between Ford and the
UAW.  These latest modifications were designed to closely match the
modified collective bargaining agreements between the UAW and our domestic
competitors, General Motors and Chrysler.  Among the proposed
modifications was a provision that would have precluded any strike action
relating to improvements in wages and benefits during the negotiation of a new
collective bargaining agreement upon expiration of the current agreement, and
would have subjected disputes regarding improvements in wages and benefits to
binding arbitration, to determine competitiveness based on wages and benefits
paid by other automotive manufacturers operating in the United
States.



Even with
recent modifications, our agreements with the UAW and CAW provide for guaranteed
wage and benefit levels for the term of the respective agreements, and a degree
of employment security, subject to certain conditions.  As a practical
matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest
businesses during the terms of the agreements.  Our collective
bargaining agreement with the UAW expires on September 14, 2011; our
collective bargaining agreement with the CAW expires on
September 14, 2012.



In 2009,
we negotiated new collective bargaining agreements with labor unions in
Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Britain, France, Germany, Mexico, New
Zealand, Russia, Spain and Taiwan.  We began negotiations in Thailand
in the fourth quarter of 2009 and expect to complete the negotiations in
2010.



Additionally,
in 2010 we are or will be negotiating new collective bargaining agreements with
labor unions in Australia, Brazil, France, Germany, Mexico, New Zealand, Russia,
South Africa, Spain, Taiwan, Thailand and Venezuela.



ENGINEERING,
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT



We engage
in engineering, research and development primarily to improve the performance
(including fuel efficiency), safety, and customer satisfaction of our products,
and to develop new products.  We also have staffs of scientists who
engage in basic research.  We maintain extensive engineering, research
and design centers for these purposes, including large centers in Dearborn,
Michigan; Dunton, England; Gothenburg, Sweden (part of our held-for-sale Volvo
operations); and Aachen and Merkenich, Germany.  Most of our
engineering, research and development relates to our Automotive
sector.  In general, our engineering activities that do not involve
basic research or product development, such as manufacturing engineering, are
excluded from our engineering, research and development charges discussed
below.



We
recorded $4.9 billion, $7.3 billion, and $7.5 billion of engineering, research,
and development costs that we sponsored during 2009, 2008, and 2007
respectively.  The decreased costs in 2009 compared with 2008
primarily reflect efficiencies in our global product development, manufacturing,
and related processes, favorable currency exchange, and the non-recurrence of
costs related to our former Jaguar Land Rover operations.  Research
and development costs sponsored by third parties during 2009 were not
material.



23ITEM
1A.Risk
Factors



We have
listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of
occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us:



Further declines
in industry sales volume, particularly in the United States or Europe, due to
financial crisis, deepening recession, geo-political events, or other
factors.

Beginning in the
fall of 2008, the global economy entered a

and severe recession, putting significant pressure on
Ford and the automotive industry generally

.

These economic conditions dramatically
reduced industry sales volume in the United States and Europe, in particular,
and began to slow growth in other markets around the world.  In the
United States, industry sales volume declined from 16.5 million units in 2007,
to 13.5 million units in 2008, to 10.6 million units in 2009.  For the
19 markets we track in Europe, industry sales volume declined from
18 million units in 2007, to 16.6 million units in 2008, to
15.8 million units in 2009.  In the United States and especially
in Europe, 2009 industry sales volume benefited from government incentive
programs that have expired or are expiring, and could lower demand
temporarily.  Our current planning assumptions for 2010 industry sales
volume in the United States and for the 19 markets we track in Europe (which
take into account our estimate of the impact of the 2009 government incentive
programs) are a range of 11.5 million units to 12.5 million units in
the United States and 13.5 million units to 14.5 million units in
Europe.



Because we, like other manufacturers,
have a high proportion of fixed costs, relatively small changes in industry
sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and
profitability.  If industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels
significantly below our planning assumptions, particularly in the United States
or Europe, due to financial crisis, deepening recession, geo-political events,
or other factors, our financial condition and results of operations would be
substantially adversely affected.  For discussion of economic trends,
see the "Overview" section of Item 7.



Decline in market
share.Between 1995 and 2008, our full-year U.S. market share
declined each year.  Recently, our full-year U.S. market share
declined from 18% in 2004 to 14.2% in 2008.  Market share declines and
resulting volume reductions in any of our major markets would have an adverse
impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  We are
working through our One Ford plan to stabilize market share and reduce capacity
over time, and increased full-year U.S. market share during 2009 to 15.3%, but
we cannot guarantee that our efforts will be successful in the long
term.  Decline in our market share could have a substantial adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations.



Lower-than-anticipated
market acceptance of new or existing products.Although we
conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles,
many factors both within and outside of our control affect the success of new or
existing products in the marketplace.  Offering highly desirable
vehicles that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing
price competition and declining demand, but vehicles that are perceived to be
less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall
value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these
risks.  For example, if a new model were to experience quality issues
at the time of launch, the vehicle's perceived quality could be affected even
after the issues had been corrected, resulting in lower sales volumes, market
share, and profitability.



An increase in or
acceleration of market shift beyond our current planning assumptions from sales
of trucks, medium- and large-sized utilities, or other more profitable vehicles,
particularly in the United States.Trucks and medium- and
large-sized utilities historically have represented some of our most profitable
vehicle segments, and the segments in which we have had our highest market
share.  In recent years, the general shift in consumer preferences
away from medium- and large-sized utilities and trucks adversely affected our
overall market share and profitability.  A continuation or
acceleration of this general shift in consumer preferences – or a similar shift
in consumer preferences away from other more profitable vehicle sales – that is
greater than our current planning assumption, whether because of fuel prices,
declines in the construction industry,governmental actions or incentives,or other
reasons, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and
results of operations.




ITEM
1A. Risk Factors (continued)





A return to
elevated gasoline prices, as well as the potential for volatile prices or
reduced availability.  A return to elevated gas prices, as well
as the potential for volatility in gas prices or reduced availability of fuel,
particularly in the United States, could result in further weakening of demand
for relatively more profitable large and luxury car and truck models, and could
increase demand for relatively less profitable small cars and
trucks.  Continuation or acceleration of such a trend, as well as
volatility in demand for these segments, could have a substantial adverse effect
on our financial condition and results of operations.



Continued or
increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency
fluctuations, or other factors.The global automotive industry
is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current
demand.  According to CSM Worldwide's January 2010 report, the global
automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of 29 million
units in 2009.  Industry overcapacity has resulted in many
manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to
maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a
combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and
other incentives.  As a result, we are not necessarily able to set our
prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives or other cost increases,
or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations in either the U.S. or European
markets.  While we and our domestic competitors have initiated plans
to reduce capacity significantly, successful reductions may require further
cooperation of organized labor, take several years to complete, or only
partially address the industry's overcapacity problems, particularly in light of
recent, dramatic decreases in industry sales volume.  A continuation
or increase in excess capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.



Adverse effects
from the bankruptcy, insolvency, or government-funded restructuring of, change
in ownership or control of, or alliances entered into by a major
competitor.Prior to the government-funded bankruptcy of our
domestic competitors General Motors and Chrysler, each of the domestic
automakers had substantial "legacy" costs (principally related to employee
benefits), as well as a substantial amount of debt.  These conditions
historically had put each of us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign
competitors who began manufacturing in the United States more
recently.  The government-funded bankruptcy of our domestic
competitors has allowed them to eliminate or substantially reduce contractual
obligations, including significant amounts of debt, and avoid
liabilities.  The elimination or reduction of these obligations
(including restructuring brands and dealer networks), combined with access to
low-cost government funding, could have an adverse effect on our competitive
position and results of operations.



A prolonged
disruption of the debt and securitization markets.Government-sponsored
securitization funding programs (e.g., the U.S. Federal Reserve's Commercial
Paper Funding Facility and Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility) intended
to improve conditions in the credit markets are scheduled to expire in
2010.  If, due to the expiration of such programs or otherwise, there
is a prolonged disruption of the debt and securitization markets, Ford Credit
would consider further reducing the amount of receivables it purchases or
originates.  A significant reduction in the amount of receivables Ford
Credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits,
and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of Ford
vehicles.  To the extent Ford Credit's ability to provide wholesale
financing to our dealers or retail financing to those dealers' customers is
limited, Ford's ability to sell vehicles would be adversely
affected.



Fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest
rates.As a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are
exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes
in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest
rates.  These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services
sectors.  We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of
our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of
markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects on our
business.  Nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity
prices, and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged.  In
addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed
costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if they are
foreseeable.  Further, our ability to obtain derivatives to manage
financial market risk continues to be constrained.  As a result,
substantial unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity
prices or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.  See Item 7A for
additional discussion of currency, commodity price and interest rate
risks.



Economic distress
of suppliersthatmayrequire us to
provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies
of components or materialsand could
increase our costs, affect our liquidity, or cause production
disruptions.Our
industry is highly interdependent, with broad overlap of supplier and dealer
networks among manufacturers, such that the uncontrolled bankruptcy or
insolvency of a major competitor or major suppliers could threaten our supplier
or dealer network and thus pose a threat to us as well.  Even in the
absence of such an event, our supply base has experienced increased economic
distress due to the sudden and substantial drop in industry sales volumes that
has affected all manufacturers.  Dramatically lower industry sales
volume made existing debt obligations and fixed cost levels difficult for many
suppliers to manage.



25ITEM
1A. Risk Factors (continued)

These
factors have increased pressure on the supply base, and, as a result, suppliers
not only have been less willing to reduce prices, but some have requested direct
or indirect price increases, as well as new and shorter payment
terms.  Suppliers also are exiting certain lines of business or
closing facilities, which results in additional costs associated with
transitioning to new suppliers and which may causesupply disruptions that could interfere with our
production during any such transitional period.  In
addition,in the past we have taken
and may continue to take actions to provide financial assistance to certain
suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials and
components.



Single-source
supply of components or materials.Many components used in our
vehicles are available only from a single supplier and cannot be quickly or
inexpensively re-sourced to another supplier due to long lead times and new
contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier in order to
provide the components or materials.  In addition to the risks
described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the
case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component
potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality,
warranty claims, or other terms relating to a component.



Labor or other
constraints on our ability to restructure our
business.Substantially all of the hourly employees in our
Automotive operations in the United States and Canada are represented by unions
and covered by collective bargaining agreements.  We negotiated a new
agreement with the UAW in 2007 and with the CAW in 2008, which expire in
September 2011 and September 2012, respectively.  Although
these transformational agreements were amended during 2009 to bring us much of
the way to parity with our competitors, the agreements still provide for
guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout their terms and a degree of
employment security, subject to certain conditions.  As a practical
matter, these agreements restrict our ability to close plants and divest
businesses during the terms of the agreements.  These and other
provisions within the UAW and CAW agreements may impede our ability to
restructure our business successfully to compete more effectively in today's
global marketplace.  Additionally, the rejection by Ford-UAW
membership of further modifications to the agreement in late 2009 may put us at
a disadvantage to our domestic competitors during the next round of labor
negotiations; see "Employment Data" in "Item 1. Business"
("Item 1") for additional discussion.



Work stoppages at
Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of
production.A work stoppage or other interruption of
production could occur at Ford or supplier facilities as a result of disputes
under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in
connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements, as a
result of supplier financial distress, or for other reasons.  For
example, many suppliers are experiencing financial distress due to decreasing
production volume and increasing prices for raw materials, jeopardizing their
ability to produce parts for us.  A work stoppage or interruption of
production at Ford or supplier facilities due to labor disputes, shortages of
supplies, or any other reason (including but not limited to tight credit markets
or other financial distress, natural or man-made disasters, or production
difficulties) could substantially adversely affect our financial condition and
results of operations.



Substantial
pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing
our liquidity or financial condition.We have two principal
qualified defined benefit retirement plans in the United States.  The
Ford-UAW Retirement Plan covers hourly employees represented by the UAW, and the
General Retirement Plan covers substantially all other Ford employees in the
United States hired on or before December 31, 2003.  The
hourly plan provides noncontributory benefits related to employee
service.  The salaried plan provides similar noncontributory benefits
and contributory benefits related to pay and service.  In addition, we
and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement
benefits for retired employees, primarily health care and life insurance
benefits.  See Note 18 of the Notes to the Financial Statements
for more information about these plans, including funded
status.These benefit plans impose
significant liabilities on us which are not fully funded and will require
additional cash contributions by us, which could impair our
liquidity.



26ITEM
1A. Risk Factors (continued)

Our U.S.
defined benefit pension plans are subject to Title IV of the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA").  Under Title IV of ERISA, the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") has the authority under certain
circumstances or upon the occurrence of certain events to terminate an
underfunded pension plan.  One such circumstance is the occurrence of
an event that unreasonably increases the risk of unreasonably large losses to
the PBGC.  Although we believe that it is not likely that the PBGC
would terminate any of our plans, in the event that our U.S. pension plans were
terminated at a time when the liabilities of the plans exceeded the assets of
the plans, we would incur a liability to the PBGC that could be equal to the
entire amount of the underfunding.



If our
cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to fund our pension or
postretirement health care and life insurance obligations, we could be forced to
reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, seek additional capital,
or restructure or refinance our indebtedness.  In addition, if our
operating results and available cash were insufficient to meet our pension or
postretirement health care and life insurance obligations, we could face
substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material
assets or operations to meet our pension or postretirement health care and life
insurance obligations.  We might not be able to consummate those
dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and
these proceeds might not be adequate to meet any pension and postretirement
health care or life insurance obligations then due.



Worse-than-assumed
economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans
(e.g., discount rates or investment returns).The
measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits
pursuant to our postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the
present values of projected future payments to all participants.  We
use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions
related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and
demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates).  To the
extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, there could be a
substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of
operations.  For additional discussion of our assumptions, see the
"Critical Accounting Estimates" discussion in Item 7, and Note 18 of
the Notes to Financial Statements.



Restriction on
use of tax attributes from tax law "ownership change."Section
382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code restricts the ability of a corporation
that undergoes an ownership change to use its tax attributes, including net
operating losses and tax credits ("Tax Attributes").  At
December 31, 2009, we had Tax Attributes that would offset
$17 billion of taxable income (representing about $6 billion of our
$17.5 billion in deferred tax assets subject to valuation
allowance).  An ownership change occurs if 5 percent shareholders of
an issuer's outstanding common stock, collectively, increase their ownership
percentage by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year
period.  Restructuring actions we took in 2009, including our exchange
of Ford stock for convertible debt and our public issuance of additional Ford
stock, contributed significantly to the collective increase in ownership by
5 percent shareholders.  At present, 5 percent shareholders may
have collectively increased their ownership in Ford by more than 30 percentage
points.  In September 2009, we implemented a tax benefit preservation
plan (the "Plan") to reduce the risk of an ownership change under Section
382.  Under the Plan, shares held by any person who acquires, without
the approval of our Board of Directors, beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of
Ford's outstanding Common Stock could be subject to significant
dilution.



The discovery of
defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns,
or increased warranty costs.Meeting or exceeding many
government-mandated safety standards is costly and often technologically
challenging, especially where standards may conflict with the need to reduce
vehicle weight in order to meet government-mandated emissions and fuel-economy
standards.  Government safety standards also require manufacturers to
remedy defects related to motor vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns,
and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that they do
not comply with a safety standard.  Should we or government safety
regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists
with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the
launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is
remedied.  The costs associated with any protracted delay in new model
launches necessary to remedy such defect, or the cost of recall campaigns to
remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be
substantial.



Increased safety,
emissions, fuel economy, or other regulation resulting in higher costs, cash
expenditures, and/or sales restrictions.



27ITEM
1A. Risk Factors (continued)



Unusual or
significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged
defects in our products, perceived environmental impacts, or
otherwise.We spend substantial resources ensuring compliance
with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions
regulations, and other standards.  Compliance with governmental
standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class action
lawsuits, which can entail significant cost and risk.  For example,
the preemptive effect of the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards is often a
contested issue in litigation, and some courts have permitted liability findings
even where our vehicles comply with federal law and/or other applicable
law.  Furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened
litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory
standards may require significant expenditures of time and other resources, and
may cause significant reputational harm.

A change in our
requirements for parts or materials where we have long-term supply arrangements
that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or
materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take-or-pay"
contracts).We have entered into a number of long-term supply
contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used in
the production of our vehicles.  If our need for any of these parts
were to lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of
the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the take-or-pay
contract.  We also have entered into a small number of long-term
supply contracts for raw materials (for example, precious metals used in
catalytic converters) that require us to purchase a fixed percentage of mine
output.  If our need for any of these raw materials were to lessen, or
if a supplier's output of materials were to increase, we could be required to
purchase more materials than we need.



Adverse effects
on our results from a decrease in or cessation of government incentives related
to capital investments.We receive economic benefits from
national, state, and local governments related to investments we make around the
world.  These benefits generally take the form of tax incentives,
property tax abatements, infrastructure development, subsidized training
programs, and/or other operational grants and incentives, and the amounts may be
significant.  A decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other
cessation of such benefits could have a substantial adverse impact on our
financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to fund
new investments.



Adverse effects
on our operations resulting from certain geo-political or other
events.We
conduct a significant portion of our business in countries outside of the United
States, and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of emerging
markets.  These activities expose us to, among other things, risks
associated with geo-political events, such as:  governmental takeover
(i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities; disruption of
operations in a particular country as a result of political or economic
instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities; or acts of
terrorism.  Such events could have a substantial adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.



Substantial
levels of Automotive indebtedness adversely affecting our financial condition or
preventing us from fulfilling our debt obligations (which may grow because we
are able to incur substantially more debt, including additional secured
debt).As a result of our 2006 and 2009 financing actions and
our other debt, we are a highly leveraged company.  Our significant
Automotive debt service obligations could have important consequences, including
the following:  our high level of indebtedness could make it difficult
for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness;
our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital
expenditures, acquisitions, if any, or general corporate purposes may be
impaired; we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to
pay interest on our indebtedness, which may reduce the funds available to us for
operations and other purposes below the levels of our competitors that have
lower interest costs; and our high level of indebtedness makes us more
vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our
business.In addition, if we are unable
to meet certain covenants of our secured credit facility established in December
2006 ("Credit Agreement") (e.g., if the borrowing base value of assets pledged
does not exceed outstanding borrowings), we may be required to repay borrowings
under the facility prior to their maturity.



28ITEM
1A. Risk Factors (continued)

If our
cash flow is worse than expected due to worsening of the economic recession,
work stoppages, supply base disruptions, increased pension contributions, or
other reasons, or if we are unable to find additional liquidity sources for
these purposes, we may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our
indebtedness on or before maturity, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek
to raise additional capital.  We may not be able to implement one or
more of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us, or at all.  The
terms of our existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from pursuing
some of these alternatives.  Should our cash flow be worse than
anticipated or we fail to achieve any of these alternatives, this could
materially adversely affect our ability to repay our indebtedness and otherwise
have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
operations.  For further information on our liquidity and capital
resources, including our Credit Agreement, see the discussion in Item 7
under the captions "Liquidity and Capital Resources" and "Overview," and in
Note 19 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.



Failure of
financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit
facilities.As discussed in "Liquidity and Capital Resources"
within Item 7, when we drew the full amount of the revolving credit
facility under our Credit Agreement  in February 2009, the
$890 million commitment of Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. ("LCPI") was
not fully funded as a result of LCPI having filed for protection under
Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in October 2008.  As
permitted under our Credit Agreement, to the extent we repay amounts under our
revolving credit facility, we can re-borrow those amounts until the facility
terminates.  If the financial institutions that provide these or other
committed credit facilities were to default on their obligation to fund the
commitments, these facilities would not be available to us, which could
substantially adversely affect our liquidity and financial
condition.  For discussion of our Credit Agreement, see "Liquidity and
Capital Resources" in Item 7 and Note 19 of the Notes to the Financial
Statements.



Inability of Ford
Credit to obtain competitive funding.Other
institutions that provide automotive financing to certain of our competitors
have access to relatively low-cost government-insured or other funding. 
For example, financial institutions with bank holding company status may have
access to other lower cost sources of funding.  Access by our
competitors' dealers and customers to financing provided by financial
institutions with relatively low-cost funding that is not available to Ford
Credit could adversely affect Ford Credit's ability to support the sale of Ford
vehicles at competitive cost and rates.  This in turn would adversely
affect the marketability of Ford vehicles in comparison to certain competitive
brands.



Inability of Ford
Credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at
competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to credit rating downgrades,
market volatility, market disruption, or other factors



Higher-than-expected
credit losses.Credit risk is the
possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments
according to contract terms.  Credit risk (which is heavily dependent
upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden,
personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a
significant impact on Ford Credit's business.  The level of credit
losses Ford Credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely
affect its financial condition and results of operations.  For
additional discussion regarding credit losses, see the "Critical Accounting
Estimates" disclosures in Item 7.



29ITEM
1A. Risk Factors (continued)

Increased
competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their
share of financing Ford vehicles.No single company is a
dominant force in the automotive finance industry.  Most of Ford
Credit's bank competitors in the United States use credit aggregation systems
that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit
applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered
by these finance sources.  This process has resulted in greater
competition based on financing rates.  In addition, Ford Credit may
face increased competition on wholesale financing for Ford
dealers.  Competition from such competitors with lower borrowing costs
may increase, which could adversely affect Ford Credit's profitability and the
volume of its business.



Collection and
servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in
operating leases.After Ford Credit
purchases retail installment sale contracts and leases from dealers and other
customers, it manages or services the receivables.  Any disruption of
its servicing activity, due to inability to access or accurately maintain
customer account records or otherwise, could have a significant negative impact
on its ability to collect on those receivables and/or satisfy its
customers.



Lower-than-anticipated
residual values or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased
vehicles.Ford Credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support
payments from Ford) and return volumes of the vehicles it
leases.  Actual proceeds realized by Ford Credit upon the sale of
returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount
projected, which reduces the profitability of the lease
transaction.  Among the factors that can affect the value of returned
lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and the
quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the
vehicles.  Actual return volumes may be higher than expected and can
be influenced by contractual lease end values relative to auction values,
marketing programs for new vehicles, and general economic
conditions.  All of these factors, alone or in combination, have the
potential to adversely affect Ford Credit's profitability.  For
additional discussion of residual values, see the "Critical Accounting
Estimates" disclosures in Item 7.



New or increased
credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher
costs and/or additional financing restrictions.As a finance company,
Ford Credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations
where it operates.  In the United States, its operations are subject
to regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, state and local
laws and regulations, including the federal Truth-in-Lending Act, Equal Credit
Opportunity Act, and Fair Credit Reporting Act.  In some countries
outside the United States, Ford Credit's subsidiaries are regulated banking
institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital
reserves.  In many other locations, governmental authorities require
companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing
businesses.  Efforts to comply with these laws and regulations impose
significant costs on Ford Credit, and affect the conduct of its
business.  Additional regulation could add significant cost or
operational constraints that might impair its profitability.



Inability to
implement our One Ford plan.As discussed in the "Overview"
section in Item 7, we are taking actions to execute the four priorities of
our One Ford plan and address the impact of current economic conditions,
including the deteriorated credit market and automotive sales.  To the
extent that we are unable to implement necessary actions to execute our plan,
our financial condition and results of operations would be substantially
adversely affected.





ITEM
1B.Unresolved
Staff Comments



None to
report.




ITEM
2.Properties



Our
principal properties include manufacturing and assembly facilities, distribution
centers, warehouses, sales or administrative offices, and engineering
centers.





In
addition, we maintain and operate manufacturing plants, assembly facilities,
parts distribution centers, and engineering centers outside of the United
States.  We own substantially all of our non-U.S. manufacturing
plants, assembly facilities, and engineering centers.  The majority of
our parts distribution centers outside of the United States are either leased or
provided by vendors under service contracts.  As in the United States,
space provided by vendors under service contracts need not be dedicated
exclusively or even primarily to our use, and is not included in the number of
distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below.



The total
number of plants, distribution centers/warehouses, engineering and research and
development sites, and sales offices used by our Automotive segments as of
December 31, 2009 are shown in the table below:



SegmentPlantsDistributionCenters/WarehousesEngineering,Research/DevelopmentSales
      OfficesFord
      North America40(a)3153(b)58Ford
      South America(b)7739Ford
      Europe208519Volvo811237(b)Ford
      Asia Pacific Africa122213Total875965136

__________

(a)We
      have announced plans to close a number of North American facilities as
      part of our restructuring actions; facilities that have been closed to
      date are not included in the table.  The table includes five
      facilities operated by Automotive Components Holdings, LLC ("ACH"), which
      is controlled by us.  We have been working to sell or close the
      majority of the 15 ACH component manufacturing plants; to date, we have
      sold five ACH plants and closed another five.  We plan to close
      a sixth plant in 2011.  We are exploring our options for the
      remaining ACH plants (Milan, Sheldon Road, Saline and Sandusky), and
      intend to transition these businesses to the supply base as soon as
      practicable.(b)Increase
      compared with prior year reflects redefinition of site locations and
      improved data tracking, not increase in physical
  property.




ITEM
2. Properties (continued)





Included
in the number of plants shown above are several plants that are not operated
directly by us, but rather by consolidated joint ventures that operate plants
that support our Automotive sector.  The new accounting standard
related to the consolidation of variable interest entities is effective for us
as of January 1, 2010, and will result in the deconsolidation of many of our
consolidated joint ventures.  As of December 31, 2009, the significant
consolidated joint ventures and the number of plants they own are as
follows:



•AutoAlliance International,
      Inc. ("AAI")— a 50/50 joint venture with Mazda (of which we own
      approximately 11%), which operates as its principal business an automobile
      vehicle assembly plant in Flat Rock, Michigan.  AAI currently
      produces the Mazda6 and Ford Mustang models.  Ford supplies all
      of the hourly and substantially all of the salaried labor requirements to
      AAI, and AAI reimburses Ford for the full cost of that
    labor.



•First Aquitaine Industries SAS
      ("First Aquitaine")— operates a transmission plant in Bordeaux,
      France which manufactures automatic transmissions for Ford Explorer,
      Ranger, and Mustang vehicles.  During the second quarter of
      2009, we transferred legal ownership of First Aquitaine to HZ Holding
      France.  We also entered into a volume-dependent pricing
      agreement with the new owner to purchase transmissions through the end of
      the product cycle.

•Ford Otosan— a joint
      venture in Turkey between Ford (41% partner), the Koc Group of Turkey (41%
      partner), and public investors (18%) that is a major supplier of the Ford
      Transit Connect vehicle and our sole distributor of Ford vehicles in
      Turkey.  In addition, Ford Otosan makes the Ford Transit series
      and the Cargo truck for the Turkish and export markets, and certain
      engines and transmissions, most of which are under
      license.  This joint venture owns and operates two plants, a
      parts distribution depot, and a Product Development Center in
      Turkey.



•Getrag Ford Transmissions
      GmbH("Getrag
      Ford")— a 50/50 joint venture with Getrag Deutsche Venture GmbH
      and Co. KG, a German company, to which we transferred our European manual
      transmission operations, including plants, from Halewood, England;
      Cologne, Germany; and Bordeaux, France.  In 2004, Volvo Car
      Corporation ("Volvo Cars") transferred its manual transmission business
      from its Köping, Sweden plant to Getrag Ford.  In 2008, we added
      the Kechnec plant in Slovakia.  Getrag Ford produces manual
      transmissions for Ford Europe and Volvo.  We currently supply
      most of the hourly and salaried labor requirements of the operations
      transferred to this joint venture.  Our employees who worked at
      the manual transmission operations transferred at the time of formation of
      the joint venture are assigned to the joint venture.  In the
      event of surplus labor at the joint venture, our employees assigned to
      Getrag Ford may return to Ford.  Employees hired in the future
      to work in these operations will be employed directly by Getrag
      Ford.  Getrag Ford reimburses us for the full cost of the hourly
      and salaried labor we supply.  This joint venture operates four
      plants.



•Getrag All Wheel Drive
      AB— a joint venture in Sweden between Getrag Dana Holding GmbH
      (60% partner) and Volvo Cars (40% partner).  In January 2004,
      Volvo Cars transferred to this joint venture its All Wheel Drive business
      and its plant in Köping, Sweden.  The joint venture produces
      all-wheel drive components.  As noted above, the manual
      transmission operations at the Köping plant were transferred to Getrag
      Ford.  The hourly and salaried employees at the plant have
      become employees of the joint
venture.



•Tekfor Cologne GmbH("Tekfor")— a
      50/50 joint venture of Ford-Werke GmbH ("Ford-Werke") and Neumayer Tekfor
      Holding GmbH, a German company, to which joint venture Ford-Werke
      transferred the operations of the Ford forge in Cologne.  The
      joint venture produces forged components, primarily for transmissions and
      chassis, for use in Ford vehicles and for sale to third
      parties.  Those Ford employees who worked at the Cologne Forge
      Plant at the time of the formation of the joint venture are assigned to
      Tekfor by us and remain our employees.  In the event of surplus
      labor at the joint venture, Ford employees assigned to Tekfor may return
      to Ford.  New workers at the joint venture will be hired as
      employees of the joint venture.  Tekfor reimburses us for the
      full cost of our employees assigned to the joint venture.  This
      joint venture operates one plant.



•Pininfarina Sverige, AB— a joint venture between Volvo Cars (40% partner) and Pininfarina, S.p.A.
      ("Pininfarina") (60% partner).  In September 2003, Volvo Cars
      and Pininfarina established this joint venture for the engineering and
      manufacture of niche vehicles, starting with a new, small convertible
      (Volvo C70), which is distributed by Volvo.  The joint venture
      began production of the new car at the Uddevalla Plant in Sweden, which
      was transferred from Volvo Cars to the joint venture in December 2005, and
      is the joint venture's only plant.




ITEM
2. Properties (continued)



•Ford Vietnam Limited—
      a joint venture between Ford (75% partner) and Song Cong Diesel Limited
      Company (25% partner).  Ford Vietnam Limited assembles and
      distributes several Ford vehicles in Vietnam, including Escape, Everest,
      Focus, Mondeo, Ranger and Transit models.  This joint venture
      operates one plant.



•Ford Lio Ho Motor Company Ltd.
      ("FLH")— a joint venture in Taiwan among Ford (70% partner), the
      Lio Ho Group (25% partner) and individual shareholders (5% ownership in
      aggregate) that assembles a variety of Ford and Mazda vehicles sourced
      from Ford as well as Mazda.  In addition to domestic assembly,
      FLH also has local product development capability to modify vehicle
      designs for local needs, and imports Ford-brand built-up vehicles from
      Europe and the United States.  This joint venture operates one
      plant.



In
addition to the plants that we operate directly or that are operated by
consolidated joint ventures, additional plants that support our Automotive
sector are operated by unconsolidated joint ventures of which we are a
partner.  These plants are not included in the number of plants shown
in the table above.  The most significant of these joint ventures
are:



•AutoAlliance (Thailand) Co.
      Ltd. ("AAT")— a joint venture among Ford (50%), Mazda (45%) and a
      Thai affiliate of Mazda's (5%), which owns and operates a manufacturing
      plant in Rayong, Thailand.  AAT produces the Ford Everest, Ford
      Ranger and Mazda B-Series pickup trucks for the Thai market and for export
      to over 100 countries worldwide (other than North America), in both
      built-up and kit form.  AAT has announced plans to build a new,
      highly flexible passenger car plant that will utilize state-of-the-art
      manufacturing technologies and will produce both Ford and Mazda badged
      small cars beginning in 2010.



•Blue Diamond Truck, S. de R.L.
      de C.V.("Blue
      Diamond Truck")— a joint venture between Ford (25% partner) and
      Navistar International Corporation (formerly known as International Truck
      and Engine Corporation) (75% partner) ("Navistar").  Blue
      Diamond Truck develops and manufactures selected medium and light
      commercial trucks in Mexico and sells the vehicles to Ford and Navistar
      for their own independent distribution.  Blue Diamond Truck
      manufactures Ford F-650/750 medium-duty commercial trucks that are sold in
      the United States and Canada and Navistar trucks that are sold in
      Mexico.



•Tenedora Nemak, S.A. de
      C.V.— a joint venture between Ford (6.75% partner) and a
      subsidiary of Mexican conglomerate Alfa S.A. de C.V. (93.25% partner),
      which owns and operates, among other facilities, a portion of our former
      Canadian castings operations, and supplies engine blocks and heads to
      several of our engine plants.  Ford supplies a portion of the
      hourly labor requirements for the Canadian plant, for which it is fully
      reimbursed by the joint venture.



•Changan Ford Mazda Automobile
      Corporation, Ltd. ("CFMA")— a joint venture among Ford (35%
      partner), Mazda (15% partner), and the Chongqing Changan Automobile Co.,
      Ltd. ("Changan") (50% partner).  Through its facility in the
      Chinese cities of Chongqing and Nanjing, CFMA produces and distributes in
      China the Ford Mondeo, Focus, S-MAX and Fiesta, the Mazda2, the Mazda3,
      the Volvo S40 and the Volvo S80.



•Changan Ford Mazda Engine
      Company, Ltd. ("CFME")— a joint venture among Ford (25% partner),
      Mazda (25% partner), and the Chongqing Changan Automobile Co., Ltd (50%
      partner).  CFME is located in Nanjing, and produces the Ford New
      I4 and Mazda BZ engines in support of the assembly of Ford- and
      Mazda-branded vehicles manufactured in
China.



•Jiangling Motors Corporation,
      Ltd. ("JMC")— a publicly-traded company in China with Ford (30%
      shareholder) and Jiangxi Jiangling Holdings, Ltd. (41% shareholder) as its
      controlling shareholders.  Jiangxi Jiangling Holdings, Ltd. is a
      50/50 joint venture between Chongqing Changan Automobile Co., Ltd. and
      Jiangling Motors Company Group.  The public investors of JMC own
      29% of its outstanding shares.  JMC assembles the Ford Transit
      van and other non-Ford-technology-based vehicles for distribution in
      China.



The
facilities owned or leased by us or our subsidiaries and joint ventures
described above are, in the opinion of management, suitable and more than
adequate for the manufacture and assembly of our products.



The
furniture, equipment and other physical property owned by our Financial Services
operations are not material in relation to their total assets.




ITEM
3.Legal
Proceedings





Following
is a discussion of our significant pending legal proceedings:



ASBESTOS
MATTERS



Asbestos
was used in brakes, clutches, and other automotive components from the early
1900s.  Along with other vehicle manufacturers, we have been the
target of asbestos litigation and, as a result, are a defendant in various
actions for injuries claimed to have resulted from alleged exposure to Ford
parts and other products containing asbestos.  Plaintiffs in these
personal injury cases allege various health problems as a result of asbestos
exposure, either from component parts found in older vehicles, insulation or
other asbestos products in our facilities, or asbestos aboard our former
maritime fleet.  We believe that we are being more aggressively
targeted in asbestos suits because many previously targeted companies have filed
for bankruptcy.



Most of
the asbestos litigation we face involves individuals who claim to have worked on
the brakes of our vehicles over the years.  We are prepared to defend
these cases, and believe that the scientific evidence confirms our long-standing
position that there is no increased risk of asbestos-related disease as a result
of exposure to the type of asbestos formerly used in the brakes on our
vehicles.



The
extent of our financial exposure to asbestos litigation remains very difficult
to estimate.  The majority of our asbestos cases do not specify a
dollar amount for damages, and in many of the other cases the dollar amount
specified is the jurisdictional minimum.  The vast majority of these
cases involve multiple defendants, with the number in some cases exceeding one
hundred.  Many of these cases also involve multiple plaintiffs, and we
often are unable to tell from the pleadings which plaintiffs are making claims
against us (as opposed to other defendants).  Annual payout and
defense costs may become substantial in the future.



ENVIRONMENTAL
MATTERS



General.We have
received notices under various federal and state environmental laws that we
(along with others) are or may be a potentially responsible party for the costs
associated with remediating numerous hazardous substance storage, recycling, or
disposal sites in many states and, in some instances, for natural resource
damages.  We also may have been a generator of hazardous substances at
a number of other sites.  The amount of any such costs or damages for
which we may be held responsible could be significant.  The contingent
losses that we expect to incur in connection with many of these sites have been
accrued and those accruals are reflected in our financial
statements.  For many sites, however, the remediation costs and other
damages for which we ultimately may be responsible are not reasonably estimable
because of uncertainties with respect to factors such as our connection to the
site or to materials there, the involvement of other potentially responsible
parties, the application of laws and other standards or regulations, site
conditions, and the nature and scope of investigations, studies, and remediation
to be undertaken (including the technologies to be required and the extent,
duration, and success of remediation).  As a result, we are unable to
determine or reasonably estimate the amount of costs or other damages for which
we are potentially responsible in connection with these sites, although that
total could be significant.




ITEM
3. Legal Proceedings (continued)



Edison Assembly Plant Concrete
Disposal.During demolition of our Edison Assembly Plant, we
discovered very low levels of contaminants in the concrete slab.  The
concrete was crushed and reused by several developers as fill material at ten
different off-site locations.  The New Jersey Department of
Environmental Protection ("DEP") asserts that some of these locations may not
have been authorized to receive the waste.  In March 2006, the DEP
ordered Ford, its supplier MIG-Alberici, Inc., and the developer Edgewood
Properties, Inc., to investigate, and, if appropriate, remove contaminated
materials.  We have substantially completed the work at a number of
locations, and Edgewood is completing the investigation and remediation at
several locations that it owns.  We resolved the matter with DEP
through an administrative consent order ("Order"), pursuant to which we paid
approximately $460,000 for oversight costs, penalties, and environmental
education projects and donated emissions reduction credits to the State of New
Jersey.  After reviewing comments submitted by Edgewood, the DEP
finalized the Order in February 2009.  Edgewood has appealed the
issuance of the Order to the Appellate Division of the New Jersey Superior
Court.  The New Jersey Attorney General's office has closed its
investigation of us.



Sterling Axle
Plant.The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality
("MDEQ") issued four Letters of Violation to the Sterling Axle Plant between
April 17, 2008 and October 7, 2008 related to our
self-report of several potential violations of air permits at this
location.  We promptly took steps to correct and prevent recurrence of
the potential violations.  We agreed with the MDEQ in 2009 to resolve
the enforcement proceeding through a civil administrative settlement, which
included a $129,920 penalty.  In 2009, we learned that the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of Justice had opened a
criminal investigation into the potential violations.  We are
cooperating fully in the investigation, including disclosing additional
potential violations that were discovered since the initial enforcement
action.



Dearborn Research and Engineering
Center.In August 2009, our Dearborn Research and Engineering
Center ("R&E Center") received a notice of violation from the MDEQ alleging
that the R&E Center exceeded fuel usage limitations at its engine test
facility, and did not properly certify compliance with its air
permit.  MDEQ has commenced an administrative enforcement
proceeding.  We are working with MDEQ to resolve this matter, and have
taken appropriate actions to address any violations.



CLASS
ACTIONS



In light
of the fact that very few of the purported class actions filed against us in the
past have ever been certified by the courts as class actions, the actions listed
below are those (i) that have been certified as a class action by a court of
competent jurisdiction (and any additional purported class actions that raise
allegations substantially similar to a certified case), and (ii) that, if
resolved unfavorably to the Company, would likely involve a significant
cost.



Canadian Export Antitrust Class
Actions.Eighty-three purported class actions on behalf of all
purchasers of new motor vehicles in the United States since January 1, 2001 have
been filed in various state and federal courts against numerous defendants,
including us.  The federal and state complaints allege, among other
things, that vehicle manufacturers, aided by dealer associations, conspired to
prevent the sale to U.S. citizens of vehicles produced for the Canadian market
and sold by dealers in Canada at lower prices than vehicles sold in the United
States.  The complaints seek injunctive relief under federal antitrust
law and treble damages under federal and state antitrust laws.  The
federal court actions were consolidated for coordinated pretrial proceedings in
the U.S. District Court for the District of Maine and have been
dismissed.  Cases remain pending in state courts in Arizona,
California, Florida, Minnesota, New Mexico, Tennessee and
Wisconsin.  A statewide class has been certified in the California
case; proceedings in the other state cases had been stayed pending resolution of
the consolidated federal court action.



35ITEM
3. Legal Proceedings (continued)

OTHER
MATTERS



ERISA Fiduciary
Litigation.A purported class action lawsuit is pending in the
U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan naming as defendants
Ford Motor Company and several of our current or former employees and officers
(Nowak, et al. v. Ford Motor
Company, et al., along with three consolidated cases).  The
lawsuit alleges that the defendants violated the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act (“ERISA”) by failing to prudently and loyally manage funds held in
employee savings plans sponsored by Ford.  Specifically, the
plaintiffs allege (among other claims) that the defendants violated fiduciary
duties owed to plan participants by continuing to offer Ford Common Stock as an
investment option in the savings plans.



SEC Pension and Post-Employment
Benefit Accounting Inquiry.On October 14, 2004, the Division
of Enforcement of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") notified us
that it was conducting an inquiry into the methodology used to account for
pensions and other post-employment benefits.  We were one of several
companies to receive requests for information as part of this
inquiry.  We completed submission of all information requested to date
as of April 2007.



Apartheid Litigation.Along
with several other prominent multinational companies, we are a defendant in
purported class action lawsuits seeking unspecified damages on behalf of South
African citizens who suffered violence and oppression under South Africa's
apartheid regime.  The lawsuits allege that, by doing business in
South Africa, the defendant companies aided and abetted the apartheid regime and
its human rights violations.  These cases, collectively referred to asIn re South African Apartheid
Litigation, were initially filed in 2002 and 2003, and are being handled
together as coordinated "multidistrict litigation" in the U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of New York.  The District Court dismissed
these cases in 2004, but in 2007 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit reversed and remanded the cases to the District Court for further
proceedings.  Amended complaints were filed during 2008; motions to
dismiss have been granted in part and denied in part, and the defendants’ appeal
to the U.S. Court of Appeals is pending.



ITEM
4.Submission of Matters to a
Vote of Security Holders



Not
required.




ITEM
4A.Executive Officers of
Ford



Our
executive officers and their positions and ages at February 1, 2010 are as
follows:



NamePositionPresent
      PositionHeld
      SinceAge



William
      Clay Ford, Jr. (a)Executive
      Chairman and Chairman of the BoardSeptember



Alan
      Mulally (b)President
      and Chief Executive OfficerSeptember



Michael
      E. BannisterExecutive
      Vice President – Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,Ford
      Motor Credit CompanyOctober



Lewis
      W. K. BoothExecutive
      Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerNovember



Mark
      FieldsExecutive
      Vice President – President, The AmericasOctober



John
      FlemingExecutive Vice
      President –Global Manufacturing and Labor Affairs and Chairman,
      Ford EuropeNovember



Tony
      BrownGroup
      Vice President – PurchasingApril



Susan
      M. CischkeGroup
      Vice President – Sustainability, Environment and Safety
      EngineeringApril



James
      D. FarleyGroup Vice President
      – Sales,Global Marketing and Canada, Mexico & South America
      OperationsNovember



Felicia
      FieldsGroup
      Vice President – Human Resources and Corporate ServicesApril



Bennie
      FowlerGroup
      Vice President – QualityApril



Joseph
      R. HinrichsGroup
      VicePresident
      –President, Asia Pacific and AfricaDecember



Derrick
      M. KuzakGroup Vice President
      –Global Product DevelopmentDecember



David
      G. LeitchGroup
      Vice President and General CounselApril



J
      C. MaysGroup
      Vice President and Chief Creative Officer– DesignAugust



Ziad
      S. OjakliGroup
      Vice President – Government and Community RelationsJanuary



Nick
      SmitherGroup
      Vice President – Information TechnologyApril



Bob
      ShanksVice
      President and ControllerSeptember

__________

(a)Also
      a Director, Chair of the Office of the Chairman and Chief Executive, Chair
      of the Finance Committee and a member of the Sustainability Committee of
      the Board of Directors.(b)Also
      a Director and member of the Office of the Chairman and Chief Executive
      and the Finance Committee of the Board of
  Directors.




ITEM
4A. Executive Officers of Ford (continued)



All of
the above officers, except those noted below, have been employed by Ford or its
subsidiaries in one or more capacities during the past five
years.  Described below are the recent positions (other than those
with Ford or its subsidiaries) held by those officers who have not yet been with
Ford or its subsidiaries for five years:



§Prior
      to joining Ford in November 2007, Mr. Farley was Group Vice President and
      General Manager of Lexus, responsible for all sales, marketing and
      customer satisfaction activities for Toyota’s luxury
      brand.  Before leading Lexus, he served as group vice president
      of Toyota Division marketing and was responsible for all Toyota Division
      market planning, advertising, merchandising, sales promotion, incentives
      and Internet activities.



§Prior
      to joining Ford in September 2006, Mr. Mulally served as Executive Vice
      President of The Boeing Company, and President and Chief Executive Officer
      of Boeing Commercial Airplanes.  Mr. Mulally also was a member
      of Boeing's Executive Council, and served as Boeing's senior executive in
      the Pacific Northwest.  He was named Boeing's president of
      Commercial Airplanes in September 1998; the responsibility of chief
      executive officer for the business unit was added in March
      2001.



§Mr.
      Leitch served as the Deputy Assistant and Deputy Counsel to President
      George W. Bush from December 2002 to March 2005.  From
      June 2001 until December 2002, he served as Chief Counsel for the Federal
      Aviation Administration, overseeing a staff of 290 in Washington and the
      agency's 11 regional offices.  Prior to June 2001, Mr. Leitch
      was a partner at Hogan & Hartson LLP in Washington D.C., where his
      practice focused on appellate litigation in state and federal
      court.



Under our
By-Laws, the executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors at the
Annual Meeting of the Board of Directors held for this purpose.  Each
officer is elected to hold office until his or her successor is chosen or as
otherwise provided in the By-Laws.






PART
II



ITEM
5.Market for Ford's Common
Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities



Our
Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange in the United States and
on certain stock exchanges in Belgium, France, Switzerland, and the United
Kingdom.



The table
below shows the high and low sales prices for our Common Stock and the dividends
we paid per share of Common and Class B Stock for each quarterly period in 2008
and 2009:



20082009Ford
      Common Stock price per share (a)FirstQuarterSecondQuarterThirdQuarterFourthQuarterFirstQuarterSecondQuarterThirdQuarterFourthQuarterHigh$6.94$8.79$6.33$5.47$2.99$6.54$8.86$10.37Low4.954.464.171.011.502.405.246.61Dividends
      per share of Ford Common and Class B Stock (b)$0.00$0.00$0.00$0.00$0.00$0.00$0.00$0.00

__________

(a)New
      York Stock Exchange composite interday prices as listed in the price
      history database available at www.NYSEnet.com.(b)On
      December 15, 2006, we entered into a secured credit facility which
      contains a covenant prohibiting us from paying dividends (other than
      dividends payable solely in stock) on our Common and Class B Stock,
      subject to certain limited exceptions.  As a result, it is
      unlikely that we will pay any dividends in the foreseeable
      future.  See Note 19 of the Notes to the Financial Statements
      for more information regarding the secured credit facility and related
      covenants.



As of
February 12, 2010, stockholders of record of Ford included 165,026 holders
of Common Stock (which number does not include 270 former holders of old
Ford Common Stock who have not yet tendered their shares pursuant to our
recapitalization, known as the Value Enhancement Plan, which became effective on
August 9, 2000) and 86 holders of Class B Stock.



During
the fourth quarter of 2009, we purchased shares of our Common Stock as
follows:



PeriodTotal
      Numberof
      SharesPurchased
      (a)AveragePrice
      Paidper
      ShareTotal
      Number of Shares Purchasedas
      Part of Publicly Announced Plansor
      Programs (b)Maximum
      Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased
      Under the Plans or Programs (b)Oct.
      1, 2009 through Oct. 31, 2009—$———Nov.
      1, 2009 through Nov. 30, 2009————Dec.
      1, 2009 through Dec. 31, 200922,27110.00——Total/Average22,27110.00——

__________

(a)We
      presently have no publicly-announced repurchase program in
      place.  Shares were acquired from our employees or directors in
      accordance with our various compensation plans as a result of share
      withholdings to pay:  (i)income tax related
      tothe lapse of restrictions on restricted stock or the issuance of
      unrestricted stock;and
      (ii)the
      exercise price and related income taxes with respect to certain exercises
      of stock options.(b)No
      publicly announced repurchase program in
place.




ITEM
6.Selected Financial
Data



The
following table sets forth selected financial data for each of the last five
years (dollar amounts in millions, except for per share amounts).




SUMMARY
      OF OPERATIONS

Total
      Company

Sales
      and revenues$118,308$145,114$170,572$158,233$174,365



Income/(Loss)
      before income taxes$3,026$(14,498)$(3,857)$(15,079)$1,054

Provision
      for/(Benefit from) income taxes6963(1,333)(2,656)(855)

Income/(Loss)
      from continuing operations2,957(14,561)(2,524)(12,423)1,909

Income/(Loss)
      from discontinued operations59411662

Income/(Loss)
      before cumulative effects of changes in accounting
    principles2,962(14,552)(2,483)(12,407)1,971

Cumulative
      effects of changes in accounting principles————(251)

Net
      income/(loss)2,962(14,552)(2,483)(12,407)1,720

Less:
      Income/(Loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests245214312210280

Net
      income/(loss) attributable to Ford Motor Company$2,717$(14,766)$(2,795)$(12,617)$1,440



Automotive
      Sector

Sales$105,893$129,165$154,379$143,249$153,413

Operating
      income/(loss)(2,706)(9,293)(4,268)(17,946)(4,211)

Income/(Loss)
      before income taxes1,212(11,917)(5,081)(17,045)(3,899)



Financial
      Services Sector

Revenues$12,415$15,949$16,193$14,984$20,952

Income/(Loss)
      before income taxes1,814(2,581)1,2241,9664,953



Amounts
      Per Share Attributable to Ford Motor Company Common and Class B
      Stock

Basic:

Income/(Loss)
      from continuing operations$0.91$(6.50)$(1.43)$(6.73)$0.88

Income/(Loss)
      from discontinued operations——0.020.010.04

Cumulative
      effects of change in accounting principles————(0.14)

Net
      income/(loss)$0.91$(6.50)$(1.41)$(6.72)$0.78

Diluted:

Income/(Loss)
      from continuing operations$0.86$(6.50)$(1.43)$(6.73)$0.86

Income/(Loss)
      from discontinued operations——0.020.010.03

Cumulative
      effects of change in accounting principles————(0.12)

Net
      income/(loss)$0.86$(6.50)$(1.41)$(6.72)$0.77

Cash
      dividends$—$—$—$0.25$0.40



Common
      Stock price range (NYSE Composite Interday)

High$10.37$8.79$9.70$9.48$14.75

Low1.501.016.656.067.57

Average
      number of shares of Ford Common and Class B Stock outstanding(in millions)2,9922,2731,9791,8791,846



SECTOR
      BALANCE SHEET DATA AT YEAR-END

Assets

Automotive
      sector$82,002$73,815$118,455$122,597$113,825

Financial
      Services sector119,112151,667169,261169,691162,194

Intersector
      elimination(3,224)(2,535)(2,023)(1,467)(83)

Total
      assets$197,890$222,947$285,693$290,821$275,936



Debt

Automotive
      sector$34,416$24,227$25,185$27,913$17,848

Financial
      Services sector98,671128,842141,833142,036135,400

Intersector
      elimination *(646)(492)———

Total
      debt$132,441$152,577$167,018$169,949$153,248



Total
      Equity/(Deficit)$(6,515)$(14,527)$8,783$(461)$14,565

__________

*  Debt
related to Ford's acquisition of Ford Credit debt securities; see Note 1 of the
Notes to the Financial Statements for additional detail.




Item
7.Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



OVERVIEW



Generation
of Revenue, Income and Cash



Our
Automotive sector's revenue, income, and cash are generated primarily from sales
of vehicles to our dealers and distributors (i.e., our
customers).  Vehicles we produce generally are subject to firm orders
from our customers and are deemed sold (with the proceeds from such sale
recognized in revenue) after they are produced and shipped or delivered to our
customers.  This is not the case, however, with respect to vehicles
produced for sale to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed
repurchase option or vehicles produced for use in our own fleet (including
management evaluation vehicles).  Vehicles sold to daily rental car
companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option are accounted for
as operating leases, with lease revenue and profits recognized over the term of
the lease.  When we sell the returned vehicle at auction, we recognize
a gain or loss on the difference, if any, between actual auction value and the
projected auction value.  In addition, revenue for finished vehicles
we sell to customers or vehicle modifiers on consignment is not recognized until
the vehicle is sold to the ultimate customer.  Therefore, except for
the impact of the daily rental units sold subject to a guaranteed repurchase
option, those units placed into our own fleet, and those units for which
recognition of revenue is otherwise deferred, wholesale volumes to our customers
and revenue from such sales are closely linked with our production.



Most of
the vehicles sold by us to our dealers and distributors are financed at
wholesale by Ford Credit.  Upon Ford Credit originating the wholesale
receivable related to a dealer's purchase of a vehicle, Ford Credit pays cash to
the relevant legal entity in our Automotive sector in payment of the dealer's
obligation for the purchase price of the vehicle.  The dealer then
pays the wholesale finance receivable to Ford Credit when it sells the vehicle
to a retail customer.



Our
Financial Services sector's revenue is generated primarily from interest on
finance receivables, net of certain deferred origination costs that are included
as a reduction of financing revenue, and such revenue is recognized over the
term of the receivable using the interest method.  Also, revenue from
operating leases, net of certain deferred origination costs, is recognized on a
straight-line basis over the term of the lease.  Income is generated
to the extent revenues exceed expenses, most of which are interest,
depreciation, and operating expenses.



Transactions
between our Automotive and Financial Services sectors occur in the ordinary
course of business.  For example, Ford Credit receives interest
supplements and other support cost payments from the Automotive sector in
connection with special-rate vehicle financing and leasing programs that we
sponsor.  Ford Credit records these payments as revenue, and, for
contracts purchased prior to 2008, our Automotive sector made the related cash
payments, over the expected life of the related finance receivable or operating
lease.  Effective January 1, 2008, to reduce ongoing
Automotive obligations to Ford Credit and to be consistent with general industry
practice, we began paying interest supplements and residual value support to
Ford Credit on an upfront, lump-sum basis at the time Ford Credit purchases
eligible contracts from dealers.  See Note 1 of the Notes to the
Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of transactions and payments
between our Automotive and Financial Services sectors.  The Automotive
sector records the estimated costs of marketing incentives, including dealer and
retail customer cash payments (e.g., rebates) and costs of special-rate
financing and leasing programs, as a reduction to revenue.  These
reductions to revenue are accrued at the later of the date the related vehicle
sales to the dealer are recorded or at the date the incentive program is both
approved and communicated.



Key
Economic Factors and Trends Affecting the Automotive Industry



Global Economic and Financial Market
Crisis.Beginning in 2008, the global economy entered a period
of very weak economic growth, led by the recession in the United States and
followed by declines in other major markets around the world.  The
financial market crisis set off a series of events that generated conditions
more severe than those experienced in several decades.  The
characteristics of the financial crisis were unique, in part due to the complex
structure of housing-related securities that were at the epicenter of the
financial market turmoil.  A steep housing correction, especially in
the U.S. and U.K. markets, along with downward valuations of mortgage-backed and
related securities, combined to foster a crisis in
confidence.  Although several other factors contributed to current
economic and financial conditions, the influence of these financial developments
was very prominent.  The interrelationships among financial markets
worldwide ultimately resulted in a synchronous global economic downturn, the
effects of which became evident in the fourth quarter of 2008 as major markets
around the world all suffered setbacks.



41ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

While the
economic outlook is improving, it is rebounding from a very low base and with a
range of possible outcomes due to the uncertain financial market environment and
dependence upon ongoing policy responses.  The consumer and commercial
sectors of the global economy appear to be improving, although recovery remains
fragile due to continuing tightness in the credit markets, weak labor markets in
many countries, and uncertainty regarding the timing and magnitude by which
governments and central banks will remove stimulus programs.  Although
the housing market is stabilizing in the worst hit markets, such as the United
States, the United Kingdom, and Spain, challenges remain associated with rising
foreclosure rates and excess housing stocks.



In 2009,
global industry vehicle sales volume is estimated to have declined to about
64.3 million units, down about 4 million units or 6% from 2008
levels.  Global industry sales volume is projected to increase from
the depressed 2009 levels, to a range of 65 million units to
75 million units for 2010.



Excess
Capacity.According to CSM Worldwide, an automotive research
firm, in 2009 the estimated automotive industry global production capacity for
light vehicles (about 86 million units) exceeded global production by about
29 million units.  In North America and Europe, the two regions
where the majority of revenue and profits are earned in the industry, excess
capacity was an estimated 96% and 37%, respectively, with North America in
particular driven up from recent rates of around 43% due to the industry
conditions in that market last year.  According to production capacity
data projected by CSM Worldwide, global excess capacity conditions could
continue for several years at an average of 21 million units per year
during the 2010-2014 period.



Pricing
Pressure.Excess capacity, coupled with a proliferation of new
products being introduced in key segments by the industry, will keep pressure on
manufacturers' ability to increase prices on their products.  In
addition, the incremental new U.S. manufacturing capacity of Japanese and Korean
manufacturers in recent years has contributed, and is likely to continue to
contribute, to pricing pressure in the U.S. market.  The reduction of
real prices for similarly contented vehicles in the United States has become
more pronounced since the late 1990s, and we expect that a challenging pricing
environment will continue for some time to come.



Consumer Spending and
Credit.Limited ability to increase vehicle prices has been
offset in recent years, at least in part, by the long-term trend toward purchase
of higher-end, more expensive vehicles and/or vehicles with more
features.  The current retrenchment in consumer spending is likely to
dampen that trend in the near-term.  Over the long term, spending on
new vehicles is expected to resume its correlation with growth in per capita
incomes.  Emerging markets also will contribute an increasing share of
global industry sales volume and revenue, as growth in wholesales (i.e., volume)
will be greatest in emerging markets in the next decade.  We believe,
however, the mature automotive markets (e.g., North America, Western Europe, and
Japan) will retain the largest share of global revenue over the coming
decade.



Commodity and Energy Price
Increases.Commodity prices have resumed upward movement since
early 2009.  Despite weak demand conditions, oil prices increased from
around $40 per barrel in January to $80 per barrel in December of
2009.  With the global economic outlook improving and financial
investment returning to commodity and oil markets, we expect commodity and oil
prices to continue trending upward with potentially higher
volatility.  Higher fuel prices, combined with efforts to achieve
environmental policy objectives, are likely to continue to generate demand for
more fuel-efficient vehicles.



Currency Exchange Rate
Volatility.The ongoing deleveraging in financial markets has
generated significant volatility in currencies as well.  Recently, the
U.S. dollar has gained some ground against the British pound and
euro.



Other Economic
Factors.The eventual implications of significant fiscal
stimulus, including higher government deficits generating potentially higher
long-term interest rates, could drive a higher cost of capital over our planning
period.  Higher interest rates and/or taxes to address the higher
deficits may also impede real GDP growth and, therefore, vehicle sales over our
planning period.



42ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Trends
and Strategies



We
continue to monitor incipient signs of economic recovery following the recent
global economic crisis that caused such a sudden and substantial decline in
global automotive industry sales volume, and we remain firm in our belief that
our continued focus on executing the four pillars of our plan is the right
strategy to achieve our objectives.



·Aggressively
      restructure to operate profitably at the current demand and changing model
      mix;

·Accelerate
      development of new products our customers want and
  value;

·Finance
      our plan and improve our balance sheet;
and

·Work
      together effectively as one team, leveraging our global
      assets.



Despite
the external economic environment, we have made significant progress in
transforming our business:



Aggressively Restructure to
Operate Profitably



Manufacturing.OurU.S. manufacturing
presence includes 10 vehicle assembly plants and 23 powertrain, stamping, and
components plants.  We have converted one North American assembly
plant, and are converting two additional assembly plants, from production of
large utilities and trucks to small car production to support what we believe is
a permanent shift in consumer preferences to smaller, more fuel-efficient
vehicles.  In addition, nearly all of our U.S. assembly plants
will have flexible body shops by 2012 to enable quick response to changing
consumer demands, and nearly half of our transmission and engine plants will be
flexible, capable of manufacturing various combinations of transmission and
engine families.  We have announced plans in North America to close
three Ford plants and one ACH plant in the 2010 – 2011 period, as well as
consolidating Wayne Assembly Plant into the Michigan Assembly Plant as part of
our plan to expand North American production capacity for smaller, more
fuel-efficient vehicles.  We are exploring our options for our
remaining ACH plants, and intend to transition these businesses to the supply
base as soon as practicable.



Suppliers.  We
continue to work to strengthen our supply base in the United States, which
represents 80% of our North American purchases.  As part of this
process, we have been reducing the total number of production suppliers eligible
for new product sourcing from 3,300 in 2004 to about 1,600 suppliers in 2009 and
1,500 suppliers in 2010.  To date, we have identified specific plans
that will take us to about 850 suppliers in the near- to mid-term, with a
further reduction to about 750 suppliers targeted.  We believe
that our efforts at consolidation will result in more business for our major
suppliers, which is increasingly important with the decline in industry sales
volume.  In addition, our move to global vehicle platforms should
increase our ability to source to common suppliers for the total global volume
of vehicle components, so that a smaller number of suppliers will receive a
greater volume of the purchases we make to support our global vehicle
platforms.



Dealers.  Our
dealers are a source of strength in North America and around the world,
especially in rural areas and small towns where they represent the face of
Ford.  At our current and expected future U.S. market share, however,
we have too many dealers, particularly in metropolitan areas, which makes it
difficult to sustain a healthy and profitable dealer base.  To address
this overcapacity, we are working with our dealers in efforts to downsize,
consolidate and restructure our Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury network in our
largest 130 metropolitan market areas in the United States to provide targeted
average-year sales for Ford dealers of around 1,500 units and for Lincoln
Mercury dealers of around 600 units.  This should result in
sustainable dealer profits.  As part of these efforts, the number of
dealers in our Ford, Lincoln and Mercury network in the United States has been
reduced from about 4,400 at the end of 2005 to 3,800 at the end of 2008, and to
3,550 at the end of 2009.  These efforts, which include funding dealer
consolidations to enhance our representation in the marketplace, will continue
in the future to reduce further our dealer network to match our sales and dealer
sales objectives.



Product
Development.In combination with the business improvements
being achieved, our One Ford global product development system ("GPDS") allows
us to realize efficiencies in capital and engineering costs, to increase
revenue, and, in general, to bring to market a broad range of
frequently-freshened, highly-acclaimed global vehicles that customers want and
value.  In addition, GPDS allows us to accelerate to market the number
of new products designed to meet shifting consumer preferences, including, for
example, preferences for smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles.  In
2010, globally we will deliver substantially more new or freshened product by
volume than 2009, bringing to market an unprecedented volume of new products –
with class-leading fuel economy, quality, safety and technology.



43ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Ford
Credit.During 2009, Ford Credit eliminated about
1,200 U.S. staff and agency positions within its servicing, sales, and
central operations.  During 2010, Ford Credit plans to reduce its
staffing by about 1,000 positions to improve its cost structure, in
response to lower financing volumes resulting from lower automotive industry
sales volumes and the transition of Jaguar, Land Rover, Mazda, and Volvo
financing to other finance providers.



Accelerate Development of
New Products Our Customers Want and Value



We are
committed to introducing new products that consumers want and value, and we are
receiving very positive reactions from consumers, media, and independent
evaluators in response to the products we introduced in 2009.  We plan
to build on this strength in 2010.  Our global product strategy is to
serve all meaningful geographic markets with a complete family of products that
have best-in-class design, quality, green, safety and smart
features.  The result of this strategy is to produce vehicles
that:



·have
      bold, emotive exterior designs,

·are
      great to drive,

·are
      great to sit in (with the comfort and convenience of a second home on
      wheels and exceptional quietness),

·provide
      best-in-class fuel economy as a reason to
buy,

·are
      unmistakably a Ford or Lincoln in look, sound and feel,
  and

·provide
      an exceptional value.







In
addition to these efficiencies, our global product strategies allow us to
increase revenue by making our vehicles and their features more attractive to
customers.  With bold, emotive design, high levels of quality, fuel
economy leadership, top safety ratings, innovative technology, greater feature
content than competitive models and higher attractive series, we are able to
reduce brand discount and increase revenue.  In 2009, average per-unit
revenue from our vehicles sold in North America increased by $3,300, from
$22,800 in 2008 to $26,100 in 2009.



With the
cost efficiencies and revenue increases that have been and will in the future be
realized from our One Ford GPDS and global product strategy, we believe we can
achieve small-car profitability in the North American market as well as other
markets, and improve the profitability of all our vehicle lines in all
markets.



Following
is a discussion of new or future products offered or to be offered by Ford
business units and a discussion of each of the four pillars of our global
product strategy:



Ford North
America.Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brands collectively
increased U.S. overall and retail market share 14 of the last 15 months as
of December 2009, and posted the first full-year market share gain since
1995.  Our new 2010 Fusion Hybrid was namedMotor Trendmagazine's Car of
the Year and awarded the title of North American Car of the Year at the North
American International Auto Show in January 2010.  The Ford Fusion,
the most fuel-efficient mid-size sedan sold in America, posted a full-year sales
record in 2009 with 180,671 units sold.  The new Ford Transit Connect
was introduced in the second quarter of 2009 and was awarded the 2010 North
American Truck of the Year at the North American International Auto
Show.  The 2011 Ford Fiesta was revealed in North America in the
fourth quarter of 2009 as a new offering and will go on sale in the second
quarter of 2010.  The 2011 Ford Mustang debuted with a new family of
V-6 and V-8 engines that deliver best-in-class performance and fuel economy and
will arrive in dealerships in spring 2010.  Further product
introductions are planned, as we plan to substantially increase the amount of
new vehicle introductions by volume versus 2009, an aggressive product
introduction period.  For 2010, these introductions include the
all-new Ford Fiesta, Focus, Explorer, Super Duty, Edge, Transit Connect
Electric, Lincoln MKX and an all-new small car for Mercury.



44ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Ford Europe.Based
on the strength of its product portfolio, Ford Europe improved its 2009
full-year market share to 9.1% in the 19 European markets we track, a 0.5
percentage point increase versus 2008 and its best market share since 1998.
Fiesta was the second best-selling model in Europe in 2009, reaching its best
full-year sales since 1996.  One year after its debut, more than
600,000 customers have purchased the new Fiesta globally.  In 2010, we
will continue to build on our product momentum, entering one of the most
prolific periods of new product and technology introductions in Ford Europe's
history.  With 6 vehicle product actions planned for 2010 – including
the new Ford C-MAX and Grand C-MAX, and the freshened Ford Galaxy, S-MAX and
Focus – Ford Europe is poised to build on the successful introductions of the
Ford Ka and Ford Fiesta.  An expanded range of fuel-efficient
powertrains, including the new EcoBoost 2.0-liter and 1.6-liter engines and
further improved TDCi diesel powertrains will be available across the range,
together with new technologies and innovations.



Ford South
America.We continue to launch new products to meet the needs
of our customers in South America.  In 2010, we are bringing a
flex-fuel version of the European-based Ford Focus to Brazil; nine additional
product introductions are planned for the region in 2010.  As noted,
we also are making our largest-ever investment in Brazil operations over a
five-year period, investing R$4 billion in 2011–2015 to accelerate delivery
of more fuel-efficient, high-quality vehicles.



Ford Asia Pacific
Africa.In 2010, we will see the introduction in Asia Pacific
Africa of the all-new Ford Fiesta five-door and four-door sedan built in Rayong,
Thailand.  The four-door Fiesta will join its five-door sibling in
Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and Taiwan.  The new Ford Figo
will commence sales in the second quarter in India and later in the year in
South Africa.  Other product introductions in 2010
include updated core products in key Asia Pacific Africa markets,
including China.



Drive Quality.



Drive Green.  We
remain committed to our goal to deliver best-in-class or among the best-in-class
fuel efficiency in every new vehicle we produce.  For example, the
2010 Ford Fusion and Ford Fusion Hybrid, launched last year, are the most
fuel-efficient mid-size sedans in the market.  The 2011 Ford Fiesta,
which will be in showrooms this year, offers a model rated at an EPA-estimated
30 miles per gallon city, 40 miles per gallon highway.  The
implementation of our new EcoBoost family of gasoline engines is well on its
way, with the 3.5-liter engine now available in the Lincoln MKS and MKT and the
Ford Taurus SHO and Flex and the I-4 EcoBoost to be introduced in vehicles this
year.  We will continue to aggressively migrate this technology across
our product lineup.  By 2013, 90% of Ford's North America nameplates
will offer this engine option.  By combining direct fuel-injection and
turbo boosting, the engines can deliver up to 20% better fuel economy and up to
15% fewer CO2emissions
versus larger-displacement engines, without sacrificing driving
performance.



We also
are rolling out EcoBoost in Europe, with five models slated to implement this
technology in the near-term, including the Galaxy and S-MAX in
2010.  The Ford Europe ECOnetic range of ultra-lowCO2models
across all car segments (from B to CD), including commercial vehicle
applications, started in 2008 with the Ford Focus ECOnetic, followed by the
Fiesta and Transit ECOnetic. Recently, we unveiled the second-generation Focus
ECOnetic with further advanced technology and reduced CO2emissions
(below 100 g/km of CO2).  In
Asia Pacific Africa, we have committed to improving fuel efficiency by up to 20%
across our product lineup by 2012 – helped by the introduction of new models, as
well as innovative Ford technologies such as Powershift transmissions and
EcoBoost.  As part of this commitment, we will launch
EcoBoost-equipped vehicles in China, Australia, New Zealand and Taiwan in
2010.  Also in Australia, by 2011 we will introduce an advanced
liquid-injection LPG system for the Ford Falcon, providing customers with the
most advanced LPG technology on the market.



45ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

We have
developed a sustainability strategy that outlines future technology pathways for
our vehicle production in the near-, mid- and long-term.  Near-term,
we have introduced EcoBoost, doubled the number and volume production of our
hybrids and continue to implement fuel-saving technologies such as six-speed
transmissions and electric power assist steering in the product
lineup.  We also have announced an aggressive electric vehicle
strategy that will bring at least four new electric vehicles to market in the
United States within the next three years.  Late this year, the Ford
Transit Connect Electric, a small, all-electric commercial van will be
introduced to the market, aimed at commercial vehicle owners.  Next
year, we will begin production of a zero-emission Ford Focus Electric vehicle at
our Michigan Assembly Plant.  In 2012, we will produce, at that same
facility, the next-generation hybrid vehicle and plug-in
hybrid.  Electric vehicle projects also are underway in Germany and
the United Kingdom.  We continue to engage in a number of
collaborative agreements to address the many challenges that remain for
electrified transportation, including battery development, standardization,
cost, electric infrastructure and connectivity to the national power
grid.



Drive Safe



In
Europe, we plan to offer a suite of new safety and driver assistance technology
on vehicles sold in the region in 2010 and beyond, including our Blind Spot
Information System, Speed Limiter, Active Park Assist, Torque Vectoring Control,
Adaptive Cruise Control, Lane Departure Warning, Lane Keeping Aid, Low Speed
Collision Mitigation System, Traffic Sign Recognition System, Driver Alert,
All-Seat Beltminder and Power Child Locks.  Many of these safety
features will become available with the introduction of the next-generation
C-MAX, Grand C-MAX, Focus and freshened S-Max and Galaxy.



Drive Smart.We
earned our second consecutive invitation to keynote the International Consumer
Electronics Show, placing the Company among the world's leading electronics and
technology innovators.  At the show, our President and Chief Executive
Officer Alan Mulally introduced MyFord Touch and the next-generation of SYNC
that will redefine the in-car experience with a simpler, safer and smarter way
to connect drivers with available technology and their digital
lives.  MyFord Touch presents a holistic approach to accessing and
personalizing vehicle settings and functions using a mix of graphic, touch, and
voice user interfaces.  MyFord Touch was recognized with CNET's "Best
of CES" and Popular Mechanics' "Editor's Choice" awards at the
show.  MyFord and SYNC are both headed to the European market for
upcoming products, including the Focus and C-MAX.  Ford also is
leading the way in leveraging the growing consumer trend of smartphone
applications ("apps") with an innovative approach to control the applications
through SYNC.  Our application programming interface ("API") brings
popular apps such as Pandora internet radio, Stitcher "smart" radio and the
Twitter client OpenBeak into the car.  These technologies not only
provide greater connectivity to vehicle occupants, but importantly also help
mitigate driver distraction risks by using the safer means of voice commands to
control functions and programs.



46ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Finance Our Plan and Improve
Our Balance Sheet



During
2009, we completed numerous financing transactions designed to provide
additional Automotive liquidity and improve our balance sheet.  These
accomplishments include:



·Negotiated
      with the UAW to amend the VEBA agreement to provide the option of paying
      up to approximately 50% of our VEBA obligations in Ford Common Stock,
      and to smooth payments over the 13-year payment
  term.

·Reduced
      Automotive debt by $10.1 billion principal amount, utilizing
      $2.6 billion in Automotive and Ford Credit cash and 468 million
      shares of Ford Common Stock, through a number of separate but related
      transactions, including a cash tender offer to repurchase outstanding debt
      securities, a cash tender offer to repurchase certain secured term loan
      debt, and an induced conversion offer with respect to our convertible debt
      securities maturing 2036.

·Raised
      $1.6 billion of equity in an underwritten public offering of Ford
      Common Stock.

·Raised
      $565 million with the completion of an equity distribution program
      begun in 2008, pursuant to which shares of Ford Common Stock were issued
      over time in market transactions.

·Entered
      into a U.S. Department of Energy ("DOE") loan agreement to provide us up
      to $5.9 billion in loans, at interest rates generally equivalent to a
      10-year U.S. Treasury rate, under the DOE's Advanced Technology Vehicles
      Manufacturing Incentive Program (the "ATVM
  Program").

·Issued
      $2.875 billion of 4.25% Senior Convertible Notes due
      2016.

·Amended
      and extended the revolving credit facility under our secured Credit
      Agreement – reducing the amount of the revolving credit facility from
      $10.7 billion to $8.1 billion, extending the maturity date of
      $7.2 billion of that amount from December 2011 to November 2013 and
      establishing a new term loan in the amount of $724 million maturing
      in December 2013.

·Registered
      an additional $1 billion equity distribution program in November 2009
      and commenced sales thereunder in December
2009.

·Completed
      the UAW VEBA transaction on December 31, 2009 by transferring
      assets, consisting of cash and marketable securities, notes and warrants
      valued at $14.8 billion, to the UAW VEBA Trust, thereby discharging
      our $13.6 billion of UAW retiree health care
    obligations.



See
"Liquidity and Capital Resources" and Note 19 of the Notes to the Financial
Statements for additional discussion of financing activities, available
liquidity and outstanding debt.



After
completion of the important steps described above (discussed further in
"Liquidity and Capital Resources" and the Notes to the Financial Statements), we
ended 2009 with $34.4 billion in Automotive debt, which is significantly
higher than that of our key competitors.  As a result, we continue to
pursue opportunities to improve our balance sheet – with a key priority being
continuous improvement of the underlying business in order to generate operating
profits and positive Automotive cash flow with which our debt can be paid
down.



We
believe that our stable management team, our strong supplier and dealer
relationships, the positive acceptance of our products by customers, and our
full pipeline of new products allow us to compete effectively in the global
vehicle markets while we reduce our debt to a more competitive
level.



Work Together Effectively as
One Team



As part
of the One Team approach, we have implemented a disciplined business plan
process to regularly review our business environment, risks and opportunities,
strategy, and plan, and to identify areas of our plan that need special
attention while pursuing opportunities to improve our plan.  Everyone
is included and contributes, openness is encouraged, our leaders are responsible
and accountable, we use facts and data to make our decisions, high performance
teamwork is a performance criteria – and we follow this process every week,
every month, and every quarter, driving continuous improvement.  We
believe this process gives us a clear picture of our business in real time and
the ability to respond quickly and decisively to new issues and changing
conditions – as we have done in the face of rapid changes in the market and
business environment in 2009.



In
addition, we are partnering with and enlisting all of our stakeholders to help
us execute our plan to deal with our business realities and create an exciting
and viable Ford business going forward.  We are reaching out and
listening to customers, dealers, employees, the UAW, suppliers, investors,
communities, retirees, and federal, state and local governments.  Each
of these constituencies is a critical part of the success of our business going
forward.  Realizing our goal of profitable growth for all is as
important to these stakeholders as it is to our shareholders.



47ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS



FULL-YEAR
2009 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



Our
worldwide net income attributable to Ford Motor Company was $2.7 billion or
$0.86 per share of Common and Class B Stock in 2009, an improvement of
$17.5 billion from a net loss attributable to Ford Motor Company of
$14.8 billion or $6.50 per share of Common and Class B Stock in
2008.



Results
by business sector are shown below (in millions):



      (a)2007
      (a)Income/(Loss)
      before income taxesAutomotive
      sector$1,212$(11,917)$(5,081)Financial
      Services sector1,814(2,581)1,224Total
      Company3,026(14,498)(3,857)Provision
      for/(Benefit from) income taxes (b)6963(1,333)Income/(Loss)
      from continuing operations2,957(14,561)(2,524)Income/(Loss)
      from discontinued operations5941Net
      income/(loss)2,962(14,552)(2,483)Less:
      Income/(Loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (c)245214312Net income/(loss) attributable
      to Ford Motor Company(d)$2,717$(14,766)$(2,795)

__________

(a)Adjusted
      for the effect of the change in the accounting standards for convertible
      debt instruments that, upon conversion, may be settled in cash; see Note 1
      of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional detail.(b)See
      Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for disclosure regarding
      2009 effective tax rate.(c)Formerly
      labeled "Minority interests in net income/(loss)," reflects new
      presentation under standard on accounting for noncontrolling interests,
      which was effective January 1, 2009.  Primarily
      related to Ford Europe's consolidated 41% owned affiliate, Ford
      Otosan.  The pre-tax results for Ford Otosan were
      $307 million, $531 million, and $551 million in 2009, 2008,
      and 2007, respectively.  See "Item 2. Properties" for additional
      discussion of Ford Otosan.(d)Formerly
      labeled "Net income/(loss)," reflects new presentation under the standard
      on accounting for noncontrolling interests, effective
      January 1, 2009.



Income/(Loss) before income taxesincludes certain items ("special items") that we have grouped into
"Personnel and Dealer-Related Items" and "Other Items" to provide useful
information to investors about the nature of the special items.  The
first category includes items related to our efforts to match production
capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix and
therefore helps investors track amounts related to those
activities.  The second category includes items that we do not
generally consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating activities, and
therefore allows investors analyzing our pre-tax results to identify certain
infrequent significant items that they may wish to exclude when considering the
trend of ongoing operating results.



48ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

The
following table details special items in each category by segment or business
unit (in millions):



Personnel
      and Dealer-Related Items– Automotive
      Sector:200920082007

Ford
      North America

Retiree
      health care and related charges$(768)$2,583$1,332

Personnel-reduction
      actions/Other(358)(875)(829)

U.S.
      dealer actions (primarily dealership impairments)(139)(219)—

Pension
      curtailment charges——(180)

Job
      Security Benefits/Transition Assistance Plan4034680

Total
      Ford North America(1,225)1,835403

Ford
      South America

Personnel-reduction
      actions(20)——

Ford
      Europe

Personnel-reduction
      actions/Other(216)(82)(90)

Ford
      Asia Pacific Africa

Personnel-reduction
      actions/Other(22)(137)(23)

Volvo

Personnel-reduction
      actions/Other(54)(194)(63)

U.S.
      dealer actions(1)(31)—

Total
      Volvo(55)(225)(63)

Other
      Automotive

Return
      on assets held in Temporary Asset Account ("TAA")110(509)—

Total
      Personnel and Dealer-Related Items – Automotive sector(1,428)882227

Other
      Items:

Automotive
      sector

Ford
      North America

Fixed
      asset impairment charges—(5,300)—

Gain/(Loss)
      on sale of ACH plants—(324)3

Accelerated
      depreciation related to AAI acquisition of leased facility—(306)—

Supplier
      settlement/Other—(202)—

Ballard
      restructuring/Other—(70)—

Variable
      marketing – change in business practice *——(1,099)

Total
      Ford North America—(6,202)(1,096)

Ford
      Europe

Investment
      impairment and related charges/Other(96)——

Variable
      marketing – change in business practice *——(120)

Plant
      idling/closure——(43)

Total
      Ford Europe(96)—(163)

Ford
      Asia Pacific Africa

Variable
      marketing – change in business practice *——(15)

Volvo

Held-for-sale
      impairment(650)——

Goodwill
      impairment charges——(2,400)

Variable
      marketing – change in business practice *——(87)

Held-for-sale
      cessation of depreciation and related charges/Other424—(4)

Total
      Volvo(226)—(2,491)

Other
      Automotive

Liquidation
      of foreign subsidiary – foreign currency translation
impact(281)——

Initial
      mark-to-market adjustment on Mazda marketable securities—(80)—

Loss
      from conversion of convertible securities——(632)

Gain
      from debt securities exchanged for equity—141120

Net
      gains from debt reduction actions4,663——

Total
      Other Automotive4,38261(512)

Mazda

Loss
      on sale of Mazda shares—(121)—

Impairment
      of dealer network goodwill—(214)—

Total
      Mazda—(335)—

Jaguar
      Land Rover and Aston Martin

Sale-related/Other332178

Total
      Other Items – Automotive sector4,063(6,444)(4,099)

Financial
      Services sector

DFO
      Partnership impairment/gain on sale(132)——

Ford
      Credit net operating lease impairment charge—(2,086)—

Gain
      from purchase of Ford Holdings debt securities51——

Total
      Other Items – Financial Services sector(81)(2,086)—

Total$2,554$(7,648)$(3,872)

__________

*Represents
      a one-time, non-cash charge related to a change in our business practice
      for offering and announcing retail variable marketing incentives to our
      dealers.  See our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
      December 31, 2007 for discussion of this change in business
      practice.49ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)



Included
in Provision for/(Benefit from) income taxes are tax benefits of
$132 million, $144 million, and $1.5 billion for 2009, 2008, and
2007, respectively, that we consider to be special items.  These
consist of the tax effects of the pre-tax special items listed above, the impact
of changes in tax rate on deferred tax balances, and, in 2007, a
$1.5 billion benefit reflecting the change in our deferred tax asset
valuation allowance allocated to Income/(Loss) from continuing operations after
taking into consideration income from Accumulated other comprehensive
income/(loss) when determining whether sufficient future taxable income exists
to realize deferred tax assets.



Discussion
of Automotive and Financial Services sector results of operations below is on a
pre-tax basis.  Discussion of overall Automotive cost changes,
including structural cost changes (e.g., manufacturing and engineering, pension
and OPEB, overhead, etc.), is at constant exchange and excludes special items
and discontinued operations.  In addition, costs that vary directly
with volume, such as material, freight, and warranty costs, are measured at
constant volume and mix.



AUTOMOTIVE
SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



Compared with 2008



Details
by segment or business unit ofIncome/(Loss) before income taxesare shown below (in millions), with Mazda and Jaguar Land Rover and Aston
Martin separated out from "ongoing" subtotals:



200920082009Over/(Under)2008Ford
      North America *$(1,649)$(10,248)$8,599Ford
      South America7451,230(485)Ford
      Europe(226)970(1,196)Ford
      Asia Pacific Africa(97)(290)193Volvo(934)(1,690)756Total
      ongoing Automotive operations(2,161)(10,028)7,867Other
      Automotive3,370(1,816)5,186Total
      ongoing Automotive1,209(11,844)13,053Mazda—(105)105Jaguar
      Land Rover and Aston Martin332(29)Total
      Automotive sector$1,212$(11,917)$13,129

__________

*  Includes
the sales of Mazda6 by our consolidated subsidiary, AAI.




ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)





Details
by segment of Automotive revenues ("sales") and wholesale unit volumes are shown
below:



Sales
      (a)(in
      billions)Wholesales
      (b)(in
      thousands)200920082009Over/(Under)2008200920082009Over/(Under)2008Ford
      North America (c)$50.5$53.4$(2.9)(5)%1,9592,329(370)(16)%Ford
      South America8.08.6(0.6)(8)44343582Ford
      Europe29.539.0(9.5)(24)1,5681,820(252)(14)Ford
      Asia Pacific Africa (d)5.56.5(1.0)(14)5234645913Volvo12.414.7(2.3)(15)324359(35)(10)Total
      ongoing Automotive105.9122.2(16.3)(13)4,8175,407(590)(11)Jaguar
      Land Rover and Aston Martin—7.0(7.0)(100)—125(125)(100)Total
      Automotive sector105.9$129.2$(23.3)(18)4,8175,532(715)(13)

__________

(a)2009
      over/(under) 2008 sales percentages are computed using unrounded sales
      numbers.(b)Wholesale
      unit volumes generally are reported on a where-sold basis, and include all
      Ford-badged units and units manufactured by Ford that are sold to other
      manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other
      manufacturers.  Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that
      are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option, as well as other sales of
      finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred
      (e.g.,consignments),
      are included in wholesale unit volumes.(c)Includes
      sales of Mazda6 by our consolidated subsidiary, AAI.(d)Included
      in wholesale unit volumes of Ford Asia Pacific Africa are Ford-badged
      vehicles sold in China by unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 264,000
      and 184,000 units in
      2009 and 2008, respectively.  Also included in the 184,000 units
      in 2008 are Ford-badged vehicles sold by unconsolidated affiliates in
      Malaysia during the first quarter.  "Sales" above does not
      include revenue from these units.



Details
of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2009 and 2008, along
with the level of dealer stocks as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, are
shown below:



Market
      ShareDealer-Owned
      Stocks (a)(in
      thousands)200920082009
      Over/(Under)
      Over/(Under)
      2008United
      States (b)15.3%14.2%1.1
      pts.382442(60)South
      America (b) (c)10.29.70.553458Europe
      (b) (d)9.18.60.5202282(80)Asia
      Pacific Africa (b) (e) (f)2.02.0—3346(13)Volvo
      – United States/Europe (d)0.6/1.30.5/1.30.1/—12/3113/40(1)/(9)

__________

(a)Dealer-owned
      stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers
      (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail
      customers.(b)Includes
      only Ford and, in certain markets (primarily United States), Lincoln and
      Mercury brands.(c)South
      America market share is based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations
      for our six major markets (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and
      Venezuela).(d)Europe
      market share is based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations for the 19 European
      markets we track (described in Item 1).(e)Asia
      Pacific Africa market share is based, in part, on estimated vehicle sales
      for our 12 major markets (Australia, China, Japan, India, Indonesia,
      Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand and
      Vietnam).(f)Dealer-owned
      stocks for Asia Pacific Africa include primarily Ford-brand vehicles as
      well as a small number of units distributed for other
      manufacturers.



51ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Overall
Automotive Sector



The
improvement in results primarily reflects favorable cost changes
($5.8 billion), favorable net pricing ($5.5 billion), the
non-recurrence of fixed asset impairment charges in Ford North America
($5.3 billion), net gains on debt reduction actions ($4.7 billion),
and higher returns on the assets held in the TAA (about
$900 million).  These factors were offset partially by
unfavorable volume and mix ($3.7 billion), higher retiree health care and
related charges and the non-recurrence of a retiree health care curtailment gain
($3.4 billion), and unfavorable changes in currency exchange
($2.1 billion).  The favorable cost changes primarily reflect
lower structural costs.



The
decrease in revenue primarily reflects lower volumes, the non-recurrence of
revenue at Jaguar Land Rover, and unfavorable changes in currency exchange,
offset partially by favorable net pricing.



The table
below details our Automotive sector 2009 structural cost changes at constant
exchange, excluding special items and discontinued operations
(in billions):



Explanation
      of Structural Cost Changes2009Better/(Worse)Than
      2008Manufacturing
      and engineeringPrimarily
      hourly and salaried personnel reductions and efficiencies in our
      plantsand
      processes$2.7Pension
      and OPEBPrimarily
      the effect of the UAW Retiree Health Care Settlement Agreement0.8Advertising
      & sales promotionsReduced
      costs0.6Spending-relatedPrimarily
      lower depreciation and amortization related to the North America asset
      impairment at the endof
      second quarter 20080.6OverheadPrimarily
      salaried personnel reductions0.4Total$5.1



Ford North America
Segment.The improvement in earnings primarily reflects the
non-recurrence of fixed asset impairment charges ($5.3 billion), favorable
net pricing ($4 billion), favorable cost changes ($3.7 billion), lower
costs associated with personnel-reduction actions (about $500 million), and
the non-recurrence of losses on the sale of ACH plants (about
$300 million).  These factors are offset partially by higher
retiree health care and related charges and the non-recurrence of a retiree
health care curtailment gain ($3.4 billion), unfavorable changes in
currency exchange ($1.2 billion), and unfavorable volume and mix (including
lower industry volume, offset partially by favorable mix and higher market
share) (about $900 million).  The favorable net pricing primarily
reflects the success of new products, selective top-line pricing, and a
disciplined approach on incentives.  The unfavorable changes in
currency exchange primarily reflect the non-recurrence of favorable 2008 balance
sheet valuations.  The favorable cost changes primarily reflect lower
structural costs (including lower manufacturing and engineering, pension and
OPEB, and spending-related costs) and lower net product costs.



Ford South America
Segment.The decrease in earnings primarily reflects
unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates and unfavorable cost changes,
offset partially by favorable net pricing.  The unfavorable cost
changes primarily reflect higher net product costs.



Ford Europe
Segment.The decline in results primarily reflects unfavorable
volume and mix (including lower industry volume and dealer stock, as well as
unfavorable product mix due in part to government scrappage programs),
unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates, lower earnings due to lower
volumes at our consolidated joint ventures, higher costs associated with
personnel-reduction actions, and an investment impairment.  These
factors are offset partially by favorable cost changes and favorable net
pricing.  The favorable cost changes primarily reflect lower
structural costs (including lower manufacturing and engineering, advertising and
sales promotions, and spending-related costs).



Ford Asia Pacific Africa
Segment.The improvement in earnings is more than explained by
favorable net pricing, favorable cost changes, lower costs associated with
personnel-reduction actions, and favorable China joint venture profits, offset
partially by unfavorable volume and mix and unfavorable changes in currency
exchange rates.  The favorable cost changes are more than explained by
lower structural costs (including lower manufacturing and engineering,
advertising and sales promotions, and overhead costs).




ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)



Volvo Segment.The
improvement in earnings is more than explained by favorable cost changes,
held-for-sale cessation of depreciation, favorable changes in currency exchange
rates, and lower costs associated with personnel-reduction actions, offset
partially by a held-for-sale impairment and unfavorable volume and
mix.  The favorable cost changes primarily reflect lower structural
costs (including lower manufacturing and engineering, advertising and sales
promotions, and overhead costs) and lower net product costs.



Other Automotive.The
improvement in results is more than explained by net gains resulting from debt
reduction actions and higher returns on the assets held in the TAA.



Mazda Segment.In the fourth
quarter of 2008, we sold a significant portion of our investment in
Mazda.  Our remaining ownership interest is treated as a marketable
security, with mark-to-market adjustments reported in Other
Automotive.



Jaguar Land Rover and Aston Martin
Segment.During the second quarter of 2008, we sold our Jaguar
Land Rover operations.  During the second quarter of 2007, we sold our
Aston Martin operations.



Compared with 2007



Details
by segment or business unit ofIncome/(Loss) before income taxesare shown below (in millions), with Mazda and Jaguar Land Rover and Aston
Martin separated out from "ongoing" subtotals:



200820072008Over/(Under)2007Ford
      North America *$(10,248)$(4,139)$(6,109)Ford
      South America1,2301,17258Ford
      Europe970744226Ford
      Asia Pacific Africa(290)2(292)Volvo(1,690)(2,718)1,028Total
      ongoing Automotive operations(10,028)(4,939)(5,089)Other
      Automotive(1,816)(1,170)(646)Total
      ongoing Automotive(11,844)(6,109)(5,735)Mazda(105)182(287)Jaguar
      Land Rover and Aston Martin32846(814)Total
      Automotive sector$(11,917)$(5,081)$(6,836)

__________

*  Includes
the sales of Mazda6 by our consolidated subsidiary, AAI.




ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)



Details
by segment of Automotive revenues ("sales") and wholesale unit volumes are shown
below:



Sales
      (a)(in
      billions)Wholesales
      (b)(in
      thousands)200820072008Over/(Under)2007200820072008Over/(Under)2007Ford
      North America (c)$53.4$70.4$(17.0)(24)%2,3292,890(561)(19)%Ford
      South America8.67.61.014435438(3)(1)Ford
      Europe39.036.32.771,8201,918(98)(5)Ford
      Asia Pacific Africa (d)6.57.0(0.5)(8)464535(71)(13)Volvo14.717.8(3.1)(17)359482(123)(26)Total
      ongoing Automotive122.2139.1(16.9)(12)5,4076,263(856)(14)Jaguar
      Land Rover and Aston Martin7.015.3(8.3)(54)125292(167)(57)Total
      Automotive sector$129.2$154.4$(25.2)(16)5,5326,555(1,023)(16)

__________

(a)2008
      over/(under) 2007 sales percentages are computed using unrounded sales
      numbers.(b)Wholesale
      unit volumes generally are reported on a where-sold basis, and include all
      Ford-badged units and units manufactured by Ford that are sold to other
      manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other
      manufacturers.  Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that
      are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option, as well as other sales of
      finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred
      (e.g.,consignments),
      are included in wholesale unit volumes.(c)Includes
      sales of Mazda6 by our consolidated subsidiary, AAI.(d)Included
      in wholesale unit volumes of Ford Asia Pacific Africa are Ford-badged
      vehicles sold in China and through the first quarter of 2008 in Malaysia,
      by unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 184,000 and 205,000 units in
      2008 and 2007, respectively.  "Sales" above does not include
      revenue from these units.



Details
of Automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2008 and 2007, along
with the level of dealer stocks as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, are
shown below:



Market
      ShareDealer-Owned
      Stocks (a)(in
      thousands)200820072008Over/(Under)2007200820072008Over/(Under)2007United
      States (b)14.2%14.6%(0.4) pts.442533(91)South
      America (b) (c)9.710.7(1.0)453411Europe
      (b) (d)8.68.6—28227111Asia
      Pacific Africa (b) (e) (f)2.02.3(0.3)4658(12)Volvo
      – United States/Europe (d)0.5/1.30.6/1.5(0.1)/(0.2)13/4024/43(11)/(3)

__________

(a)Dealer-owned
      stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers
      (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail
      customers.(b)Includes
      only Ford and, in certain markets (primarily United States), Lincoln and
      Mercury brands.(c)South
      America market share is based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations
      for our six major markets (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and
      Venezuela).(d)Europe market share
      is based, inpart, on estimated vehicle registrations for the 19
      European markets we track (described in Item 1).(e)Asia
      Pacific Africa market share is based, in part, on estimated vehicle sales
      for our 12 major markets (Australia, China, Japan, India, Indonesia,
      Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand and
      Vietnam).(f)Dealer-owned
      stocks for Asia Pacific Africa include primarily Ford-brand vehicles as
      well as a small number of units distributed for other
      manufacturers.



54ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Overall
Automotive Sector



The
decline in earnings primarily reflects unfavorable volume and mix
($6.9 billion), fixed asset impairment charges in Ford North America
($5.3 billion), lower returns on our cash portfolio ($1 billion),
lower returns on the assets held in the TAA (about $700 million), and
unfavorable net pricing (about $700 million).  These factors were
offset partially by favorable cost changes ($4.3 billion), the
non-recurrence of a goodwill impairment charge related to Volvo
($2.4 billion), and favorable retiree health care changes (primarily
curtailment gains) ($1.3 billion).  The favorable costs changes
primarily reflect lower structural costs, offset partially by higher net product
costs.



The
decrease in revenue is more than explained by lower volumes and lower revenue
for Jaguar Land Rover, offset partially by favorable changes in currency
exchange.



The table
below details our Automotive sector 2008 structural cost changes at constant
exchange, excluding special items and discontinued operations
(in billions):



Explanation
      of Structural Cost Changes2008Better/(Worse)Than
      2007Manufacturing
      and engineeringPrimarily
      hourly and salaried personnel reductions and efficiencies in our plants
      and processes$1.6Pension
      and OPEBPrimarily
      the effect of the UAW Retiree Health Care Settlement Agreement1.2Spending-relatedPrimarily
      lower depreciation and amortization related to the North America asset
      impairment at the endof
      second quarter 20081.3OverheadPrimarily
      salaried personnel reductions1.0Advertising
      & sales promotionsReduced
      costs0.4Total$5.5



Ford North America
Segment.The decline in earnings is more than explained by
unfavorable volume and mix ($5.4 billion), fixed asset impairment charges
($5.3 billion), and unfavorable net pricing ($1.3 billion), offset
partially by favorable cost changes ($3.5 billion), favorable retiree
health care changes (primarily curtailment gains) ($1.3 billion), and the
non-recurrence of a variable marketing charge related to a business practice
change ($1.1 billion).  The favorable cost changes are more than
explained by lower structural costs (including lower manufacturing and
engineering, spending-related, and pension and OPEB costs), offset partially by
higher net product costs.



Ford South America
Segment.The increase in earnings is more than explained by
favorable net pricing, offset partially by unfavorable cost changes, unfavorable
volume and mix, and unfavorable changes in currency exchange.  The
unfavorable cost changes are more than explained by higher net product
costs.



Ford Europe
Segment.The increase in earnings primarily reflects favorable
cost changes, favorable net pricing, and the non-recurrence of a variable
marketing charge related to a business practice change, offset partially by
unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates and unfavorable volume and
mix.  The favorable cost changes are more than explained by lower
structural costs (including lower pension costs) and lower warranty-related
costs.



Ford Asia Pacific Africa
Segment.The decline in results primarily reflects unfavorable
volume and mix, unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates, and higher costs
associated with personnel-reduction actions, offset partially by favorable cost
changes and higher net pricing.  The favorable cost changes are more
than explained by lower structural costs (including lower overhead,
spending-related, and advertising and sales promotions costs) and lower net
product costs.



Volvo Segment.The
improvement in earnings is more than explained by the non-recurrence of a
goodwill impairment charge and favorable cost changes.  These factors
were offset partially by unfavorable volume and mix, mainly in the United States
and Europe (largely due to lower industry sales volumes, lower market share, and
unfavorable product mix), unfavorable net pricing, and unfavorable changes in
currency exchange rates.  The favorable cost changes primarily
reflects lower structural costs (including lower manufacturing and engineering,
overhead, and advertising and sales promotions costs), lower net product costs,
and lower warranty-related costs.



Other
Automotive.The decline in earnings primarily reflected lower
returns on our cash portfolio and lower returns on the assets held in the
TAA.  These factors were offset partially by the non-recurrence of the
conversion of convertible securities, lower interest expense, and favorable
mark-to-market adjustments for changes in currency exchange rates on
intercompany loans.



55ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Mazda Segment.In the fourth
quarter of 2008, we sold a significant portion of our investment in
Mazda.  Our remaining ownership interest is treated as marketable
securities, with mark-to-market adjustments reported in Other
Automotive.



Jaguar Land Rover and Aston Martin
Segment.During the second quarter of 2008, we sold our Jaguar
Land Rover operations.  During the second quarter of 2007, we sold our
Aston Martin operations.



FINANCIAL
SERVICES SECTOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



Compared with 2008



Details
of the full-year Financial Services sectorRevenuesandIncome/(Loss) before income taxesfor 2009 and 2008 are shown below:



Revenues(in
      billions)Income/(Loss)
      Before Income Taxes(in
      millions)200920082009Over/(Under)2008200920082009Over/(Under)2008Ford
      Credit$12.1$15.7$(3.6)$2,001$(2,559)$4,560Other
      Financial Services0.30.3—(187)(22)(165)Total$12.4$16.0$(3.6)$1,814$(2,581)$4,395



Ford
Credit









Results
of Ford Credit's operations and unallocated risk management for 2009 and 2008
are shown below:



Full
      Year200920082009Over/(Under)2008Income/(Loss)
      before income taxesNorth
      America operations$1,905$(2,749)$4,654International
      operations46507(461)Unallocated
      risk management*50(317)367Income/(Loss)
      before income taxes2,001(2,559)4,560Provision
      for/(Benefit from) income taxes and Gain on disposal of discontinued
      operations722(1,023)1,745Net
      income/(loss)$1,279$(1,536)$2,815

________

*  Consists
of gains and losses related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives
primarily related to movements in interest rates.



The
improvement in Ford Credit's North America operations pre-tax results primarily
reflected non-recurrence of the impairment charge for operating leases, lower
depreciation expense for leased vehicles and lower residual losses on returned
vehicles due to higher auction values, a lower provision for credit losses, net
gains related to unhedged currency exposure from cross-border intercompany
lending, higher financing margin, and lower operating costs.  These
factors were offset partially by lower volume.  The decrease in Ford
Credit's International operations pre-tax earnings primarily reflected lower
volume, a higher provision for credit losses primarily reflecting losses in
Spain and Germany, lower financing margin primarily in Mexico, non-recurrence of
a gain related to the sale of approximately half of Ford Credit's ownership
interest in its Nordic operations, and a valuation allowance for Australian
finance receivables sold in 2009.  These factors were offset partially
by lower operating costs.  The change in unallocated risk management
income reflected the non-recurrence of net losses related to market valuation
adjustments to derivatives primarily related to movements in interest
rates.



56ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Ford
Credit reviews its business performance from several perspectives,
including:



·On-balance sheet
      basis.  Includes the receivables and leases Ford Credit
      owns and securitized receivables and leases that remain on Ford Credit's
      balance sheet (includes other structured financings and factoring
      transactions that have features similar to securitization
      transactions);

·Securitized off-balance sheet
      basis.  Includes receivables sold in securitization
      transactions that, when sold, do not remain on Ford Credit's balance
      sheet;

·Managed
      basis.  Includes on-balance sheet receivables, excluding
      unearned interest supplements related to finance receivables, and
      securitized off-balance sheet receivables that Ford Credit continues to
      service; and

·Serviced
      basis.  Includes managed receivables and leases, and
      receivables sold in whole-loan sale transactions where Ford Credit retains
      no interest in the sold receivables, but which it continues to
      service.



Ford
Credit analyzes its financial performance primarily on a managed and on-balance
sheet basis.  It retains interests in receivables sold in off-balance
sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained
interests, Ford Credit has credit risk.  As a result, it evaluates
credit losses, receivables, and leverage on a managed basis as well as on an
on-balance sheet basis.  In contrast, Ford Credit does not have the
same financial interest in the performance of receivables sold in whole-loan
sale transactions, and as a result, Ford Credit generally reviews the
performance of its serviced portfolio only to evaluate the effectiveness of its
origination and collection activities.  To evaluate the performance of
these activities, Ford Credit monitors a number of measures, such as
delinquencies, repossession statistics, losses on repossessions, and the number
of bankruptcy filings.



Ford
Credit's net finance receivables and net investment in operating leases are
shown below (in billions):



December
      31,20092008Receivables –
      On-Balance SheetFinance
      receivablesRetail
      installment$56.3$65.5Wholesale22.427.7Other2.42.8Unearned
      interest
      supplements(1.9)(1.3)Allowance
      for credit
      losses(1.3)(1.4)Finance
      receivables,
      net77.993.3Net
      investment in operating leases14.622.5Total
      receivables – on-balance sheet (a)(b)$92.5$115.8Memo:Total
      receivables – managed
      (c)$94.5$117.7Total
      receivables – serviced
      (d)94.6118.0

__________

(a)At
      December31,2009
      and 2008, includes finance receivables of $64.4billion
      and $73.7billion,
      respectively, that have been sold for legal purposes in securitization
      transactions that do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale
      treatment.  In addition, at December31,2009
      and 2008, includes net investment in operating leases of $10.4billion
      and $15.6billion,
      respectively, that have been included in securitization transactions that
      do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale
      treatment.  These underlying securitized assets are available
      only for payment of the debt and other obligations issued or arising in
      the securitization transactions; they are not available to pay Ford
      Credit's other obligations or the claims of Ford Credit's other
      creditors.  Ford Credit holds the right to the excess cash flows
      not needed to pay the debt and other obligations issued or arising in each
      of these securitization transactions.

(b)Includes
      allowance for credit losses of$1.5 billion
      and$1.7billion
      atDecember 31,2009
      and,2008,
      respectively.

(c)Includes
      on-balance sheet receivables, excluding unearned interest supplements
      related to finance receivables of
      $1.9 billion and $1.3billion at December31,2009
      and 2008, respectively; and includes off-balance sheet retail receivables
      of about $100million
      and about $600million
      at December31,2009
      and 2008, respectively.

(d)Includes
      managed receivables and receivables sold in whole-loan sale transactions
      where Ford Credit retains no interest, but which Ford Credit continues to
      service of about $100million
      and about $300million
      at December31,2009
      and 2008, respectively.




ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)





Receivables
decreased from year-end 2008, primarily reflecting lower industry volumes, lower
dealer stocks, and the transition of Jaguar, Land Rover, and Mazda financing to
other finance providers.  In 2009, as part of Ford Credit's commitment
to support the sale of Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brand vehicles, Volvo began to
transition its financing to other sources.  At
December 31, 2009, the Jaguar, Land Rover, and Mazda financing
portfolio represented 7% of Ford Credit's managed receivables and the Volvo
financing portfolio represented 5% of Ford Credit's managed
receivables.  These percentages will decline over time.



The
following table shows worldwide charge-offs (credit losses net of recoveries),
for Ford Credit for the various categories of financing during the periods
indicated.  The loss-to-receivables ratios, which equal charge-offs on
an annualized basis divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding for
the period, excluding the allowance for credit losses and unearned interest
supplements related to finance receivables, are shown below for Ford Credit's
on-balance sheet and managed portfolios.



200920082009Over/(Under)2008Charge-offs –On-Balance Sheet (in millions)Retail
      installment and lease$989$1,089$(100)Wholesale942965Other1217(5)Total
      charge-offs – on-balance sheet$1,095$1,135$(40)Loss-to-Receivables
      Ratios–On-Balance
      SheetRetail
      installment and lease1.25%1.10%0.15pts.Wholesale0.450.090.36Total
      loss-to-receivables ratio (including other) – on-balance
    sheet1.07%0.84%0.23pts.Memo:Total
      charge-offs – managed (in millions)$1,100$1,166$(66)Total
      loss-to-receivables (including other) – managed1.07%0.84%0.23pts.



Most of
Ford Credit's charge-offs are related to retail installment sale and lease
contracts.  Charge-offs depend on the number of vehicle repossessions,
the unpaid balance outstanding at the time of repossession, the auction price of
repossessed vehicles, and other charge-offs.  Ford Credit also incurs
credit losses on its wholesale loans, but default rates for these receivables
historically have been substantially lower than those for retail installment
sale and lease contracts.



The
decrease in charge-offs from a year ago reflected lower losses in the United
States, offset partially by higher losses in Europe.  The decrease in
charge-offs in the United States reflected lower severity and lower other
charge-offs, offset partially by higher repossessions.  The increase
in charge-offs in Europe primarily reflected higher losses in Spain and
Germany.  The increase in loss-to-receivables ratios from a year ago
primarily reflected a combination of lower average receivables, higher
repossessions in the United States, and higher losses in Spain and
Germany.



Shown
below is an analysis of Ford Credit's allowance for credit losses and its
allowance for credit losses as a percentage of end-of-period receivables
(finance receivables (excluding unearned interest supplements), and net
investment in operating leases, excluding the allowance for credit losses) for
its on-balance sheet portfolio for the years ended December 31 (dollar
amounts in billions):



Allowance
      for Credit Losses20092008Balance,
      beginning of year$1.7$1.1Provision
      for credit losses0.91.8DeductionsCharge-offs
      before recoveries1.51.5Recoveries(0.4)(0.4)Net
      charge-offs1.11.1Other
      changes, principally amounts related to translation adjustments and
      finance receivables sold—0.1Net
      deductions1.11.2Balance,
      end of year$1.5$1.7Allowance
      for credit losses as a percentage of end-of-period net
      receivables1.61%1.40%



The
allowance for credit losses is estimated using a combination of models and
management judgment, and is based on such factors as portfolio quality,
historical loss performance, and receivable levels.  The decrease in
Ford Credit's allowance for credit losses primarily reflected the decline in
receivables and decrease in charge-offs.  At
December 31, 2009, Ford Credit's allowance for credit losses included
about $215 million, which was based on management's judgment regarding higher
retail installment and lease repossession assumptions and higher wholesale and
dealer loan default assumptions compared with historical trends used in Ford
Credit's models.  At December 31, 2008, Ford Credit's
allowance for credit losses included about $210 million, which was based on
management's judgment regarding higher severity assumptions.  The
credit quality of Ford Credit's retail and lease originations remains
high.  For additional discussion, see "Critical Accounting Estimates –
Allowance for Credit Losses."



58ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

In
purchasing retail finance and lease contracts, Ford Credit uses a proprietary
scoring system that classifies contracts using several factors, such as credit
bureau information, credit bureau scores (e.g., FICO score), customer
characteristics, and contract characteristics.  In addition to Ford
Credit's proprietary scoring system, it considers other factors, such as
employment history, financial stability, and capacity to pay.  As of
December 31, 2009, about 5% of the outstanding U.S. retail finance and
lease contracts in Ford Credit's serviced portfolio were classified as high risk
at contract inception, slightly higher than year-end 2008 of about
4%.  This increase primarily reflects a lower percentage of lease
contracts in Ford Credit's retail portfolio.  Lease contracts
generally include shorter average terms and higher average FICO scores compared
with retail installment sale contracts.



Residual
Risk



Ford
Credit is exposed to residual risk on operating leases and similar balloon
payment products where the customer may return the financed vehicle to Ford
Credit.  Residual risk is the possibility that the amount Ford Credit
obtains from returned vehicles will be less than its estimate of the expected
residual value for the vehicle.  Ford Credit estimates the expected
residual value by evaluating recent auction values, return volumes for its
leased vehicles, industry-wide used vehicle prices, marketing incentive plans,
and vehicle quality data.  For additional discussion, see "Critical
Accounting Estimates – Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating
Leases."



North
America Retail Operating Lease Experience



Ford
Credit uses various statistics to monitor its residual risk:



·Placement
      volume measures the number of leases Ford Credit purchases in a given
      period;

·Termination
      volume measures the number of vehicles for which the lease has ended in
      the given period; and

·Return
      volume reflects the number of vehicles returned to Ford Credit by
      customers at lease-end.



The
following table shows operating lease placement, termination, and return volumes
for Ford Credit's North America operations, which accounted for about 98% of its
total investment in operating leases at December 31, 2009
(in thousands, except for percentages):



Full
      Year20092008Placements67317Terminations386381Returns314327Memo:Return
      rates81%86%



In 2009,
placement volumes were down 250,000 units compared with 2008, primarily
reflecting changes in our marketing programs that emphasized retail installment
sale contracts, lower industry volumes, and the transition of Jaguar Land Rover
and Mazda financing to other providers.  Termination volumes increased
by 5,000 units compared with last year, reflecting higher placement volumes
in 2006 and 2007.  Return volumes decreased 13,000 units compared
with last year, primarily reflecting lower return rates, consistent with
improved auction values relative to Ford Credit's expectations of lease-end
values at the time of contract purchase.



59ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

U.S.
Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury Brand Retail Operating Lease Experience



The
following table shows return volumes for Ford Credit's Ford, Lincoln, and
Mercury brand U.S. operating lease portfolio.  Also included are
auction values at constant fourth quarter 2009 vehicle mix for lease terms
comprising 59% of Ford Credit's active Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brand U.S.
operating lease portfolio (in thousands, except for percentages):



Full
      Year20092008Returns24-Month
      term608836-Month
      term656139-Month
      term3419Total
      returns159168Memo:Return
      rates78%88%Auction
      Values at Constant Fourth Quarter 2009 Vehicle Mix24-Month
      term$18,670$16,31036-Month
      term13,36512,015



In 2009,
Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brand U.S. return volumes were down 9,000 units
compared with 2008, primarily reflecting a lower return rate, down 10 percentage
points to 78%, consistent with improved auction values relative to Ford Credit's
expectations of lease-end values at the time of contract
purchase.  Auction values at constant fourth quarter 2009 mix were up
$2,360 per unit from 2008 levels for vehicles under 24-month leases, and up
$1,350 for vehicles under 36-month leases, primarily reflecting the overall
auction value improvement in the used vehicle market.  Ford Credit
expects future auction values to remain volatile.



Compared with 2007



Details
of the full-year Financial Services sectorRevenuesandIncome/(Loss) before income taxesfor 2008 and 2007 are shown below:



Revenues(in
      billions)Income/(Loss)
      Before Income Taxes(in
      millions)200820072008Over/(Under)2007200820072008Over/(Under)2007Ford
      Credit$15.7$16.0$(0.3)$(2,559)$1,215$(3,774)Other
      Financial Services0.30.20.1(22)9(31)Total$16.0$16.2$(0.2)$(2,581)$1,224$(3,805)



Ford
Credit



The
decline in pre-tax results primarily reflected the significant decline in used
vehicle auction values during 2008.  This decline in auction values
contributed to an impairment charge to Ford Credit's North America segment
operating lease portfolio ($2.1billion), a
higher provision for credit losses ($1.2billion), and
higher depreciation expense for leased vehicles (about $700million).  Other
factors that explain the decrease in pre-tax earnings include lower volume
primarily related to lower average receivables (about $300million),
higher net losses related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives (about
$200million), and
the non-recurrence of the gain related to the sale of a majority of Ford
Credit's interest in AB Volvofinans (about
$100 million).  These factors were partially offset by higher
financing margin primarily attributable to lower borrowing costs (about
$200million), the
non-recurrence of costs associated with Ford Credit's North American business
transformation initiative (about $200million),
lower expenses primarily reflecting improved operating costs (about $300million), and
a gain related to the sale of approximately half of Ford Credit's ownership
interest in its Nordic operation (about $100million).



60ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

LIQUIDITY
AND CAPITAL RESOURCES



Automotive
Sector



Our
industry has been heavily impacted by the global economic crisis that began in
2008, which included a sudden and substantial decline in global industry sales
volume.  The dramatic decline in industry sales volume, combined with
tight credit markets, other economic factors, and the costs associated with
transforming our business, put significant pressure on our Automotive liquidity
in the first half of 2009.  While the economic environment remains
uncertain, we believe that our continued focus on delivering on our plan is the
right strategy to achieve our objectives.  Our Automotive liquidity
strategy includes ensuring that we have sufficient funding available with a high
degree of certainty throughout the business cycle,with the goal of
improving our core Automotive operations so that they generate positive
operating-related cash flow.



Gross
Cash.Automotive gross cash includes cash and cash
equivalents, net marketable securities, and loaned securities.  Prior
to 2008, we included in Automotive gross cash those assets contained in a VEBA
trust which may be used to pre-fund certain types of company-paid benefits for
U.S. employees and retirees, that were invested in shorter-duration fixed income
investments and could be used within 18 months to pay for benefits
("short-term VEBA assets").  Consistent with our Retiree Health Care
Settlement Agreement dated March 28, 2008, in 2008 we reclassified out of our
Automotive gross cash calculation the short-term VEBA assets and TAA
securities.  Gross cash is detailed below as of the dates shown
(in billions):



December
      31,2009200820072006Cash
      and cash equivalents$10.3$6.4$20.7$16.0Marketable
      securities (a)15.29.32.011.3Loaned
      securities——10.35.3Total
      cash, marketable securities and loaned securities25.515.733.032.6Securities-in-transit
      (b)——(0.3)(0.5)UAW-Ford
      TAA/Other (c)—(2.3)——Short-term
      VEBA assets——1.91.8Gross
      cash (d)$25.5$13.4$34.6$33.9

__________

(a)Included
      in 2009 and 2008 are Ford Credit debt securities that we purchased, which
      are reflected in the table at a carrying value of $646 million and
      $492 million, respectively; the estimated fair value of these
      securities is $656 million and $437 million,
      respectively.  Also included are Mazda marketable securities
      with a fair value of $447 million and $322 million at
      December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.(b)The
      purchase or sale of marketable securities for which the cash settlement
      was not made by period-end and for which there was a payable or receivable
      recorded on the balance sheet at period-end.(c)Amount
      transferred to UAW-Ford TAA that, due to consolidation, was shown inCash, marketable securities
      and loaned securities.(d)Pursuant
      to the Retiree Health Care Settlement Agreement (see Note 18 of the Notes
      to the Financial Statements), in January 2008 we contributed
      $4.6 billion of assets and reduced our Automotive gross cash
      accordingly.



In
managing our business, we classify changes in Automotive gross cash into two
categories:  operating-related and other (which includes the impact of
certain special items, contributions to funded pension plans, the net effect of
the change in the TAA and VEBA on gross cash, certain tax-related transactions,
acquisitions and divestitures, capital transactions with the Financial Services
sector, dividends paid to shareholders, and other – primarily
financing-related).  Our key liquidity metrics are operating-related
cash flow, which best represents the ability of our Automotive operations to
generate cash, and Automotive gross cash.  We believe the cash flow
analysis reflected in the table below is useful to investors because it includes
in operating-related cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our
Automotive operating activities (e.g., capital spending) and excludes cash flow
elements that we do not consider to be related to the ability of our operations
to generate cash.  This differs from a cash flow statement presented
in accordance with U.S.GAAP and differs fromCash flows from operating
activities of continuing operations, the most directly comparable
U.S. GAAP financial measure.



61ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Changes
in Automotive gross cash are summarized below (in billions):



      (a)2007Gross
      cash at end of period$25.5$13.4$34.6Gross
      cash at beginning of period13.434.633.9Total
      change in gross cash$12.1$(21.2)$0.7Operating-related
      cash flowsAutomotive
      income/(loss) before income taxes (excluding special items)$(1.4)$(6.4)$(1.2)Capital
      expenditures(4.5)(6.5)(6.0)Depreciation
      and special tools amortization4.65.56.8Changes
      in receivables, inventory and trade payables4.3(2.9)(0.7)Other
      (b)(1.3)(6.3)1.5Subtotal1.7(16.6)0.4Up-front
      subvention payments to Ford Credit(2.0)(2.9)—Total
      operating-related cash flows(0.3)(19.5)0.4Other
      changes in gross cashCash
      impact of personnel-reduction programs and Job Security Benefits/
      Transition Assistance Plan accrual(0.7)(0.7)(2.5)Contributions
      to funded pension plans(0.9)(1.0)(1.6)Net
      effect of TAA/VEBA on gross cash(0.8)(4.6)1.2Capital
      transactions with Financial Services sector (c)0.4——Tax
      Payments, tax refunds, and tax receipts from affiliates0.62.22.6Acquisitions
      and divestitures(0.1)2.51.1Dividends
      to shareholders———Net
      proceeds from/(Payments on) Automotive sector debt11.7(0.5)(0.6)Equity
      issuances, net2.4——Other(0.2)0.40.1Total
      change in gross cash$12.1$(21.2)$0.7

__________

(a)Excluding
      sale proceeds, total change in Automotive gross cash attributable to
      Jaguar Land Rover operations was $300 million net cash outflow for
      2008.  Except for up-front subvention payments to Ford Credit,
      Jaguar Land Rover cash outflows are excluded from each line item of this
      table and included in Other within "Other changes in gross
      cash."(b)Primarily
      expense and payment timing differences for items such as pension and OPEB,
      marketing, and warranty, as well as additional factors such as the impact
      of tax payments.(c)Primarily
      distributions received from Ford Credit, excluding proceeds from Financial
      Services sector divestitures paid to the Automotive
  sector.



Shown
below is a reconciliation between financial statementCash flows from operating activities
of continuing operationsand operating-related cash flows (calculated as
shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions):



      (a)2007Cash
      flows from operating activities of continuing operations (b)$4.1$(12.4)$8.7Items
      included in operating-related cash flowsCapital
      expenditures(4.5)(6.5)(6.0)Net
      transactions between Automotive and Financial Services sectors (c)(0.8)(0.8)(0.3)Net
      cash flows from non-designated derivatives(0.1)1.21.1Items
      not included in operating-related cash flowsCash
      impact of personnel-reduction programs and Job Security Benefits/
      Transition Assistance Plan accrual0.70.72.5Net
      (sales)/purchases of trading securities——(4.5)Contributions
      to funded pension plans0.91.01.6VEBA
      cash flows (reimbursement for benefits paid)——(1.1)Tax
      refunds, tax payments, and tax receipts from affiliates(0.6)(2.2)(2.6)Other
      (b)—(0.5)1.0Operating-related
      cash flows$(0.3)$(19.5)$0.4

__________

(a)Except
      as noted (see footnote (b) below), 2008 data exclude Jaguar Land Rover;
      2007 includes Jaguar Land Rover.(b)Includes
      Jaguar Land Rover.(c)Primarily
      payables and receivables between the Automotive and Financial Services
      sectors in the normal course of business.  For example, vehicle
      wholesale loans that are made by Ford Credit to Ford-owned
      dealers.



62ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Equity and Equity-Linked
Issuances.On May 18, 2009, we issued
345 million shares of Ford Common Stock pursuant to a public offering at a
price of $4.75 per share, resulting in net proceeds totaling
$1.59 billion.



In
August 2009, pursuant to an equity distribution agreement with a certain
broker-dealer, we issued from time to time in market transactions
71.6 million shares of Ford Common Stock for an aggregate price of
$565 million, and used the proceeds to purchase $556 million principal
amount of outstanding Ford Credit debt securities maturing prior to 2011, and
pay related accrued interest of $9 million.  Pending their
maturity, the Ford Credit debt securities are reflected in Automotive gross cash
and, when the debt securities mature, their par value will be paid in cash by
Ford Credit.  For additional detail, see Note 1 of the Notes to the
Financial Statements.



In
November 2009, we issued $2.875 billion principal amount of 4.25%
Senior Convertible Notes due November 15, 2016 ("2016 Convertible
Notes") in a public offering, resulting in net proceeds totaling
$2.81 billion.  These notes are convertible, under certain
circumstances, into Ford Common Stock at a conversion price of approximately
$9.30 per share.  Upon conversion, we will have the right to
deliver, in lieu of shares of Ford Common Stock, cash or a combination of cash
and Common Stock.  At December 31, 2009 the carrying value
of the debt was $2.2 billion (which excludes the equity component of the
convertible feature of this note valued at $704 million), reflecting the
fair value of the debt obligation at date of issuance.



On
December 4, 2009, we entered into another equity distribution
agreement with certain broker-dealers pursuant to which we would offer and sell
shares of Ford Common Stock from time to time for an aggregate offering price of
up to $1 billion.  Sales of Ford Common Stock under this equity
distribution agreement are expected to be made over a several-month period by
means of ordinary brokers' transactions on the New York Stock Exchange at market
prices or as otherwise agreed.  Through December 31, 2009
and February 15, 2010, we issued 9.8 million and
41.9 million shares of Ford Common Stock for an aggregate price of
$97 million and $470 million, respectively, resulting in net proceeds
of $96 million and $466 million, respectively, which will be used for
general corporate purposes.



Secured Credit
Agreement.  Due to concerns about instability in the capital
markets and the uncertain state of the global economy, on
February 3, 2009, we borrowed $10.1 billion under the revolving
credit facility of the Credit Agreement to ensure access to these
funds.  As expected, the $890 million commitment of Lehman
Commercial Paper Inc. ("LCPI"), one of the lenders under the facility, was not
funded because LCPI filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code on October 5, 2008.  LCPI
subsequently assigned $110 million of its revolving commitment to other
lenders, and $89 million of these assignee lenders' revolving commitments
were funded in the third quarter of 2009.  On July 10, 2009,
we terminated the remaining LCPI commitment of $780 million.  We
also received an additional $10 million under the revolving credit facility
in the third quarter of 2009 for amounts previously committed but not yet
received.



As
disclosed in our Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 24, 2009,
on that date we entered into the Fourth Amendment to the Credit
Agreement.  Prior to the Fourth Amendment, revolving lenders held
commitments totaling $10.7 billion that matured on
December 15, 2011.  As a result of the Fourth Amendment,
lenders now have commitments totaling $7.2 billion in a new revolving
facility that matures on November 30, 2013 and such lenders converted
$724 million of their previously existing revolving loans to a new term
loan that matures on December 15, 2013.  The new term loan
has the same pricing, maturity, and other terms as the existing term loan, but
is not subject to mandatory prepayments as is the existing term
loan.  Those lenders who agreed to extend the maturity of their
revolving commitments had the option to reduce their commitments by up to 25%,
and received a 1 percentage point increase in interest rate margins, an increase
in quarterly fees, and payment of an upfront fee.



Pursuant
to these arrangements, on December 3, 2009, $2.3 billion of the
revolving loan was repaid to effect the commitment reductions elected by
extending lenders and certain other extending lenders increased their revolving
loan commitments by, and funded, an aggregate of $400 million, thereby
resulting in a net cash repayment by us of $1.9 billion.  Lenders
with revolving commitments totaling $886 million elected not to extend
those commitments, which will mature on the original maturity date of
December 15, 2011.



At
December 31, 2009, the revolving credit facility of the Credit
Agreement totaled $8.1 billion, of which (i) $7.9 billion was utilized
(including $418 million to support letters of credit), (ii)
$7.2 billion matures on November 30, 2013 and
(iii) $886 million matures on
December 15, 2011.  Also on December 31, 2009, the
term loans outstanding under the Credit Agreement totaled
$5.3 billion.



The
borrowings of the Company, the subsidiary borrowers, and the guarantors under
the Credit Agreement are secured by a substantial portion of our domestic
Automotive assets (excluding cash).  The collateral includes a
majority of our principal domestic manufacturing facilities, excluding
facilities to be closed, subject to limitations set forth in existing public
indentures and other unsecured credit agreements; domestic accounts receivable;
domestic inventory; up to $4 billion of marketable securities or cash
proceeds therefrom; 100% of the stock of our principal domestic subsidiaries,
including Ford Credit (but excluding the assets of Ford Credit); certain
intercompany notes of Volvo Holding Company Inc. (a holding company for Volvo),
and Ford Motor Company of Canada, Limited; 66% to 100% of the stock of all major
first tier foreign subsidiaries (including Volvo); and certain domestic
intellectual property, including trademarks.



63ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

The
Credit Agreement requires ongoing compliance with a borrowing base covenant and
contains other restrictive covenants, including a restriction on our ability to
pay dividends.  The Credit Agreement prohibits the payment of
dividends (other than dividends payable solely in stock) on Ford Common and
Class B Stock, subject to certain limited exceptions.  In
addition, the Credit Agreement contains a liquidity covenant requiring us to
maintain a minimum of $4 billion in the aggregate of domestic cash, cash
equivalents, loaned and marketable securities and short-term VEBA assets and/or
availability under the revolving credit facility.



With
respect to the borrowing base covenant, we are required to limit the outstanding
amount of debt under the Credit Agreement as well as certain permitted
additional indebtedness secured by the collateral described above such that the
total debt outstanding does not exceed the value of the collateral as calculated
in accordance with the Credit Agreement (the "Borrowing Base
value").



The
following table provides detail of Borrowing Base values for various categories
of collateral (in millions, except percentages):



Eligible
      Value (a)Advance
      RateBorrowing
      BaseU.S.receivables$49175%$368U.S.inventory1,93560%1,161Pledge
      of intercompany notes4,713N/A3,073Pledge
      of equity in Ford Credit and certain foreign subsidiaries (net of
      intercompany transactions)18,87275%14,155U.S.
      property, plant, and equipment subject to indenture limitation4,539N/A2,181Other
      U.S. machinery and equipment2,81340%1,125Intellectual
      property and U.S. trademarks (b)7,900N/A2,500Eligible
      value/borrowing base$41,263$24,563

__________

(a)Based on formulas
      set forth in the Credit Agreement, and not necessarily indicative of fair
      market value (which could be materially higher or lower); receivables,
      inventory, intercompany notes, and property, plant and equipment
      reflect net book value at December 31, 2009; equity of Ford
      Credit is based on its book value at December 31, 2009, net of
      certain intercompany transactions, and equity in other subsidiaries is
      based on a multiple of their two-year
      average EBITDA less debt.(b)Value
      reflects independent third party valuation of
  trademarks.



As of
December 31, 2009, the Borrowing Base value and the total outstanding
amount of debt secured by collateral were $24,563 million and
$13,206 million, respectively, compared with $23,183 million and
$7,354 million, respectively, at
December 31, 2008.  This resulted in a collateral coverage
ratio of 1.86 to 1 at December 31, 2009, compared with a collateral
coverage ratio of 3.15 to 1 at December 31, 2008.  The
Borrowing Base value increased by $1.3 billion over the corresponding value
at December 31, 2008, more than explained by improved equity in Ford
Credit and the inclusion of Ford Brasil Ltda.  The debt secured by
collateral increased by about $6 billion from the amount of debt
secured at December 31, 2008, reflecting the (i) $10.1 billion
revolving loan advanced to us on February 3, 2009, (ii) repurchase in
March 2009 of $2.2 billion principal amount of term loans and
(iii) repayment in December 2009 of $1.9 billion principal amount of
revolving loans made in connection with the amendment and extension described
above.  On a basis that assumes the revolving loan facility is fully
drawn, the collateral coverage ratio at December 31, 2009 (1.84 to 1)
increased from that at December 31, 2008 (1.33 to 1).



In
addition to customary payment, representation, bankruptcy, and judgment
defaults, the Credit Agreement contains cross-payment and cross-acceleration
defaults with respect to other debt for borrowed money, and a change in control
default.



64ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Other Automotive Credit
Facilities.*At December 31, 2009, we had
$628 million of other contractually-committed Automotive credit facilities
with financial institutions, including $25 million of worldwide Automotive
unsecured credit facilities and $603 million of local credit facilities to
foreign Automotive affiliates.  Of the $628 million of
contractually-committed, $130 million has been utilized.  Of the
$498 million available for use, $60 million expire in 2010,
$65 million expire in 2013, and $373 million expire in
2014.



DOE ATVM
Program.



Net
Cash/(Debt).Our Automotive sector net debt calculation is
detailed below (in billions):



December
      31,20092008Gross
      cash$25.5$13.4Less:Long-term
      debt32.323.0Debt
      payable within one year2.11.2Total
      debt34.424.2Net
      cash/(debt)$(8.9)$(10.8)



The
change in total debt primarily is explained by the net $7.5 billion draw on
our revolving credit facility discussed above, the two New Notes, totaling
$7 billion, issued in connection with the UAW VEBA transaction discussed
below, the issuance of $2.875 billion aggregate principal amount of the
2016 Convertible Notes discussed above, and the $10.1 billion of debt
reduction actions discussed below.



See Note
19 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for our debt maturity table as of
December 31, 2009 and additional debt disclosures.





__________

* Credit
facilities of our VIEs are excluded as we do not control their use.



65ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Debt Reduction
Actions.We undertook the following transactions during the
first half of 2009, which reduced our Automotive debt by a total of
$10.1 billion principal amount (with a carrying value of
$8.5 billion):



·A
      private market transaction, completed in January 2009, pursuant to
      which we purchased $165 million principal amount of our outstanding
      unsecured notes for $37 million in
cash.

·A
      cash tender offer by Ford Credit for our secured term loan under the
      Credit Agreement, pursuant to which Ford Credit purchased from lenders
      thereof $2.2 billion principal amount of the secured term loan for an
      aggregate cost of $1.1 billion (including transaction
      costs).  This transaction settled on March 27, 2009,
      following which, consistent with previously-announced plans to return
      capital from Ford Credit to us, Ford Credit distributed the repurchased
      secured term loan to its immediate parent, Ford Holdings, whereupon the
      repurchased secured term loan was
forgiven.

·A
      cash tender offer by Ford Credit for our unsecured notes, pursuant to
      which Ford Credit purchased $3.4 billion principal amount of debt
      securities for an aggregate cost of $1.1 billion (including
      transaction costs).  This transaction settled on
      April 8, 2009, following which Ford Credit transferred the
      repurchased debt securities to us in satisfaction of $1.1 billion of
      Ford Credit's tax liabilities to us.  Approximately
      $5.6 billion aggregate principal amount of our unsecured notes
      (including about $100 million of industrial revenue bonds) remains
      outstanding.

·An
      exchange offer by us for our 4.25% Senior Convertible Notes due
      December 15, 2036 ("2036 Convertible Notes"), pursuant to which
      $4.3 billion principal amount of 2036 Convertible Notes was exchanged
      for an aggregate of 468 million shares of Ford Common Stock and
      $344 million in cash ($80 in cash per $1,000 principal
      amount of 2036 Convertible Notes exchanged).  This transaction
      settled on April 8, 2009.  An aggregate principal
      amount of $579 million of 2036 Convertible Notes remains outstanding
      with a carrying value of approximately
  $400 million.



Amendment to UAW Retiree Health Care
Settlement Agreement.As disclosed in our Current Report on
Form 8-K dated July 22, 2009 ("July 2009 Form 8-K Report"), on
July 23, 2009, we entered into an amendment to the UAW Retiree Health
Care Settlement Agreement dated March 28, 2008 (the "Original
Settlement Agreement") among and between us, the UAW, and certain class
representatives, on behalf of the class of plaintiffs as set forth
therein.  The Original Settlement Agreement established the UAW
Retiree Medical Benefits Trust as a new VEBA trust (the "UAW VEBA Trust") that
on December 31, 2009 would assume the obligation to provide retiree
health care benefits to eligible active and retired UAW Ford hourly employees
and their eligible spouses, surviving spouses and dependents.



Pursuant
to the Original Settlement Agreement, in April 2008, we issued to VEBA-F
Holdings LLC, a then-wholly owned subsidiary of ours (the "LLC"):  (a)
$3.3 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.75% Convertible Notes Due
January 1, 2013 (the "Convertible Notes"); (b) a $3 billion
aggregate principal amount 9.50% Second Lien Term Note Due
January 1, 2018 (the "Term Note") and a corresponding guaranty issued
by certain subsidiary guarantors (the "Term Note Guaranty"); and (c) a
promissory note dated January 5, 2009 in an aggregate principal amount
of $2.3 billion, which is equal to the market value of the assets in the
TAA held by the LLC on December 31, 2008 (the "TAA Note" and, together
with the Convertible Notes, the Term Note and the Term Note Guaranty, the "Old
Securities").



The
amendment to the Original Settlement Agreement (the "Amended Settlement
Agreement"), and the forms of the New Securities, the Exchange Agreement and the
Registration Rights Agreement (each as defined below), were filed as exhibits to
the July 2009 Form 8-K Report.  The Amended Settlement Agreement
changed the Original Settlement Agreement to provide for smoothing of payment
obligations and to give us the option to use Ford Common Stock to satisfy up to
approximately 50% of our future payment obligations to the UAW VEBA
Trust.



The
Amended Settlement Agreement was approved by the U.S. District Court for
the Eastern District of Michigan on November 9, 2009.  On
December 8, 2009, the U.S. Department of Labor published in the
Federal Register a Notice of Proposed Individual Exemption (the "Exemption")
that would be retroactive to December 31, 2009 and would, among other
things, permit the transfer to the UAW VEBA Trust and allow the UAW VEBA Trust
to hold the New Securities (as defined below).  This, along with prior
discussions with the U.S. Department of Labor, met the condition under the
Amended Settlement Agreement of obtaining the Exemption or reasonable assurance
of retroactive effect thereof satisfactory to Ford and the UAW VEBA
Trust.



On
December 11, 2009, in accordance with the Amended Settlement Agreement
and pursuant to a Securities Exchange Agreement dated as of
December 11, 2009 among us, the LLC and certain subsidiary guarantors
(the "Exchange Agreement"), we issued to the LLC in exchange for the Old
Securities:  (i) an Amortizing Guaranteed Secured Note Maturing
June 30, 2022 with an original principal amount of
$6.7 billion and with a fair value at December 31, 2009 of about
$4.8 billion ("New Note A") excluding a "true-up amount" (described below);
(ii) an Amortizing Guaranteed Secured Note Maturing June 30, 2022
with an original principal amount of $6.5 billion and with a fair value at
December 31, 2009 of about $4.5 billion ("New Note B" and,
together with New Note A, the "New Notes"); (iii) guaranties by certain
subsidiary guarantors of the New Notes, limited to an aggregate of
$3 billion of obligations thereunder (the "Guaranties") and
(iv) warrants to purchase 362,391,305 shares of Ford Common Stock, issued
pursuant to a Warrant Agreement (the "Warrant Agreement") dated
December 11, 2009 between us and the LLC (the "Warrants" and, together
with the New Notes and Guaranties, the "New Securities").  The New
Notes are secured on second lien basis, to the extent of $3 billion of
obligations thereunder, with collateral securing our obligations under the
Credit Agreement.



66ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Under New
Note B, we have the option, subject to certain conditions, of making each
payment in cash, Ford Common Stock, or a combination of cash and Ford Common
Stock.  Any Ford Common Stock to be delivered in satisfaction of such
payment obligation is to be valued based on its volume-weighted average price
per share for the 30 trading-day period ending on the second business day
prior to the relevant payment date ("30-day VWAP price").



The
Warrants, which expire on January 1, 2013, entitle the holder thereof
to purchase 362,391,305 shares of Ford Common Stock at an exercise price of
$9.20 per share.  Generally, the warrants can be exercised at any
time, but the underlying shares cannot be transferred prior to
October 1, 2012, unless the closing sale price of Ford Common Stock
was above $11.04 for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days
ending on the last trading day in the preceding calendar
quarter.  Upon exercise of the Warrants, the warrant holder has the
option to elect to have us settle on a cashless, net share basis (i.e.,
delivering to the holder shares of Ford Common Stock having a value equal to the
"in-the-money" value of the Warrants being exercised).



In
addition, on December 11, 2009, we entered into a Securityholder and
Registration Rights Agreement with the LLC (the "Registration Rights
Agreement"), which provides for certain hedging restrictions, certain sales
restrictions relating to the Warrants and shares of Ford Common Stock underlying
the Warrants and delivered in payment of New Note B, and customary registration
rights relating to the sale of shares of Ford Common Stock received by the UAW
VEBA Trust pursuant to our stock payment option under New Note B, as well
as the Warrants and shares of Ford Common Stock issued upon the exercise
thereof.



As
disclosed previously, notwithstanding our option to pay a portion of our
obligations to the UAW VEBA Trust in stock in lieu of cash, we will use our
discretion in determining which form of payment makes sense at the time of each
required payment, balancing liquidity needs and preservation of shareholder
value.  In making such a determination, we will consider facts and
circumstances existing at the time of each required payment, including market
and economic conditions, our available liquidity, and the price of Ford Common
Stock.



On
December 31, 2009, with respect to New Note A, we paid to the LLC the
payment due on that date of $1.3 billion, the payment of a true-up amount
of $150 million, and a partial prepayment of New Note A in the amount of
$500 million.  The true-up amount was negotiated as part of the
arrangement for us to use during 2009 the cash in the TAA in exchange for a
fixed return of 9% per annum plus an amount that represents a hypothetical
return on a portfolio of assets invested 70% in the equity markets and 30% in
fixed income markets, subject to a cap of $150 million.  Because
the equity markets performed well in 2009, the true-up amount met the
$150 million cap.



Also on
December 31, 2009, with respect to New Note B, we paid to the LLC the
payment due on that date of $610 million in cash.  We decided to
make the New Note B payment in cash because the 30-day VWAP price was $9.13 and
the December 31, 2009 closing sale price of Ford Common Stock was
$10.00 per share.



After
giving effect to the payments made on the New Notes on
December 31, 2009, the New Notes had a fair value of
$7 billion.



Thereafter,
at the close of business on December 31, 2009, we transferred to the
UAW VEBA Trust:  (i) our ownership interest in the LLC, which was the
legal owner of the New Securities and which held cash and marketable securities
in its TAA with a value on that date of $619 million, and (ii) the assets
in our then-existing internal VEBA trust consisting of cash and marketable
securities with a value on December 31, 2009 of
$3.5 billion.  The transfer by us to the UAW VEBA Trust of the
ownership of these assets, including the beneficial ownership of the New
Securities, irrevocably settled our obligation, valued at about
$13.6 billion on December 31, 2009, to provide retiree health
care benefits to eligible active and retired UAW Ford hourly employees and their
eligible spouses, surviving spouses and dependents.



67ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

The schedule of remaining payments
for each of the New Notes (which reflects the partial prepayment made on New
Note A described above), as well as the prepayment amount for each of the New
Notes in the event we were to pay the remaining balance in full on the
corresponding payment date, is as follows:



Payment
      DatePrincipal
      PaymentsNote
      APrepaymentAmount
      Note APrincipal
      PaymentsNote
      BPrepaymentAmount
      Note BJune
      30, 2010$249,452,786$3,211,519,680$609,950,000$4,232,000,000June
      30, 2011249,452,7863,228,652,915609,950,0003,948,000,000June
      30, 2012584,063,5913,247,328,141654,000,0003,638,000,000June
      30, 2013584,063,5912,902,958,359654,000,0003,253,000,000June
      30, 2014584,063,5912,527,595,297654,000,0002,832,000,000June
      30, 2015584,063,5912,118,449,560654,000,0002,375,000,000June
      30, 2016584,063,5911,672,480,706654,000,0001,875,000,000June
      30, 2017584,063,5911,186,374,655654,000,0001,331,000,000June
      30, 2018584,063,591656,519,060654,000,000738,000,000June
      30, 201922,364,73378,976,46126,000,00092,000,000June
      30, 202022,364,73361,706,78426,000,00072,000,000June
      30, 202122,364,73342,882,83626,000,00050,000,000June
      30, 202222,364,73322,364,73326,000,00026,000,000



Pension Plan
Contributions.Our policy for funded plans is to contribute
annually, at a minimum, amounts required by applicable laws and
regulations.  We do from time to time make contributions beyond those
legally required.



In 2009,
we made $900 million of cash contributions to our funded pension
plans.  During 2010, we expect to contribute $1.1 billion to
our worldwide funded pension plans from available Automotive cash and cash
equivalents.  In addition, benefit payments made directly by us for
unfunded plans are expected to be about $400 million.  Based on
current assumptions and regulations, we do not expect to have a legal
requirement to fund our major U.S. pension plans in 2010.  For a
further discussion of our pension plans, see Note 18 of the Notes to the
Financial Statements.



Liquidity
Sufficiency.  One of the four key priorities of our business
plan is to finance our plan and improve our balance sheet.  The
actions described above are consistent with this priority.  Based on
our planning assumptions, we believe that we have sufficient liquidity and
capital resources to continue to transform our business, invest in new products
that customers want and value, pay our debts and obligations as and when they
come due, and provide a cushion within the uncertain global economic
environment.  We will continue to look for opportunities to improve
our balance sheet, primarily by working to improve our underlying business to
generate positive Automotive operating-related cash flow.



Financial
Services Sector



Ford
Credit



Funding
Strategy.Ford Credit's funding strategy is to maintain
sufficient liquidity to meet short-term funding obligations by having a
substantial cash balance and committed funding capacity.  As a result
of lower long-term senior unsecured credit ratings assigned to Ford Credit over
the past few years, its unsecured funding costs have increased over
time.  While Ford Credit has accessed the unsecured debt market when
available, Ford Credit has increased its use of securitization funding as this
has been more cost effective than unsecured funding and has allowed Ford Credit
access to a broader investor base.  Ford Credit plans to meet a
significant portion of its 2010 funding requirements through securitization
transactions.  In addition, Ford Credit has various alternative
business arrangements for select products and markets that reduce its funding
requirements while allowing Ford Credit to support us (e.g., Ford Credit's
partnering in Brazil for retail financing and FCE Bank plc's ("FCE") partnering
with various institutions in Europe for full service leasing and retail and
wholesale financing).  Ford Credit is continuing to explore and
execute such alternative business arrangements.



Consistent
with the overall market, Ford Credit has been impacted by volatility and
disruptions in the asset-backed securitization markets since August
2007.  The recent global credit environment has presented many
challenges, including reduced access to public and private unsecured and
securitization markets, increased credit spreads associated with both
asset-backed and unsecured funding, higher renewal costs on its committed
liquidity programs, reduced net proceeds from securitization transactions due to
greater enhancements, shorter maturities in Ford Credit's public and private
securitization transactions in certain circumstances, and reduced capacity to
obtain derivatives to manage market risk, including interest rate risk, in Ford
Credit's securitization programs.



68ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

While
challenges remain, Ford Credit saw improvement in the capital markets in the
last three quarters of 2009 evidenced by improvement in market access and credit
spreads, including: four unsecured debt issuances in the United States and one
in Europe totaling about $5 billion with significantly improved
U.S. credit spreads from the first to the most recent; increasingly tighter
spreads on Ford Credit's triple-A rated classes of Ford Credit's U.S. retail
securitization transactions; a non-TALF public retail securitization transaction
in November 2009; two European public retail securitization transactions in the
fourth quarter of 2009; Ford Credit's first public wholesale securitization
transaction since 2006 in October 2009; a two-year committed lease facility in
December 2009; and the sale of over $150 million of subordinated notes from
Ford Credit's September 2009 public retail securitization
transaction.



Ford
Credit's funding plan is subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are
beyond its control, including disruption in the capital markets for the types of
asset-backed securities used in Ford Credit's asset-backed funding, as well as
disruption beyond the expiration of the government-sponsored securitization
funding programs.Potential
impact of industry events on Ford Credit's ability to access debt and
derivatives markets or renew its committed liquidity programs in sufficient
amounts and at competitive rates represents another risk to Ford Credit's
funding plan.  As a result, Ford Credit may need to further reduce the
amount of finance receivables and operating leases it purchases or originates,
thereby reducing its ongoing profits and adversely affecting its ability to
support the sale of Ford vehicles.



Funding.Ford Credit requires
substantial funding in the normal course of business.  Its funding
requirements are driven mainly by the need to:  (i) purchase
retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale
of Ford products, which are influenced by Ford-sponsored special-rate financing
programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit, (ii) provide
wholesale financing and capital financing for Ford dealers, and (iii) repay
its debt obligations.



Ford
Credit's funding sources include primarily securitization transactions
(including other structured financings) and unsecured debt.  Ford
Credit issues both short- and long-term debt that is held by both institutional
and retail investors, with long-term debt having an original maturity of more
than 12 months.  Ford Credit sponsors a number of securitization
programs that can be structured to provide both short- and long-term funding
through institutional investors in the United States and international capital
markets.



Ford
Credit obtains short-term unsecured funding from the sale of floating rate
demand notes under its Ford Interest Advantage program and by issuing unsecured
commercial paper in the United States, Europe, and other international
markets.  At December 31, 2009, the principal amount
outstanding of Ford Interest Advantage notes, which may be redeemed at any time
at the option of the holders thereof without restriction, was about
$4 billion.  At present, all of Ford Credit's short-term credit
ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") are
below the Tier-2 category, and as a result it has limited access to the
unsecured commercial paper market and Ford Credit's unsecured commercial paper
cannot be held by money market funds.  At December 31, 2009,
the principal amount outstanding of Ford Credit's unsecured commercial paper was
less than $1 million.  Ford Credit does not hold reserves
specifically to fund the payment of any of its unsecured short-term funding
obligations.  Instead, Ford Credit maintains multiple sources of
liquidity, including cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities
(excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities), unused
committed liquidity programs, excess securitizable assets, and committed and
uncommitted credit facilities, which should be sufficient for Ford Credit's
unsecured short-term funding obligations.



Government-Sponsored Securitization
Funding Programs.Government-sponsored securitization funding
programs have helped stabilize the asset-backed securitization
market.  Since the third quarter of 2009, Ford Credit significantly
reduced the use of these programs as its access to the public and private
securitization and unsecured markets continued to improve.



Commercial
Paper Funding Facility ("CPFF"):  The CPFF became operational in
October 2008 and purchased unsecured and asset-backed commercial paper from U.S.
issuers.  In 2008, Ford Credit registered to sell up to
$16 billion from its asset-backed commercial paper program ("FCAR") to the
CPFF.  At December 31, 2008, FCAR had $7 billion of
commercial paper outstanding under the CPFF, which represented about 60% of
FCAR's outstanding balance.  FCAR was able to issue a limited amount
of commercial paper to investors during the first half of 2009 and at lower
interest rates than under CPFF, but with a relatively short average maturity
compared with CPFF and often overnight.  FCAR issued a total of
$9 billion of commercial paper to the CPFF in 2009, all of which had
matured by September 30, 2009.  Commercial paper was sold to
the CPFF at a price based on the designated benchmark rate, plus a spread of
300 basis points.  This represented a significantly higher
rate than those that prevailed in the asset-backed commercial paper market
before August 2007, when the disruptions in the debt and asset-backed
securitization markets began.  As a result of improvements in the
asset-backed commercial paper market, as well as a reduction in the overall size
of FCAR, FCAR is able to issue commercial paper outside the CPFF at prices and
average maturities that are close to those that prevailed before
August 2007.  The CPFF ceased purchasing commercial paper on
February 1, 2010.



69ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Term
Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility ("TALF"):  TALF began in March
2009 to make credit available by restoring liquidity in the asset-backed
securitization market.  Under TALF, the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York ("FRBNY") makes loans to holders of TALF-eligible asset-backed
securities.  The loans are equal to the market value of the
asset-backed securities less a discount.  Interest rates on most TALF
loans are 100 basis points over the respective term benchmark rate, and
discounts vary according to the assets supporting the asset-backed
securities.  The TALF program revived the asset-backed securitization
market by attracting new investors who purchased asset-backed securities,
receiving higher spreads on these securities than the spreads they pay on their
loans from FRBNY.  As investor demand increased due to the liquidity
provided by TALF, spreads generally narrowed on Ford Credit's issuances and the
percentage of non-TALF investors increased.  As the spread on certain
asset-backed securities fell below the 100 basis point spread on TALF loans,
Ford Credit's TALF-eligible asset-backed securities were purchased almost
exclusively by non-TALF investors.



Ford
Credit issued $10.3 billion of TALF-eligible asset-backed securities in
2009, of which $2.2 billion amortized during the year and $8.1 billion
was outstanding at December 31, 2009.  Ford Credit has also
issued a total of $1.3 billion of TALF-eligible asset-backed securities in
2010.  The following table summarizes Ford Credit's TALF-eligible
issuances including the weighted average spread of the triple-A rated notes over
the relevant benchmark rates for securitization transactions:



DateIssuerSize(in
      billions)Weighted
      Average Spread(basis
      points)Retail
      InstallmentMarch
      2009Ford
      Credit Auto Owner Trust 2009 – A$3.0295June
      2009Ford
      Credit Auto Owner Trust 2009 – B1.9161July
      2009Ford
      Credit Auto Owner Trust 2009 – C1.0165September
      2009Ford
      Credit Auto Owner Trust 2009 – D2.183WholesaleOctober
      2009Ford
      Credit Master Owner Trust 2009 –21.5155January
      2010Ford
      Credit Master Owner Trust 2010 – 11.3165Retail
      LeaseJune
      2009Ford
      Credit Auto Lease Trust 2009 – A0.8211



Ford
Credit recently completed two public asset-backed securitization transactions
that were not TALF-eligible: a retail securitization transaction with a weighted
average spread of 48 basis points on the triple-A rated notes in
November 2009 and a lease securitization transaction with a weighted
average spread of 54 basis points on the triple-A rated notes in
February 2010.  In January 2010, Ford Credit issued about
$230 million of non-TALF subordinated wholesale asset-backed securities
that were rated double-A and single-A.  In February 2010, Ford Credit
also issued $250 million of private wholesale asset-backed securities with
a maturity of five years compared with the three-year maturity of Ford Credit's
previous TALF transactions.  Ford Credit does not plan to complete any
additional TALF-eligible retail or lease transactions before the expected
expiration of TALF on March 31, 2010.  Given the recent
improvements in the securitization market, and absent further significant market
disruptions, Ford Credit has confidence it can obtain funding in the public
securitization markets without TALF.











70ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Funding
Portfolio.Ford Credit's outstanding debt and off-balance
sheet securitization transactions were as follows on the dates indicated (in
billions, except for ratios):



December
      31,Debt20092008Asset-backed
      commercial paper (a)(b)$6.4$11.5Other
      asset-backed short-term debt (a)4.55.6Ford
      Interest Advantage (c)3.62.0Unsecured
      commercial paper——Other
      short-term debt0.91.0Total
      short-term debt15.420.1Unsecured
      long-term debt (including notes payable within one year)38.951.2Asset-backed
      long-term debt (including notes payable within one year)
    (a)42.055.2Total
      debt96.3126.5Off-Balance
      Sheet SecuritizationsSecuritized
      off-balance sheet portfolio0.10.6Retained
      interest—(0.1)Total
      off-balance sheet securitization transactions0.10.5Total
      debt plus off-balance sheet securitization transactions$96.4$127.0RatiosSecuritized
      funding to managed receivables56%62%Short-term
      debt and notes payable within one year to total debt4350Short-term
      debt and notes payable within one year to total capitalization3946

__________

(a)Obligations
      issued in securitization transactions that are payable only out of
      collections on the underlying securitized assets and related
      enhancements.

(b)At
      December 31, 2009, Ford Credit did not have any asset-backed
      commercial paper sold to the CPFF.  At
      December 31, 2008, includes asset-backed commercial paper sold
      to the CPFF of $7 billion.

(c)The
      Ford Interest Advantage program consists of Ford Credit's floating rate
      demand notes.



At
December 31, 2009, unsecured long-term debt (including notes payable
within one year) was down about $12 billion from year-end 2008, primarily
reflecting about $18 billion of debt maturities and repurchases, offset
partially by about $6 billion of new unsecured public and private long-term
debt issuance.  Unsecured long-term debt maturities were as follows:
2010 — $7 billion; 2011 — $11 billion; 2012 — $7 billion; and the
remainder thereafter.  At December 31, 2009, asset-backed
long-term debt (including notes payable within one year) was down about
$13 billion from year-end 2008, reflecting amortization of asset-backed
debt in excess of asset-backed long-term debt issuance.



Funding Plan.The
following table illustrates Ford Credit's public and private term funding
issuances for 2008 and 2009 and its planned issuances for 2010 (in
billions):



      Forecast20092008Public
      Term FundingUnsecured$3 – 6$5$2Securitization
      transactions8 –121511Total
      public term funding$12 –17$20$13Private
      Term Funding*$8 – 13$11$29

__________

*Includes
      private term debt, securitization transactions, and other term funding;
      excludes sales to Ford Credit's on-balance sheet asset-backed commercial
      paper program.



In 2009,
Ford Credit completed about $20 billion of public term funding
transactions, including: about $12 billion of retail asset-backed
securitization transactions in the United States, Canada, and Europe; about
$2 billion of wholesale asset-backed securitization transactions in the
United States; about $1 billion of lease asset-backed securitization
transactions in the United States; and about $5 billion of unsecured
issuances.  In 2009, Ford Credit completed about $11 billion of
private term funding transactions (excluding Ford Credit's on-balance sheet
asset-backed commercial paper program) in several markets, including about
$4 billion in Canada.  These private transactions included
retail, lease, and wholesale asset-backed securitization
transactions.



71ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

In 2009,
total issuance was about $11 billion lower than 2008, primarily reflecting
lower funding requirements resulting from lower receivables.  However,
2009 public issuance was about $7 billion higher than 2008, primarily
reflecting the availability of and Ford Credit's preference to issue in the
public markets.  In 2009, there was a corresponding reduction in
reliance on private capacity as Ford Credit lowered its utilization of committed
funding programs.



Through
February 24, 2010, Ford Credit completed about $4 billion of
public term funding transactions, including about $1 billion of retail
asset-backed securitization transactions in the United States, Canada, and
Europe, about $1 billion for a lease asset-backed securitization
transaction in the United States, about $1 billion of wholesale
asset-backed securitization transactions in the United States, and about
$1 billion of unsecured issuances.  Ford Credit also completed
about $1 billion of private term funding transactions, primarily reflecting
retail and wholesale asset-backed securitization transactions in the United
States and Europe.





Liquidity.The
following table illustrates the various sources of Ford Credit's liquidity as of
the dates shown (in billions):



200920082007Cash,
      cash equivalents, and marketable securities*$17.3$23.6$16.7Committed
      liquidity programs23.228.036.8Asset-backed
      commercial paper ("FCAR")9.315.716.9Credit
      facilities1.32.03.0Committed
      capacity33.845.756.7Committed
      capacity and cash51.169.373.4Less:
      Capacity in excess of eligible receivables(6.5)(4.8)(4.7)Less:
      Cash and cash equivalents to support on-balance sheet securitization
      transactions(5.2)(5.5)(4.7)Liquidity39.459.064.0Less:
      Utilization(18.3)(37.6)(36.1)Liquidity
      available for use$21.1$21.4$27.9

__________

*Excludes
      marketable securities related to insurance
  activities.



At
December31,2009,
committed capacity and cash shown above totaled $51.1billion, of
which $39.4 billion could be utilized (after adjusting for capacity in
excess of eligible receivables of $6.5 billion and cash required to support
on-balance sheet securitization transactions of $5.2billion).  At
December31,2009,
$18.3 billion was utilized, leaving $21.1billion
available for use (including $12.1billion of
cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, but excluding marketable
securities related to insurance activities and cash and cash equivalents to
support on-balance sheet securitization transactions).



At
December31,2009, Ford
Credit's liquidity available for use was lower than year-end 2008 by about
$300 million, as debt maturities and cash payments were higher than the
impact of lower receivables and new debt issuances.  The reduction in
liquidity available for use from year-end 2008 also included a $630million
cumulative adjustment, reflected in the first quarter of 2009, to correct for
the overstatement of cash and cash equivalents and certain accounts payable that
originated in prior periods.  Liquidity available for use was 22% of
managed receivables.  In addition to the $21.1billion of
liquidity available for use, the $6.5 billion of capacity in excess of
eligible receivables provides Ford Credit with an alternative forfunding
future purchases or originations and gives Ford Credit flexibility to shift
capacity to alternate markets and asset classes.

72ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Cash, Cash Equivalents, and
Marketable Securities.At December 31, 2009, Ford
Credit's cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable
securities related to insurance activities) totaled $17.3 billion, compared
with $23.6 billion at year-end 2008.  In the normal course of
Ford Credit's funding activities, it may generate more proceeds than are
required for Ford Credit's immediate funding needs.  These excess
amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide
liquidity for Ford Credit's short-term funding needs and give it flexibility in
the use of Ford Credit's other funding programs.



Credit Facilities andCommitted Liquidity
Programs.See Note 19 of the Notes to the Financial Statements
for more information regarding credit facilities and committed liquidity
programs for Ford Credit.  While there is a risk of non-renewal of
some of Ford Credit's committed liquidity programs, which could lead to a
reduction in the size of these programs and/or higher costs, Ford Credit's
capacity in excess of eligible receivables would enable it to absorb some
reductions.  Ford Credit's ability to obtain funding under these
programs is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these
programs as well as its ability to obtain interest rate hedging arrangements for
certain securitization transactions.



Balance Sheet Liquidity
Profile.Ford Credit defines its balance sheet liquidity
profile as the cumulative maturities of its finance receivables, investment in
operating leases, and cash less the cumulative debt maturities over upcoming
annual periods.  The following table shows Ford Credit's balance sheet
liquidity profile for the periods presented as of December 31, 2009
(in billions):



Cumulative
      MaturitiesThrough2010Through2011Through2012Through2013
      andThereafterFinance
      receivables (a), investment in operating leases (b), and
      cash (c)$73.1$95.0$105.5$113.3Debt(49.9)(70.5)(81.7)(96.6)Finance
      receivables, investment in operating leases and cash over/(under)
      debt$23.2$24.5$23.8$16.7

__________

(a)Finance
      receivables net of unearned income.

(b)Investment
      in operating leases net of accumulated
  depreciation.

(c)Cash
      includes cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excludes
      marketable securities related to insurance activities) at
      December 31, 2009.



Ford
Credit's balance sheet is inherently liquid because of the short-term nature of
its finance receivables, investment in operating leases and
cash.  Maturities of investment in operating leases consist primarily
of rental payments attributable to depreciation over the remaining life of the
lease and the expected residual value at lease termination.  The 2010
finance receivables maturities in the table above include all of the wholesale
receivables maturities that are otherwise extending beyond 2010.  The
table above also reflects the following adjustments to debt maturities to match
all of the asset-backed debt maturities with the underlying asset
maturities:



·The
      2010 maturities include all of the wholesale securitization transactions
      that otherwise extend beyond 2010;
and

·Retail
      securitization transactions under certain committed liquidity programs are
      treated as amortizing on January 1, 2010 instead of amortizing
      after the contractual maturity of those committed liquidity programs that
      otherwise extend beyond January 1,
2010.



73ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Leverage.Ford
Credit uses leverage, or the debt-to-equity ratio, to make various business
decisions, including evaluating and establishing pricing for retail, wholesale,
and lease financing, and assessing Ford Credit's capital
structure.  Ford Credit refers to its shareholder's interest as
equity.  Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial statement
basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas:



Financial
      Statement Leverage=Total DebtEquityTotal
      Debt+SecuritizedOff-BalanceSheetReceivables-RetainedInterest
      inSecuritizedOff-BalanceSheetReceivables-Cash
      and CashEquivalentsand
      MarketableSecurities
      (a)-Adjustments
      forDerivativeAccounting
      onTotal
      Debt (b)Managed
      Leverage=Equity-Adjustmentsfor
      DerivativeAccountingon
      Equity (b)

__________

(a)           Excluding
marketable securities related to insurance activities.

(b)Primarily
      related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives due to movements in
      interest rates.  Adjustments to debt are related to designated
      fair value hedges and adjustments to equity are related to retained
      earnings.



The
following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credit's financial statement
leverage (in billions, except for ratios):



December
      31,200920082007Total
      debt$96.3$126.5$139.4Equity11.010.613.4Financial
      statement leverage (to 1)8.812.010.4



The
following table illustrates the calculation of Ford Credit's managed leverage
(in billions, except for ratios):



December
      31,200920082007Total
      debt$96.3$126.5$139.4Securitized
      off-balance sheet receivables outstanding0.10.66.0Retained
      interest in securitized off-balance sheet receivables—(0.1)(0.7)Adjustments
      for cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (a)(17.3)(23.6)(16.7)Adjustments
      for derivative accounting (b)(0.2)(0.4)—Total
      adjusted debt$78.9$103.0$128.0Equity$11.0$10.6$13.4Adjustments
      for derivative accounting (b)(0.2)(0.2)(0.3)Total
      adjusted equity$10.8$10.4$13.1Managed
      leverage (to 1)7.39.99.8

__________

(a)           Excluding
marketable securities related to insurance activities.

(b)Primarily
      related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives due to movements in
      interest rates.  Adjustments to debt are related to designated
      fair value hedges and adjustments to equity are related to retained
      earnings.



74ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Ford
Credit plans its managed leverage by considering prevailing market conditions
and the risk characteristics of its business.  At
December 31, 2009, Ford Credit's managed leverage was 7.3 to 1,
compared with 9.9 to 1 a year ago.  Ford Credit's managed leverage is
significantly below the threshold of 11.5 to 1 set forth in the Amended and
Restated Support Agreement with us.  In 2009, Ford Credit distributed
$1.5 billion to its parent, which included in the first quarter of 2009 a
non-cash distribution of about $1.1 billion and in the third quarter of
2009 a cash distribution of $400 million and a non-cash distribution of
$31 million for Ford Credit's ownership interest in AB
Volvofinans.

Securitization
Transactions by Ford Credit



Securitization.Ford
Credit securitizes finance receivables and net investment in operating leases
through a variety of programs, utilizing amortizing, variable funding, and
revolving structures.  Ford Credit also sells finance receivables in
structured financing transactions.  Due to the similarities between
securitization and structured financing, Ford Credit refers to structured
financings as securitization transactions.  Ford Credit's
securitization programs are targeted to many different investors in both public
and private transactions in capital markets worldwide.  Ford Credit
completed its first securitization transaction in 1988, and regularly
securitizes assets, purchased or originated, in the United States, Canada,
Mexico, and Europe.



Most of
Ford Credit's securitization transactions do not satisfy the requirements for
accounting sale treatment, and the securitized assets and related debt remain on
Ford Credit's balance sheet.  Some of Ford Credit's securitization
transactions, however, do satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not
reflected on Ford Credit's balance sheet in the same way as debt
funding.  All of Ford Credit's securitization transactions since the
first quarter of 2007 have been on-balance sheet transactions.  Both
on- and off-balance sheet securitization transactions have an effect on its
financial condition, operating results, and liquidity.



Ford
Credit securitizes its assets because the securitization market provides it with
a lower cost source of funding compared with unsecured debt given Ford Credit's
present credit ratings, and it diversifies Ford Credit's funding among different
markets and investors.  In the United States, Ford Credit is generally
able to obtain funding in two days for its unutilized capacity in most of its
committed liquidity programs.  New programs and new transaction
structures typically require substantial development time before coming to
market.



In a
securitization transaction, the securitized assets are generally held by a
bankruptcy-remote special purpose entity ("SPE") in order to isolate the
securitized assets from the claims of Ford Credit's other creditors and ensure
that the cash flows on the securitized assets are available for the benefit of
securitization investors.  As a result, payments to securitization
investors are based on the creditworthiness of the securitized assets and any
enhancements, and not on Ford Credit's creditworthiness.  Senior
asset-backed securities issued by the SPEs generally receive the highest
short-term credit ratings and among the highest long-term credit ratings from
the rating agencies that rate them.



Securitization
SPEs have limited purposes and generally are only permitted to purchase the
securitized assets, issue asset-backed securities, and make payments on the
securities.  Some SPEs, such as certain trusts that issue securities
backed by retail installment sale contracts, only issue a single series of
securities and generally are dissolved when those securities have been paid in
full.  Other SPEs, such as the trusts that issue securities backed by
wholesale receivables, issue multiple series of securities from time to time and
are not dissolved until the last series of securities is paid in
full.



Ford
Credit's use of SPEs in its securitization transactions is consistent with
conventional practices in the securitization industry.  Ford Credit
sponsors the SPEs used in all of its securitization programs with the exception
of bank-sponsored conduits.  None of Ford Credit's officers,
directors, or employees holds any equity interests in its SPEs or receives any
direct or indirect compensation from the SPEs.  These SPEs do not own
Ford Credit's Shares or shares of any of its affiliates.



In order
to be eligible for inclusion in a securitization transaction, each asset must
satisfy certain eligibility criteria designed for the specific
transaction.  For example, for securitization transactions of retail
installment sale contracts, the selection criteria may be based on factors such
as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate,
financing program, the type of financed vehicle, and whether the contracts are
active and in good standing (e.g., when the obligor is not more than 30-days
delinquent or bankrupt).  Generally, Ford Credit selects the assets to
be included in a particular securitization randomly from its entire portfolio of
assets that satisfy the applicable eligibility criteria.



Ford
Credit provides various forms of credit enhancements to reduce the risk of loss
for securitization investors.  Credit enhancements include
over-collateralization (when the principal amount of the securitized assets
exceeds the principal amount of related asset-backed securities), segregated
cash reserve funds, subordinated securities, and excess spread (when interest
collections on the securitized assets exceed the related fees and expenses,
including interest payments on the related asset-backed
securities).  Ford Credit may also provide payment enhancements that
increase the likelihood of the timely payment of interest and the payment of
principal at maturity.  Payment enhancements include yield supplement
arrangements, interest rate swaps, and other hedging arrangements, liquidity
facilities, and certain cash deposits.

75ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Ford
Credit retains interests in its securitization transactions, including senior
and subordinated securities issued by the SPE, rights to cash held for the
benefit of the securitization investors (for example, a reserve fund), and
residual interests.  Residual interests represent the right to receive
collections on the securitized assets in excess of amounts needed to pay
securitization investors and to pay other transaction participants and
expenses.  Ford Credit retains credit risk in securitization
transactions because its retained interests include the most subordinated
interests in the securitized assets and are structured to absorb expected credit
losses on the securitized assets before any losses would be experienced by
investors.  Based on past experience, Ford Credit expects that any
losses in the pool of securitized assets would likely be limited to its retained
interests.



Ford
Credit is engaged as servicer to collect and service the securitized
assets.  Its servicing duties include collecting payments on the
securitized assets and preparing monthly investor reports on the performance of
the securitized assets and on amounts of interest and/or principal payments to
be made to investors.  While servicing securitized assets, Ford Credit
applies the same servicing policies and procedures that Ford Credit applies to
its owned assets and maintains its normal relationship with its financing
customers.



Ford
Credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any securitized
asset that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in
default.  Securitization investors have no recourse to Ford Credit or
its other assets for credit losses on the securitized assets and have no right
to require Ford Credit to repurchase their investments.  Ford Credit
does not guarantee any asset-backed securities and has no obligation to provide
liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional assets
to its SPEs either due to the performance of the securitized assets or the
credit rating of its short-term or long-term debt.  However, as the
seller and servicer of the securitized assets, Ford Credit is obligated to
provide certain kinds of support to its securitization transactions, which are
customary in the securitization industry.  These obligations include
indemnifications, repurchase obligations on assets that do not meet eligibility
criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional
assets in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of
certain amounts.



Risks to Continued Funding under
Securitization Programs.The following securitization programs
contain structural features that could prevent Ford Credit from using these
sources of funding in certain circumstances:



·Retail
      Securitization.If the credit enhancement on any
      asset-backed security held by FCAR is reduced to zero, FCAR may not
      purchase any additional asset-backed securities or issue additional
      commercial paper and would wind down its operations.  In
      addition, if credit losses or delinquencies in Ford Credit's portfolio of
      retail assets exceed specified levels, FCAR is not permitted to purchase
      additional asset-backed securities for so long as such levels are
      exceeded.

·Retail Conduits.If
      credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of assets held by a conduit
      exceed specified levels, or if the level of over-collateralization or
      credit enhancements for such pool decreases below a specified level, Ford
      Credit will not have the right to sell additional pools of assets to that
      conduit.

·Wholesale
      Securitization.If the payment rates on wholesale
      receivables in the securitization trust are lower than specified levels or
      if there are significant dealer defaults, Ford Credit will be unable to
      obtain additional funding and any existing funding would begin to
      amortize.

·Retail
      Warehouse.If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford
      Credit's portfolio of retail assets exceed specified levels, Ford Credit
      will be unable to obtain additional funding from the securitization of
      retail installment sale contracts through its retail warehouse
      facility  (i.e., a short-term credit facility under which draws
      are backed by the retail
contracts).

·Lease
      Warehouse.  If credit losses or delinquencies in Ford
      Credit's portfolio of retail lease contracts exceed specified levels, Ford
      Credit will be unable to obtain additional funding from the securitization
      of retail lease contracts through its lease warehouse
      facility  (i.e., a credit facility under which draws are backed
      by the retail lease contracts).



In the
past, these features have not limited Ford Credit's ability to use
securitization to fund its operations.

76ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

In
addition to the specific transaction-related structural features discussed
above, Ford Credit's securitization programs may be affected by the following
factors:  market disruption and volatility, the market capacity for
Ford Credit and Ford Credit's sponsored investments, the general demand for the
type of assets supporting the asset-backed securities, the availability of
committed liquidity facilities, the amount and credit quality of assets
available, the performance of assets in its previous securitization
transactions, accounting and regulatory changes, and Ford Credit's credit
ratings.  In addition, a bankruptcy of Ford, Ford Credit, or FCE would
cause certain of Ford Credit's funding transactions to amortize and result in a
termination of certain liquidity commitments.  If, as a result of any
of these or other factors, the cost of securitization funding were to increase
significantly or funding through securitization transactions were no longer
available to Ford Credit, it would have a material adverse impact on Ford
Credit's financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely
affect its ability to support the sale of Ford vehicles.



On-Balance
Sheet Arrangements



Most of
Ford Credit's securitization transactions do not satisfy the requirements for
accounting sale treatment and, therefore, the securitized assets and related
debt are included in Ford Credit's financial statements.  Ford Credit
expects its future securitization transactions to be on-balance
sheet.  Ford Credit believes on-balance sheet arrangements are more
transparent to its investors.  Securitized assets are only available
to repay the related asset-backed debt and to pay other securitization investors
and other participants.  These underlying securitized assets are
available only for payment of the debt and other obligations issued or arising
in the securitization transactions; they are not available to pay Ford Credit's
other obligations or the claims of its other creditors.  Ford Credit
holds the right to the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt and other
obligations issued or arising in each of these securitization
transactions.  This debt is not Ford Credit's legal obligation or the
legal obligation of its other subsidiaries.  Assets and associated
liabilities related to Ford Credit's on-balance sheet securitization
transactions are as follows (in billions):



20092008Total
      outstanding principal amount of finance receivables and net investment in
      operating leasesincluded
      in on-balance sheet securitizations$74.8$89.3Cash
      balances to be used only to support the on-balance sheet
      securitizations5.25.5Debt
      payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and
      related enhancements52.972.2



See
Note 19 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information
regarding on-balance sheet securitization transactions.



Off-Balance
Sheet Arrangements



We have
entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have
or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial
condition, results of operations or liquidity.  These include
securitizations by Ford Credit in off-balance sheet transactions, variable
interest entities ("VIEs") and guarantees.  For a discussion of our
VIEs and guarantees, see Notes 13 and 31, respectively, of the Notes to the
Financial Statements.



Ford
Credit has not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements (off-balance
sheet securitization transactions and whole-loan sale transactions, excluding
sales of businesses and liquidating portfolios) since the first quarter
of 2007, which is consistent with Ford Credit's plan to execute on-balance
sheet securitization transactions.



Total
Company



Equity/(Deficit).At
December 31, 2009,Total equity/(deficit) attributable
to Ford Motor Companywas negative $7.8 billion, an improvement of
$7.9 billion compared with December 31, 2008.  The
improvement is more than explained by favorable changes inCapital in excess of par value of
stock(primarily the various equity issuances ($1.9 billion), the
conversion of a portion of the 2036 Convertible Notes ($1.4 billion), the
issuance of warrants related to the UAW Amended Settlement Agreement
($1.2 billion), the equity component related to the issuance of the 2016
Convertible Notes (about $700 million), and the debt securities exchanged
for equity (about $600 million)); and favorable changes inRetained earnings(primarily
related to 2009 net income attributable to Ford
($2.7 billion)).

77ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Credit
Ratings.Our short-term and long-term debt is rated by four
credit rating agencies designated as NRSROs by the SEC:



·DBRS
      Limited ("DBRS");

·Fitch,
      Inc. ("Fitch");

·Moody's
      Investors Service, Inc. ("Moody's");
and

·Standard
      & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies,
      Inc. ("S&P").



In
several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us.  A
credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk
associated with a corporate entity or particular securities issued by that
entity.  Their ratings of us are based on information provided by us
and other sources.  Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy,
sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by
the assigning rating agency.  Each rating agency may have different
criteria for evaluating company risk and, therefore, ratings should be evaluated
independently for each rating agency.  Lower credit ratings generally
result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital
markets.



The
following rating actions have been taken by these NRSROs since
October 1,2009:



FordOn
      November 2, 2009, DBRS placed Ford's long-term credit ratings
      under review with positive implications; Fitch revised Ford's outlook to
      positive from stable; and Moody's raised Ford's corporate rating to B3
      from Caa1, its senior unsecured rating to Caa1 from Caa2, and its senior
      secured rating to Ba3 from B1.  Moody's outlook for Ford remains
      stable.On
      November 3, 2009, S&P upgraded Ford's corporate rating to B-
      from CCC+, its senior secured rating to B- from CCC+, and its senior
      unsecured rating to CCC from CCC-.  S&P's ratings outlook
      for Ford remains stable.On
      December 1, 2009, DBRS upgraded Ford's issuer Rating to B(low)
      from CCC(high) and upgraded Ford's senior secured rating to B(high) from
      B(low).  DBRS' outlook for Ford remains stable. Also on
      December 1, Fitch Ratings upgraded Ford's senior secured rating to B+
      from B, with a positive outlook.On
      January 11, 2010, Fitch upgraded Ford's corporate rating to B-
      from CCC and the senior secured rating to BB- from B+; the outlook remains
      positive.



Ford CreditOn
      November 2, 2009, DBRS placed Ford Credit's ratings under review
      with positive implications; Fitch revised Ford Credit's outlook to
      positive from stable; and Moody's upgraded Ford Credit's senior unsecured
      rating to B3 from Caa1 while keeping its credit ratings under review for a
      possible upgrade.On
      November 3, 2009, S&P upgraded Ford Credit's senior
      unsecured rating to B- from CCC+ with a stable outlook.On
      December 1, 2009, DBRS upgraded Ford Credit's corporate and
      senior unsecured ratings to B from B (low) with a stable
      outlook.On
      January 11, 2010, Fitch upgraded Ford Credit's corporate rating
      to B- from CCC, the senior unsecured rating to B+ from B, and the
      short-term rating to B from C; the outlook remains
    positive.



The
following chart summarizes certain of the credit ratings and the outlook
presently assigned to Ford and Ford Credit by these four NRSROs:



NRSRO
      RATINGSFordFord
      CreditIssuer
      Default/Corporate/Issuer
      RatingLong-TermSeniorUnsecuredSeniorSecuredOutlook
      /TrendLong-TermSeniorUnsecuredShort-TermUnsecuredOutlook
      /TrendDBRSB
      (low)CCCB
      (high)StableBR-5StableFitchB-CCBB-PositiveB+BPositiveMoody'sB3Caa1Ba3StableB3NPReviewS&PB-CCCB-StableB-
      *NRStable

__________

*  S&P
assigns FCE a long-term senior unsecured rating of B, maintaining a one notch
differential versus Ford Credit.

78ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

OUTLOOK



Although
a global economic recovery is underway, the economic environment remains
uncertain.  We believe that in the face of this uncertainty, our One Ford
plan – to aggressively restructure our business to operate profitably at current
demand and changing model mix, accelerate development of new products customers
want and value, finance our plan and improve our balance sheet, and work
together effectively as one team to leverage our global resources – provides the
right strategy to achieve our objectives.  For additional discussion
of the economic environment, and discussion and assessment of the risks and
opportunities with regard to our planning assumptions, see our "Risk Factors"
and "Overview" discussion above, and "Critical Accounting Estimates" discussion
below.



Our
projection of upcoming vehicle production (including Ford-badged vehicles
manufactured by unconsolidated affiliates and non-Ford-badged vehicles
manufactured by Ford or its consolidated affiliates) is as follows (in
thousands):



First
      Quarter 2010Vehicle
      UnitProductionOver/(Under)First
      Quarter 2009Ford
      North America570221Ford
      South America11112Ford
      Europe44097Ford
      Asia Pacific Africa14749Volvo9328



The
increase in first quarter 2010 production compared with a year ago reflects
strong customer demand for our products, and the non-recurrence of prior-year
dealer stock declines.  We expect gradual improvement in global
industry sales volume during 2010, but significant uncertainties
remain.  As a result of the very effective 2009 scrappage programs in
Europe, we expect vehicle demand in that region to be lower in 2010,
particularly in Germany.



Our
planning assumptions for 2010 include the following:



Industry Volume(a)Full-Year Plan(million
      units)–United
      States11.5 –
      12.5–Europe
      (b)13.5 – 14.5Operational Metrics (c)Compared
      with prior year:–QualityImprove–Automotive Structural Costs (d)Somewhat
      Higher–U.S.
      Market Share (Ford Lincoln Mercury)Equal
      / Improve–U.S.
      Share of Retail MarketEqual
      / Improve–Europe
      Market Share (b)EqualAbsolute
      Amount:–Automotive
      Operating-Related Cash Flow (e)Positive–Capital
      Spending$4.5 Billion
      – $5 Billion

__________

(a)           Includes
medium and heavy trucks.

(b)           For
the 19 markets we track in Europe as defined in Item 1.

(c)Excludes
Volvo, and reflects new accounting standard effective January 1, 2010
related to the consolidation of variable interest entities.

(d)Structural
      cost changes are measured at constant exchange, and exclude special items
      and discontinued operations.

(e)           See
"Liquidity and Capital Resources" discussion above for reconciliation to U.S.
GAAP.



Although
we see improvement in leading economic indicators in our major markets and
financial markets have continued to normalize with ongoing policy support, low
levels of consumer confidence and continuing labor market weakness present a
challenge to the near-term economic outlook (particularly for the United States
and Europe).  The outlook for consumer spending in the United States
and Europe remains weak, with below-trend growth likely in
2010.  In addition, our suppliers and dealers have been weakened
by the global economic downturn.



Commodity
prices have begun to increase with the emergence of initial signs of economic
recovery, and we anticipate this trend will continue in 2010.  Our
business also will continue to be affected by currency volatility.



We
experienced significant positive net pricing in 2009; we expect year-over-year
improvement in 2010, but this will be a smaller magnitude than in
2009.


ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

As
reported, we have achieved significant structural cost reductions over the past
four years; in 2010, we expect Automotive structural costs to be somewhat higher
as we increase production to meet demand.



We expect
that full-year 2010 Automotive operating-related cash flow will be positive,
though less than the run rate implied by our strong second half 2009 cash
flow.  Our recent performance was heavily influenced by seasonal
factors, including normal year-end inventory reductions, and significant
non-recurring factors such as tax refunds and higher production to rebuild
depleted dealer stocks.



Capital
spending in 2010 is expected to be in the range of $4.5 billion to
$5 billion as we continue to focus on our product plan.  This
planning assumption for capital spending excludes Volvo and joint ventures that
are being deconsolidated under the new accounting standard effective
January 1, 2010.  On a comparable basis, planned 2010
capital spending is about $1 billion higher than our actual 2009
spending.



We have
excluded Volvo from our 2010 planning assumptions based on its held-for-sale
status.  As announced, we have settled on substantive terms for the
sale of Volvo to Zhejiang Geely Group Holding Co. Ltd.  While some
work still remains relating to final documentation, financing and government
approvals, we expect to reach a definitive sales agreement in the first quarter
of 2010, with closing of the sale likely to occur in the second quarter of
2010.



While
deconsolidation of joint ventures pursuant to the new accounting standard will
have no effect onNet
income/(loss) attributable to Ford Motor Companyand is not expected to
have a substantial impact on total cash flow, we estimate that the accounting
change will reduce our full-year 2010 pre-tax operating results by
$350 million to $400 million.  Additionally, deconsolidation
will reduce Automotive gross cash by about $550 million, and decrease
Automotive debt by about $800 million (of which about $500 million is
to mature during 2010) compared with December 31, 2009
levels.



Ford
Credit expects to be profitable in 2010, but at a reduced level compared with
2009, reflecting lower average receivables and the non-recurrence of certain
favorable factors experienced during 2009.  At year-end 2010, Ford
Credit anticipates managed receivables to be in the range of $80 billion to
$90 billion.  The projected decline in managed receivables
primarily reflects lower industry and financing volumes in 2009 and 2010
compared with prior years, and the effect of transitioning Jaguar, Land Rover,
Mazda and some Volvo financing to other providers.  Ford Credit
expects to pay distributions of about $1.5 billion in 2010.  Ford
Credit will continue to assess its ability to make future distributions based on
its available liquidity and managed leverage objectives.



Based on
our planning assumptions, which include continued improvement in U.S. and global
industry sales volume during 2010 and beyond, for full-year 2010 we plan to be
profitable on a pre-tax basis excluding special items for Ford North America,
total Automotive and total company, with positive Automotive operating-related
cash flow.  We remain on track for full-year 2011 to be solidly
profitable on a pre-tax basis excluding special items, with positive Automotive
operating-related cash flow.

80ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Risk
Factors



Statements
included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute “forward-looking
statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are based on expectations,
forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks,
uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those stated, including, without limitation:



·Further
      declines in industry sales volume, particularly in the United States or
      Europe, due to financial crisis, deepening recession, geo-political
      events, or other factors;

·Decline
      in market share;

·Lower-than-anticipated
      market acceptance of new or existing
products;

·An
      increase in or acceleration of market shift beyond our current planning
      assumptions from sales of trucks, medium- and large-sized utilities, or
      other more profitable vehicles, particularly in the United
      States;

·A
      return to elevated gasoline prices, as well as the potential for volatile
      prices or reduced availability;

·Continued
      or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity,
      currency fluctuations, or other
factors;

·Adverse
      effects from the bankruptcy, insolvency, or government-funded
      restructuring of, change in ownership or control of, or alliances entered
      into by a major competitor;

·A
      prolonged disruption of the debt and securitization
    markets;

·Fluctuations
      in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest
      rates;

·Economic
      distress of suppliers that may require us to provide substantial financial
      support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or
      materials and could increase our costs, affect our liquidity, or cause
      production disruptions;

·Single-source
      supply of components or materials;

·Labor
      or other constraints on our ability to restructure our
      business;

·Work
      stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of
      production;

·Substantial
      pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities
      impairing our liquidity or financial
condition;

·Worse-than-assumed
      economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans
      (e.g., discount rates or investment
returns);

·Restriction
      on use of tax attributes from tax law "ownership
  change;"

·The
      discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model
      launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty
  costs;

·Increased
      safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulation resulting in higher
      costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales
  restrictions;

·Unusual
      or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of
      alleged defects in our products, perceived environmental impacts, or
      otherwise;

·A
      change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have long-term
      supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities
      of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller
      ("take-or-pay" contracts);

·Adverse
      effects on our results from a decrease in or cessation of government
      incentives related to capital
investments;

·Adverse
      effects on our operations resulting from certain geo-political or other
      events;

·Substantial
      levels of Automotive indebtedness adversely affecting our financial
      condition or preventing us from fulfilling our debt obligations (which may
      grow because we are able to incur substantially more debt, including
      additional secured debt);

·Failure
      of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit
      facilities;

·Inability
      of Ford Credit to obtain competitive
funding;

·Inability
      of Ford Credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets
      around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to
      credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other
      factors;

·Higher-than-expected
      credit losses;

·Increased
      competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase
      their share of financing Ford
vehicles;

·Collection
      and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment
      in operating leases;

·Lower-than-anticipated
      residual values or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased
      vehicles;

·New
      or increased credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations
      resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions;
      and

·Inability
      to implement our One Ford plan.



We cannot
be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing
forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be
realized.  It is to be expected that there may be differences between
projected and actual results.  Our forward-looking statements speak
only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any
obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether
as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  For
additional discussion of these risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors."

81ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

CRITICAL
ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES



We
consider an accounting estimate to be critical if:  1) the accounting
estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly
uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the
estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of
different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period,
would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of
operations.



Management
has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting
estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors.  In
addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require
estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above.  Changes in
estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our
financial statements.



Warranty
and Additional Service Actions



Nature of Estimates
Required.The estimated warranty and additional service action
costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale.  Estimates are
principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each
vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims
experience may exist.  In addition, the number and magnitude of
additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to
additional service actions, are taken into consideration.  Due to the
uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our
assumptions could materially affect net income.



Assumptions and Approach
Used.Our estimate of warranty and additional service action
obligations is re-evaluated on a quarterly basis.  Experience has
shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our
process relies upon long-term historical averages until sufficient data are
available.  As actual experience becomes available, it is used to
modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range
of likely outcomes.  Resulting accruals are then compared with present
spending rates to ensure that the balances are adequate to meet expected future
obligations.



See
Note 31 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information
regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service
actions.



Pensions



Nature of Estimates
Required.The estimation of our pension obligations, costs,
and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of
the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the
likelihood of potential future events such as demographic
experience.  These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and
timing of future contributions.



Assumptions and Approach
Used.The assumptions used in developing the required
estimates include the following key factors:



·Discount
      rates.We base the discount rate assumption primarily on
      the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future
      cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high
      quality bonds specific to the country of the plan.  Benefit
      payments are discounted at the rates on the curve and a single discount
      rate specific to the plan is
determined.

·Expected return on plan
      assets.The expected return on plan assets assumption
      reflects historical returns and long-run inputs from a range of advisors
      for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables,
      adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy.  The
      assumption is based on consideration of all inputs, with a focus on
      long-term trends to avoid short-term market
      influences.  Assumptions are not changed unless structural
      trends in the underlying economy are identified, our asset strategy
      changes, or there are significant changes in other
  inputs.

·Salary
      growth.The salary growth assumption reflects our
      long-term actual experience, outlook, and assumed
    inflation.

·Inflation.Our
      inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market
      indicators.

·Expected
      contributions.The expected amount and timing of
      contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and
      additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations
      (e.g., funded status, avoidance of regulatory premiums and levies, and tax
      efficiency).

·Retirement
      rates.Retirement rates are developed to reflect actual
      and projected plan
experience.

·Mortality
      rates.  Mortality rates are developed to reflect actual
      and projected plan experience.



82ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Plan
obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan
provisions.  No assumption is made regarding any potential future
changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed
(e.g., in existing labor contracts).



The
effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of
changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and
losses.  Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future
periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future
periods.  Amounts are recognized as a component of net expense over
the expected future years of service (approximately 12 years for the major U.S.
plans).  In 2009, the U.S. actual return on assets was 14.4%, which
was higher than the expected return of 8.25%.  The year-end 2009
weighted average discount rates for the U.S. and non-U.S. plans decreased by 64
and 27 basis points, respectively.  These differences resulted in
unamortized losses of about $2 billion (excluding Volvo).  These
losses are only amortized to the extent they exceed 10% of the higher of the
market-related value of assets or the projected benefit obligation of the
respective plan.  For the major U.S. plans, the losses do not exceed
this threshold and recognition will begin at a future measurement
date.



See
Note 18 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information
regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits.



Sensitivity
Analysis.The December 31, 2009 pension funded
status and 2010 expense are affected by year-end 2009
assumptions.  These sensitivities may be asymmetric and are specific
to the time periods noted.  They also may not be additive, so the
impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by
combining the individual sensitivities shown.  The effect of the
indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in
millions):



PercentageIncrease/(Decrease)
      in:Point2010
      ExpenseDecember
      31, 2009 ObligationAssumption*ChangeU.S.
      PlansNon-U.S.
      PlansU.S.
      PlansNon-U.S.
      PlansDiscount
      rate+/-
      1.0 pt.$70/$210$(130)/$180$(4,150)/$4,950$(2,690)/$3,060Expected
      return on assets+/-
      1.0(380)/380(180)/180——

_______

*
Excludes Volvo



The
foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can
have a significant effect on the expense of our pension plans and/or
obligation.  We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or
investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether
adjustments to our expense or obligation in subsequent years will be
significant.



Other
Postretirement Employee Benefits



Nature of Estimates
Required.The estimation of our obligations, costs, and
liabilities associated with OPEB, primarily retiree health care and life
insurance, requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the
projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the
likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases and
demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of
future payments.



Assumptions and Approach
Used.The assumptions used in developing the required
estimates include the following key factors:



·Discount
      rates.We base the discount rate assumption primarily on
      the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future
      cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality
      bonds specific to the country of the plan.  Benefit payments are
      discounted at the rates on the curve and a single discount rate specific
      to the plan is determined.

·Health care cost
      trends.Our health care cost trend assumptions are
      developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook, and an
      assessment of likely long-term
trends.

·Salary
      growth.The salary growth assumptions reflect our
      long-term actual experience, outlook and assumed
  inflation.

·Retirement
      rates.Retirement rates are developed to reflect actual
      and projected plan experience.

·Mortality
      rates.Mortality rates are developed to reflect actual
      and projected plan experience.




ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)



Plan
obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan
provisions.  No assumption is made regarding any potential future
changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed
(e.g., in existing labor contracts).



The
effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of
changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and
losses.  Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future
periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future
periods.  The weighted average discount rate used to determine the
benefit obligation for U.S. plans at December 31, 2009 was 5.74%, compared
with 4.95% (6.37% excluding the UAW retiree health care obligation) at
December 31, 2008, resulting in an unamortized loss of about $250
million.  This amount is expected to be recognized as a component of
net expense over the expected future years of service (approximately
14 years).



See
Note 18 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information
regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement employee
benefits.



Sensitivity
Analysis.The effect on U.S. and Canadian plans of a one
percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed discount rate would be a
(decrease)/increase in the postretirement health care benefit expense for 2010
of approximately $(30) million/$40 million, and in the year-end 2009
obligation of approximately $(590) million/$720 million.



Impairments
of Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets



Nature of Estimates Required –
Goodwill.Goodwill is not amortized, but is subject to
periodic assessments of impairment.  We test goodwill for impairment
annually during the fourth quarter, or when events occur or circumstances change
that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit
below its carrying value.  Impairment of goodwill is evaluated using a
two step process.  The first step involves comparison of the fair
value of a reporting unit with its carrying value.  If the carrying
value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the
process involves comparison of the implied fair value of goodwill with its
carrying value.  The implied fair value of goodwill is equivalent to
the excess of the fair value of a reporting unit over the amounts assigned to
its assets and liabilities as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a
business combination.  If the carrying value of the reporting unit's
goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is
recognized in an amount equal to the excess.  Restoration of a
previously-recognized goodwill impairment loss is not allowed.



Nature of Estimates Required –
Held-and-Used Long-Lived Assets.Long-lived asset groups are
tested for recoverability when changes in circumstances indicate the carrying
value may not be recoverable.  Events that trigger a test for
recoverability include material adverse changes in projected revenues and
expenses, significant underperformance relative to historical and projected
future operating results, and significant negative industry or economic
trends.  When a triggering event occurs, a test for recoverability is
performed, comparing projected undiscounted future cash flows to the carrying
value of the asset group.  If the test for recoverability identifies a
possible impairment, the asset group's fair value is measured relying primarily
on a discounted cash flow methodology.  An impairment charge is
recognized for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset group exceeds
its estimated fair value.  A test for recoverability also is performed
when management has committed to a plan to sell or otherwise dispose of an asset
group and the plan is expected to be completed within a year.  When an
impairment loss is recognized for assets to be held and used, the adjusted
carrying amount of those assets is depreciated over its remaining useful
life.  Restoration of a previously-recognized long-lived asset
impairment loss is not allowed.

84ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Nature of Estimates Required –
Held-for-Sale Operations.We perform an impairment test on an
asset group to be discontinued, held for sale, or otherwise disposed of when
management has committed to the action and the action is expected to be
completed within one year.  We estimate fair value to approximate the
expected proceeds to be received.  An impairment charge is recognized
when the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the estimated fair value less
transaction costs.



Automotive
Sector



Assumptions and Approach
Used.We measure the fair value of a reporting unit or asset
group based on market prices (i.e., the amount for which the asset could be sold
to a third party), when available.  When market prices are not
available, we estimate the fair value of the reporting unit or asset group using
the income approach and/or the market approach.  The income approach
uses cash flow projections.  Inherent in our development of cash flow
projections are assumptions and estimates derived from a review of our operating
results, approved business plans, expected growth rates, and cost of capital,
similar to those a market participant would use to assess fair
value.  We also make certain assumptions about future economic
conditions and other data.  Many of the factors used in assessing fair
value are outside the control of management, and these assumptions and estimates
may change in future periods.



Changes
in assumptions or estimates can materially affect the fair value measurement of
a reporting unit or asset group, and therefore can affect the amount of the
impairment.  The following are key assumptions we use in making cash
flow projections:



·Business
      projections.  We make assumptions about the demand for
      our products in the marketplace.  These assumptions drive our
      planning assumptions for volume, mix, and pricing.  We also make
      assumptions about our cost levels (e.g., capacity utilization, cost
      performance, etc.).  These projections are derived using our
      internal business plans that are updated at least annually and reviewed by
      our Board of Directors.

·Long-term growth
      rate.  A growth rate is used to calculate the terminal
      value of the business, and is added to the present value of the debt-free
      interim cash flows.  The growth rate is the expected rate at
      which a business unit's earnings stream is projected to grow beyond the
      planning period.

·Discount
      rate.When measuring possible impairment, future cash
      flows are discounted at a rate that is consistent with a weighted-average
      cost of capital that we anticipate a potential market participant would
      use.  Weighted-average cost of capital is an estimate of the
      overall risk-adjusted after-tax rate of return required by equity and debt
      holders of a business enterprise, which is developed with the assistance
      of external financial advisors.

·Economic
      projections.Assumptions regarding general economic
      conditions are included in and affect our assumptions regarding industry
      sales and pricing estimates for our vehicles.  These
      macro-economic assumptions include, but are not limited to, industry sales
      volumes, inflation, interest rates, prices of raw materials
      (i.e., commodities), and foreign currency exchange
    rates.



The
market approach is another method for measuring the fair value of a reporting
unit or asset group.  This approach relies on the market value (i.e.,
market capitalization) of companies that are engaged in the same or similar line
of business.



Automotive
Sector – Goodwill



We had
$34 million of Automotive goodwill on our balance sheet at
December 31, 2009, all related to Ford of Europe.  Volvo
goodwill is reflected as part of held-for-sale assets (see Note 24 of the Notes
to the Financial Statements for additional detail).



Ford Europe.We performed our
annual goodwill testing in the fourth quarter of 2009 and assessed that the
carrying value of our Ford Europe reporting unit at December 31, 2009
did not exceed its fair value.



Volvo.As
previously disclosed, in the fourth quarter of 2007 we recorded a
$2.4 billion impairment of our Volvo goodwill.  We estimated at
that time that a 0.5 percentage point decrease in the long-term growth rate
would have decreased our fair value estimate by about
$250 million.  A 0.5 percentage point increase in the
discount rate assumption would have decreased the fair value estimate by about
$350 million.



In the
fourth quarter of 2008, we performed annual goodwill impairment testing for our
Volvo reporting unit.  We compared the carrying value of our Volvo
reporting unit to its fair value, and concluded that the goodwill was not
impaired.  We performed this measurement relying primarily on the
income approach, applying a discounted cash flow methodology.

85ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Our
valuation was based on an in-use premise which considered a discount rate,
after-tax return on sales rate, growth rate, and terminal value consistent with
assumptions we believed principal market participants (i.e., other global
automotive manufacturers) would use.  This methodology produced
appropriate valuations for entities we disposed of in recent years; in light of
worsening economic conditions, however, we also considered other valuations,
including a discounted cash flow analysis using more conservative assumptions
than we initially used.  This alternative analysis incorporated a
significantly higher discount rate, offset partially by a higher growth rate; a
much lower after-tax return on sales rate; and a lower terminal
value.  This alternative analysis reduced the valuation of our Volvo
reporting unit by about 50%.  Even this more conservative analysis,
however, did not support an impairment of Volvo goodwill at year-end
2008.  For information regarding 2009 testing, see "Automotive Sector
– Held-for-Sale Operations" shown below.



Automotive
Sector – Held-and-Used Long-Lived Assets



In 2008,
we examined each of our asset groups for triggering events and recorded a
pre-tax impairment charge for Ford North America.  All other asset
groups were found to either have no triggering events or have a carrying value
of assets that was recoverable.



Ford North
America.Due to rapidly-changing U.S. market conditions in the
second quarter of 2008 (discussed in Note 15 of the Notes to the Financial
Statements), we tested the long-lived assets of our Ford North America segment
and recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $5.3 billion.  The
impairment was driven almost entirely by deterioration in projected cash flows
for our near-term business plan period, attributable to changes in our business
and economic projections as discussed above.  Following this
impairment, Ford North America had $11 billion of net property recorded in
our financial statements as of June 30, 2008.



Sensitivity
Analysis.The impairment reflected changes in the assumptions
used to measure the fair value of the asset group based on the rapidly-changing
market conditions (including changes to our business
projections).  The most notable changes in our business and economic
projections included:  (1) a more pronounced and accelerated shift in
consumer preferences away from full-size trucks and SUVs to smaller and more
fuel-efficient vehicles as a result of higher fuel prices, with a return over
time to a level between today's mix and recent levels; (2) lowered U.S. industry
demand in the near term, with a return to trend levels as the U.S. economy
recovers subsequent to 2010; and (3)  higher commodity costs over the
business plan period compared with prior projections.  For additional
discussion of the planning assumptions used, see the "Outlook" discussion in our
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
June 30, 2008.



Beyond
the business and economic projections discussed above, we also updated our
assumptions with regard to long-term growth and discount rates.  The
long-term growth rate assumption used in our second quarter 2008 testing is
similar to that used in our 2006 North America impairment testing, when we last
had an impairment of North America fixed assets.  This growth rate,
however, when applied to lowered business plan period projections, resulted in a
less favorable undiscounted long-term outlook.  This outlook is
consistent with our present projection of lower margins, resulting primarily
from the recent shift in consumer preferences discussed above.  We
estimate that a 0.5 percentage point decrease in the long-term growth rate
assumed in our second quarter impairment testing would have decreased the fair
value estimate by about $800 million.



The
discount rate that we used in our second quarter of 2008 impairment testing was
consistent with a weighted-average cost of capital that we estimate a potential
market participant would use.  This discount rate was lower than that
used in our 2006 impairment testing, primarily reflecting the change in
long-term outlook discussed above.  A 0.5 percentage point
increase in the discount rate assumption used in the impairment testing would
have decreased the fair value estimate by about $1.4 billion.



During
the third quarter of 2008, we experienced a severe deterioration in U.S. credit
markets, which adversely affected economic conditions and depressed automotive
sales.  As a result of this significant adverse change in the U.S.
business climate, we again tested the long-lived assets of our Ford North
America segment.  Using updated business and economic projections, we
assessed that the carrying value of our long-lived assets at
September 30, 2008 did not exceed their fair value.  We used
the same long-term growth rate as used in our second quarter testing as we
believe that long-term economic conditions have not deteriorated as a result of
the present credit crisis.  We estimate that a 0.5 percentage
point decrease in the long-term growth rate assumed in our third quarter
impairment testing would have decreased the fair value estimate by about
$800 million.  Additionally, we used the same discount rate as
used in our second quarter testing.  This is based on the assumption
that the present credit crisis does not have a material impact on the weighted
cost of capital in the medium- to long-term (consistent with our planning
horizon).  A 0.5 percentage point increase in the discount rate
assumption used in the impairment testing would have decreased the fair value
estimate by about $1.3 billion.

86ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

We
closely examined each of our asset groups for triggering events and most
recently tested each of our held-and-used asset groups in the first quarter of
2009.  We assessed that the carrying value of our long-lived assets was
recoverable.



In 2010,
we have plans to expand our product line-up in the United States to include
additional small, more fuel-efficient vehicles to our product portfolio which
will more closely match the overall market.  Additionally, we continue
to align our production capacity with industry sales volume and market
share.  As our plan progresses, we will be less exposed to rapid
changes in vehicle mix and demand, and less susceptible to future impairment of
long-lived assets.  For further discussion of actions we are taking to
respond to changing market conditions, see "Overview" above.



Refer to the Held-for-Sale Operations
discussion below for detail regarding our 2009 impairment testing of
Volvo.



Automotive
Sector – Held-for-Sale Operations



Volvo.As
previously disclosed, in recent years we have undertaken efforts to divest
non-core assets in order to allow us to focus exclusively on our global Ford
brand.  Toward that end, in 2007 we sold our interest in Aston Martin;
in 2008, we sold our interest in Jaguar Land Rover, and a significant portion of
our ownership in Mazda.  During the first quarter of 2009, based on
our strategic review of Volvo and in light of our goal to focus on the global
Ford brand, our Board of Directors committed to actively market Volvo for sale,
notwithstanding the current distressed market for automotive-related
assets.  Accordingly, in the first quarter of 2009 we reported Volvo
as held for sale and we ceased depreciation of its long-lived assets in the
second quarter of 2009.



Our
commitment to actively market Volvo for sale also triggered a held-for-sale
impairment test in the first quarter of 2009.  We received information
from our discussions with potential buyers that provided us a value for Volvo
using a market approach, rather than an income approach.  We concluded
that the information we received from our discussions with potential buyers was
more representative of the value of Volvo given the current market conditions,
the characteristics of viable market participants, and our anticipation of a
more immediate transaction for Volvo.  These inputs resulted in a
lower value for Volvo than the discounted cash flow method we had previously
used.



After
considering deferred gains reported inAccumulated other comprehensive
income/(loss),we recognized a pre-tax impairment charge of
$650 million related to our total investment in Volvo.  The
impairment was recorded inAutomotive cost of salesfor the first quarter of 2009.



Had we
not committed to actively market Volvo for sale, we would not have been afforded
the benefit of the new information obtained in discussions with potential
buyers.  Rather, we would have continued to employ an in-use premise
to test Volvo's goodwill and long-lived assets, using a discounted cash flow
methodology with assumptions similar to those we used at year-end
2008.  Such a discounted cash flow methodology would not have resulted
in an impairment of goodwill or long-lived assets at
March 31, 2009.



See Notes
15, 16 and 24 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information
regarding impairment of long-lived assets, goodwill, and held-for-sale
operations.



Financial
Services Sector – Ford Credit North America Investment in Operating
Leases



Assumptions and Approach
Used.  As noted above, we measure the fair value of an asset
group based on market prices (i.e., the amount for which the asset could be sold
to a third party), when available.  When market prices are not
available, we estimate the fair value of the asset group using the income
approach.  The income approach uses discounted cash flow
projections.  Ford Credit measures the fair value of its North America
operating lease portfolio using the projected cash flow based on the terms of
the operating lease contracts.  Inherent in the cash flow assumptions
are estimates derived from its quarterly operating lease portfolio adequacy
study for accumulated depreciation.  Many of the factors used in
measuring fair value are outside the control of management, and these
assumptions and estimates may change in future periods.


ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Changes
in assumptions or estimates may materially affect the fair value measurement of
an asset group, and therefore may affect the amount of the
impairment.  The following are key assumptions we use in making cash
flow projections for Ford Credit's operating leases:



·Auction
      values.Ford Credit's projection of the market value of
      the vehicles when Ford Credit sells them at the end of the
      lease.

·Return
      volume.  Ford Credit's projection of the number of
      vehicles that will be returned at
lease-end.

·Discount
      rate.Ford Credit's estimation of the discount rate,
      reflecting hypothetical market assumptions regarding borrowing rates,
      credit loss patterns, and residual value
risk.



See
Notes 15 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information
regarding impairment of long-lived assets.



Sensitivity
Analysis.  Higher fuel prices and the weak economic climate in
the United States and Canada during the second quarter of 2008 caused a more
pronounced and accelerated shift in consumer preferences away from full-size
trucks and SUVs to smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles.  This shift
in consumer preferences, combined with the weak economic climate, caused a
significant reduction in auction values for used full-size trucks and SUVs (asdiscussed
in Note 15 of the Notes to the Financial
Statements).  Recognizing these rapidly-changing market conditions,
Ford Credit tested its U.S. and Canadian investments in operating leases for
recoverability.  As a result of this testing, Ford Credit concluded
that the operating lease portfolio was impaired and we and Ford Credit recorded
a pre-tax charge of $2.1 billion in second quarter 2008 financial
statements.  This charge represents the amount by which the carrying
value of certain vehicle lines in Ford Credit's lease portfolio, primarily
full-size trucks and SUVs, exceeded their fair value.  See "Residual
Risk" discussion above for additional information regarding the significant
decrease in auction values.



At the
time of the impairment, Ford Credit estimated that a one percent decrease in the
auction value of the impaired vehicles assumed in the impairment testing would
have decreased the fair value estimate by about $50 million.  A
one percentage point increase in the return rate of the impaired vehicles
assumed in the impairment testing would have decreased the fair value estimate
by about $30 million.  A one percentage point increase in the
discount rate assumed in the impairment testing would have decreased the fair
value estimate by about $100 million.



Although
at this time we do not anticipate additional impairment charges, a deterioration
of the business climate would impact the assumptions we use in future impairment
testing and could result in additional impairments.



Valuation
of Deferred Tax Assets



Nature of Estimates
Required.Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized
based on the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences that
exist between the financial statement carrying value of assets and liabilities
and their respective tax bases, and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards
on a taxing jurisdiction basis.  We measure deferred tax assets and
liabilities using enacted tax rates that will apply in the years in which we
expect the temporary differences to be recovered or paid.



U.S. GAAP
standards of accounting for income taxes require a reduction of the carrying
amounts of deferred tax assets by recording a valuation allowance if, based on
the available evidence, it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of
more than 50%) such assets will not be realized.  The valuation of
deferred tax assets requires judgment in assessing the likely future tax
consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or
tax returns and future profitability.  Our accounting for deferred tax
consequences represents our best estimate of those future
events.  Changes in our current estimates, due to unanticipated events
or otherwise, could have a material impact on our financial condition and
results of operations.



Assumptions and Approach
Used.In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we
consider both positive and negative evidence related to the likelihood of
realization of the deferred tax assets.  If, based on the weight of
available evidence, it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will not
be realized, we record a valuation allowance.  The weight given to the
positive and negative evidence is commensurate with the extent to which the
evidence may be objectively verified.  As such, it is generally
difficult for positive evidence regarding projected future taxable income
exclusive of reversing taxable temporary differences to outweigh objective
negative evidence of recent financial reporting
losses.  U.S. GAAP states that a cumulative loss in recent years
is a significant piece of negative evidence that is difficult to overcome in
determining that a valuation allowance is not needed against deferred tax
assets.


ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

This
assessment, which is completed on a taxing jurisdiction basis, takes into
account a number of types of evidence, including the following:



·Nature, frequency, and
      severity of current and cumulative financial reporting
      losses.  A pattern of objectively measured recent
      financial reporting losses is heavily weighted as a source of negative
      evidence.  In certain circumstances, historical information may
      not be as relevant due to changed
circumstances;

·Sources of future taxable
      income.Future reversals of existing temporary differences are
      heavily-weighted sources of objectively verifiable positive
      evidence.  Projections of future taxable income exclusive of
      reversing temporary differences are a source of positive evidence only
      when the projections are combined with a history of recent profits and can
      be reasonably estimated.  Otherwise, these projections are
      considered inherently subjective and generally will not be sufficient to
      overcome negative evidence that includes relevant cumulative losses in
      recent years, particularly if the projected future taxable income is
      dependent on an anticipated turnaround to profitability that has not yet
      been achieved.  In such cases, we generally give these
      projections of future taxable income no weight for the purposes of our
      valuation allowance assessment pursuant to U.S. GAAP;
  and

·Tax planning strategies.If necessary and available, tax planning strategies would be
      implemented to accelerate taxable amounts to utilize expiring
      carryforwards.  These strategies would be a source of additional
      positive evidence and, depending on their nature, could be heavily
      weighted.



See
Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information
regarding deferred tax assets.



Sensitivity
Analysis.In 2006, our net deferred tax position in the United
States changed from a net deferred tax liability position to a net deferred tax
asset position.  In our assessment of the need for a valuation
allowance, we heavily weighted the negative evidence of cumulative financial
reporting losses in recent periods and the positive evidence of future reversals
of existing temporary differences.  Although a sizable portion of our
North American losses in recent years were the result of charges incurred for
restructuring actions, impairments, and other special items, even without these
charges we still would have incurred significant operating
losses.  Accordingly, we considered our pattern of recent losses to be
relevant to our analysis.  Considering this pattern of recent relevant
losses and the uncertainties associated with projected future taxable income
exclusive of reversing temporary differences, we gave no weight to projections
showing future U.S. taxable income for purposes of assessing the need for a
valuation allowance.  As a result of our assessment, we concluded that
the net deferred tax assets of our U.S. entities required a full valuation
allowance.  We also recorded a full valuation allowance on the net
deferred tax assets of certain foreign entities, such as Germany, Canada, and
Spain, as the realization of these foreign deferred tax assets are reliant upon
U.S.-source taxable income.



At
December 31, 2006, we reported a $7.3 billion valuation allowance
against our deferred tax assets (including $2.7 billion resulting from the
adoption of the revised standard on accounting for defined benefit pension and
other postretirement benefit plans).  During 2007, we recorded an
additional valuation allowance of $700 million.  Losses
during 2008, primarily in the United States, increased the valuation
allowance by $9.3 billion to a balance of $17.3 billion at
December 31, 2008.  The valuation allowance increased by
$200 million in 2009, which reflects a $1.1 billion increase related
to charges to other comprehensive income, partially offset by a
$900 million decrease as a result of operating profits.



A
sustained period of profitability in our North America operations is required
before we would change our judgment regarding the need for a full valuation
allowance against our net deferred tax assets.  Accordingly, although
we were profitable in 2009, we continue to record a full valuation allowance
against the net deferred tax assets in the United States and foreign entities
discussed above.  Although the weight of negative evidence related to
cumulative losses is decreasing as we deliver on our One Ford plan (discussed in
"Overview" and "Outlook" above), we believe that this objectively-measured
negative evidence outweighs the subjectively-determined positive evidence and,
as such, we currently do not anticipate a change in judgment regarding the need
for a full valuation allowance in 2010.  The consumption of tax
attributes to offset expected operating profits during 2010, however, would
reduce the overall level of deferred tax assets subject to valuation
allowance.


ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)





Accumulated
Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases



Accumulated
depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the
leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition
value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease
term.  These vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for
Ford Credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a
guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the Automotive
sector.



We
monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our
accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis.  If we believe that the
expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation
to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition
value of the vehicles less accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect
our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease
term.  Such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a
change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases,
and are recorded prospectively on a straight-line basis.



For
retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at
the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer.  If the
customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from
Ford Credit or return it to Ford Credit.  Ford Credit's North America
operating lease activity was as follows for each of the last three years (in
thousands, except percentages):



200920082007Vehicle
      return volume314327300Return
      rate81%86%79%



For
rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles have been returned to
us.



Nature of Estimates Required.Each operating lease in our portfolio represents a vehicle we own that
has been leased to a customer.  At the time we purchase a lease, we
establish an expected residual value for the vehicle.  We estimate the
expected residual value by evaluating recent auction values, historical return
volumes for our leased vehicles, industry-wide used vehicle prices, our
marketing incentive plans and vehicle quality data.



Assumptions
Used.For retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on
vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions
of:



·Auction
      value.Ford Credit's projection of the market value of
      the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease;
  and

·Return
      volume.Ford Credit's projection of the number of
      vehicles that will be returned to us at
  lease-end.



See
Note 8 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information
regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating
leases.


ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Sensitivity
Analysis.For returned vehicles, we face a risk that the
amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate
of the expected residual value for the vehicle.  At
December 31, 2009, if future auction values for Ford Credit's existing
portfolio of operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the
United States were to decrease by one percent from its present estimates, the
effect would be to increase the depreciation on these vehicles by about
$50 million.  Similarly, if return volumes for Ford Credit's
existing portfolio of operating leases on Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand
vehicles in the United States were to increase by one percent from its present
estimates, the effect would be to increase the depreciation on these vehicles by
about $7 million.  These increases in depreciation would be
charged to depreciation expense during the 2010 through 2013 period so that the
net investment in operating leases at the end of the lease term for these
vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value.  Adjustments
to the amount of accumulated depreciation on operating leases will be reflected
on our balance sheet asNet
investment in operating leasesand on the statement of operations inDepreciation, in each
case under the Financial Services sector.



Allowance
for Credit Losses



The
allowance for credit losses is Ford Credit's estimate of the probable credit
losses inherent in finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the
balance sheet.  Consistent with its normal practices and policies,
Ford Credit assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly
and regularly evaluates the assumptions and models used in establishing the
allowance.  Because credit losses can vary substantially over time,
estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are
uncertain.



Nature of Estimates
Required.Ford Credit estimates the probable credit losses
inherent in finance receivables and operating leases based on several
factors.



Retail Installment and Lease
Portfolio.The retail installment and lease portfolio is
evaluated using a combination of models and management judgment, and is based on
factors such as historical trends in credit losses and recoveries (including key
metrics such as delinquencies, repossessions, and bankruptcies), the composition
of Ford Credit's present portfolio (including vehicle brand, term, risk
evaluation, and new/used vehicles), trends in historical and projected used
vehicle values, and economic conditions.  Estimates from models may
not fully reflect losses inherent in the present portfolio, and an element of
the allowance for credit losses is established for the imprecision inherent in
loan loss models.  Reasons for imprecision include changes in economic
trends and conditions, portfolio composition and other relevant
factors.



Assumptions
Used.Ford Credit makes projections of two key
assumptions:



·Frequency.The
      number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that Ford
      Credit expects will default over a period of time, measured as
      repossessions; and

·Loss
      severity.The expected difference between the amount a
      customer owes Ford Credit when Ford Credit charges off the finance
      contract and the amount Ford Credit receives, net of expenses, from
      selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the
      customer.



Ford
Credit uses these assumptions to assist in estimating its allowance for credit
losses.  See Note 9 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for
more information regarding allowance for credit losses.



Sensitivity
Analysis.Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency
and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses.  The effect
of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for Ford,
Lincoln, and Mercury brand vehicles in the U.S. retail and lease portfolio (in
millions):



Increase/(Decrease)AssumptionPercentagePointChangeDecember
      31, 2009Allowance
      forCredit
      Losses2009ExpenseRepossession
      rates*+/-
      0.1 pt.$30/$(30)$30/$(30)Loss
      severity+/-
      1.010/(10)10/(10)

__________

*Reflects
      the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that Ford
      Credit expects will default over a period of time relative to the average
      number of contracts outstanding.

91ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Wholesale and Dealer Loan
Portfolio.The wholesale and dealer loan portfolio is
evaluated by segmenting individual loans into risk pools, which are determined
by the risk characteristics of the loan (such as the amount of the loan, the
nature of collateral, and the financial status of the dealer).  The
risk pools are analyzed to determine if individual loans are impaired, and an
allowance is estimated for the expected loss of these loans.



Changes
in Ford Credit's assumptions affect theProvision for credit and insurance
losseson our statement of operations and the allowance for credit losses
contained withinFinance
receivables, netandNet investment inoperating leaseson our
balance sheet, in each case under the Financial Services sector.



ACCOUNTING
STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED



For
information on accounting standards issued but not yet adopted, see Note 3 of
the Notes to the Financial Statements.



AGGREGATE
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS



We are
party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to
third parties.  Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our
Financial Services sector.  Long-term debt may have fixed or variable
interest rates.  For long-term debt with variable rate interest, we
estimate the future interest payments based on projected market interest rates
for various floating-rate benchmarks received from third parties.  In
addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with
suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and
services.  These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity
purchase requirements.  We enter into such arrangements to facilitate
adequate supply of these materials and services.  "Purchase
obligations" are defined as off-balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or
services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that
specify all significant terms.



The table
below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009
(in millions):



Payments
      Due by Period20102011
      - 20122013
      - 20142015
      and ThereafterTotalAutomotive
      SectorOn-balance
      sheetLong-term
      debt (a) (b) (excluding capital leases)$1,618$3,720$14,749$18,030$38,117Interest
      payments relating to long-term debt (c)1,1492,7113,49211,46818,820Capital
      leases233292690Off-balance
      sheetPurchase
      obligations1,5648582411832,846Operating
      leases217280161211869Total
      Automotive sector4,5717,60118,65229,91860,742Financial
      Services SectorOn-balance
      sheetLong-term
      debt (a) (b) (excluding capital leases)26,30040,81010,0966,14583,351Interest
      payments relating to long-term debt (c)3,6514,5511,9183,11413,234Capital
      leases—————Off-balance
      sheetPurchase
      obligations45144467Operating
      leases921265652326Total
      Financial Services sector30,08845,50112,0749,31596,978Intersector
      elimination (d)(646)———(646)Total
      Company$34,013$53,102$30,726$39,233$157,074



(a)Amount
      includes, prior to adjustment noted above, $1,641 million for the
      Automotive sector and $26.3 billion for the Financial Services sector
      for the current portion of long-term debt.  See Note 19 of the
      Notes to the Financial Statements for additional
    discussion.

(b)Automotive
      sector excludes unamortized debt discounts of $(4,578)
      million.  Financial Services sector excludes unamortized debt
      discounts of $(530) million and adjustments of $231 million
      related to designated fair value hedges of the
  debt.

(c)For
      the years 2010 – 2013, excludes deferred interest on our Subordinated
      Convertible Debentures; for all periods, excludes amortization of debt
      discounts.

(d)Intersector
      elimination related to Ford's acquisition of Ford Credit debt
      securities.  See Note 1 of the Notes to the Financial
      Statements for additional detail.

92ITEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

The
amount of unrecognized tax benefits for 2009 of $1.2 billion (see Note 23
of the Notes to the Financial Statements) is excluded from the table
above.  Final settlement of a significant portion of these obligations
will require bilateral tax agreements among us and various countries, the timing
of which cannot be reasonably estimated.



For
additional information regarding long-term debt, operating lease obligations,
and pension and OPEB obligations and the UAW VEBA Trust, see Notes 19, 8, and
18, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements.



ITEM 7A.Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk



OVERVIEW



We are
exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes
in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as
risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset
risks.



These
risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors
differently.  We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral
part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a
central management committee, the Global Risk Management Committee
("GRMC").  The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, and its
members include our Treasurer, our Corporate Controller, and other members of
senior management.



Our
Automotive and Financial Services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the
possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet
present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding
sources may be reduced or become unavailable.  We maintain plans for
sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business
cycles.  As discussed in greater detail in Item 7 our funding
sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured
financings, unsecured debt issuances, equity and equity-linked issuances, and
bank borrowings.



We are
exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property,
liability claims, and employee injury.  We protect against these risks
through a combination of self-insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance
designed to protect against events that could generate significant
losses.



Direct
responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies
resides with our Treasurer's Office and is governed by written polices and
procedures.  Separation of duties is maintained between the
development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of
derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows.  Regular audits are
conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain
effective.  In addition, our market risk exposures and our use of
derivatives to manage these exposures are approved by the GRMC, and reviewed by
the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors.



In
accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative
instruments, when available, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that
economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest
rates).  Derivative positions, when available, are used to hedge
underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for trading,
market-making or speculative purposes.  In certain instances, we forgo
hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are
recognized currently in net income.



The
continued deterioration of our derivative capacity in the first half of 2009
resulted in unhedged currency exposure from cross-border intercompany lending
during 2009.  Total unhedged intercompany loans were about
$1.7 billion as of March 31, 2009 and increased to about
$5.5 billion as of June 30, 2009.  Currency exposure
from intercompany loans was substantially hedged at December 31, 2009
through implementation of collateral arrangements with certain counterparties
and continued reduction in intercompany loans resulting from local funding
actions.  For additional information on our derivatives, see
Note 26 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.


ITEM 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
(continued)



The
market and counterparty risks of our Automotive sector and Ford Credit are
discussed and quantified below.



AUTOMOTIVE
MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY RISK



Our
Automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in
foreign currencies, including the following:  purchases and sales of
finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary
dividends, and investments in foreign operations.  These expenditures
and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates.  We also
are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our Automotive sector
and changes in interest rates.



Foreign
currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to
evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative
instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel
shifts in rates and/or prices.  For options and instruments with
non-linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of
shifts in rates and prices.



Foreign Currency
Risk.Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our
financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in
currency exchange rates.  Accordingly, our normal practice is to use
derivative instruments, when available, to hedge our economic exposure with
respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in
foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign
currencies.  In our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments
commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward and
option contracts).



The net
fair value of foreign exchange forward and option contracts (including
adjustments for credit risk) as of December 31, 2009 was a liability
of $26 million compared to a net fair value asset of $249 million as
of December 31, 2008.  The potential decrease in fair value
of foreign exchange forward and option contracts (excluding adjustments for
credit risk), assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying foreign
currency exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar, would be approximately
$622 million at December 31, 2009 and was $600 million as of
December 31, 2008.  If adjustments for credit risk were to
be included, the decrease would be smaller.



At
December 31, 2009, substantially all of our intercompany loans were
fully hedged.



Commodity Price
Risk.Commodity price risk is the possibility that our
financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in
the prices of commodities used in the production of motor vehicles, such as
non-ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous
metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and
electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene).  Steel and
resins are two of our largest commodity exposures and are among the most
difficult to hedge.



Our
normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge the
price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can
economically hedge (primarily non-ferrous metals, precious metals and
energies).  In our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments
commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially
settled forward contracts, swaps, and options).



The net
fair value of commodity forward and option contracts (including adjustments for
credit risk) as of December 31, 2009 was a liability of
$39 million, compared to a liability of $212 million as of
December 31, 2008.  The potential decrease in fair value of
commodity forward and option contracts (excluding adjustments for credit risk),
assuming a 10% decrease in the underlying commodity prices, would be
approximately $20 million at December 31, 2009, compared with a
decrease of $26 million at December 31, 2008.  If
adjustments for credit risk were to be included, the decrease would be
smaller.



In
addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the GRMC as
appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw
materials.  In some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase
amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price
risk.


ITEM 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
(continued)

Interest Rate
Risk.Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could
incur in our Automotive investment portfolios due to a change in interest
rates.  Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment
portfolios includes cash and cash equivalents and net marketable
securities.  At December 31, 2009, we had $25.5 billion
in our Automotive investment portfolios, compared to $13.4 billion at
December 31, 2008.  We invest the portfolios in securities
of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations
in interest rates.  The portfolios are classified as trading
portfolios and gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the
statement of operations.  The investment strategy is based on clearly
defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and
earn a reasonable return on the short-term investment.  In 2009,
safety of principal was the primary objective in investing our Automotive
cash.



At any
time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair
value of our portfolios.  Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest
rates of one percentage point, the value of our portfolios would be reduced by
about $62 million.  This compares to $57 million, as
calculated as of December 31, 2008.  While these are our
best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual
results could differ from those projected.  The sensitivity analysis
presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in
the yield curve.  In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude
are rarely instantaneous or parallel.



Counterparty
Risk.Counterparty risk relates to the loss we could incur if
an obligor or counterparty defaulted on an investment or a derivative
contract.  We enter into master agreements with counterparties that
allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this
risk.  Exposures primarily relate to investments in fixed income
instruments and derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign
currency exchange rate and commodity price risk.  We, together with
Ford Credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk
and provide counterparty diversification.



Our
approach to managing counterparty risk is forward-looking and proactive,
allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become
losses.  We establish exposure limits for both net fair value and
future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings-based
historical default probabilities.  The exposure limits are lower for
lower-rated counterparties and for longer-dated exposures.  We use a
model to assess our potential exposure, defined at a 95% confidence
level.  Our exposures are monitored on a regular basis and included in
periodic reporting to our Treasurer.



Substantially
all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated
single-A or better.  Our guideline for counterparty minimum long-term
ratings is BBB-.



For
additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of
derivatives, please refer to Note 26 of the Notes to the Financial
Statements.



FORD
CREDIT MARKET RISK



Overview.Ford
Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business
activities.  In addition to counterparty risk discussed above, Ford
Credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to
identify, assess, monitor, and manage, in accordance with defined policies and
procedures:



·Market risk— the
      possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates will
      adversely affect cash flow and economic
value;

·Credit risk— the
      possibility of loss from a customer’s failure to make payments according
      to contract terms;

·Residual risk— the
      possibility that the actual proceeds received at lease termination will be
      lower than projections or return volumes will be higher than projections;
      and

·Liquidity risk— the
      possibility that Ford Credit may be unable to meet all of its current and
      future obligations in a timely
manner.



Each form
of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to Ford Credit's
overall global risk.  Business decisions are evaluated on a
risk-adjusted basis and services are priced consistent with these
risks.  Credit and residual risks, as well as liquidity risk, are
discussed above in Item 7.  A discussion of Ford Credit's market
risks (interest rate risk and foreign currency risk) is included
below.


ITEM 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
(continued)



Interest Rate
Risk.Ford Credit's primary market risk exposure is interest
rate risk, and the particular market to which it is most exposed is U.S. dollar
LIBOR.  Interest rate risk exposure results principally from
“re-pricing risk” or differences in the re-pricing characteristics of assets and
liabilities.  An instrument’s re-pricing period is a term used to
describe how an interest rate-sensitive instrument responds to changes in
interest rates.  It refers to the time it takes an instrument’s
interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates.  For
fixed-rate instruments, the re-pricing period is equal to the maturity of the
instrument’s principal, because the principal is considered to re-price only
when re-invested in a new instrument.  For a floating-rate instrument,
the re-pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to
the market rate.  For instance, a floating-rate loan whose interest
rate is reset to a market index annually on December 31 would have a
re-pricing period of one year on January 1, regardless of the instrument’s
maturity.



Re-pricing
risk arises when assets and the related debt have different re-pricing periods,
and consequently, respond differently to changes in interest
rates.  As an example, consider a hypothetical portfolio of fixed-rate
assets that is funded with floating-rate debt.  If interest rates
increase, the interest paid on debt increases while the interest received on
assets remains fixed.  In this case, the hypothetical portfolio’s cash
flows are exposed to changes in interest rates because its assets and debt have
a re-pricing mismatch.



Ford
Credit's receivables consist primarily of fixed-rate retail installment sale and
lease contracts and floating-rate wholesale receivables.  Fixed-rate
retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with
maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to
make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract.  Wholesale
receivables are originated to finance new and used vehicles held in dealers’
inventory and generally require dealers to pay a floating rate.



Funding
sources consist primarily of securitizations and short- and long-term unsecured
debt.  In the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have
funds available throughout business cycles, Ford Credit may borrow at terms
longer than the terms of their assets, in most instances with up to ten year
maturities.  These debt instruments are principally fixed-rate and
require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a
single principal payment at maturity.



Ford
Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists
between the re-pricing profile of its assets and its
debt.  Specifically, without derivatives, in the aggregate Ford
Credit's assets would re-price more quickly than its debt.



Ford
Credit's interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its economic
value while limiting the impact of changes in interest rates.  Ford
Credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance and
staying within the tolerance through the following risk management
process.



Ford
Credit determines the sensitivity of its economic value to hypothetical changes
in interest rates.  Ford Credit then enters into interest rate swaps,
when available, to economically convert portions of its floating-rate debt to
fixed or fixed-rate debt to floating to ensure that the sensitivity of its
economic value falls within an established tolerance.  As part of its
process, Ford Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its pre-tax cash flow
using simulation techniques.  To measure this sensitivity, Ford Credit
calculates the change in expected cash flows to changes in interest rates over a
twelve-month horizon.  This calculation determines the sensitivity of
changes in cash flows associated with the re-pricing characteristics of its
interest-rate-sensitive assets, liabilities, and derivative financial
instruments under various hypothetical interest rate scenarios including both
parallel and non-parallel shifts in the yield curve.  This sensitivity
calculation does not take into account any future actions Ford Credit may take
to reduce the risk profile that arises from a change in interest
rates.  These quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to
the Treasurer regularly (either monthly or quarterly depending on the
market).



The
process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of
Ford Credit's operations in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom,
which together represented approximately 80% of its total on-balance sheet
finance receivables at December 31, 2009.  For its other
international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique, commonly referred to as
"gap analysis," to measure re-pricing mismatch.  This process uses
re-pricing schedules that group assets, debt, and swaps into discrete time-bands
based on their re-pricing characteristics.  Ford Credit then enters
into interest rate swaps, when available, which effectively change the
re-pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re-pricing mismatch (between
assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time-band falls within an
established tolerance.

96ITEM 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
(continued)

As of
December 31, 2009, in the aggregate Ford Credit's assets re-price
faster than its debt (including the derivative instruments economically hedging
the debt).  Other things being equal, this means that during a period
of rising interest rates, the interest rates earned on its assets will increase
more rapidly than the interest rates paid on its debt, thereby initially
increasing Ford Credit's pre-tax cash flow.  Correspondingly, during a
period of falling interest rates, Ford Credit would expect its pre-tax cash flow
to initially decrease.



To
provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre-tax cash flow to
changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume
a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one
percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base
case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing
levels.  In reality, interest rate changes are rarely instantaneous or
parallel and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed
in Ford Credit's analysis.  As a result, the actual impact to pre-tax
cash flow could be higher or lower than the results detailed in the table
below.  These interest rate scenarios are purely hypothetical and do
not represent Ford Credit's view of future interest rate movements.



Pre-tax
cash flow sensitivity as of year-end 2009 and 2008 was as follows (in
millions):



Pre-Tax
      Cash Flow Sensitivity (given a onepercentage
      point instantaneousincreaseininterest
      rates)Pre-Tax
      Cash Flow Sensitivity (given a onepercentage
      point instantaneousdecreaseininterest
      rates)December
      31, 2009$  
      27$   (27)December
      31, 2008(28)28

_____

*  Pre-tax
      cash flow sensitivity given a one percentage point decrease in interest
      rates requires an assumption of negative interest rates in markets where
      existing interest rates are below one
percent.



Based on
assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one-percentage point
instantaneous increase in interest rates at year-end 2009 was an increase in
Ford Credit's pre-tax cash flow over a twelve-month horizon of $27million
compared to a decrease of $28million at
year-end 2008.  Correspondingly, the sensitivity to a one-percentage
point instantaneous decrease in interest rates at year-end 2009 was a decrease
in its pre-tax cash flow over a twelve-month horizon of $27 million
compared to an increase of $28million at
year-end 2008. This change primarily results from the decline in Ford Credit's
managed receivablesand Ford
Credit's limited ability to obtain interest rate derivatives.



Foreign Currency
Risk.Ford Credit's policy is to minimize exposure to changes
in currency exchange rates.  To meet funding objectives, Ford Credit
borrows in a variety of currencies, principally U.S. dollars and
euros.  Ford Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rates if a
mismatch exists between the currency of receivables and the currency of the debt
funding those receivables.  When possible, receivables are funded with
debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate
movements.  When a different currency is used, Ford Credit may execute
the following foreign currency derivatives to convert substantially all of
foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the
receivables:



·Foreign currency swap—
      an agreement to convert non-U.S. dollar long-term debt to U.S.
      dollar-denominated payments or non-local market debt to local market debt
      for our international affiliates;
or

·Foreign currency
      forward— an agreement to buy or sell an amount of funds in an
      agreed currency at a certain time in the future for a certain
      price.



As a
result of this policy, Ford Credit believes its market risk exposure relating to
changes in currency exchange rates is insignificant.



While the
sensitivity analysis presented is Ford Credit's best estimate of the impacts of
the specified assumed interest rate scenarios, its actual results could differ
from those projected.  The model Ford Credit uses to conduct this
analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions.  Embedded in the model
are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal,
refinancing of maturing debt, replacement of maturing derivatives, exercise of
options embedded in debt and derivatives, and predicted repayment of retail
installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual
maturity.  Ford Credit's repayment projections ahead of contractual
maturity are based on historical experience.  If interest rates or
other factors change, Ford Credit's actual prepayment experience could be
different than projected.



The fair
value of Ford Credit's net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets
less derivative liabilities) at December 31, 2009 was
$683 million, which was $963 million lower than
December 31, 2008.  The decrease primarily reflects lower
derivative notional value.  For additional information regarding our
Financial Services sector derivatives, see Note 26 of the Notes to the Financial
Statements.


ITEM
8.Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data



Our
Financial Statements, the accompanying Notes to the Financial Statements, the
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, and the Financial
Statement Schedule that are filed as part of this Report are listed under
"Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules" and are set
forth on pages FS-1 through FS-93 and FSS-1 immediately following the signature
pages of this Report.



Selected
quarterly financial data for 2009 and 2008 is provided in Note 30 of the
Notes to the Financial Statements.



ITEM
9.Changes in and
Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure



None.



ITEM
9A.Controls and
Procedures



EVALUATION
OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES



Alan
Mulally, our Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), and Lewis Booth, our Chief
Financial Officer ("CFO"), have performed an evaluation of the Company’s
disclosure controls and procedures, as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as of
December 31, 2009 and each has concluded that such disclosure controls
and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be
disclosed in our periodic reports filed under the Exchange Act is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the
Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and forms and such information is
accumulated and communicated to our management as appropriate to allow for
timely decisions regarding required disclosure.



MANAGEMENT'S
REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING



Our
management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule
13a-15(f).  The Company's internal control over financial reporting is
a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.



Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation
of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions or because the degree of
compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate.



Under the
supervision and with the participation of our management, including our CEO and
CFO, we conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009.  The
assessment was based on criteria established in the frameworkInternal Control – Integrated
Framework,issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission.  Based on this assessment, management concluded
that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of
December 31, 2009.



The
effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report included
herein.



MATERIAL
CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROL



We
identified the following changes in internal control over financial reporting
that materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect internal
control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of 2009:



German Payroll
System.Ford Europe launched a new payroll system for Germany
during the quarter.



ITEM
9B.Other
Information



None.


PART
III





ITEM
10.Directors, Executive
Officers of Ford and Corporate Governance







ITEM
11.Executive
Compensation



The
information required by Item 11 is incorporated by reference from the
information under the following captions in our Proxy
Statement:  "Director Compensation," "Compensation Discussion and
Analysis," "Compensation Committee Report," "Compensation Committee Interlocks
and Insider Participation," "Compensation of Executive Officers," "Grants of
Plan-Based Awards in 2009," "Outstanding Equity Awards at 2009 Fiscal Year-End,"
"Option Exercises and Stock Vested in 2009," "Pension Benefits in 2009,"
"Nonqualified Deferred Compensation in 2009," and "Potential Payments Upon
Termination or Change in Control."





ITEM
12.Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters



The
information required by Item 12 is incorporated by reference from the
information under the captions "Equity Compensation Plan Information" and
"Management Stock Ownership" in our Proxy Statement.





ITEM
13.Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions, and Director Independence



The
information required by Item 13 is incorporated by reference from the
information under the captions "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions"
and "Corporate Governance" in our Proxy Statement.





ITEM
14.Principal Accounting Fees
and Services



The
information required by Item 14 is incorporated by reference from the
information under the caption "Audit Committee Report" in our Proxy
Statement.


PART
IV



ITEM
15.Exhibits and
Financial Statement Schedules



(a)
1. Financial Statements – Ford Motor Company and Subsidiaries



The
following are contained in this 2009 Form 10-K Report:



·Consolidated
      Statement of Operations and Sector Statement of Operations for the years
      ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and
  2007.



·Consolidated
      Balance Sheet and Sector Balance Sheet at December 31, 2009 and
      2008.



·Consolidated
      Statement of Cash Flows and Sector Statement of Cash Flows for the years
      ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and
  2007.



·Consolidated
      Statement of Equity for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and
      2007.



·Notes
      to the Financial Statements.



·Report
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm.



The
Consolidated and Sector Financial Statements, the Notes to the Financial
Statements and the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
listed above are filed as part of this Report and are set forth on pages FS-1
through FS-93 immediately following the signature pages of this
Report.



(a)
2. Financial Statement Schedules



DesignationDescriptionSchedule
      IIValuation
      and Qualifying Accounts



Schedule
II is filed as part of this Report and is set forth on page FSS-1 immediately
following the Notes to the Financial Statements referred to
above.  The other schedules are omitted because they are not
applicable, the information required to be contained in them is disclosed
elsewhere in our Consolidated and Sector Financial Statements or the amounts
involved are not sufficient to require submission.



(a)
3. Exhibits



DesignationDescriptionMethod of FilingExhibit
      2Stock
      Purchase Agreement dated as of September 12, 2005 between
      CCMG Holdings, Inc., Ford Holdings LLC and Ford Motor
      Company.Filed
      as Exhibit 2 to our Quarterly Report onForm
      10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2005.*Exhibit
      3-ARestated
      Certificate of Incorporation, dated August 2, 2000.Filed
      as Exhibit 3-A to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000.*Exhibit
      3-BBy-Laws
      as amended through December 14, 2006.Filed
      as Exhibit 3-B to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.*Exhibit
      10-AExecutive
      Separation Allowance Plan as amended and restated as of
      December 31, 2008.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-A to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*Exhibit
      10-BDeferred
      Compensation Plan for Non- Employee Directors, as amended and restated as
      of December 31, 2008.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-B to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31,
2008.*




ITEM
15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
(continued)





Exhibit
      10-CBenefit
      Equalization Plan, as amended and restated as of
      December 31, 2008.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-C to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-DDescription
      of financial counseling services provided to certain
      executives.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-F to Ford's Annual Report on  Form 10-K for
      the year ended December 31, 2002.*



Exhibit
      10-ESupplemental
      Executive Retirement Plan, as amended and restated as of
      December 31, 2008.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-E to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-FRestricted
      Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors adopted by the Board of Directors on
      November 10, 1988.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-P to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988.*



Exhibit
      10-F-1Amendment
      to Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, effective as of
      August 1, 1996.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
      ended September 30, 1996.*



Exhibit
      10-F-2Amendment
      to Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, effective as of
      July 1, 2004.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10 to our Quarterly Report onForm 10-Q
      for the quarter ended September 30, 2004.*



Exhibit
      10-F-3Third
      Amendment to Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, effective
      as of December 31, 2008.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-F-3 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-F-4Description
      of Director Compensation as of July 13, 2006.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-G-3 to our Quarterly Report onForm
      10-Q for the quarter ended
  September 30, 2006.*



Exhibit
      10-F-5Amendment
      to Description of Director Compensation as of March 1,
    2009.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-F-5 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-F-6Amendment
      to Description of Director Compensation as of February 25,
      2010.**Filed
      with this Report.



Exhibit
      10-G2008
      Long-Term Incentive Plan.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report onForm
      10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-HDescription
      of Matching Gift Program and Vehicle Evaluation Program for Non-Employee
      Directors.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-I to our Annual Report onForm 10-K/A
      for the year ended December 31, 2005.*



Exhibit
      10-INon-Employee
      Directors Life Insurance and Optional Retirement Plan as amended and
      restated as of December 31, 2008.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-I to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-JDescription
      of Non-Employee Directors Accidental Death, Dismemberment and Permanent
      Total Disablement Indemnity.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-S to our Annual Report onForm 10-K
      for the year ended December 31, 1992.*



Exhibit
      10-KAgreement
      dated December 10, 1992 between Ford and William C.
Ford.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-T to our Annual Report onForm 10-K
      for the year ended December 31, 1992.*



Exhibit
      10-LSelect
      Retirement Plan, as amended and restated as of
      December 31, 2008.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-L to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-MDeferred
      Compensation Plan, as amended and restated as of
      December 31, 2008.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-M to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31,
2008.*




ITEM
15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
(continued)





Exhibit
      10-M-1Suspension
      of Open Enrollment in Deferred Compensation Plan.**Filed
      with this Report.



Exhibit
      10-NAnnual
      Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended and restated as of
      March 1, 2008.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10.2 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
      June 30, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-N-1Amendment
      to the Ford Motor Company Annual Incentive Compensation Plan (effective as
      of December 31, 2008).**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-N-1 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-N-2Annual
      Incentive Compensation Plan Metrics for 2010.**Filed
      with this Report.



Exhibit
      10-N-3Performance-Based
      Restricted Stock Unit Metrics for 2008.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-O-3 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.*



Exhibit
      10-N-4Performance-Based
      Restricted Stock Unit Metrics for 2009.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-N-5 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-N-5Performance-Based
      Restricted Stock Unit Metrics for 2010.**Filed
      with this Report.



Exhibit
      10-O1998
      Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective as of
      January 1, 2003.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-R to our Annual Report onForm 10-K
      for the year ended December 31, 2002.*



Exhibit
      10-O-1Amendment
      to Ford Motor Company 1998 Long-Term Incentive Plan (effective as of
      January 1, 2006).**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-P-1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year
      ended December 31, 2005.*



Exhibit
      10-O-2Form
      of Stock Option Agreement (NQO) with Terms and
    Conditions.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-P-2 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year
      ended December 31, 2005.*



Exhibit
      10-O-3Form
      of Stock Option (NQO) Terms and Conditions for 2008 Long-Term Incentive
      Plan.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-O-3 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-O-4Form
      of Stock Option (NQO) Agreement for 2008 Long-Term Incentive
      Plan.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-O-4 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-O-5Form
      of Stock Option Agreement (ISO) with Terms and
    Conditions.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-P-3 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year
      ended December 31, 2005.*



Exhibit
      10-O-6Form
      of Stock Option (ISO) Terms and Conditions for 2008 Long-Term Incentive
      Plan.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-O-6 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-O-7Form
      of Stock Option Agreement (ISO) for 2008 Long-Term Incentive
      Plan.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-O-7 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-O-8Form
      of Stock Option Agreement (U.K. NQO) with Terms and
      Conditions.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-P-4 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year
      ended December 31, 2005.*



Exhibit
      10-O-9Form
      of Stock Option (U.K.) Terms and Conditions for 2008 Long-Term Incentive
      Plan.**Filed
      with this Report.




ITEM
15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
(continued)





Exhibit
      10-O-10Form
      of Stock Option Agreement (U.K.) for 2008 Long-Term Incentive
      Plan.**Filed
      with this Report.



Exhibit
      10-O-11Performance
      Stock Rights Description for 2006-2008 Performance
    Period.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-P-6 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year
      ended December 31, 2005.*



Exhibit
      10-O-12Form
      of Restricted Stock Grant Letter.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-O-14 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-O-13Form
      of Final Award Notification Letter for 2007 Performance-Based Restricted
      Stock Units.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-P-15 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.*



Exhibit
      10-O-14Form
      of Final Award Notification Letter for Performance-Based Restricted Stock
      Units.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-O-17 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-O-15Form
      of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Opportunity Letter for
      2008.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-P-16 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.*



Exhibit
      10-O-16Form
      of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Opportunity Letter (2008
      Long-Term Incentive Plan).**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-O-19 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-O-17Form
      of Final Award Notification Letter for 2006-2008 Performance
      Period.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-O-20 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-O-181998
      Long-Term Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Unit
Agreement.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-P-19 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.*



Exhibit
      10-O-192009
      Long-Term Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Unit
Agreement.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-O-22 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-O-201998
      Long-Term Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Unit Terms and
      Conditions.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-P-20 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.*



Exhibit
      10-O-212008
      Long-Term Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Unit Terms and
      Conditions.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-O-24 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-O-22Form
      of Final Award Agreement for Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units
      under 1998 Long-Term Incentive Plan.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-P-21 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.*



Exhibit
      10-O-23Form
      of Final Award Agreement for Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units
      under 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-O-26 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-O-24Form
      of Final Award Terms and Conditions for Performance-Based Restricted Stock
      Units under 1998 Long-Term Incentive Plan.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-O-22 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.*



Exhibit
      10-O-25Form
      of Final Award Terms and Conditions for Performance-Based Restricted Stock
      Units under 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-O-28 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31,
2008.*




ITEM
15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
(continued)





Exhibit
      10-O-26Form
      of Notification Letter for Time-Based Restricted Stock
      Units.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-O-29 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-PAgreement
      dated January 13, 1999 between Ford Motor Company and Edsel B. Ford
      II.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-X to our Annual Report onForm 10-K
      for the year ended December 31, 1998.*



Exhibit
      10-QAmended
      and Restated Agreement between Ford Motor Company and Ford Motor Credit
      Company dated as of December 12, 2006.Filed
      as Exhibit 10-R to our Annual Report onForm 10-K
      for the year ended December 31, 2006.*



Exhibit
      10-RAgreement
      between Ford and Carl Reichardt, entered into in June
    2002.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10.2 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
      ended June 30, 2002.*



Exhibit
      10-SForm
      of Trade Secrets/Non-Compete Statement between Ford and certain of its
      Executive Officers.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-V to our Annual Report onForm 10-K
      for the year ended December 31, 2003.*



Exhibit
      10-TDescription
      of Settlement of Special 2006 – 2008 Senior Executive Retention
      Program.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-U-1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
      ended December 31, 2006.*



Exhibit
      10-T-1Form
      of Final Award Letter for Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Enhanced
      Grant.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-T-1 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-UForm
      of Special 2006 Performance Incentive Opportunity
Letter.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-V to our Annual Report onForm 10-K/A
      for the year ended December 31, 2005.*



Exhibit
      10-U-1Form
      of Final Award Letter for Performance Incentive
    Opportunity.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-V-1 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.*



Exhibit
      10-VArrangement
      between Ford Motor Company and William C. Ford, Jr., dated
      February 25, 2009.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-V to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-WArrangement
      between Ford Motor Company and Mark Fields dated February 7,
      2007.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-AA-1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
      ended December 31, 2006.*



Exhibit
      10-XDescription
      of Company Practices regarding Club Memberships for
      Executives.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-BB to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
      December 31, 2006.*



Exhibit
      10-YAccession
      Agreement between Ford Motor Company and Alan Mulally as of
      September 1, 2006.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
      September 30, 2006.*



Exhibit
      10-Y-1Description
      of Special Terms and Conditions for Stock Options Granted to Alan
      Mulally.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-CC-1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
      ended December 31, 2006.*



Exhibit
      10-Y-2Description
      of President and CEO Compensation Arrangements.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-CC-2 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
      ended December 31, 2006.*



Exhibit
      10-Y-3Form
      of Alan Mulally Agreement Amendment.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-Y-3 to our Annual Report onForm
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-ZAmended
      and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of
      November 24, 2009.Filed
      as Exhibit 99.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed
      November 25, 2009.*



Exhibit
      10-AAAmended
      Ford-UAW Retiree Health Care Settlement Agreement dated July 23,
      2009.Filed
      as Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report onForm
      8-K filed July 28, 2009.*




ITEM
15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
(continued)





Exhibit
      10-AA-1Amendment
      dated July 22, 2009 to the Note Purchase Agreement dated April 7, 2008
      between Ford Motor Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary Ford-UAW
      Holdings LLC.Filed
      as Exhibit 10.3 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 28,
      2009.*



Exhibit
      10-BBFord
      Motor Company, TML Holdings Limited and Tata Motors Limited Agreement for
      the Sale and Purchase of Jaguar and Land Rover dated as of March 25,
      2008.Filed
      as Exhibit 10.2 to our Quarterly Report onForm
      10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-CCAmended
      and Restated Support Agreement (formerly known as Amended and Restated
      Profit Maintenance Agreement) dated November 6, 2008 between
      Ford Motor Company and Ford Motor Credit Company LLC.Filed
      as Exhibit 10 to our Quarterly Report onForm
      10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.*



Exhibit
      10-DDCertificate
      of Designation of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock filed on
      September 11, 2009.Filed
      as Exhibit 3.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 11,
      2009.*



Exhibit
      10-EETax
      Benefit Preservation Plan dated September 11, 2009 between Ford Motor
      Company and Computershare Trust Company, N.A.Filed
      as Exhibit 4.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 11,
      2009.*



Exhibit
      10-FFLoan
      Arrangement and Reimbursement Agreement between Ford Motor Company and the
      U.S. Department of Energy dated as of September 16, 2009.Filed
      as Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 22,
      2009.*



Exhibit
      10-GGNote
      Purchase Agreement dated as of September 16, 2009 among the
      Federal Financing Bank, Ford Motor Company, and the U.S. Secretary of
      Energy.Filed
      as Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 22,
      2009.*



Exhibit
      10-HHEmployment
      Arrangement dated as of October 3, 2007 between Ford Motor
      Company and James Farley.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-B to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
      ended September 30, 2009.*



Exhibit
      10-HH-1Employment
      Arrangement Amendment dated as of December 31, 2008 between Ford
      Motor Company and James Farley.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-B-1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
      quarter ended September 30, 2009.*



Exhibit
      10-IIEmployment
      Arrangement dated as of March 22, 2005 between Ford Motor
      Company and David Leitch.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-C to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
      ended September 30, 2009.*



Exhibit
      10-II-1Employment
      Arrangement Amendment dated as of January 1, 2009 between Ford
      Motor Company and David Leitch.**Filed
      as Exhibit 10-C-1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
      quarter ended September 30, 2009.*



Exhibit
      12Calculation
      of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges.Filed
      with this Report.



Exhibit
      21List
      of Subsidiaries of Ford as of February 19, 2010.Filed
      with this Report.




ITEM
15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
(continued)





Exhibit
      23Consent
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.Filed
      with this Report.Exhibit
      24Powers
      of Attorney.Filed
      with this Report.Exhibit
      31.1Rule
      15d-14(a) Certification of CEO.Filed
      with this Report.Exhibit
      31.2Rule
      15d-14(a) Certification of CFO.Filed
      with this Report.Exhibit
      32.1Section
      1350 Certification of CEO.Furnished
      with this Report.Exhibit
      32.2Section
      1350 Certification of CFO.Furnished
      with this Report.

__________

*    
    Incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this Report
(file number reference 1-3950, unless otherwise indicated).

**      Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.



Instruments
defining the rights of holders of certain issues of long-term debt of Ford and
of certain consolidated subsidiaries and of any unconsolidated subsidiary, for
which financial statements are required to be filed with this Report, have not
been filed as exhibits to this Report because the authorized principal amount of
any one of such issues does not exceed 10% of the total assets of Ford and our
subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.  Ford agrees to furnish a copy
of each of such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon
request.



In
addition to the exhibits listed herein, Ford also files electronically certain
exhibits containing its XBRL-tagged Financial Statements and Notes to the
Financial Statements pursuant to SEC requirements.


SIGNATURES



Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, Ford has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY





By:/s/
      Bob ShanksBob
      Shanks, Vice President and Controller(Chief
      Accounting Officer)Date:February
      25, 2010





Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Ford and in
the capacities on the date indicated:



SignatureTitleDateWILLIAM
      CLAY FORD, JR.*Director,
      Chairman of the Board, Executive Chairman, Chair of the Office ofFebruary
      25, 2010William
      Clay Ford, Jr.the
      Chairman and Chief Executive, and Chair of the Finance CommitteeALAN
      MULALLY*Director,
      President and Chief Executive OfficerFebruary
      25, 2010Alan
      Mulally(principal
      executive officer)STEPHEN
      G. BUTLER*Director
      and Chair of the Audit CommitteeFebruary
      25, 2010Stephen
      G. ButlerKIMBERLY
      A. CASIANO*DirectorFebruary
      25, 2010Kimberly
      A. CasianoANTHONY
      F. EARLEY, JR.*DirectorFebruary
      25, 2010Anthony
      F. Earley, Jr.EDSEL
      B. FORD II*DirectorFebruary
      25, 2010Edsel
      B. Ford IIRICHARD
      A. GEPHARDT*DirectorFebruary
      25, 2010Richard
      A. GephardtIRVINE
      O. HOCKADAY, JR.*DirectorFebruary
      25, 2010Irvine
      O. Hockaday, Jr.RICHARD
      A. MANOOGIAN*Director
      and Chair of the Compensation CommitteeFebruary
      25, 2010Richard
      A. ManoogianELLEN
      R. MARRAM*Director
      and Chair of the Nominating andFebruary
      25, 2010Ellen
      R. MarramGovernance
      CommitteeHOMER
      A. NEAL*Director
      and Chair of the Sustainability CommitteeFebruary
      25, 2010Homer
      A. Neal




SignatureTitleDateGERALD
      L. SHAHEEN*DirectorFebruary
      25, 2010Gerald
      L. ShaheenJOHN
      L. THORNTON*DirectorFebruary
      25, 2010John
      L. ThorntonLEWIS
      BOOTH*Executive
      Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerFebruary
      25, 2010L.W.K.
      Booth(principal
      financial officer)BOB
      SHANKS*Vice
      President and ControllerFebruary
      25, 2010Bob
      Shanks(principal
      accounting officer)*By:  /s/
      PETER J. SHERRY, JR.February
      25, 2010(Peter
      J. Sherry, Jr.)Attorney-in-Fact








This
page intentionally left blank.


















FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS

For
the Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007

(in
millions, except per share amounts)




Sales
      and revenues

Automotive
      sales$105,893$129,165$154,379

Financial Services
      revenues12,41515,94916,193

Total sales and
      revenues118,308145,114170,572



Costs
      and expenses

Automotive cost of
      sales100,016127,102142,587

Selling,
      administrative and other expenses13,25821,43021,169

Goodwill
      impairment——2,400

Interest
      expense6,8289,80511,038

Financial Services
      provision for credit and insurance losses1,0301,874668

Total costs and
      expenses121,132160,211177,862



Automotive interest
      income and other non-operating income/(expense), net(Note 20)5,288(726)1,161

Financial Services
      other income/(loss), net (Note 20)5521,1491,869

Equity in net
      income/(loss) of affiliated companies10176403

Income/(Loss) before
      income taxes3,026(14,498)(3,857)

Provision
      for/(Benefit from) income taxes (Note 23)6963(1,333)

Income/(Loss) from
      continuing operations2,957(14,561)(2,524)

Income/(Loss) from
      discontinued operations (Note 24)5941

Net
      income/(loss)2,962(14,552)(2,483)

Less: Income/(Loss)
      attributable to noncontrolling interests245214312

Net income/(loss)
      attributable to Ford Motor Company$2,717$(14,766)$(2,795)



NET
      INCOME/(LOSS) ATTRIBUTABLE TO FORD MOTOR COMPANY

Income/(Loss) from
      continuing operations$2,712$(14,775)$(2,836)

Income/(Loss) from
      discontinued operations (Note 24)5941

Net
      income/(loss)$2,717$(14,766)$(2,795)



Average
      number of shares of Common and Class B Stock outstanding2,9922,2731,979



AMOUNTS
      PER SHARE ATTRIBUTABLE TO FORD MOTOR COMPANY

COMMONAND
      CLASS B STOCK (Note 25)

Basic
      income/(loss)

Income/(Loss) from
      continuing operations$0.91$(6.50)$(1.43)

Income/(Loss) from
      discontinued operations——0.02

Net
      income/(loss)$0.91$(6.50)$(1.41)



Diluted
      income/(loss)

Income/(Loss) from
      continuing operations$0.86$(6.50)$(1.43)

Income/(Loss) from
      discontinued operations——0.02

Net
      income/(loss)$0.86$(6.50)$(1.41)



The
accompanying notes are part of the financial statements.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



SECTOR
STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS

For
the Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007

(in
millions, except per share amounts)




AUTOMOTIVE

Sales$105,893$129,165$154,379

Costs
      and expenses

Cost
      of sales100,016127,102142,587

Selling,
      administrative and other expenses8,58311,35613,660

Goodwill
      impairment——2,400

Total
      costs and expenses108,599138,458158,647

Operating
      income/(loss)(2,706)(9,293)(4,268)



Interest
      expense1,5152,0612,363



Interest
      income and other non-operating income/(expense), net (Note
    20)5,288(726)1,161

Equity
      in net income/(loss) of affiliated companies145163389

Income/(Loss)
      before income taxes — Automotive1,212(11,917)(5,081)



FINANCIAL
      SERVICES

Revenues12,41515,94916,193

Costs
      and expenses

Interest
      expense5,3137,7448,675

Depreciation3,9379,1096,289

Operating
      and other expenses7389651,220

Provision
      for credit and insurance losses1,0301,874668

Total
      costs and expenses11,01819,69216,852



Other
      income/(loss), net (Note 20)5521,1491,869

Equity
      in net income/(loss) of affiliated companies(135)1314

Income/(Loss)
      before income taxes — FinancialServices1,814(2,581)1,224



TOTAL
      COMPANY

Income/(Loss)
      before income taxes3,026(14,498)(3,857)

Provision
      for/(Benefit from) income taxes (Note 23)6963(1,333)

Income/(Loss)
      from continuing operations2,957(14,561)(2,524)

Income/(Loss)
      from discontinued operations (Note 24)5941

Net
      income/(loss)2,962(14,552)(2,483)

Less:
      Income/(Loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests245214312

Net
      income/(loss) attributable to Ford Motor Company$2,717$(14,766)$(2,795)



NET
      INCOME/(LOSS) ATTRIBUTABLE TO FORD MOTOR COMPANY

Income/(Loss)
      from continuing operations$2,712$(14,775)$(2,836)

Income/(Loss)
      from discontinued operations (Note 24)5941

Net
      income/(loss)$2,717$(14,766)$(2,795)



Average
      number of shares of Common and Class B Stock outstanding2,9922,2731,979



AMOUNTS
      PER SHARE ATTRIBUTABLE TO FORD MOTOR COMPANY COMMONAND
      CLASS B STOCK (Note 25)

Basic
      income/(loss)

Income/(Loss)
      from continuing operations$0.91$(6.50)$(1.43)

Income/(Loss)
      from discontinued operations——0.02

Net
      income/(loss)$0.91$(6.50)$(1.41)



Diluted
      income/(loss)

Income/(Loss)
      from continuing operations$0.86$(6.50)$(1.43)

Income/(Loss)
      from discontinued operations——0.02

Net
      income/(loss)$0.86$(6.50)$(1.41)



The
accompanying notes are part of the financial statements.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEET

(in
millions)



December
      31,2009December
      31,2008

ASSETS

Cash
      and cash equivalents$21,441$22,049

Marketable
      securities (Note 6)21,38717,411

Finance
      receivables, net (Note 7)76,99693,484

Other
      receivables, net7,5875,674

Net
      investment in operating leases (Note 8)17,27025,250

Inventories
      (Note 10)5,4506,988

Equity
      in net assets of affiliated companies (Note 11)1,5501,599

Net
      property (Note 14)24,77824,143

Deferred
      income taxes3,4403,108

Goodwill
      and other net intangible assets (Note 16)209246

Assets
      of held-for-sale operations (Note 24)7,9238,612

Other
      assets6,8199,734

Total
      assets$194,850$218,298



LIABILITIES

Payables$14,594$13,145

Accrued
      liabilities and deferred revenue (Note 17)46,59959,526

Debt
      (Note 19)132,441152,577

Deferred
      income taxes2,3752,035

Liabilities
      of held-for-sale operations (Note 24)5,3565,542

Total
      liabilities201,365232,825



EQUITY

Capital
      stock (Note 25)

Common
      Stock, par value $0.01 per share (3,266 million shares issued of 6 billion
      authorized)3323

Class
      B Stock, par value $0.01 per share (71 million shares issued of 530
      million authorized)11

Capital
      in excess of par value of stock16,78610,875

Accumulated
      other comprehensive income/(loss)(10,864)(10,124)

Treasury
      stock(177)(181)

Retained
      earnings/(Accumulated deficit)(13,599)(16,316)

Total
      equity/(deficit) attributable to Ford Motor Company(7,820)(15,722)

Equity/(Deficit)
      attributable to noncontrolling interests1,3051,195

Total
      equity/(deficit)(6,515)(14,527)

Total
      liabilities and equity$194,850$218,298



The
accompanying notes are part of the financial statements.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



SECTOR
BALANCE SHEET

(in
millions)



December
      31,2009December
      31,2008

ASSETS

Automotive

Cash
      and cash equivalents$10,309$6,377

Marketable
      securities (Note 6)15,1699,296

Total
      cash and marketable securities25,47815,673

Receivables,
      less allowances of $372 and $2003,7083,065

Inventories
      (Note 10)5,4506,988

Deferred
      income taxes511302

Other
      current assets2,8453,450

Current
      receivable from Financial Services (Note 1)2,5682,035

Total
      current assets40,56031,513

Equity
      in net assets of affiliated companies (Note 11)1,4291,076

Net
      property (Note 14)24,59623,930

Deferred
      income taxes5,6637,204

Goodwill
      and other net intangible assets (Note 16)200237

Assets
      of held-for-sale operations (Note 24)7,9238,414

Other
      assets1,6311,441

Total
      Automotive assets82,00273,815

Financial
      Services

Cash
      and cash equivalents11,13215,672

Marketable
      securities (Note 6)6,8648,607

Finance
      receivables, net (Note 7)80,88596,101

Net
      investment in operating leases (Note 8)15,06223,120

Equity
      in net assets of affiliated companies (Note 11)121523

Goodwill
      and other net intangible assets (Note 16)99

Assets
      of held-for-sale operations (Note 24)—198

Other
      assets5,0397,437

Total
      Financial Services assets119,112151,667

Intersector
      elimination(3,224)(2,535)

Total
      assets$197,890$222,947

LIABILITIES

Automotive

Trade
      payables$11,210$9,193

Other
      payables2,1481,982

Accrued
      liabilities and deferred revenue (Note 17)18,46529,584

Deferred
      income taxes3,1192,790

Debt
      payable within one year (Note 19)2,0951,191

Total
      current liabilities37,03744,740

Long-term
      debt (Note 19)32,32123,036

Other
      liabilities (Note 17)23,26023,766

Deferred
      income taxes561614

Liabilities
      of held-for-sale operations (Note 24)5,3565,487

Total
      Automotive liabilities98,53597,643

Financial
      Services

Payables1,2361,970

Debt
      (Note 19)98,671128,842

Deferred
      income taxes1,7353,280

Other
      liabilities and deferred income (Note 17)4,8846,184

Liabilities
      of held-for-sale operations (Note 24)—55

Payable
      to Automotive (Note 1)2,5682,035

Total
      Financial Services liabilities109,094142,366

Intersector
      elimination(3,224)(2,535)

Total
      liabilities204,405237,474

EQUITY

Capital
      stock (Note 25)

Common
      Stock, par value $0.01 per share (3,266 million shares issued of 6 billion
      authorized)3323

Class
      B Stock, par value $0.01 per share (71 million shares issued of 530
      million authorized)11

Capital
      in excess of par value of stock16,78610,875

Accumulated
      other comprehensive income/(loss)(10,864)(10,124)

Treasury
      stock(177)(181)

Retained
      earnings/(Accumulated deficit)(13,599)(16,316)

Total
      equity/(deficit) attributable to Ford Motor Company(7,820)(15,722)

Equity/(Deficit)
      attributable to noncontrolling interests1,3051,195

Total
      equity/(deficit)(6,515)(14,527)

Total
      liabilities and equity$197,890$222,947



The
accompanying notes are part of the financial statements.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

For
the Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007

(in
millions)




Cash
      flows from operating activities of continuing operations

Net
      cash (used in)/provided by operating activities (Note 27)$16,042$(179)$17,074



Cash
      flows from investing activities of continuing operations

Capital
      expenditures (Note 28)(4,561)(6,696)(6,022)

Acquisitions
      of retail and other finance receivables and operating
    leases(26,392)(44,562)(55,681)

Collections
      of retail and other finance receivables and operating
    leases39,88442,06145,498

Purchases
      of securities(78,789)(64,754)(11,423)

Sales
      and maturities of securities74,93362,04618,660

Settlements
      of derivatives4782,533861

Proceeds
      from sales of retail and other finance receivables and operating
      leases911—708

Proceeds
      from sale of businesses3826,8541,236

Cash
      paid for acquisitions—(13)—

Transfer
      of cash balances upon disposition of discontinued/held-for-sale
      operations—(928)(83)

Other(377)316(211)

Net
      cash (used in)/provided by investing activities6,469(3,143)(6,457)



Cash
      flows from financing activities of continuing operations

Sales
      of Common Stock2,450756250

Purchases
      of Common Stock——(31)

Changes
      in short-term debt(5,935)(5,120)919

Proceeds
      from issuance of other debt45,99042,16333,113

Principal
      payments on other debt(61,894)(46,299)(39,431)

Payments
      on notes/transfer of cash equivalents to the UAW Voluntary
      EmployeeBenefit Association ("VEBA") Trust(Note 18)(2,574)——

Other(996)(604)(88)

Net
      cash (used in)/provided by financing activities(22,959)(9,104)(5,268)



Effect
      of exchange rate changes on cash470(808)1,014

Cumulative
      correction of Financial Services prior-period error (Note
    1)(630)——



Net
      increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents from continuing
      operations(608)(13,234)6,363



Cash
      flows from discontinued operations

Cash
      flows from operating activities of discontinued operations——26

Cash
      flows from investing activities of discontinued operations———

Cash
      flows from financing activities of discontinued operations———



Net
      increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$(608)$(13,234)$6,389



Cash
      and cash equivalents at January 1$22,049$35,283$28,896

Cash
      and cash equivalents of discontinued/held-for-sale operations at January
      1——(2)

Net
      increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents(608)(13,234)6,389

Less:
      Cash and cash equivalents of discontinued/held-for-sale operations
      at December31———

Cash
      and cash equivalents at December 31$21,441$22,049$35,283



The
accompanying notes are part of the financial statements.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



SECTOR
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

For
the Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007

(in
millions)




AutomotiveFinancial
      ServicesAutomotiveFinancial
      ServicesAutomotiveFinancial
      Services

Cash
      flows from operating activities of continuing operations

Net
      cash (used in)/provided by operating activities (Note 27)$4,091$5,153$(12,440)$9,107$8,725$6,402



Cash
      flows from investing activities of continuing operations

Capital
      expenditures (Note 28)(4,545)(16)(6,620)(76)(5,971)(51)

Acquisitions
      of retail and other finance receivables and operating
    leases—(26,392)—(44,562)—(55,681)

Collections
      of retail and other finance receivables and operating
    leases—40,013—42,479—45,518

Net
      (increase)/decrease in wholesale receivables—5,542—2,736—1,927

Purchases
      of securities(52,882)(27,555)(41,347)(23,831)(2,628)(8,795)

Sales
      and maturities of securities47,00928,32643,61718,4292,68615,974

Settlements
      of derivatives(76)5541,1571,3761,051(190)

Proceeds
      from sales of retail and other finance receivables and operating
      leases—911———708

Proceeds
      from sale of businesses83743,1563,6981,079157

Cash
      paid for acquisitions——(13)———

Transfer
      of cash balances upon disposition of discontinued/held-for-sale
      operations——(928)—(83)—

Investing
      activity from Financial Services19—9———

Investing
      activity to Financial Services————(18)—

Other(698)3214027619(230)

Net
      cash (used in)/provided by investing activities(11,165)22,078(929)525(3,865)(663)



Cash
      flows from financing activities of continuing operations

Sales
      of Common Stock2,450—756—250—

Purchases
      of Common Stock————(31)—

Changes
      in short-term debt227(6,162)104(5,224)(90)1,009

Proceeds
      from issuance of other debt14,72731,26320341,96024032,873

Principal
      payments on other debt(3,013)(56,508)(594)(45,281)(837)(38,594)

Payments
      on notes/transfer of cash equivalents to the UAW VEBA Trust(Note 18)(2,574)—————

Financing
      activity from Automotive—————18

Financing
      activity to Automotive—(19)—(9)——

Other(395)(601)(252)(352)35(123)

Net
      cash (used in)/provided by financing activities11,422(32,027)217(8,906)(433)(4,817)



Effect
      of exchange rate changes on cash179291(309)(499)506508

Net
      change in intersector receivables/payables and other
      liabilities(595)595(840)840(291)291

Cumulative
      correction of prior period-error (Note 1)—(630)————

Net
      increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents from continuing
      operations3,932(4,540)(14,301)1,0674,6421,721



Cash
      flows from discontinued operations

Cash
      flows from operating activities of discontinued operations————1610

Cash
      flows from investing activities of discontinued operations——————

Cash
      flows from financing activities of discontinued operations——————



Net
      increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$3,932$(4,540)$(14,301)$1,067$4,658$1,731



Cash
      and cash equivalents at January 1$6,377$15,672$20,678$14,605$16,022$12,874

Cash
      and cash equivalents of discontinued/held-for-sale operations at January
      1————(2)—

Net
      increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents3,932(4,540)(14,301)1,0674,6581,731

Less:
      Cash and cash equivalents of discontinued/held-for-sale operations at
      December 31——————

Cash
      and cash equivalents at December 31$10,309$11,132$6,377$15,672$20,678$14,605



The
accompanying notes are part of the financial statements.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENT OF EQUITYFor
the Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007(in
millions)







Equity/(Deficit)
      Attributable to Ford Motor Company

Capital
      StockCapital
      in Excess of Par Value of StockRetained
      Earnings/(Accumulated
      Deficit)Accumulated
      Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss)OtherTotalEquity/(Deficit)
      Attributable to Non-controlling InterestsTotal
      Equity/(Deficit)

YEAR
      ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007

Balance
      at beginning of year$19$6,412$(22)$(7,846)$(183)$(1,620)$1,159$(461)

Comprehensive
      income/(loss)

Net
      income/(loss)——(2,795)——(2,795)312(2,483)

Foreign
      currency translation (net of $0 of tax)———1,780—1,7801401,920

Net
      gain/(loss) on derivative instruments (net of $77 of tax
      benefit)———(64)—(64)—(64)

Employee
      benefit related (net of $1,909 of tax)———5,581—5,581—5,581

Net
      holding gain/(loss) (net of $0 of tax)———(48)—(48)1(47)

Comprehensive
      income/(loss)4,4544534,907

Adoption
      of the accounting standard for uncertainty in income taxes——1,255——1,255—1,255

Common
      Stock issued for debt conversion, employee benefit plans, and
      other33,272———3,275—3,275

ESOP
      loan,treasury stock, and other————(2)(2)75

Cash
      dividends——————(198)(198)

Balance
      at end of year$22$9,684$(1,562)$(597)$(185)$7,362$1,421$8,783

YEAR
      ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2008

Balance
      at beginning of year$22$9,684$(1,562)$(597)$(185)$7,362$1,421$8,783

Comprehensive
      income/(loss)

Net
      income/(loss)——(14,766)——(14,766)214(14,552)

Foreign
      currency translation (net of $0 of tax)———(5,576)—(5,576)(219)(5,795)

Net
      gain/(loss) on derivative instruments (net of $47 of tax
      benefit)———(334)—(334)—(334)

Employee
      benefit related (net of $352 of tax benefit)———(3,575)—(3,575)—(3,575)

Net
      holding gain/(loss) (net of $0 of tax)———(42)—(42)—(42)

Comprehensive
      income/(loss)(24,293)(5)(24,298)

Adoption
      of the fair value option standard for financial assets and liabilities
      (net of $0 of tax)——12——12—12

Common
      Stock issued for debt conversion, employee benefit plans, and
      other21,191———1,193—1,193

ESOP
      loan,treasury stock, and other————44913

Cash
      dividends——————(230)(230)

Balance
      at end of year$24$10,875$(16,316)$(10,124)$(181)$(15,722)$1,195$(14,527)

YEAR
      ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009

Balance
      at beginning of year$24$10,875$(16,316)$(10,124)$(181)$(15,722)$1,195$(14,527)

Comprehensive
      income/(loss)

Net
      income/(loss)——2,717——2,7172452,962

Foreign
      currency translation (net of $0of
      tax)———2,236—2,236382,274

Net
      gain/(loss) on derivative instruments (net of $64 of tax)———(127)—(127)—(127)

Employee
      benefit related (net of $131 of tax benefit)———(2,851)—(2,851)(1)(2,852)

Net
      holding gain/(loss) (net of $0of
      tax)———2—2(3)(1)

Comprehensive
      income/(loss)1,9772792,256

Common
      Stock issued for debt conversion, employee benefit plans, and
      other105,911———5,921—5,921

ESOP
      loan,treasury stock, and other————4437

Cash
      dividends——————(172)(172)

Balance
      at end of year$34$16,786$(13,599)$(10,864)$(177)$(7,820)$1,305$(6,515)



The
accompanying notes are part of the financial statements.



FS -



FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND
SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS



Table
of Contents





FootnotePage

Note
      1PresentationFS
      – 9

Note
      2Summary
      of Accounting PoliciesFS
      – 15

Note
      3Recently
      Issued Accounting StandardsFS
      – 17

Note
      4Fair
      Value MeasurementsFS
      – 18

Note
      5Cash
      and Restricted CashFS
      – 25

Note
      6Marketable
      and Other SecuritiesFS
      – 25

Note
      7Finance
      Receivables – Financial Services SectorFS
      – 26

Note
      8Net
      Investment in Operating LeasesFS
      – 28

Note
      9Allowance
      for Credit Losses – Financial Services SectorFS
      – 29

Note
      10InventoriesFS
      – 30

Note
      11Equity
      in Net Assets of Affiliated CompaniesFS
      – 30

Note
      12Significant
      Unconsolidated AffiliatesFS
      – 31

Note
      13Variable
      Interest EntitiesFS
      – 32

Note
      14Net
      Property and Lease CommitmentsFS
      – 37

Note
      15Impairment
      of Long-Lived AssetsFS
      – 38

Note
      16Goodwill
      and Other Net Intangible AssetsFS
      – 39

Note
      17Accrued
      Liabilities and Deferred RevenueFS
      – 41

Note
      18Retirement
      BenefitsFS
      – 42

Note
      19Debt
      and CommitmentsFS
      – 53

Note
      20Other
      Income/(Loss)FS
      – 64

Note
      21Share-Based
      CompensationFS
      – 64

Note
      22Employee
      Separation ActionsFS
      – 68

Note
      23Income
      TaxesFS
      – 69

Note
      24Held-For-Sale
      Operations, Discontinued Operations, Other Dispositions, and
      AcquisitionsFS
      – 73

Note
      25Capital
      Stock and Amounts Per ShareFS
      – 77

Note
      26Derivative
      Financial Instruments and Hedging ActivitiesFS
      – 80

Note
      27Operating
      Cash FlowsFS
      – 84

Note
      28Segment
      InformationFS
      – 85

Note
      29Geographic
      InformationFS
      – 89

Note
      30Selected
      Quarterly Financial DataFS
      – 89

Note
      31Commitment
      and ContingenciesFS
      – 90





FS -



FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND
SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO THE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS



NOTE
1.  PRESENTATION



For
purposes of this report, "Ford," the "Company," "we," "our," "us" or similar
references mean Ford Motor Company and our consolidated subsidiaries and our
consolidated variable interest entities ("VIEs") of which we are the primary
beneficiary, unless the context requires otherwise.



We
prepare our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles ("GAAP") in the United States.  We present the
financial statements on a consolidated basis and on a sector basis for our
Automotive and Financial Services sectors.  The additional information
provided in the sector statements enables the reader to better understand the
operating performance, financial position, cash flows, and liquidity of our two
very different businesses.  We eliminate all intercompany items and
transactions in both the consolidated and sector basis financial
statements.  In certain circumstances, presentation of these
intercompany eliminations or consolidated adjustments differ between the
consolidated and sector financial statements.  These line items are
reconciled below under "Reconciliations between Consolidated and Sector
Financial Statements."



The
majority of the amounts presented on our balance sheets are based on historical
values.  However, certain amounts are shown at fair
value.  For additional information on fair value, see Note
4.



To
provide comparative prior-year balance sheets, certain amounts on our
December 31, 2008 consolidated and sector balance sheets and related
footnotes have been reclassified for operations held for sale in
2009.  All held-for-sale assets and liabilities are excluded from the
footnotes unless otherwise noted.  For information about our
held-for-sale operations, see Note 24.



In the
first quarter of 2009, our wholly-owned subsidiary Ford Motor Credit Company LLC
("Ford Credit") recorded a $630 million cumulative adjustment to correct
for the overstatement of Financial Services sector cash and cash equivalents and
certain accounts payable that originated in prior periods.  The impact
on previously-issued annual and interim financial statements was not
material.



Subsequent
Events.We evaluated the effects of all subsequent events from
the end of the fourth quarter through February 25, 2010, the date we
filed our financial statements with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
("SEC").



Adoption of New Accounting
Standards



Noncontrolling
Interests.  We adopted the Financial Accounting Standards
Board's ("FASB") revised standard on accounting for noncontrolling interests on
January 1, 2009.  This standard establishes accounting and
reporting requirements for the noncontrolling interest (formerly "minority
interest") in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a
subsidiary.  The standard clarifies that a noncontrolling interest is
an ownership interest in a consolidated entity that should be reported as equity
in the consolidated financial statements.  We have retrospectively
applied the presentation and disclosure requirements of this standard for all
periods.  This requirement changed the presentation of our
consolidated and sector statements of operations, our consolidated and sector
balance sheets, and our consolidated statement of equity.



Convertible Debt
Instruments.We adopted the FASB's new standard on accounting
for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion
(including partial cash settlement) on January 1, 2009.  The
standard specifies that issuers of convertible debt securities that, upon
conversion, may be settled in cash should separately account for the liability
and equity components in a manner that will reflect the entity's nonconvertible
debt borrowing rate resulting in higher interest expense over the life of the
instrument due to amortization of the discount.  This standard applies
to our 4.25% Senior Convertible Notes due December 15, 2036 ("2036
Convertible Notes") issued in December 2006 and our 4.25% Senior
Convertible Notes due December 15, 2016 ("2016 Convertible Notes")
issued in November 2009.  We have applied retrospectively the
standard to all periods presented for the 2036 Convertible Notes.



FS -



FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND
SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO THE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

NOTE
1.  PRESENTATION(Continued)



The
following financial statement line items from our sector statement of operations
and sector balance sheet were affected by implementation of the change in
accounting for convertible debt instruments (in millions, except per share
information):



Statement
      of OperationsRevised
      2008As
      Originally Reported 2008Effect
      ofChangeAutomotive
      interest expense$2,061$1,938$(123)Automotive
      interest income and other non-operating income/(expense),
    net(726)(755)29Income/(Loss)
      from continuing operations attributable to Ford Motor
    Company(14,775)(14,681)(94)Net
      income/(loss) attributable to Ford Motor Company(14,766)(14,672)(94)Earnings
      per share attributable to Ford Motor Company(6.50)(6.46)(0.04)



Statement
      of OperationsRevised
      2007As
      Originally Reported 2007Effect
      ofChangeAutomotive
      interest expense$2,363$2,252$(111)Provision
      for/(Benefit from) income taxes(1,333)(1,294)39Income/(Loss)
      from continuing operations attributable to Ford Motor
    Company(2,836)(2,764)(72)Net
      income/(loss) attributable to Ford Motor Company(2,795)(2,723)(72)Earnings
      per share attributable to Ford Motor Company(1.41)(1.38)(0.03)



Balance
      SheetRevisedDecember
      31,2008As
      Originally ReportedDecember
      31,2008Effect
      ofChangeAutomotive
      other assets – noncurrent (a)$1,441$1,512$(71)Automotive
      long-term debt23,03624,655(1,619)Capital
      in excess of par value of stock (b)10,8759,0761,799Accumulated
      other comprehensive income/(loss)(10,124)(10,085)(39)Retained
      earnings/(Accumulated deficit)(16,316)(16,145)(171)

__________

(a)"Effect
      of Change" related to the standard on accounting for convertible debt
      instruments that includes capitalized charges of $30 million; the
      remaining $41 million relates to the assets of Volvo classified as
      held-for-sale operations (see Note 24 for discussion of
      Volvo).

(b)"Effect
      of Change" represents the equity component of the 2036 Convertible Notes
      under the standard on accounting for convertible debt instruments
      ($1,864 million), less those amounts previously recorded on
      conversions prior to adoption of the standard
      ($65 million).



Statement
      of EquityRevisedDecember
      31,2008As
      Originally ReportedDecember
      31,2008Effect
      ofChangeCapital
      in excess of par value of stock$10,875$9,076$1,799Accumulated
      other comprehensive income/(loss)(10,124)(10,085)(39)Retained
      earnings/(Accumulated deficit)(16,316)(16,145)(171)



Statement
      of EquityRevisedDecember
      31,2007As
      Originally ReportedDecember
      31,2007Effect
      ofChangeCapital
      in excess of par value of stock*$9,684$7,834$1,850Accumulated
      other comprehensive income/(loss)(597)(558)(39)Retained
      earnings/(Accumulated deficit)(1,562)(1,485)(77)

__________

*"Effect
      of Change" represents the equity component under the standard on
      accounting for convertible debt.  The net change of
      $1,799 million in 2008 impacted calendar years 2006 and 2008 by
      $1,850 million and $(51) million, respectively.  The
      2006 change impacted the beginning balance of the 2007 equity
      statement.





FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTSNOTE
1.  PRESENTATION(Continued)The
following shows the effect on the per share amounts attributable to Ford Common
and Class B Stock associated with our 2036 Convertible Notes before and after
the adoption of the standard on accounting for convertible debt
instruments:2009Basic
      income/(loss)BeforeAdoptionAfterAdoptionChangeIncome/(Loss)
      from continuing operations$0.92$0.91$(0.01)Income/(Loss)
      from discontinued operations———Net
      income/(loss)$0.92$0.91$(0.01)Diluted
      income/(loss)Income/(Loss)
      from continuing operations$0.86$0.86$—Income/(Loss)
      from discontinued operations———Net
      income/(loss)$0.86$0.86$—



Trading
Securities.  Beginning with our statement of cash flows for the
year ended December 31, 2008, we changed the presentation of cash
flows to separately disclose the purchases of trading securities and the sale
and maturities of trading securities as gross amounts withinCash flows from investing activities
of continuing operationsinstead ofCash flows from operating activities
of continuing operations.  This change is in response to our
election to apply the fair value option to our available-for-sale and
held-to-maturity securities on January 1, 2008.Reconciliations
between Consolidated and Sector Financial StatementsDeferred Tax Assets and Liabilities.The amount of total assets and total liabilities in our sector balance
sheet differ from the amounts in our consolidated balance sheet by
$3,040 million and $4,649 million at December 31, 2009 and
2008, respectively.  As shown in the table below, the difference is
the result of a reclassification for netting of deferred income tax assets and
liabilities (in millions):



December
      31,2009December
      31,2008Sector
      balance sheet presentation of deferred income tax assets:Automotive
      sector current deferred income tax assets$511$302Automotive
      sector non-current deferred income tax assets5,6637,204Financial
      Services sector deferred income tax assets*306251Total6,4807,757Reclassification
      for netting of deferred income taxes(3,040)(4,649)Consolidated
      balance sheet presentation of deferred income tax assets$3,440$3,108Sector
      balance sheet presentation of deferred income tax
    liabilities:Automotive
      sector current deferred income tax liabilities$3,119$2,790Automotive
      sector non-current deferred income tax liabilities561614Financial
      Services sector deferred income tax liabilities1,7353,280Total5,4156,684Reclassification
      for netting of deferred income taxes(3,040)(4,649)Consolidated
      balance sheet presentation of deferred income tax
    liabilities$2,375$2,035

*     Financial
Services deferred income tax assets are included inFinancial Services other
assetson our sector balance sheet.Debt
Reduction ActionsDuring
2008 and 2009, we completed numerous financing transactions designed to improve
our balance sheet, including the repurchase of Automotive and Financial Services
debt.  The transactions involved, among other things, the repurchase
of Automotive sector debt by the Financial Services sector and the repurchase of
Financial Services sector debt by the Automotive sector.  Because of
the intercompany impacts, the transactions have been recorded differently in the
consolidated and sector balance sheets.  There also are differences in
the way the transactions have been recorded in the consolidated and sector
statements of cash flows.  See the table below for the reconciliation
between total sector and consolidated cash flows.FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
1.  PRESENTATION(Continued)



Automotive Acquisition of Financial
Services Debt.During 2008 and 2009, we issued
159,913,115 shares of Ford Common Stock through an equity distribution
agreement and used the proceeds of $1 billion to purchase Ford Credit debt
and related interest of $20 million.  We recognized a gain on
extinguishment of debt of $68 million on the transactions, recorded inAutomotive interest income and
other non-operating income/(expense), net.  Approximately
$135 million of the debt purchased has matured, and $267 million was
repurchased from us by Ford Credit.



On our
consolidated balance sheet, we net the remaining debt purchased by Ford with the
outstanding debt of Ford Credit, reducing our consolidated marketable securities
and debt balances by $646 million and $492 million at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  On our sector
balance sheet, the acquisition is reported separately asAutomotive marketable
securitiesandFinancial Services debtas it
has not been retired or cancelled by Ford Credit.



Financial Services Acquisition of
Automotive Debt.During 2009, the Financial Services sector
acquired $2.2 billion principal amount of Automotive secured term loan and
$3.4 billion principal amount of Automotive unsecured debt securities for
$2.2 billion of cash.  The debt was then distributed to us,
whereupon it was forgiven or used in satisfaction of Ford Credit's tax
liabilities with us under our tax-sharing agreement.  The debt
acquired is no longer outstanding.  We recorded gains on the
extinguishment of debt (net of unamortized discounts, premiums and fees, and
transaction costs) of $3.3 billion inAutomotive interest income and other
non-operating income/(expense), net.  See Note 19 for
further discussion of these transactions.FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
1.  PRESENTATION(Continued)Sector to Consolidated Cash Flow
Reconciliation.  We present certain cash flows from the
wholesale receivables, finance receivables and the debt reduction actions
differently on our sector and consolidated statement of cash
flows.  The reconciliation between total sector and consolidated cash
flows is as follows (in millions):




Automotive
      cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations$4,091$(12,440)$8,725

Financial
      Services cash flows from operating activities of continuing
      operations5,1539,1076,402

Total
      sector cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations9,244(3,333)15,127

Reclassifications
      from investing to operating cash flows:

Wholesale
      receivables (a)5,5422,7361,927

Finance
      receivables (b)12941820

Reclassifications
      from operating to financing cash flows:

Financial
      Services sector acquisition of Automotive sector debt (c)1,127——

Consolidated
      cash flows from operating activities of continuing
    operations$16,042$(179)$17,074



Automotive
      cash flows from investing activities of continuing operations$(11,165)$(929)$(3,865)

Financial
      Services cash flows from investing activities of continuing
      operations22,078525(663)

Total
      sector cash flows from investing activities of continuing operations10,913(404)(4,528)

Reclassifications
      from investing to operating cash flows:

Wholesale
      receivables (a)(5,542)(2,736)(1,927)

Finance
      receivables (b)(129)(418)(20)

Reclassifications
      from investing to financing cash flows:

Automotive
      sector acquisition of Financial Services sector debt (d)155424—

Financial
      Services sector acquisition of Automotive sector debt (c)1,091——

Elimination
      of Investing activity to/(from) Financial Services in
      consolidation(19)(9)18

Consolidated
      cash flows from investing activities of continuing operations$6,469$(3,143)$(6,457)



Automotive
      cash flows from financing activities of continuing operations$11,422$217$(433)

Financial
      Services cash flows from financing activities of continuing
      operations(32,027)(8,906)(4,817)

Total
      sector cash flows from financing activities of continuing operations(20,605)(8,689)(5,250)

Reclassifications
      from investing to financing cash flows:

Automotive
      sector acquisition of Financial Services sector debt (d)(155)(424)—

Financial
      Services sector acquisition of Automotive sector debt (c)(1,091)——

Reclassifications
      from operating to financing cash flows:

Financial
      Services sector acquisition of Automotive sector debt (c)(1,127)——

Elimination
      of financing activity to/(from) Financial Services in
      consolidation199(18)

Consolidated
      cash flows from financing activities of continuing operations$(22,959)$(9,104)$(5,268)

__________

(a)In
      addition to the cash flow from vehicles sold by us, the cash flow from
      wholesale finance receivables (being reclassified from investing to
      operating) includes financing by Ford Credit of used and non-Ford
      vehicles.  100% of cash flows from wholesale finance receivables
      have been reclassified for consolidated presentation as the portion of
      these cash flows from used and non-Ford vehicles is impracticable to
      separate.

(b)Includes
      cash flows of finance receivables purchased/collected from certain
      divisions and subsidiaries of the Automotive
  sector.

(c)See
      "April 2009 Unsecured Notes Tender Offer" and "2009 Secured Term Loan
      Actions" within the Automotive section of Note 19 for further discussion
      of these transactions.  Cash outflows related to these
      transactions are reported as financing activities on the consolidated
      statement of cash flows and investing or operating activities on the
      sector statement of cash flows.

(d)See
      "Debt Reduction Actions" above for further discussion.  Cash
      outflows related to these transactions are reported as financing
      activities on the consolidated statement of cash flows and investing
      activities on the sector statement of cash
  flows.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
1.  PRESENTATION(Continued)Certain
Transactions Between Automotive and Financial Services SectorsIntersector
transactions occur in the ordinary course of business.  We formally
documented certain long-standing business practices with Ford Credit, our
indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, in a 2001 agreement that was amended in
2006.  Additional details on certain transactions and the effect on
each sector's balance sheet at December 31 are shown below (in
billions):



20092008AutomotiveFinancial
      ServicesAutomotiveFinancial
      ServicesFinance
      receivables, net (a)$3.9$2.6Unearned
      interest supplements and residual support (b)(3.0)(2.6)Wholesale
      receivables/Other (c)0.61.0Net
      investment in operating leases (d)0.50.6Other
      assets (e)0.50.6Intersector
      receivables/(payables) (f)$2.6(2.6)$2.0(2.0)



(a)Automotive
      sector receivables (generated primarily from vehicle and parts sales to
      third parties) sold to Ford Credit.  These receivables are
      classified asOther
      receivables, neton our consolidated balance sheet andFinance receivables, neton our sector balance sheet.(b)As
      of January 1, 2008, to reduce ongoing obligations to Ford Credit
      and to be consistent with general industry practice, we began paying
      interest supplements and residual value support to Ford Credit at the time
      Ford Credit purchasedeligible contracts
      from dealers.(c)Primarily
      wholesale receivables with entities that are consolidated subsidiaries of
      Ford.  The consolidated subsidiaries include dealerships that
      are partially or wholly owned by Ford and consolidated as VIEs, and also
      certain overseas affiliates.(d)Sale-leaseback
      agreement between Automotive and Financial Services sectors relating to
      vehicles that we lease to our employees and employees of our
      subsidiaries.(e)Primarily
      used vehicles purchased by Ford Credit pursuant to the Automotive sector's
      obligation to repurchase such vehicles from daily rental car
      companies.  These vehicles are subsequently sold at
      auction.(f)Amounts
      owed to the Automotive sector by Financial Services sector, or vice versa,
      largely related to our tax sharing
agreement.



Additionally,
amounts recorded as revenue by the Financial Services sector and billed to the
Automotive sector for interest supplements and other support costs for special
financing and leasing programs were $3.7 billion, $4.8 billion, and
$4.6 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The
Automotive sector had accrued inAccrued liabilities and deferred
revenue$1 billion and $2.5 billion for interest supplements at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and about $180 million and
about $450 million for residual-value supplements in the United States and
Canada to be paid to Ford Credit over the term of the related finance contracts
at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



Liquidity



At
December 31, 2009, our Automotive sector had total cash, cash
equivalents, and marketable securities of $25.5 billion and full-year
operating cash flows from continuing operations of
$4.1 billion.



During
2009, we completed numerous financing transactions designed to provide
additional Automotive liquidity and improve our balance sheet.  These
transactions include the Amended Settlement Agreement relating to our hourly
retiree health care obligation (discussed in Note 18) (providing us the option
to pay up to approximately 50% of VEBA obligations in Ford Common Stock),
reduction of Automotive debt by $10.1 billion principal amount, and
issuance of $1.6 billion of equity in an underwritten offering of Ford
Common Stock and about $700 million through equity distribution
agreements.  In addition, we entered into a U.S. Department of Energy
("DOE") loan agreement to provide up to $5.9 billion in loans, issued
$2.875 billion of 2016 Convertible Notes, and amended and extended the
revolving credit facility (discussed in Note 19) thereby extending the
maturity date for $7.2 billion of the facility from December 2011 to
November 2013.



Although
the economic environment for 2010 remains uncertain, we believe that all
reasonably possible scenarios, including a decline in 2010 industry sales
volumes to levels below our planning assumptions, would not exhaust our
presently available liquidity.  Therefore, we do not believe that
these reasonably possible scenarios cause substantial doubt about our ability to
continue as a going concern for the next year.



Accordingly,
we have concluded that there is no substantial doubt about our ability to
continue as a going concern, and our financial statements have been prepared on
a going concern basis.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
2.  SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES



For each
accounting topic that is addressed in its own footnote, the description of the
accompanying accounting policy may be found in the related
footnote.  The remaining accounting policies are described
below.



Use
of Estimates



The
preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires us to
make estimates and assumptions that affect our reported amounts of assets and
liabilities, our disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements, and our revenue and expenses during the periods
reported.  Estimates are used to account for certain items such as
marketing accruals, warranty costs, employee benefit programs,
etc.  Estimates are based on historical experience, where applicable,
and assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the
circumstances.  Due to the inherent uncertainty involved with
estimates, actual results may differ.



Foreign
Currency Translation



The
assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries using the local currency as their
functional currency are translated to U.S. dollars using end-of-period exchange
rates and any resulting translation adjustments are reported inAccumulated other comprehensive
income/(loss).Upon sale or liquidation of an investment in a
foreign subsidiary, the accumulated amount of translation adjustments related to
that entity are reclassified to net income as part of the recognized gain or
loss on the investment.



Increases/(decreases)
inAccumulated other
comprehensive income/(loss)resulting fromtranslation adjustments
were as follows (in billions):



200920082007Adjustments
      due to change in net assets of foreign subsidiaries$2.0$(3.8)$1.8Deferred
      translation (gains)/losses reclassified to net income*0.3(1.8)—Total
      translation adjustments (net of taxes)$2.3$(5.6)$1.8



*  The
2008 adjustment primarily relates to the sale of Jaguar Land Rover and a portion
of our stake in Mazda Motor Corporation ("Mazda").



Gains or
losses arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than the
functional currency of the locations, the effect of remeasuring assets and
liabilities of foreign subsidiaries using U.S. dollars as their functional
currency, and the results of our foreign currency hedging activities are
reported inAutomotive cost of
sales, Automotive interest incomeand other non-operating
income/(expense), net,andSelling, administrative, and otherexpenses.  For additional discussion of hedging activities, see
Note 26.  The net after-tax gain/(loss) of this activity for
2009, 2008, and 2007 was $(757) million, $922 million, and
$217 million, respectively.



Revenue
Recognition — Automotive Sector



Automotive
sales consist primarily of revenue generated from the sale of
vehicles.  Sales are recorded when the risks and rewards of ownership
are transferred to our customers (generally dealers and
distributors).  For the majority of our sales, this occurs when
products are shipped from our manufacturing facilities or delivered to our
customers.  When vehicles are shipped to customers or vehicle
modifiers on consignment, revenue is recognized when the vehicle is sold to the
ultimate customer.



Income
generated from cash and cash equivalents, investments in marketable securities,
and other miscellaneous receivables is reported inAutomotive interest income and other
non-operating income/(expense), net.



Revenue
Recognition — Financial Services Sector



Income
generated from cash and cash equivalents, investments in marketable securities,
and other miscellaneous receivables is reported inFinancial Services other
income/(loss), net.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
2.  SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES(Continued)



Marketing
Incentives and Interest Supplements



Marketing
incentives generally are recognized by the Automotive sector as revenue
reductions inAutomotive
sales.  These include customer and dealer cash payments and
costs for special financing and leasing programs paid to the Financial Services
sector.  The revenue reductions are accrued at the later of the date
the related vehicle sales to the dealers are recorded or the date the incentive
program is both approved and communicated.  We generally estimate
these accruals using marketing programs that are approved as of the balance
sheet date and are expected to be effective at the beginning of the subsequent
period.  The Financial Services sector identifies payments for special
financing and leasing programs as interest supplements or other support costs
and recognizes them consistent with the earnings process of the underlying
receivable or operating lease.



Supplier
Price Adjustments



We
frequently negotiate price adjustments with our suppliers throughout a
production cycle, even after receiving production material.  These
price adjustments relate to changes in design specifications or other commercial
terms such as economics, productivity, and competitive pricing.  We
recognize price adjustments when we reach final agreement with our
suppliers.  In general, we avoid direct price changes in consideration
of future business; however, when these occur, our policy is to defer the
financial statement impact of any such price change given explicitly in
consideration of future business where guaranteed volumes are
specified.



Raw
Material Arrangements



We
negotiate prices for and facilitate the purchase of raw materials on behalf of
our suppliers.  These raw material arrangements, which take place
independently of any purchase orders being issued to our suppliers, are
negotiated at arms length and do not involve volume guarantees to either
party.  When we pass the risks and rewards of ownership to our
suppliers, including inventory risk, market price risk, and credit risk for the
raw material, we record both the cost of the raw material and the income from
the subsequent sale to the supplier inAutomotive cost of
sales.  When we retain the risks and rewards of ownership, we
account for the raw material asInventoryon our balance
sheet.



Government
Grants and Loan Incentives



From time
to time, we receive grants and loan incentives from domestic and foreign
governments.  Grants are recorded in the financial statements in
accordance with their purpose, either as a reduction of expenses or a reduction
of the cost of the capital investment.  When recorded as a reduction
of expense, grants are recorded as a reduction inAutomotive cost of
sales.  The benefit of grants and loan incentives are recorded
when performance is complete and all conditions as specified in the agreement
are fulfilled.



Selected
Other Costs



Freight,
engineering, and research and development costs are included inAutomotive cost of sales;
advertising costs are included inSelling, administrative and other
expenses.  Freight costs on goods shipped and advertising costs
are expensed as incurred.  Engineering, research and development costs
are expensed as incurred when performed internally or performed by a supplier
when reimbursement is guaranteed.  Engineering, research and
development, and advertising expenses were as follows (in
billions):



200920082007Engineering,
      research and development$4.9$7.3$7.5Advertising3.34.65.4



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
2.  SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES(Continued)



Presentation
of Sales and Sales-Related Taxes



We
collect and remit taxes assessed by different governmental authorities that are
both imposed on and concurrent with a revenue-producing transaction between us
and our customers.  These taxes may include, but are not limited to,
sales, use, value-added, and some excise taxes.  We report the
collection of these taxes on a net basis (excluded from revenues).



NOTE
3.  RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS



In June
2009, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 168,The FASB Accounting Standards
Codification™ and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles - a
replacement of FASB Statement No. 162.  This standard
establishes the FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("Codification") as the
single source of authoritative U.S. GAAP, superseding all previously issued
authoritative guidance.  All references to pre-Codification GAAP in
our financial statements are replaced with descriptive titles.



In June
2009, the FASB issued a new accounting standard related to transfers of
financial assets.  The standard provides greater transparency about
transfers of financial assets and a company’s continuing involvement in the
transferred financial assets.  The standard also removes the concept
of a qualifying special-purpose entity from U.S. GAAP, changes the
requirements for derecognizing financial assets, and requires additional
disclosures about a transferor's continuing involvement with the transferred
financial assets and the related risks retained.  The standard is
effective for us as of January 1, 2010.  We do not expect
this standard to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of
operations, and financial statement disclosures.



In June
2009, the FASB issued a new accounting standard related to the consolidation of
VIEs.  The standard replaces the quantitative-based risks and rewards
calculation with an approach that is primarily qualitative.  The
standard also requires ongoing reassessments of the appropriateness of
consolidation, and additional disclosures about involvement with
VIEs.  The standard is effective for us as of
January 1, 2010.  We expect that adoption of this standard
will result in the deconsolidation of many of our joint ventures, including Ford
Otomotiv Sanayi Anonim Sirketi ("Ford Otosan") reported within our Ford Europe
segment results.  Although we continue to examine the potential impact
of this standard on our financial condition, results of operations, and
financial statement disclosures, we anticipate that its adoption will impactIncome/(Loss) before income
taxesand in particular Ford Europe's pre-tax results (see Note 13
for additional information regarding the financial results of our consolidated
VIEs).  The standard will have no effect onNet income/(loss) attributable to
Ford Motor Company.



In
October 2009, the FASB issued amended guidance addressing revenue
arrangements with multiple deliverables.  The new guidance establishes
a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable,
eliminates the residual method of allocation, requires the allocation of
arrangement consideration to all deliverables using the relative selling price
method, and significantly expands disclosure requirements.  The
guidance is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or
materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after
June 15, 2010.  We are addressing the potential impact of
this guidance on our financial condition, results of operations, and financial
statement disclosures.



In
October 2009, the FASB issued amended guidance addressing revenue arrangements
that include both tangible products and software elements.  The new
guidance amends the scope of the software guidance to exclude tangible products
containing both software and nonsoftware components that function together to
deliver the tangible product's essential functionality.  The guidance
also requires entities affected by its amendments to provide the expanded
disclosures included within the amended guidance on revenue arrangements with
multiple deliverables.  The guidance is effective prospectively for
revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years
beginning on or after June 15, 2010.  We are addressing the
potential impact of this guidance on our financial condition, results of
operations, and financial statement disclosures.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
4.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS



Certain
assets and liabilities are presented on our financial statements at fair
value.  Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring
basis on our balance sheet include cash equivalents, marketable securities,
derivative financial instruments, retained interest in securitized assets, and
pension assets.  Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis for disclosure only include debt and finance
receivables.  Fair value of these items are presented together with
the related carrying value in Notes 19 and 7, respectively.  Assets
and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include
held-for-sale operations, finance receivables, held-and-used long-lived assets,
and equity method investments.



Fair
Value Measurements



Fair
value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date.  The fair value should be based on assumptions that
market participants would use, including a consideration of non-performance
risk.



In
determining fair value, we use various valuation methodologies and prioritize
the use of observable inputs.  The availability of observable inputs
varies by instrument and depends on a variety of factors including the type of
instrument, whether the instrument is actively traded, and other characteristics
particular to the transaction.  For many financial instruments,
pricing inputs are readily observable in the market, the valuation methodology
used is widely accepted by market participants, and the valuation does not
require significant management discretion.  For other financial
instruments, pricing inputs are less observable in the marketplace and may
require management judgment.



We assess
the inputs used to measure fair value using a three-tier hierarchy based on the
extent to which inputs used in measuring fair value are observable in the
market:



·Level 1
      – inputs include quoted prices for identical instruments and are the most
      observable.

·Level 2
      – inputs include quoted prices for similar assets and observable inputs
      such as interest rates, currency exchange rates and yield
      curves.

·Level 3
      – inputs are not observable in the market and include management's
      judgments about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing
      the asset or liability.



For
instruments measured using Level 3 inputs, a reconciliation of the beginning and
ending balances is disclosed.



Valuation
Methodologies



Cash Equivalents – Financial
Instruments.Cash and all highly liquid investments with a
maturity of 90 days or less at date of purchase are classified asCash and cash
equivalents.We use quoted market prices where available and
industry-standard valuation models using market-based inputs when quoted prices
are unavailable.



Marketable
Securities.Fixed income and equity securities with a maturity
date greater than 90 days at the date of purchase are classified as
marketable securities.  We measure the fair value of these securities
using quoted market prices where available and industry-standard valuation
models using market-based inputs when quoted prices are
unavailable.  Where there is limited transparency to valuation inputs,
we generally utilize dealer security quotes or standard models using
unobservable inputs.



Derivative Financial
Instruments.We estimate the fair value of our derivatives
using industry-standard valuation models, including Black-Scholes and Curran's
Approximation.  These models project future cash flows and discount
the future amounts to a present value using market-based expectations for
interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and commodity prices, taking into
account the contractual terms of the derivative instruments.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
4.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS(Continued)



We
include an adjustment for non-performance risk in the recognized measure of fair
value of derivative instruments.  The adjustment reflects the full
credit default swap ("CDS") spread applied to a net exposure, by
counterparty.  We use our counterparty's CDS spread when we are in a
net asset position and our own CDS spread when we are in a net liability
position.



In
certain cases, market data are not available and we use management judgment to
develop assumptions which are used to determine fair value.  This
includes situations where there is illiquidity for a particular currency or
commodity, or for longer-dated instruments.  For longer-dated
instruments where observable interest rates or foreign exchange rates are not
available for all periods through maturity, we hold the last available data
point constant through maturity.  For certain commodity contracts,
observable market data may be limited and, in those cases, we generally survey
brokers and use the average of the surveyed prices in estimating fair
value.  For securitization interest rate swaps, we use management
judgment in estimating timing of cash flows which may vary based on actual
repayments of securitized contracts.



Retained Interest in Securitized
Assets.Ford Credit estimates the fair value of retained
interests using internal valuation models, market inputs, and its own
assumptions in estimating cash flows from the sales of retail
receivables.



Pension
Assets.Pension assets are recorded at fair value, and include
fixed income and equity securities, as well as alternative
investments.  Fixed income and equity securities may each be combined
into commingled fund investments.  Commingled funds are valued to
reflect the Company's interest in the fund based on the reported year-end net
asset value.  Alternative investments include investments in private
equity and hedge funds, and are valued based on year-end reported net asset
value, with adjustments as appropriate for lagged reporting of 1 – 3
months.  For pension assets, the balance sheet includes the funded
status of the benefit plans, which represents the difference between the benefit
obligations and fair value of plan assets.  Refer to Note 18 for
additional information, including the input hierarchy and Level 3
reconciliation.



Valuation
methodologies for debt and finance receivables, for which fair value is measured
for disclosure only, can be found in Note 19 and 7, respectively.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
4.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS(Continued)



Input
Hierarchy of Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis



The
following tables summarize the fair values by input hierarchy of items measured
at fair value on a recurring basis on our balance sheet for the years ended
December 31 (in millions):




Level
      1Level
      2Level
      3Total

Automotive
      Sector

Assets

Cash
      equivalents – financial instruments(a)

U.S.
      government$30$—$—$30

Government-sponsored
      enterprises—949—949

Government
      – non-U.S.—238—238

Corporate
      debt—2,557—2,557

Total
      cash equivalents – financial instruments303,744—3,774

Marketable
      securities (b)

U.S.
      government9,130——9,130

Government-sponsored
      enterprises—2,408—2,408

Corporate
      debt—4148422

Mortgage-backed
      and other asset-backed—19117208

Equity477——477

Government
      – non-U.S.—977—977

Other
      liquid investments (c)—901—901

Total
      marketable securities9,6074,8912514,523

Derivative
      financial instruments—67976

Total
      assets at fair value$9,637$8,702$34$18,373

Liabilities

Derivative
      financial instruments$—$154$—$154

Total
      liabilities at fair value$—$154$—$154



Financial
      Services Sector

Assets

Cash
      equivalents – financial instruments (a)

U.S.
      government$75$—$—$75

Government-sponsored
      enterprises—400—400

Corporate
      debt—75—75

Government
      – non-U.S.—29—29

Total
      cash equivalents – financial instruments75504—579

Marketable
      securities

U.S.
      government5,256——5,256

Government-sponsored
      enterprises—1,098—1,098

Corporate
      debt—1594163

Mortgage-backed—237—237

Government
      – non-U.S.—65—65

Other
      liquid investments (c)—45—45

Total
      marketable securities5,2561,60446,864

Derivative
      financial instruments—1,4594201,879

Retained
      interest in securitized assets——2626

Total
      assets at fair value$5,331$3,567$450$9,348

Liabilities

Derivative
      financial instruments$—$599$575$1,174

Total
      liabilities at fair value$—$599$575$1,174



(a)"Cash equivalents –financial instruments" in this table excludes time deposits,
      certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and other cash equivalents
      reported at par value on our balance sheet totaling $2.3 billion and $7.7
      billion as of December 31, 2009 for Automotive and Financial
      Services sectors,respectively, which approximates fair
      value.  In addition to these cash equivalents, we also had cash
      on hand totaling $4.2 billion and$2.8 billion as of
      December 31, 2009 for Automotive and Financial Services sectors,respectively.(b)Excludes an
      investment in Ford Credit debt securities held by the Automotive
      sector with a carrying value of $646 million and an estimated fair
      value of $656 million as of December 31, 2009;see Note 1 for
      additional detail.(c)Includes
      certificates of deposit and time deposits with a maturity of more than 90
      days at date of
purchase.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
4.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS(Continued)




Level
      1Level
      2Level
      3Total

Automotive
      Sector

Assets

Cash
      equivalents – financial instruments (a)

U.S.
      government$117$—$—$117

Government-sponsored
      enterprises—386—386

Government
      – non-U.S.—82—82

Corporate
      debt—992—992

Total
      cash equivalents – financial instruments1171,460—1,577

Marketable
      securities (b)

U.S.
      government3,347——3,347

Government-sponsored
      enterprises—1,468—1,468

Corporate
      debt—1,103261,129

Mortgage-backed
      and other asset-backed—8881231,011

Equity1,5901611,607

Government
      – non-U.S.—37—37

Other
      liquid investments1204—205

Total
      marketable securities4,9383,7161508,804

Derivative
      financial instruments—6986704

Total
      assets at fair value$5,055$5,874$156$11,085

Liabilities

Derivative
      financial instruments$—$628$38$666

Total
      liabilities at fair value$—$628$38$666



Financial
      Services Sector

Assets

Cash
      equivalents – financial instruments (a)

U.S.
      government$655$—$—$655

Government-sponsored
      enterprises—4,221—4,221

Corporate
      debt.—167—167

Totalcash
      equivalents – financial instruments6554,388—5,043

Marketable
      securities

U.S.
      government6,177——6,177

Government-sponsored
      enterprises—1,924—1,924

Corporate
      debt—1115116

Mortgage-backed—275—275

Equity59——59

Government
      – non-U.S.—12—12

Other
      liquid investments—44—44

Total
      marketable securities6,2362,36658,607

Derivative
      financial instruments—2,9009163,816

Retained
      interest in securitized assets——9292

Total
      assets at fair value$6,891$9,654$1,013$17,558

Liabilities

Derivative
      financial instruments$—$1,167$990$2,157

Total
      liabilities at fair value$—$1,167$990$2,157



(a)"Cash equivalents –
      financial instruments" in this table excludes time deposits,
      certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and other cash equivalents
      reported at par value on our balance sheet totaling $1.9billion
      and $3.2 billion as of
      December 31, 2008 for Automotive and Financial Services
      sectors, respectively, which approximates fair value.  In
      addition to these cash equivalents, we also had cash on hand totaling $2.9
      billion and $7.5billion as of
      December 31, 2008 for Automotive and Financial Services
      sectors, respectively.(b)Excludes an
      investment in Ford Credit debt securities held by the Automotive sector
      with a carrying value of $492 million and an estimated fair value of
      $437 million.See Note 1 for
      additional detail.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTSNOTE
4.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS(Continued)Reconciliation
of Changes in Level 3 BalancesThe
following tables summarize the changes in Level 3 items measured at fair value
on a recurring basis on our balance sheet for the years ended December 31 (in
millions):2009Fair
      Value at December 31, 2008TotalRealized/
      Unrealized Gains/(Losses)NetPurchases/
      (Settlements)(a)Net
      Transfers Into/(Out of)Level
      3Fair
      Value at December 31, 2009Change
      In Unrealized Gains/(Losses)
      on InstrumentsStill
      Held (b)Automotive
      SectorMarketable
      securities (c)$150$(19)$(72)$(34)$25$2Derivative
      financial instruments, net(32)(5)46—95Total
      Level 3 fair value$118$(24)$(26)$(34)$34$7Financial
      Services SectorMarketable
      securities$5$(1)$—$—$4$(1)Derivative
      financial instruments, net(74)(87)6—(155)(70)Retained
      interest in securitized assets929(75)—261Total
      Level 3 fair value$23$(79)$(69)$—$(125)$(70)



(a)Includes
      option premiums (paid)/received on options traded during the
      quarter.(b)For
      those assets and liabilities still held at reporting
  date.(c)"Net
      Purchases/(Settlements)" for Level 3 Automotive sector marketable securities
      includes assets totaling $15 million transferred as part of
      the settlement of our UAW retiree health care obligation detailed in Note
      18.



2008Fair
      Value at January 1,2008TotalRealized/
      Unrealized Gains/(Losses)NetPurchases/
      (Settlements)(a)Net
      Transfers Into/(Out of)Level
      3Fair
      Value at December 31,
      2008Change
      In Unrealized Gains/(Losses)
      on InstrumentsStill
      Held (b)Automotive
      SectorMarketable
      securities$201$(28)$24$(47)$150$(24)Derivative
      financial instruments, net257(124)(83)(82)(32)(63)Total
      Level 3 fair value$458$(152)$(59)$(129)$118$(87)Financial
      Services SectorMarketable
      securities$—$—$5$—$5$—Derivative
      financial instruments, net(2)8(5)(75)(74)(41)Retained
      interest in securitized assets65349(610)—92(58)Total
      Level 3 fair value$651$57$(610)$(75)$23$(99)



(a)Includes
      option premiums (paid)/received on options traded during the
      quarter.(b)For
      those assets and liabilities still held at reporting date.





FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
4.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS(Continued)



The
following tables summarize the realized/unrealized gains/(losses) on Level 3
items by financial statement position for the period ending December 31 (in
millions):



2009AutomotiveCost
      of SalesAutomotive
      InterestIncome
      andOther
      Non-Operating Income/(Loss),
      NetFinancial
      ServicesOther
      Income/(Loss),
      NetOther
      Comprehensive Income/(Loss)
      (a)TotalRealized/Unrealized
      Gains/(Losses)Automotive
      SectorMarketable
      securities$—$1$—$(20)$(19)Derivative
      financial instruments, net (b)(7)2——(5)Total
      Automotive sector(7)3—(20)(24)Financial
      Services SectorMarketable
      securities——(1)—(1)Derivative
      financial instruments, net (b)——(89)2(87)Retained
      interest in securitized assets——9—9Total
      Financial Services sector——(81)2(79)Total
      Company$(7)$3$(81)$(18)$(103)



(a)"Other
      Comprehensive Income/(Loss)" on marketable securities and derivative
      financial instruments reflects foreign currency translation on non-U.S.
      dollar foreign affiliates.(b)See
      Note 26 for detail on financial statement presentation by hedge
      designation.







2008AutomotiveCost
      of SalesAutomotive
      InterestIncome
      andOther
      Non-Operating Income/(Loss),
      NetFinancial
      ServicesOther
      Income/(Loss),
      NetFinancial
      ServicesInterestExpenseOther
      Comprehensive Income/(Loss)
      (a)TotalRealized/Unrealized
      Gains/(Losses)Automotive
      SectorMarketable
      securities$—$(29)$—$—$1$(28)Derivative
      financial instruments, net (b)(119)(5)———(124)Total
      Automotive sector(119)(34)——1(152)Financial
      Services SectorMarketable
      securities——————Derivative
      financial instruments, net (b)——2312(27)8Retained
      interest in securitized assets——107—(58)49Total
      Financial Services sector——13012(85)57Total
      Company$(119)$(34)$130$12$(84)$(95)



(a)"Other
      Comprehensive Income/(Loss)" on marketable securities and derivative
      financial instruments reflects foreign currency translation on non-U.S.
      dollar foreign affiliates.(b)See
      Note 26 for detail on financial statement presentation by hedge
      designation.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
4.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS(Continued)



Input
Hierarchy of Items Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis



The
following tables summarize the fair values by input hierarchy of items measured
at fair value on our balance sheet on a non-recurring basis for the years ended
December 31 (in millions):



2009Level
      1Level
      2Level
      3TotalTotal
      Gains/(Losses)Automotive
      Sector(a)First
      Aquitaine Industries SAS ("First Aquitaine") investment (b)$—$—$241$241$(79)U.S.
      consolidated dealership investment (c)————(78)Total
      assets at fair value$—$—$241$241$(157)Financial
      Services SectorEquity
      investment (d)$—$200$—$200$(141)Held-for-sale
      finance receivables (e)—911—911(52)Total
      assets at fair value$—$1,111$—$1,111$(193)





(a)See
      Note 24 for discussion of our held-for-sale impairment of Volvo.

(b)During
      the second quarter of 2009, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment
      of our investment in the Bordeaux automatic transmission
      plant of $79 million inAutomotive cost of
      sales.  The fair value measurement used to determine the
      impairment was based on the cost approach and considered the condition of
      the plant's fixed assets.

(c)During
      the first quarter of 2009, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment
      of our investment in our U.S.consolidated
      dealerships of $78 million inAutomotive cost of
      sales.  The fair value measurement used to determine the
      impairment was based on the market approach and reflected anticipated
      proceeds,expected to
      bede
      minimis.The
      fair value of our investment was classified in Level 2 of our fair-value
      hierarchy.

(d)In March 2009,
      our Boardof Directors approved potential sale of the Financial
      Services sector's investment in DFOPartnership.  DFOPartnership
      held a portfolio of "non-core" diversified leveraged lease assets (e.g.,
      railcars, aircraft, and energy facilities).  The fair value
      measurement used to determine the fair value of the investment in DFO
      Partnership was based on the market approach and reflected information
      obtained from a number of bids.  As a result, during the first
      quarter of 2009, we recorded another-than-temporary
      impairment of the investment of $141 million inFinancial Services equity in
      net income/(loss) of affiliated companies.

(e)During
      the third quarter of 2009, Ford Creditrecorded a valuation
      allowance of $52million related to held-for-sale finance
      receivables.  The fair value was determined based on the market
      approach and reflected information from an independent bid for the
      assets.  See Note 24 for additional discussion of this
      impairment.



2008Level
      1Level
      2Level
      3TotalTotal
      Gains/(Losses)Automotive
      SectorU.S.
      consolidated dealership investment (a)$—$—$131$131$(88)North
      America net property (b)——11,00911,009(5,300)Held-for-sale
      operations (c)——1,7281,728(439)Total
      assets at fair value$—$—$12,868$12,868$(5,827)Financial
      Services SectorNet
      investment in certain operating leases (d)$—$—$9,414$9,414$(2,086)Total
      assets at fair value$—$—$9,414$9,414$(2,086)





(a)During
      the first quarter of 2008, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment
      of our investment in U.S. consolidated dealerships of
      $88 million inAutomotive cost of
      sales.The
      fair value measurement used to determine the impairment was based on
      liquidation prices of comparable assets.

(b)During
      the second quarter of 2008, we recorded apre-tax impairment
      of $5.3 billion related to Ford North America held-and-used
      long-lived assets.  The fair value measurement used to determine
      the impairment was based on the income approach, which utilized cash flow
      projections consistent with the most recent Ford North America business
      plan approved by our Board or Directors, a terminal value, and a discount
      rate equivalent to a market participant's weighted average cost of
      capital.  See Note 15 for additional discussion of this
      impairment.

(c)We
      recorded pre-tax impairments of $421 million during the first quarter
      of 2008 and $18 million during the second quarter of 2008 related to
      held-for-sale operations.  The fair value measurements used to
      determine the impairments were based on the market approach and reflected
      expected proceeds negotiated with the
      buyer.  See Note 24 for additional discussion of these
      impairments.

(d)We recorded a
      pre-tax impairment of $2.1 billion during the second quarter of 2008
      related to certain vehicle lines included in our Financial Services sectorNet Investment in
      operating leases.  The fair value used to determine the
      impairment was based on the income approach and was measured by
      discounting the contractual payments and estimated auction
      proceeds.  The discount rate reflected hypothetical market
      assumptions regarding borrowing rates, credit loss patterns, and residual
      value risk.  See Note 15 for additional discussion of this
      impairment.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
5.  CASH AND RESTRICTED CASH



Cash and
cash equivalents that are restricted as to withdrawal or usage under the terms
of certain contractual arrangements are recorded as restricted inOther assetson our
consolidated balancesheet.  Restricted
cash does not include required minimum balances, or cash securing debt raised
through securitization transactions ("securitization cash").  See Note
19 for discussion of the minimum balance requirement related to the secured
credit agreement that we initially entered into in December 2006, and
securitization cash.  See Note 13 for additional information regarding
Automotive VIEs.  For cash and cash equivalents, we review our disbursement
accounts and reclassify any aggregate negative balances to a liability account
included inPayableson
our balance sheet.



Restricted
Cash



Restricted
cash reflected on our balance sheet at December 31 is as follows (in
millions):



20092008Automotive
      sector$789$363Financial
      Services sector335449Total
      Company$1,124$812



NOTE
6.  MARKETABLE AND OTHER SECURITIES



Ford
holds various investments classified as marketable securities including U.S.
government and non-U.S. government securities, corporate obligations and
equities, and asset-backed securities.  Highly-liquid investments with
a maturity of 90 days or less at the date of purchase are classified inCash and cash
equivalents.  Investment securities with a maturity date
greater than 90 days at the date of the security's acquisition are
classified asMarketable
securities.



Prior to
2008, we classified all marketable securities as trading, available-for-sale or
held-to-maturity.  The unrealized gains and losses for
available-for-sale securities were recorded, net of tax, as a separate component
ofAccumulated other
comprehensive income/(loss)and the unrealized gains and losses for
held-to-maturity securities were not recognized.  On
January 1, 2008, we elected to apply the fair value option and
recorded all available-for-sale or held-to-maturity securities as trading
securities.  This election resulted in a cumulative after-tax increase
of about $12 million to the opening balance ofRetained
earnings.  Marketable securities acquired subsequent to
January 1, 2008 have been recorded as trading securities.



Trading
securities are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses recorded
inAutomotive interest income
and other non-operating income/(expense), netandFinancial Services income/(loss),
net.  Realized gains and losses are accounted for using the
specific identification method.  See Note 4 for information on
valuation methodologies.



Investments
in Marketable Securities



Investments
in marketable securities at December31 were as
follows (in millions):



20092008Fair
      ValueUnrealizedGains/(Losses)
      (a)Fair
      ValueUnrealizedGains/(Losses)
      (a)Trading
      SecuritiesAutomotive
      sector (b)$15,169$141$9,296$(1,443)Financial
      Services sector6,864148,607(32)Intersector
      elimination (b)(646)—(492)—Total
      Company$21,387$155$17,411$(1,475)

__________

(a)Unrealized
      gains/(losses) for period related to instruments still held.

(b)"Fair
      Value" reflects an investment in Ford Credit debt securities shown at a
      carrying value of $646million and
      $492 million(estimated fair value of which is $656 million and
      $437 million) at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
      respectively.  See Note 1 for additional
      detail.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
6.  MARKETABLE AND OTHER SECURITIES(Continued)



Included
in Automotive sector trading securities above is our investment in
Mazda.  The fair value of our investment in Mazda at
December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $447 million and $322 million,
respectively.  See Note 12 for additional
information.



The
proceeds from maturities and sales of available-for-sale securities in 2007 were
as follows (in millions):



2007MaturitiesSalesAutomotive
      sector$—$2,686Financial
      Services sector7,9008,074Total
      Company$7,900$10,760



Realized
gains and losses on sales of available-for-sale securities in 2007 were as
follows (in millions):



2007GainsLossesAutomotive
      sector$10$7Financial
      Services sector455Total
      Company$55$12



Other
Securities



Investments
in entities that we do not control and over which we do not have the ability to
exercise significant influence are recorded at cost and included inOther
assets.These cost method investments were as follows (in
millions):



20092008Automotive
      sector *$97$68Financial
      Services sector55Total
      Company$102$73

__________

*Our
      largest cost method investment relates to our ownership in Primrose Cove
      Limited of $69 million and $56millionat
      December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  This
      investment represents preferred shares  we received as part of
      the sale of Aston Martin Lagonda Group Limited ("Aston
      Martin").See Note 24 for further
      discussion of the sale of Aston
Martin.



NOTE
7.  FINANCE RECEIVABLES — FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR



Retail
finance receivables consist primarily of installment loans and direct financing
lease contracts for new and used vehicles with retail customers, daily rental
companies, government entities, and fleet customers.  Wholesale
finance receivables include dealer financing of new and used vehicles in
inventory.  Other finance receivables consist primarily of real
estate, commercial and other collateralized loans, and accrued
interest.



Revenue
from finance receivables (including direct financing leases) is recognized using
the interest method.  Certain origination costs on receivables are
deferred and amortized, using the interest method, over the term of the related
receivable as a reduction in financing revenue.  The accrual of
interest on receivables is discontinued at the time a receivable is determined
to be uncollectible.



Ford
Credit receives interest supplements and other support payments on certain
financing transactions under agreements with Ford and other
affiliates.  Income is recognized in a manner that is consistent with
revenue recognition on the underlying financing contracts over the periods that
the related finance receivables are outstanding.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
7.  FINANCE RECEIVABLES — FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR(Continued)



Finance
Receivables, Net



Finance
receivables, net, at December 31, were as follows (in
millions):



20092008Retail
      (including direct financing leases)$58,229$67,316Wholesale22,37027,483Other
      finance receivables3,6114,057Total
      finance receivables84,21098,856Unearned
      interest supplements(1,994)(1,343)Allowance
      for credit losses(1,351)(1,417)Other205Finance
      receivables, net – sector balance sheet$80,885$96,101Finance
      receivables, net, subject to fair value*$76,991$91,584Fair
      value$76,066$84,615Finance
      receivables, net – sector balance sheet$80,885$96,101Reclassification
      of receivables purchased from Automotive sector toOther receivables,
      net(3,889)(2,617)Finance
      receivables, net –consolidated balance
      sheet$76,996$93,484

__________

*At
      December31,2009
      and 2008, excludes$3.9 billion
      and$4.5billion,
      respectively, of certain receivables (primarily direct financing leases)
      that are not subject to fair value disclosure
  requirements.



Finance
receivables that originated outside of the United States were $35.4 billion
and $43.1 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.  At December 31, 2009, finance receivables
included $663 million owed by the three customers with the largest
receivables balances.



Included
in net finance and other receivables at December31, 2009
and 2008 were $64.4 billion and $73.7 billion, respectively, of
finance receivables that secure certain debt obligations.  The cash
flows generated from collection of these receivables can be used only for
payment of the related debt and obligations arising from the transfer; they are
not available to pay our other obligations or the claims of our other creditors
(see Notes 13 and 19).



The fair
value of finance receivables is generally calculated by discounting future cash
flows using an estimated discount rate that reflects the current credit,
interest rate, and prepayment risks associated with similar types of
instruments.



Scheduled
maturities of total finance receivables, including minimum lease rentals, are as
follows (in millions):



201020112012ThereafterTotalTotal
      finance receivables, including minimum lease rentals$51,768$17,876$9,107$5,459$84,210



Experience
indicates that a portion of the portfolio is repaid before the scheduled
maturity dates.



The net
investment in direct financing leases at December 31 was as follows
(in millions):



20092008Total
      minimum lease rentals to be received$2,509$2,940Less:
      Unearned income(434)(541)Loan
      origination costs2333Estimated
      residual values1,8262,135Less:
      Allowance for credit losses(45)(50)Net
      investment in direct financing leases$3,879$4,517



The
investment in direct financing leases primarily relates to the leasing of
vehicles with a term greater than 60 months.  Scheduled
maturities of minimum lease rentals, as included above, are as follows (in
millions):



201020112012ThereafterTotalMinimum
      rentals on direct financing leases$1,115$681$477$236$2,509



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
8.  NET INVESTMENT IN OPERATING LEASES



Net investment in operating
leaseson our balance sheet consists primarily of lease contracts for
vehicles with daily rental companies, fleet customers, and retail
customers.  Assets subject to operating leases are depreciated on the
straight-line method over the term of the lease to reduce the asset to its
estimated residual value.  Estimated residual values are based on
assumptions for used vehicle prices at lease termination and the number of
vehicles that are expected to be returned.



Included
in the Automotive sector on our consolidated balance sheet are vehicles sold to
daily rental car companies subject to guaranteed repurchase
options.  At the time of transfer, the proceeds are recorded as
deferred revenue inAccrued
liabilities and deferred revenue.  At
December 31, 2009 and 2008, $2.5 billion and $2.3 billion,
respectively, was included in this line item for these vehicles.  Also
at the time of transfer, the cost of the vehicles is recorded inOther current
assets.  The difference between the proceeds and the guaranteed
repurchase amount is recognized inAutomotive salesover an
average term of 8 months, using a straight-line method.  The
difference between the cost of the vehicle and the estimated auction value is
depreciated inAutomotive cost
of salesover the term of the lease.



Net
Investment in Operating Leases



The net
investment in operating leases at December 31 was as follows (in
millions):



20092008Automotive
      SectorVehicles,
      net of depreciation (a)$2,208$2,130Financial
      Services SectorVehicles
      and other equipment, at cost (b)21,76928,926Accumulated
      depreciation(6,493)(5,542)Allowance
      for credit losses(214)(264)Total
      Financial Services sector15,06223,120Total
      Company$17,270$25,250

__________

(a)  Included
inAutomotive other current
assetson our sector balance sheet.

(b)  Includes
the impact of the 2008 impairment of vehicles subject to operating leases at
Ford Credit.  See Note 15 for additional details.



Automotive
Sector



Included
inNet investment in operating
leasesare vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to
guaranteed repurchase options.  Operating lease depreciation expense
(which excludes gains and losses on disposal of assets) was as follows (in
millions):



200920082007Operating
      lease depreciation expense$536$861$979



Included
inAutomotive salesare
rents on operating leases.  The amount contractually due for minimum
rentals on operating leases is $404 million for 2010.



Financial
Services Sector



Included
inNet investment in operating
leasesat December 31, 2009 and 2008 were Ford
Credit's interests of $10.4 billion and $15.6 billion, respectively,
that have been included in securitizations that do not satisfy the requirements
for accounting sale treatment.  These net investments in operating
leases are available only for payment of the debt or other obligations issued or
arising in the securitization transactions; they are not available to pay other
obligations or the claims of other creditors.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
8.  NET INVESTMENT IN OPERATING LEASES(Continued)



Included
inFinancial Services
revenuesare rents on operating leases.  The amounts
contractually due for minimum rentals on operating leases are as follows (in
millions):



201020112012ThereafterTotalMinimum
      rentals on operating leases$2,825$1,602$604$332$5,363



Operating
lease depreciation expense (which includes gains and losses on disposal of
assets) was as follows (in millions):



200920082007Operating
      lease depreciation expense$3,890$9,048$6,212



NOTE
9.  ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES — FINANCIAL SERVICES
SECTOR



The
allowance for credit losses is our estimate of the probable credit losses
inherent in finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the balance
sheet.  Consistent with our normal practices and policies, we assess
the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses quarterly and regularly evaluate
the assumptions and models used in establishing the
allowance.  Because credit losses can vary substantially over time,
estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are
uncertain.



The
allowance for credit losses is estimated using a combination of models and
management judgment and is based on factors such as historical trends in credit
losses and recoveries (including key metrics such as delinquencies,
repossessions, and bankruptcies), the composition of our present portfolio
(including vehicle brand, term, risk evaluation, and new/used vehicles), trends
in historical and projected used vehicle values and economic
conditions.  Additions to the allowance for credit losses are made by
recording charges toFinancial
Services provision for credit and insurance losseson our consolidated
statement of operations.  Finance receivables, investments in direct
financing leases, and investments in operating leases are charged to the
allowance for credit losses at the earlier of when an account is deemed to be
uncollectible or when an account is 120 days delinquent, taking into
consideration the financial condition of the borrower or lessee, the value of
the collateral, recourse to guarantors and other factors.  Recoveries
on finance receivables and investments in leases previously charged off as
uncollectible are credited to the allowance for credit losses.



Changes
in Allowance for Credit Losses



Changes
in the allowance for credit losses for finance receivables, investment in direct
financing leases, and investment in operating leases were as follows (in
millions):



200920082007Beginning
      balance$1,681$1,102$1,121Provision
      for credit losses9771,773592Total
      charge-offs and recoveriesCharge-offs(1,526)(1,552)(1,105)Recoveries423414470Net
      charge-offs(1,103)(1,138)(635)Other
      changes, principally amounts related to finance receivables sold and
      translation adjustments10(56)24Ending
      balance$1,565$1,681$1,102



The
decrease in allowance for credit losses primarily reflected the decline in
receivables and the related charge-offs.  At
December 31, 2009, Ford Credit's allowance for credit losses included
about $215 million that was based on management's judgment regarding higher
retail installment and lease repossession assumptions and higher wholesale and
dealer loan default assumptions compared with historical trends used in Ford
Credit's models.  At December 31, 2008, Ford Credit's
allowance for credit losses included about $210 million that was based on
management's judgment regarding higher severity assumptions.  At
December 31, 2007, Ford Credit's allowance for credit losses did not
include any adjustments for management judgment.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
10.  INVENTORIES



All
inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.  Cost for a
substantial portion of U.S. inventories is determined on a last-in, first-out
("LIFO") basis.  LIFO was used for approximately 28% and 24% of
inventories at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.  Cost of other inventories is determined on a first-in,
first-out ("FIFO") basis.



Inventories
at December 31 were as follows (in millions):



20092008Raw
      materials, work-in-process and supplies$2,783$2,747Finished
      products3,4655,091Total
      inventories under FIFO6,2487,838Less:
      LIFO adjustment(798)(850)Total
      inventories$5,450$6,988



At
December 31, 2009, inventory quantities were reduced, resulting in a
liquidation of LIFO inventory quantities carried at lower costs prevailing in
prior years as compared with the cost of 2009 purchases, the effect of which
decreasedAutomotive cost of
salesby about $33 million.



NOTE
11.  EQUITY IN NET ASSETS OF AFFILIATED COMPANIES



We use
the equity method of accounting for our investments in entities over which we do
not have control or of which we are not the primary beneficiary, but over whose
operating and financial policies we are able to exercise significant
influence.



Ownership
Percentages and Investment Balances



The
following table reflects our ownership percentages at
December 31, 2009, and balances of equity method investments at
December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in millions, except
percentages):



Investment
      BalanceOwnership
      Percentage20092008Automotive
      SectorAutoAlliance
      (Thailand) Co., Ltd ("AAT").50.0%$301$258S.C.
      Automobile Craiova SA. ("ACSA") *97.128924Changan
      Ford Mazda Automobile Corporation, Ltd35.0247189Jiangling
      Motors Corporation, Ltd30.0238191Ford
      Motor Company Capital Trust II ("Trust II")5.0155155Tenedora
      Nemak, S.A. de C.V.6.86474Blue
      Diamond Truck, S. de R.L. de C.V.25.04533Getrag
      Asia Pacific GmbH & Co. KG25.03329Changan
      Ford Mazda Engine Company, Ltd.25.01915OEConnection
      LLC33.0107Ford
      Performance Vehicles Pty Ltd.49.098Percepta,
      LLC45.067Blue
      Diamond Parts, LLC25.0510Automotive
      Fuel Cell Cooperation Corporation ("AFCC")30.034Getrag
      America Holdings GmbH CH ("Getrag America Holdings")——19NuCellsys
      Holding GmbH ("NuCellsys") *——18OtherVarious535Total
      Automotive sector1,4291,076Financial
      Services SectorForso
      Nordic AB50.06766FFS
      Finance South Africa (Pty) Limited50.03234RouteOne
      LLC30.01818DFO
      Partnership——357OtherVarious448Total
      Financial Services sector121523Total
      Company$1,550$1,599

__________

*See
      Note 24 for discussion of this
entity.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
11.  EQUITY IN NET ASSETS OF AFFILIATED COMPANIES(Continued)



We
received $152 million, $224 million, and $216 million of
dividends from these affiliated companies for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007,
respectively.



Changes
in Equity Method Investments



Getrag America
Holdings.In 2009, Getrag America Holdings changed its
operating profile from a development stage enterprise to an operating
business.  Accordingly, we reconsidered the consolidation analysis and
determined this to be a variable interest entity of which we are the primary
beneficiary.



DFO
Partnership.In March 2009, our Board of Directors
approved a potential sale of the Financial Services sector investment in
DFO Partnership.  DFO Partnership holds a portfolio of "non-core"
diversified leveraged lease assets (e.g., railcars, aircraft, and energy
facilities).  During the first quarter of 2009, an
other-than-temporary impairment of the investment in DFO Partnership of
$141 million was recorded inFinancial Services equity in net
income/(loss) of affiliated companies.During the third
quarter of 2009, the Financial Services sector completed the sale of its
interest in DFO Partnership to a subsidiary of Bank of
America.  As a result of the sale, a pre-tax gain of $9 million
(net of transaction costs) was recognized inFinancial Services other
income/(loss), net.



NOTE
12.  SIGNIFICANT UNCONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES



We are
required to measure the impact of all unconsolidated majority-owned subsidiaries
and equity-method investments to determine their significance to our financial
statements.  If the affiliates meet the defined thresholds of
significance, certain financial disclosure data is required.



Mazda



Mazda was
considered to be a significant unconsolidated affiliate in
2007.  Presented below is summarized financial information for Mazda
for 2008 and 2007.



In
November 2008, we sold 278 million shares of Mazda for net proceeds of
$532 million.  As a result of the transaction, we recorded a
pre-tax loss on the sale of $121 million, net of transaction costs and
recognition of foreign currency translation adjustments, inAutomotive interest income and other
non-operating income/(expense), net.  We continue to own
195.5 million shares of Mazda, representing an 11% ownership
interest.  We no longer have certain management rights we previously
held and, as a result, we have deemed that we no longer hold significant
influence over Mazda's operating and financial
policies.  Consequently, we account for our remaining investment of
$447 million as of December 31, 2009 as a marketable
security.



As a
result, we had no equity in net assets of affiliated companies at
December 31, 2008 associated with our investment in
Mazda.  Our investment in Mazda included $0 of goodwill included inEquity in net assets of
affiliated companiesat December 31, 2008.  Dividends
received from Mazda were $27 million and $36 million for the years
ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.



Summarized
income statement information from Mazda's published financial statements,
prepared in accordance with Japanese GAAP, for the twelve months ended
September 30, 2008 and 2007, and summarized balance sheet information from
Mazda's published financial statements at September 30, 2008 and 2007 is as
follows (in millions):



20082007Net
      sales$31,422$28,108Cost
      and expenses30,03626,763Income
      from continuing operations889698Net
      income/(loss)854628Total
      assets$19,548$16,776Total
      liabilities14,06712,430



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
12.  SIGNIFICANT UNCONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES(Continued)



Included
in ourAutomotive equity in
net income/(loss) of affiliated companieswas the following income for
the years ended December 31 (in millions):



20082007Ford's
      share of Mazda's net income/(loss)$25$189



Ford's
share of Mazda's net income/(loss) in the table above represents our share of
Mazda's results on a U.S. GAAP basis.  For 2008, our share includes a
charge as determined under U.S. GAAP representing the impact on us of a goodwill
impairment related to Mazda-owned dealerships in Japan.



NOTE
13.  VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES



A VIE is
an entity that either (i) has insufficient equity to permit the entity to
finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support or (ii)
has equity investors who lack the characteristics of a controlling financial
interest.  A VIE is consolidated by its primary
beneficiary.  The primary beneficiary is the entity that absorbs the
majority of the risk for the variability in the VIE's assets.  A
variable interest is a contractual, ownership, or other interest that changes
with changes in the fair value of the VIE's net assets.



We use
qualitative analysis to determine whether or not we need to consolidate a
VIE.  We consider the rights and obligations conveyed by variable
interests to determine whether we will absorb a majority of a VIE's expected
losses, receive a majority of its expected residual returns, or
both.  If so, we consolidate the VIE.



The
liabilities recognized as a result of consolidating these VIEs do not
necessarily represent additional claims on our general assets; rather, they
represent claims against the specific assets of the consolidated
VIEs.  Conversely, assets recognized as a result of consolidating
these VIEs do not represent additional assets that could be used to satisfy
claims against our general assets.



Automotive
Sector



VIEs
of which we are the primary beneficiary:



We have
contractual agreements with the VIEs we consolidate to purchase the majority,
and in some cases substantially all, of the entity's output under a
cost-plus-margin arrangement and/or volume-dependent pricing.  These
contractual arrangements may require us to absorb entity losses when production
volume targets are not met and/or allow us to receive bonuses when production
volume targets are exceeded.  Described below are the significant VIEs
we consolidated as of December 31, 2009:



AutoAlliance
International, Inc. ("AAI") is a 50/50 joint venture with Mazda in North
America, engaged in the manufacture of automobiles on behalf of Ford and Mazda,
primarily for sale in North America.



First
Aquitaine operates a transmission plant in Bordeaux, France which manufactures
automatic transmissions for Ford Explorer, Ranger, and Mustang
vehicles.  During the second quarter of 2009, we transferred legal
ownership of First Aquitaine to HZ Holding France.  We also entered
into a volume-dependent pricing agreement with the new owner to purchase
transmissions through the end of the product cycle.  As a result, we
now consider this entity to be a VIE of which we are the primary
beneficiary.  See Note 4 for discussion of the impairment of our
investment in this plant.



Ford
Otosan is a 41/41/18 joint venture in Turkey with the Koc Group of Turkey and
public investors.  Ford Otosan is a supplier of the Ford Transit
Connect model, and an assembly supplier of the Ford Transit van model, both of
which we sell primarily in Europe.



Getrag
Ford Transmissions GmbH ("GFT") is a 50/50 joint venture with Getrag Deutsche
Venture GmbH and Co. KG. and is the primary supplier of manual transmissions for
use in our European vehicles.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
13.  VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES(Continued)



Getrag
All Wheel Drive AB is a 40/60 joint venture between Volvo Cars and Getrag Dana
Holding GmbH.  The joint venture produces all-wheel-drive
components.  The assets and liabilities associated with this joint
venture that were classified during the first quarter of 2009 as held for sale
are shown in the table below and are included in the assets and liabilities of
Volvo classified as held-for-sale operations in Note 24.



Pininfarina
Sverige, AB is a 40/60 joint venture between Volvo Cars and Pininfarina,
S.p.A.  The joint venture was established to engineer and manufacture
niche vehicles.  The assets and liabilities associated with this joint
venture that were classified as held for sale during the first quarter of 2009
are shown in the table below and are included in the assets and liabilities of
Volvo classified as held-for-sale operations in Note 24.



Tekfor
Cologne GmbH ("Tekfor") is a 50/50 joint venture with Neumayer Tekfor
GmbH.  Tekfor produces transmission and chassis components for use in
our vehicles.  During the fourth quarter of 2009, Ford initiated a
revolving loan agreement with Tekfor for $12.8 million.  This
loan is being used by Tekfor to refinance external debt.



We also
hold interests in certain dealerships in North America.  At
December 31, 2009 there were approximately 13 dealerships
consolidated as part of our Dealer Development program.  We supply and
finance the majority of vehicles and parts for these dealerships, and the
operators have a contract to buy our equity interest over a period of
time.  See Note 4 for discussion of the impairment of our
investment in these assets.



The total
consolidated VIE assets and liabilities reflected on our December 31 balance
sheet are as follows (in millions):



Assets20092008Cash
      and cash equivalents$574$665Receivables578518Inventories5131,117Net
      property2,2942,136Assets
      of held-for-sale operations330318Other
      assets236297Total
      assets$4,525$5,051LiabilitiesTrade
      payables$628$516Accrued
      liabilities327324Debt851972Liabilities
      of held-for-sale operations10597Other
      liabilities230167Total
      liabilities$2,141$2,076Equity
      attributable to noncontrolling interests$1,267$1,168



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
13.  VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES(Continued)



The
financial performance of the consolidated VIEs reflected on our statement of
operations is as follows (in millions):



200920082007Sales$4,581$7,191$7,753Costs
      and expensesCost
      of sales3,6616,1546,166Selling,
      administrative and other expenses451749814Total
      costs and expenses4,1126,9036,980Operating
      income/(loss)469288773Interest
      expense398255Interest
      income and other non-operating income/(expense), net175540Equity
      in net income/(loss) of affiliated companies—(3)(1)Income/(Loss)
      before income taxes–Automotive447258757Provision
      for/(Benefit from) income taxes13046172Income/(Loss)
      from continuing operations317212585Income/(Loss)
      from discontinued operations———Net
      income/(loss)317212585Less:
      Income/(Loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests231202322Net
      income/(loss) attributable to Ford Motor Company$86$10$263



VIEs
of which we are not the primary beneficiary:



In 2005,
as part of the transaction to sell our interest in The Hertz Corporation
("Hertz"), we provided cash-collateralized letters of credit to support the
payment obligations of Hertz Vehicle Financing LLC, a VIE which is wholly owned
by Hertz and of which we are not the primary beneficiary.  The
carrying value of our obligation related to these letters of credit, which will
expire no later than December 21, 2011, was approximately
$9 million at December 31, 2009.  For additional
discussion of these letters of credit, see Note 31.



We also
have investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries determined to be VIEs of which
we are not the primary beneficiary.  These investments, described
below, are accounted for as equity method investments and are included inEquity in net assets of affiliated
companies.



AAT is a
50/50 joint venture with Mazda in Thailand.  AAT is engaged in the
manufacture of automobiles on behalf of Ford and Mazda for the Thai domestic
market and for export markets through Ford and Mazda.  Ford and Mazda
share equally the risks and rewards of the joint venture.



Trust II
was formed in 2002.  We own 100% of Trust II's common stock which is
equal to 5% of Trust II's total equity.



Our
maximum exposure to VIEs of which we are not the primary beneficiary at December
31 is as follows (in millions):



December
      31,2009December
      31, 2008Change
      in Maximum ExposureInvestments$456$413$43Liabilities(30)(38)8Guarantees
      (off-balance sheet)3703628Total
      maximum exposure$796$737$59



This
includes a guarantee of a line of credit on behalf of AAT for plant
expansion.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
13.  VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES(Continued)



Financial
Services Sector



VIEs
of which Ford Credit is the primary beneficiary:



Ford
Credit uses special-purpose entities to issue asset-backed securities in
transactions to public and private investors, bank conduits, and
government-sponsored entities or others who obtain funding from government
programs.  The asset-backed securities are secured by the expected
cash flows from finance receivables and interests in net investments in
operating leases.  The expected cash flows from these assets have been
legally sold but Ford Credit retains interests in its securitization
transactions, including senior and subordinated securities issued by VIEs,
rights to cash held for the benefit of the securitization investors such as cash
reserves, and residual interests.  Therefore, the assets continue to
be consolidated by Ford Credit.



The VIE
transactions create and pass along risks to the variable interest holders,
depending on the assets securing the debt and the specific terms of the
transactions.



Ford
Credit aggregates and analyzes its transactions based on the risk profile of the
product and the type of funding structure, including:



·Retail
      transactions – consumer credit risk and prepayment
  risk.

·Wholesale
      transactions – dealer credit risk.

·Net
      investments in operating lease transactions – vehicle residual value risk,
      consumer credit risk, and prepayment
risk.



As
residual interest holder, Ford Credit is exposed to underlying residual and
credit risk of the collateral, and may be exposed to interest rate
risk.  However, this risk is not incremental to the exposure Ford
Credit has on the underlying assets.  Ford Credit's residual interest
in these transactions was $27.2 billion and $18.2 billion at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  The amount
of risk absorbed by Ford Credit's residual interests is generally represented by
and limited to the amount of overcollaterization of its assets securing the debt
and any cash reserves.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
13.  VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES(Continued)



Ford
Credit has no obligation to repurchase or replace any securitized asset that
subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in
default.  Securitization investors have no recourse to Ford Credit or
its other assets for credit losses on the securitized assets, and have no right
to require Ford Credit to repurchase the investments.  Although not
contractually required, Ford Credit regularly supports their wholesale
securitization programs by repurchasing receivables of a dealer from the VIEs
when the dealer's performance is at risk, which transfers the corresponding risk
of loss from the VIE to Ford Credit.  In order to continue to fund the
wholesale receivables, Ford Credit also may contribute additional cash or
wholesale receivables if the collateral falls below the required
level.  The cash contributions were $0 and $179 million at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and ranged from $0 to
$1.4 billion and $0 to $2.2 billion during 2009 and 2008,
respectively.  In addition, while not contractually required, Ford
Credit may purchase the commercial paper issued by Ford Credit's FCAR Owner
Trust retail securitization program.



During
2009, Ford Credit elected to provide additional enhancements or repurchase
specific senior or subordinated notes in order to address market
conditions.  From time to time, Ford Credit renegotiates the terms of
its funding commitments and may reallocate the commitments
globally.  Ford Credit does not guarantee any asset-backed securities
and generally has no obligation to provide liquidity or contribute cash or
additional assets to the VIEs.  In certain securitization
transactions, Ford Credit has dynamic enhancements where Ford Credit is required
to support the performance of the securitization transactions by purchasing
additional subordinated notes or increasing cash reserves.



VIEs that
are exposed to interest rate or currency risk have reduced their exposure by
entering into derivatives.  In certain instances, Ford Credit has
entered into offsetting derivative transactions with the VIE to protect the VIE
from these risks that are not mitigated through derivative transactions between
the VIE and its counterparty.  See Note 26 for additional information
regarding Ford Credit's derivatives.



Finance
receivables and net investment in operating leases that secure the debt of the
VIE remain on Ford Credit's balance sheet and therefore are not included in the
VIE assets shown in the following table.  As of
December 31, 2009, the carrying values of the assets were
$41.7 billion of retail receivables, $16.5 billion of wholesale
receivables, and $10.4 billion of net investment in operating
leases.  As of December 31, 2008, the carrying values of the
assets were $41.9 billion of retail receivables, $19.6 billion of
wholesale receivables, and $15.6 billion of net investment in operating
leases.



The total
consolidated VIE assets and liabilities that support Ford Credit's
securitization transactions reflected on our December 31 balance sheet are as
follows (in millions):



20092008Cash
      & Cash Equivalents (a)Debt
      (b)Cash
      & Cash Equivalents (a)Debt
      (b)VIEs
      by asset classRetail$3,132$31,243$2,673$34,507Wholesale4028,3491,02915,537Net
      investment in operating leases4366,56120612,005Total$3,970$46,153$3,908$62,049

__________

(a)Additionally,
      Ford Credit's cash and cash equivalents securing the obligations of the
      VIEs that are not assets of the VIEswere
      $925 million and $949 million as of December 31, 2009
      and 2008, respectively.(b)Certain
      notes issued by the VIEs to affiliated companies served as collateral for
      accessing the European Central Bank ("ECB") open market operations
      program.  This external funding of $1.8billion
      and $308million at
      December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, was not
      reflected as a liability of the VIEs and is excluded from the table above,
      but was included in our consolidated
  liabilities.



Ford
Credit's exposure based on the fair value of derivative instruments related to
securitization programs at December 31 is as follows (in
millions):



20092008DerivativeAssetDerivative
      LiabilityDerivativeAssetDerivative
      LiabilityTotal
      derivative financial instruments$55$528$46$808



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
13.  VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES(Continued)



The
financial performance of the consolidated VIEs that support Ford Credit's
securitization transactions reflected in our statement of operations is as
follows (in millions):



20092008Derivative
      (Income)/ExpenseInterestExpenseDerivative
      (Income)/ExpenseInterestExpenseVIEs
      by asset classRetail$262$957$684$1,725Wholesale(3)248(47)706Net
      investment in operating leases80473178622Total$339$1,678$815$3,053



VIEs
of which Ford Credit is not the primary beneficiary:



Ford
Credit has investments in certain joint ventures determined to be VIEs of which
it is not the primary beneficiary.  These joint ventures provide
consumer and dealer financing in their respective markets.  The joint
ventures are financed by external debt and additional subordinated interest of
the joint venture partners.  The risks and rewards associated with
Ford Credit's interests in these joint ventures are based primarily on ownership
percentages.  Ford Credit's investments in these joint ventures are
accounted for as equity method investments and are included inEquity in net assets of affiliated
companies.Ford Credit's maximum exposure to any potential
losses associated with these VIEs is $67 million and $109 million at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



NOTE
14.  NET PROPERTY AND LEASE COMMITMENTS



Net
Property



Net
property includes land, buildings and land improvements, machinery and
equipment, special tools, and other assets that we use in our normal
operations.  These assets are recorded at cost, net of accumulated
depreciation and impairments.  We capitalize new assets when we expect
to use the asset for more than one year and the acquisition cost is greater than
$2,500.  Routine maintenance and repair costs are expensed when
incurred.



Included
in our carrying value is the estimated cost for legal obligations to retire,
abandon, or dispose of the asset.  These conditional asset retirement
obligations relate to the estimated cost for asbestos abatement and PCB
removal.



Property
and equipment are depreciated primarily using the straight-line method over the
estimated useful life of the asset.  Useful lives range from
3 years to 36 years.  The estimated useful lives generally
are 14.5 years for machinery and equipment, and 30 years for buildings
and improvements.  Special tools generally are amortized over the
expected life of a product program using a straight-line method.  If
the expected production volumes for major product programs associated with the
tools decline significantly, we accelerate the amortization reflecting the rate
of decline.



Net
property at December 31 was as follows (in millions):



Automotive
      Sector20092008Land$348$409Buildings
      and land improvements11,03410,797Machinery,
      equipment and other40,22038,767Construction
      in progress1,3251,295Total
      land, plant and equipment52,92751,268Accumulated
      depreciation(35,404)(34,552)Net
      land, plant and equipment17,52316,716Special
      tools, net of amortization7,0737,214Total
      Automotive sector24,59623,930Financial Services
      sector*182213Total
      Company$24,778$24,143

__________

*Included
      inFinancial Services
      other assetson our sector balance
sheet.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE
14.  NET PROPERTY AND LEASE COMMITMENTS(Continued)



Automotive
sector property-related expenses for the years ended December 31 were as follows
(in millions):



200920082007Depreciation
      and other amortization$2,127$6,584$3,474Amortization
      of special tools1,9674,5373,289Total*$4,094$11,121$6,763Maintenance
      and rearrangement$1,272$1,839$2,014

__________

*Includes
      impairments of long-lived assets for 2008.  See Note 15 for
      additional information.



Conditional
Asset Retirement Obligations



Asbestos
abatement was estimated using site-specific surveys where available and a
per/square foot estimate where surveys were unavailable.  PCB removal
costs were based on historical removal costs per transformer and applied to
transformers identified by a PCB transformer global survey we
conducted.



The
liability for our conditional asset retirement obligations which are recorded inAccrued liabilities and
deferred revenueat December 31 was as follows (in
millions):



20092008Beginning
      balance$360$404Liabilities
      settled(6)(39)Revisions
      to estimates(7)(3)Foreign
      currency translation—(2)Ending
      balance$347$360



Lease
Commitments



We lease
land, buildings and equipment under agreements that expire in various
years.  Minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating
leases were as follows (in millions):



20102011201220132014ThereafterTotalAutomotive
      sector$217$163$117$90$71$211$869Financial
      Services sector927254362052326Total
      Company$309$235$171$126$91$263$1,195



Rental
expense was as follows (in billions):



200920082007Rental
      expense$0.8$1.0$1.0



NOTE
15.  IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS



We
monitor our operating units for conditions that may indicate a potential
impairment of long-lived assets.  These conditions include
current-period operating losses combined with a history of losses and a
projection of continuing losses, and significant negative industry or economic
trends.  When these conditions exist, we test for
impairment.  An impairment charge is recognized for the amount by
which the carrying value of the asset group exceeds its estimated fair
value.



During
the second quarter of 2008, higher fuel prices and the weak economic climate in
the United States and Canada resulted in a more pronounced and accelerated shift
in consumer preferences away from full-size trucks and traditional sport utility
vehicles ("SUVs") to smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles.  This
shift in consumer preferences combined with lower-than-anticipated U.S. industry
demand and greater-than-anticipated escalation of commodity costs resulted in
impairment charges related to Ford North America's long-lived assets and Ford
Credit's operating lease portfolio.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
15.  IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS(Continued)



Automotive
Sector



North America Long-Lived
Assets.Based upon the financial impact of rapidly-changing
U.S. market conditions during the second quarter of 2008, we projected a decline
in net cash flows for the Ford North America segment.  As a result, in
the second quarter of 2008 we tested the long-lived assets for impairment and
recorded inAutomotive cost of
salesa pre-tax charge of $5.3 billion, representing the amount by
which the carrying value of the assets exceeded the estimated fair
value.  See Note 4 for further discussion of the fair value used in
the impairment.



The table
below describes the significant components of the second quarter
2008 long-lived asset impairment (in millions):



Ford
      North AmericaLand$—Buildings
      and land improvements698Machinery,
      equipment and other2,833Special
      tools1,769Total$5,300



Financial
Services Sector



Certain
Vehicle Line Operating Leases.The shift in consumer
preferences combined with a weak economic climate caused a significant reduction
in auction values, in particular for used full-size trucks and traditional
SUVs.  As a result, in the second quarter of 2008 we tested Ford
Credit's operating leases in its North America segment for impairment and
recorded a pre-tax impairment charge inSelling, administrative and other
expenseson our consolidated statement of operations and inFinancial Services
depreciationon our sector statement of operations of $2.1 billion,
representing the amount by which the carrying value of certain vehicle lines in
Ford Credit's lease portfolio exceeded the estimated fair value.  See
Note 4 for further discussion of the fair value used in the
impairment.



NOTE
16.  GOODWILL AND OTHER NET INTANGIBLE ASSETS



Goodwill
is subject to impairment testing at least annually or upon a triggering
event.  Our annual testing of goodwill occurs in the fourth
quarter.  An impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which
the carrying value of the operating segment's goodwill exceeds its implied fair
value.



Our
intangible assets are comprised primarily of manufacturing and production
incentive rights, license and advertising agreements, patents, customer
contracts, technology, and land rights and all are amortized over their
determinable lives.



Goodwill



In the
fourth quarter of 2007,we recorded a
goodwill impairment charge of $2.4 billion inGoodwill impairmentas a
result of our impairment testing of Volvo.Volvo's fair
value declined throughout 2007,primarily related
to three factors.  First, the weakening of the U.S. dollar resulted in
lower sales revenues relative to euro and Swedish krona material costs;
approximately 25% of Volvo vehicle sales are in the United
States.  Second, higher gas prices and other factors were causing a
shift from larger to smaller vehicle segments in the U.S.and other
markets.  This resulted in lower-than-planned volumes for new
vehicles, especially high-margin SUVs.  Third, to encourage sales in
the face of lower-than-planned volumes for Volvo vehicles in the U.S.and other
markets, we offered higher-than-anticipated
marketing incentives on the sale of these vehicles.  These higher
marketing incentives led to a reduction in revenues and
profits.  Volvo goodwill was tested for impairment at
December 31, 2007 by comparing the carrying value of the Volvo
reporting unit to its implied fair value using discounted cash flow and market
methods.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
16.  GOODWILL AND OTHER NET INTANGIBLE ASSETS(Continued)



The
following table summarizes the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill (in
millions):



Automotive
      SectorFinancial
      Services SectorFordNorth
      AmericaFordEuropeVolvoJaguarLand
      RoverTotalFordCreditTotal
      CompanyBalances
      at December 31, 2007Goodwill$89$37$3,760$1,438$5,324$18$5,342Accumulated
      impairment losses——(2,400)—(2,400)—(2,400)Balances
      reclassified to held for sale (a)——(1,360)(1,438)(2,798)—(2,798)Net
      goodwill at December 31, 20078937——12618144Changes
      in goodwill:Dealer
      goodwill impairment (b)(88)———(88)—(88)Effect
      of foreign currency translation/Other—(6)——(6)—(6)Goodwill-related
      dispositions(1)———(1)(9)(10)Balances
      at December 31, 2008Goodwill8831——1199128Accumulated
      impairment losses(88)———(88)—(88)Net
      goodwill at December 31, 2008—31——31940Changes
      in goodwill:Effect
      of foreign currency translation/Other—3——3—3Balances
      at December 31, 2009Goodwill8834——1229131Accumulated
      impairment losses(88)———(88)—(88)Net
      goodwill at December 31, 2009$—$34$—$—$34$9$43



(a)See
      Note 24 for discussion of our held-for-sale operations.(b)Based
      on our expected reduction of our Ford North America dealership base, we
      recorded an other-than-temporary impairment of our investment in our
      consolidated North America dealerships of$88 million inAutomotive cost
      of sales.  We recorded the impairment of our investment
      by writing down the related goodwill to its fair value of
    $0.



Excluded
from the table above is goodwill withinEquity in net assets of affiliated
companiesof $34 million at December 31, 2009 and
2008.



Other
Net Intangibles



The
components of other net intangible assets at December 31 are as follows (in
millions):



20092008GrossCarrying
      AmountLess:
      Accumulated AmortizationNet
      Carrying AmountGross
      Carrying AmountLess:
      Accumulated AmortizationNet
      Carrying AmountAutomotive
      SectorManufacturing
      and production incentive rights$305(228)77227(113)114License
      and advertising agreements96(32)6485(23)62Other75(50)2571(41)30Total
      Automotive sector476(310)166383(177)206Financial
      Services SectorOther1(1)—4(4)—Total
      Financial Services sector1(1)—4(4)—Total
      Company$477$(311)$166$387$(181)$206



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
16.  GOODWILL AND OTHER NET INTANGIBLE ASSETS(Continued)



Our
manufacturing and production incentive rights were acquired in 2006 and have a
useful life of 4 years, our license and advertising agreements have
amortization periods of 5 years to 25 years, and our other intangibles
have various amortization periods (primarily patents, customer contracts,
technology, and land rights).



Pre-tax
amortization expense was as follows (in millions):



200920082007Pre-tax
      amortization expense$86$99$106



Amortization
for current intangible assets is forecasted to be approximately $80 million
to $90 million in 2010 and $10 million per year
thereafter.



NOTE
17.  ACCRUED LIABILITIES AND DEFERRED REVENUE



Accrued
liabilities and deferred revenue at December 31 were as follows (in
millions):



20092008Automotive
      SectorCurrentDealer
      and customer allowances and claims$8,651$9,715Deferred
      revenue3,1622,883Employee
      benefit plans1,4811,820Accrued
      interest570419Pension469473Other
      postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") (a)45310,917Other3,6793,357Total
      Automotive current18,46529,584Non-currentPension11,60710,924OPEB5,5975,358Dealer
      and customer allowances and claims2,9194,303Deferred
      revenue1,6561,751Employee
      benefit plans587525Other894905Total
      Automotive non-current23,26023,766Total
      Automotive sector41,72553,350Financial
      Services Sector4,8846,184Total
      sectors46,60959,534Intersector
      elimination (b)(10)(8)Total
      Company$46,599$59,526

__________

(a)See
      Note 18 for discussion regarding settlement of the UAW retiree health care
      obligation.

(b)Accrued
      interest related to Ford's acquisition of Ford Credit debt
      securities.  See Note 1 for additional
  detail.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
18.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS



We
provide pension benefits and OPEB, such as health care and life insurance, to
employees in many of our operations around the world.  Plan
obligations are measured based on the present value of projected future benefit
payments for all participants for services rendered to date.  The
measurement of projected future benefits is dependent on the provisions of each
specific plan, demographics of the group covered by the plan, and other key
measurement assumptions.  For plans that provide benefits dependent on
salary assumptions, we include a projection of salary growth in our
measurements.  No assumption is made regarding any potential future
changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed
(e.g., in existing labor contracts).



The
funded status of the benefit plans, which represents the difference between the
benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets, is calculated on a
plan-by-plan basis.  The net periodic costs of these benefits are
recorded inAutomotive cost of
salesandSelling,
administrative and other expenses.  The impact of plan
amendments and actuarial gains and losses are recorded inAccumulated other comprehensive
income/(loss)and generally are amortized as a component of net periodic
cost over the remaining service period of our active employees.  We
record a curtailment loss when an event occurs that significantly reduces the
expected years of future service or eliminates the accrual of defined benefits
for the future services of a significant number of employees.  We
record a curtailment gain when a significant number of employees who are
entitled to the benefits terminate their employment.



The
measurement of the fair value of plan assets, including stocks, bonds and other
investments, uses valuation methodologies and the inputs as described in Note
4.  Certain investments within our plan assets do not have a readily
determinable fair value; in such instances, we use net asset value per share to
measure fair value.



Our
contribution policy for funded pension plans is to contribute annually, at a
minimum, amounts required by applicable laws and regulations.  We do
from time to time make contributions beyond those legally
required.  In general, our plans are funded, with the main exceptions
being certain plans in Germany, and U.S. defined benefit plans for senior
management.  In such cases, an unfunded liability is
recorded.



Employee Retirement and Savings
Plans.We have two principal qualified defined benefit
retirement plans in the United States.  The Ford-UAW Retirement Plan
covers hourly employees represented by the UAW, and the General Retirement Plan
covers substantially all other Ford employees in the United States hired on or
before December 31, 2003.  The hourly plan provides
noncontributory benefits related to employee service.  The salaried
plan provides similar noncontributory benefits and contributory benefits related
to pay and service.  Other U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries have
separate plans that generally provide similar types of benefits for their
employees.  We established, effective January 1, 2004, a
defined contribution plan covering new salaried U.S. employees hired on or after
that date.



Certain
of our defined benefit pension plans provide benefits that are not based on
salary (e.g., Ford-UAW Retirement Plan, noncontributory portion of the General
Retirement Plan, and the Ford Canada retirement plan for hourly employees
represented by the National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation, and General
Workers Union of Canada ("CAW")).  The salary growth assumption is not
applicable to these benefits.



The
expense for our worldwide defined contribution plans was $88 million,
$159 million, and $136 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  This includes the expense for company matching
contributions to our primary employee savings plan in the United States of $0,
$58 million, and $37 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  Company matching contributions for U.S. employees were
suspended January 1, 2009 and reinstated effective
January 1, 2010.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
18.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS(Continued)



OPEB.  We, and
certain of our subsidiaries, sponsor plans to provide OPEB for retired
employees, primarily certain health care and life insurance
benefits.  During 2009, the Ford UAW
Hospital-Surgical-Medical-Drug-Dental-Vision Program ("H-S-M-D-D-V Program")
covered hourly employees represented by the UAW and hired before
November 19, 2007.  UAW-represented individuals hired after
November 19, 2007 are eligible to participate in a separate health
care plan that provides defined contributions made by Ford to individual
participant accounts.



The Ford
Salaried Health Care Plan covers substantially all other Ford employees in the
United States hired before June 1, 2001.  U.S. salaried
employees hired on or after June 1, 2001 are covered by a separate
plan that provides for annual company allocations to employee-specific notional
accounts to be used to fund postretirement health care benefits.  We
also provide company-paid postretirement life insurance benefits to U.S.
salaried employees hired before January 1, 2004 and all U.S. hourly
employees.  Our employees may become eligible for benefits when they
retire; however, benefits and eligibility rules may be modified from time to
time.



Effective
August 1, 2008, the Company-paid retiree basic life insurance benefits
were capped at $25,000 for eligible existing and future salaried
retirees.  Salaried employees hired on or after
January 1, 2004 are not eligible for retiree basic life
insurance.  Our obligation decreased by about $850 million and
ongoing expense was reduced by about $125 million annually beginning in
2009 as a result of this benefit change.



Settlement
of UAW Retiree Health Care Obligation



On
July 23, 2009, we entered into an amendment to the 2008 UAW Retiree
Health Care Settlement Agreement (the "Settlement Agreement").  The
Settlement Agreement established a new VEBA trust (the "UAW VEBA Trust") that on
December 31, 2009 would assume the obligation to provide retiree
health care benefits to eligible active and retired UAW Ford hourly employees
and their eligible spouses, surviving spouses and dependents (the "Benefit
Group").  The amendment to the Settlement Agreement (the "Amended
Settlement Agreement") described below was approved by the U.S. District Court
for the Eastern District of Michigan on
November 9, 2009.  The Amended Settlement Agreement provides
for smoothing of payment obligations and provides us the option to use Ford
Common Stock to satisfy up to approximately 50% of our future payment
obligations to the UAW VEBA Trust.



Pursuant
to the Amended Settlement Agreement, on December 31, 2009, we fully
settled our UAW postretirement health care obligation, irrevocably transferring
our obligation to provide retiree health care for the Benefit Group to the UAW
VEBA Trust in exchange for the transfer of certain assets.  The
trustees of the UAW VEBA Trust have established a new retiree health care plan
(the "New Plan") for the Benefit Group that will be responsible for
administering these benefits, and the New Plan will be a closed
plan.



On
December 31, 2009, pursuant to the Amended Settlement Agreement we transferred
to the UAW VEBA Trust the following assets and thereby fully discharged any
obligation we had to provide retiree health care benefits to the Benefit
Group:



·A
      non-interest bearing Amortizing Guaranteed Secured Note maturing
      June 30, 2022 with a par value of $6.7 billion ("New Note
      A").  The fair value of New Note A at
      December 31, 2009 was $3.1 billion after a scheduled
      payment of $1.3 billion, a partial prepayment of $500 million,
      and payment of a true-up amount of $150 million were made on
      December 31, 2009;

·A
      non-interest bearing Amortizing Guaranteed Secured Note maturing
      June 30, 2022 with a par value of $6.5 billion ("New Note
      B").  The fair value of New Note B at
      December 31, 2009 was $3.9 billion after a scheduled
      payment of $610 million was made on
      December 31, 2009;

·Warrants
      that expire on January 1, 2013 to purchase 362,391,305 shares of
      Ford Common Stock at an exercise price of $9.20 per share.  The
      fair value of the warrants at December 31, 2009 was
      $1.2 billion;

·Assets
      of the H-S-M-D-D-V program ("Plan Assets") consisting of cash and
      marketable securities.  The fair value of the Plan Assets at
      December 31, 2009 was $3.5 billion;
  and

·Assets
      in the Temporary Asset Account ("TAA") consisting of cash and marketable
      securities.  The fair value of these assets at
      December 31, 2009 was
  $619 million.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
18.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS(Continued)



In
addition to the foregoing transfers, we retained an obligation for 2009 retiree
health care costs incurred, but not yet reported, which we have estimated to be
$71 million as of December 31, 2009.  This obligation
is recorded inAccrued
liabilities and deferred revenueon our consolidated balance
sheet.



As a
result of the transfer of the foregoing assets, we removed from our balance
sheet and transferred to the UAW VEBA Trust our UAW postretirement health
care obligation of about $13.6 billion.



Upon
settlement, we recognized a net loss of $264 million inAutomotive cost of sales,
including the effect of a deferred gain from prior periods of $967 million
previously included as a component ofAccumulated other comprehensive
income/(loss).



A summary
of the transaction and related net loss is as follows (in
billions):



December
      31,2009Liabilities
      TransferredUAW
      postretirement health care obligation$13.6Plan
      Assets(3.5)Net
      liability transferred10.1Assets
      TransferredCash(2.5)New
      Notes A and B (a)(7.0)Warrants
      (a)(1.2)TAA
      (b)(0.6)Net
      assets transferred (excluding Plan Assets)(11.3)Deferred
      gain/Other (c)0.9Net
      loss at settlement$(0.3)

_______

(a)Assets shown at fair
      value after givingeffect to cash payments made on
      December 31, 2009 of $2.5 billion.(b)Includes primarily
      $591million
      of marketable securities and $25million
      of cash equivalents.(c)We
      previously recordedan actuarial gain of
      $4.7 billion on August 29, 2008, the effective date of the
      Settlement Agreement.  The gain offset pre-existing actuarial
      losses.



We
computed the fair value of New Note A and New Note B using an income approach
that maximized the use of relevant observable market available data and adjusted
for unobservable data that we believe market participants would assume given the
specific attributes of the instruments.  Significant inputs considered
in the fair value measurement included the credit-adjusted yield of our
unsecured debt, adjusted for term and liquidity.  The principal of New
Note A and New Note B, up to a limit of $3 billion, is secured on a second
lien basis with the collateral pledged under the secured credit agreement we
entered into in December 2006 (see Note 19 for additional
discussion).  Accordingly, we adjusted the unsecured yields observable
in the market to reflect this limited second lien priority within our overall
capital structure, considering spreads on credit default swaps based on our
secured and unsecured debt.  The discount rate of 9.2% and 9.9% used
to determine the fair value for New Note A and New Note B, respectively,
reflects consideration of the fair value of specific features of the
instruments, including prepayment provisions and the option to settle New
Note B with Ford Common Stock.  The stock settlement option was
valued using an industry standard option-pricing model that considered the
volatility of our stock and multiple scenarios with assigned
probabilities.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
18.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS(Continued)



We
measured the fair value of the warrants issued to the UAW VEBA Trust using a
Black-Scholes model and an American Options Model (Binomial).  Inputs
to the fair value measurement included an exercise price of $9.20 per
share, and a market price of $10 per share (the closing sale price of Ford
Common Stock on December 31, 2009).  The fair value of the
warrants reflects a risk-free rate based on a three-year U.S. Treasury debt
instrument and a 40% volatility assumption which was derived from a historical
volatility analysis and present market (implied) volatility assumptions
commensurate with the exercise term of the warrants, and adjusted for transfer
and registration restrictions of the underlying shares.



We
independently validated several of our assumptions by obtaining non-binding
quotes regarding volatility, prepayment features, and yields from several
financial institutions and published analysts' reports regarding the market
outlook for Ford.



The
UAW Benefit Trust



In 2005,
we entered into an agreement with the UAW ("2005 Agreement") and a class of
employees and retirees to increase retiree health care cost sharing under the
H-S-M-D-D-V Program as part of our overall cost reduction
efforts.  The 2005 Agreement established an independent Defined
Contribution Retiree Health Benefit Trust ("UAW Benefit Trust") which served as
a non-Ford sponsored VEBA.  The UAW Benefit Trust was used to mitigate
the increased cost sharing for the Benefit Group and was accounted for as a
separate plan from the H-S-M-D-D-V Program.



Pursuant
to the Settlement Agreement, we made a third contribution of $43 million to
the UAW Benefit Trust on January 1, 2009.  The terms of the
2005 Agreement were superseded by the terms of the Amended Settlement
Agreement and the UAW Benefit Trust was terminated on
January 4, 2010.



Benefit
Plans – Expense and Status



The
measurement date for all of our worldwide postretirement benefit plans is
December 31.  Our expense for defined benefit pension and OPEB
plans was as follows (in millions):



Pension
      Benefits*U.S.
      PlansNon-U.S.
      PlansWorldwide
      OPEB200920082007200920082007200920082007Service
      cost$343$378$464$293$403$632$408$326$369Interest
      cost2,6982,6872,6211,2531,5191,6508991,4561,805Expected
      return on assets(3,288)(3,462)(3,479)(1,309)(1,693)(1,905)(130)(265)(256)Amortization
      of:Prior
      service cost/(credit)3743742658399109(913)(900)(996)(Gains)/Losses
      and Other16192416721346083267817Separation
      programs123348141761381902137(Gain)/Loss
      from curtailment andsettlements——17647—(8)244(2,714)(1,332)Net
      expense$155$330$885$710$679$1,128$593$(1,817)$414

_______

*Includes
      Jaguar Land Rover for2007 –
      2008,and Volvo
      for2007 –
      2009.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
18.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS(Continued)



The
year-end status of these plans was as follows (dollar amounts in
millions):



Pension
      Benefits

U.S.
      PlansNon-U.S.
      PlansWorldwide
      OPEB


Change
      in Benefit Obligation (a)

Benefit
      obligation at January 1$43,053$44,412$20,382$25,558$19,065$28,096

Service
      cost343378251301408326

Interest
      cost2,6932,6821,1931,3218991,456

Amendments—4(54)117(175)(928)

Separation
      programs1233412142213

Curtailments——(19)——(1)

Settlements——(1)(58)(13,637)—

Plan
      participant contributions2725801014042

Benefits
      paid(3,908)(3,960)(1,456)(1,380)(1,673)(1,628)

Medicare
      D subsidy————6768

Foreign
      exchange translation——1,927(4,779)253(478)

Divestiture———(6)——

Actuarial
      (gain)/loss and other2,418(822)921(835)804(7,901)

Benefit
      obligation at December 31$44,638$43,053$23,345$20,382$6,053$19,065

Change
      in Plan Assets (a)

Fair
      value of plan assets at January 1$37,381$45,696$14,707$21,396$2,786$3,875

Actual
      return on plan assets4,855(4,480)1,692(2,036)792(1,011)

Company
      contributions1361389681,209——

Plan
      participant contributions272580101——

Benefits
      paid(3,908)(3,960)(1,456)(1,380)(62)(77)

Settlements——(1)(58)(3,517)—

Foreign
      exchange translation——1,581(4,510)——

Divestiture———(3)——

Other(34)(38)(7)(12)1(1)

Fair
      value of plan assets at December 31$38,457$37,381$17,564$14,707$—$2,786



Funded
      status at December 31$(6,181)$(5,672)$(5,781)$(5,675)$(6,053)$(16,279)



Amounts
      Recognized on the Balance Sheet (a)

Prepaid
      assets$13$15$101$53$—$—

Accrued
      liabilities(6,194)(5,687)(5,882)(5,728)(6,053)(16,279)

Total$(6,181)$(5,672)$(5,781)$(5,675)$(6,053)$(16,279)

Amounts
      Recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss (b)

Unamortized
      prior service costs/(credits)$1,895$2,268$433$557$(2,799)$(3,510)

Unamortized
      net (gains)/losses and other5,7054,8586,1005,1631,772611

Total$7,600$7,126$6,533$5,720$(1,027)$(2,899)

Pension
      Plans in which Accumulated Benefit Obligation Exceeds Plan Assets at
      December 31 (a)

Accumulated
      benefit obligation$25,686$24,975$16,707$11,649

Fair
      value of plan assets20,24820,04412,0347,171



Accumulated
      Benefit Obligation at December 31 (a)$43,756$42,279$21,975$19,197

_______

(a)  Excludes
Jaguar Land Rover and Volvo.

(b)  Includes
Jaguar Land Rover for 2008, and Volvo for2008 – 2009.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
18.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS(Continued)



Pension
      BenefitsU.S.
      PlansNon-U.S.
      PlansU.S.
      OPEB200920082009200820092008Weighted
      Average Assumptions at December 31 (a)Discount
      rate5.86%6.50%5.68%5.95%5.74%4.95%Expected
      return on assets8.25%8.25%7.17%7.11%—4.67%Average
      rate of increase in compensation3.80%3.80%3.15%3.13%3.80%3.80%Initial
      health care cost trend rate (b)—————5%Assumptions
      Used to Determine Net Benefit Cost for the YearDiscount
      rate (c)6.50%6.25%5.93%5.58%4.95%5.81%Expected
      return on assets8.25%8.25%7.11%7.26%4.67%7.17%Average
      rate of increase in compensation3.80%3.80%3.13%3.21%3.80%3.80%

_______

(a)Excludes
      Jaguar Land Rover and Volvo.(b)The
      trend rates for U.S. health care plans no longer apply beyond 2008 since
      we have settled our obligation for UAW retiree health care costs and
      capped our obligation for salaried retiree health care
    costs.(c)Includes
      effects of remeasurements.



As a
result of the Retiree Health Care Settlement Agreement and various
personnel-reduction programs (discussed in Note 22), we have recognized
curtailments and settlements in the U.S. and Canadian pension and OPEB
plans.  The financial impact of the curtailments and settlements is
reflected in the tables above and is recorded inAutomotive cost of salesandSelling, administrative and
other expenses.



The
amounts inAccumulated other
comprehensive income/(loss)that are expected to be recognized as
components of net expense/(income) during the next year are as follows (in
millions):



Pension
      BenefitsU.S.
      PlansNon-U.S.PlansWorldwideOPEBTotalPrior
      service cost/(credit)*$370$77$(616)$(169)(Gains)/Losses
      and other*2021391324

_______

*  Excludes
Volvo.



Plan
Contributions and Drawdowns



Pension.In 2009,
we made $900 million of cash contributions to our funded pension
plans.  During 2010, we expect to contribute $1.1 billion to
our worldwide funded pension plans from available Automotive cash and cash
equivalents.  In addition, benefit payments made directly by us for
unfunded plans are expected to be about $400 million.



Based on
current assumptions and regulations, we do not expect to have a legal
requirement to fund our major U.S. pension plans in 2010.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
18.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS(Continued)



Estimated
Future Benefit Payments



The
following table presents estimated future gross benefit payments and subsidy
receipts related to the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization
Act of 2003 (in millions):



Pension
      Benefits*U.S.
      PlansNon-U.S.PlansWorldwide
      OPEBGross
      Benefit PaymentsGross
      Benefit PaymentsGross
      Benefit PaymentsSubsidyReceipts2010$3,820$1,350$480$(20)20113,6801,330440—20123,5801,360440—20133,4701,370430—20143,3801,390420—2015
      - 201915,9407,3102,060—

_______

*  Excludes
Volvo.



Pension
Plan Asset Information



Investment Objective and
Strategies.  Our investment objectives are to minimize the
volatility of the value of our U.S. pension assets relative to U.S. pension
liabilities and to ensure assets are sufficient to pay plan
benefits.  Target asset allocations, which were established in 2007
and which we expect to reach over the next several years, are about 30% public
equity investments, 45% fixed income investments, and up to 25% alternative
investments (e.g., private equity, real estate, and hedge funds).  Our
largest non-U.S. plans (Ford U.K. and Ford Canada) have similar target asset
allocations and investment objectives and strategies.



Investment
strategies and policies for the U.S. plans and the largest non-U.S. plans
reflect a balance of risk-reducing and return-seeking
considerations.  The objective of minimizing the volatility of assets
relative to liabilities is addressed primarily through asset diversification,
partial asset – liability matching, and hedging.  Assets are broadly
diversified across many asset classes to achieve risk-adjusted returns that in
total lower asset volatility relative to the liabilities.  Our policy
to rebalance our investments regularly ensures actual allocations are in line
with target allocations as appropriate.  The fixed income target asset
allocation partially matches the bond-like and long-dated nature of the pension
liabilities.



Strategies
to address the goal of ensuring sufficient assets to pay benefits include target
allocations to a broad array of asset classes that provide adequate return,
diversification and liquidity.



All
assets are externally managed and most assets are actively
managed.  Managers are not permitted to invest outside of the asset
class (e.g., fixed income, equity, alternatives) or strategy for which they have
been appointed.  We use investment guidelines and recurring audits as
tools to ensure investment managers invest solely within the investment strategy
they have been provided.



Derivatives
are permitted for public equity and fixed income investment managers to use as
efficient substitutes for traditional securities and to manage exposure to
foreign exchange and interest rate risks.  Interest rate and foreign
currency derivative instruments are used for the purpose of hedging changes in
the fair value of assets that result from interest rate changes and currency
fluctuations.  Interest rate derivatives also are used to adjust
portfolio duration.  Derivatives may not be used to leverage or to
alter the economic exposure to an asset class outside the scope of the mandate
an investment manager has been given.  Alternative investment managers
are permitted to employ leverage (including through the use of derivatives or
other tools) that may alter economic exposure.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
18.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS(Continued)



Significant
Concentrations of Risk.Significant concentrations of risk in
our plan assets relate to equity, interest rate, and operating
risk.  In order to ensure assets are sufficient to pay benefits, a
portion of plan assets is allocated to equity investments that are expected over
time to earn higher returns with more volatility than fixed income investments
which more closely match pension liabilities.  Within equities, risk
is mitigated by constructing a portfolio that is broadly diversified by
geography, market capitalization, manager mandate size, investment style and
process.



In order
to minimize asset volatility relative to the liabilities, a portion of plan
assets are allocated to fixed income investments that are exposed to interest
rate risk.  Rate increases generally will result in a decline in fixed
income assets while reducing the present value of the
liabilities.  Conversely, rate decreases will increase fixed income
assets, partially offsetting the related increase in the
liabilities.



Operating
risks include the risks of inadequate diversification and weak
controls.  To mitigate these risks, investments are diversified across
and within asset classes in support of investment
objectives.  Policies and practices to address operating risks include
ongoing manager oversight (e.g., style adherence, team strength, firm health,
and internal risk controls), plan and asset class investment guidelines and
instructions that are communicated to managers, and periodic compliance and
audit reviews to ensure adherence.



Ford
securities comprised less than 5% of the total market value of our assets in
major worldwide plans during 2009 and 2008.



Expected Long-Term Rate of Return on
Assets.The long-term return assumption at year-end 2009 is
8.25% for the U.S. plans, and 7.75% for the U.K. and Canadian plans, and
averages 7.17% for all non-U.S. plans.  A generally consistent
approach is used worldwide to develop this assumption.  This approach
considers various sources, primarily inputs from a range of advisors for
long-term capital market returns, inflation, bond yields and other variables,
adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy by
plan.  Historical returns also are considered where
appropriate.



At
December 31, 2009, our actual 10-year annual rate of return on pension
plan assets was 6.3% for the U.S. plans, 2.6% for the U.K. plans, and 3.4% for
the Canadian plans.  At December 31, 2008, our actual
10-year annual rate of return on pension plan assets was 6% for the U.S. plans,
3.4% for the U.K. plans, and 3.7% for the Canadian plans.



FS -



FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS





NOTE
18.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS(Continued)Fair Value of Plan
Assets.The fair value of our pension benefits plan assets
(including dividends and interest receivables of $267 million and
$75 million for U.S. and non-U.S. plans, respectively) at
December 31, 2009 by asset category is as follows (in
millions):U.S.
      Plans2009Level
      1Level
      2Level
      3TotalAsset
      CategoryEquityU.S.
      companies$8,675$26$15$8,716International
      companies8,41348928,553Commingled
      funds—3863389Derivative
      financial instruments (a)(1)——(1)Total
      equity17,08746011017,657Fixed
      IncomeU.S.
      government2,340——2,340Government-sponsored
      enterprises (b)—1,31071,317Government
      – non-U.S.—449256705Corporate
      bonds (c)Investment
      grade—8,403858,488High
      yield—1,152151,167Other
      credit—332154Mortgage-backed
      and other asset-backed—1,4882781,766Commingled
      funds—338—338Derivative
      financial instruments (a)(8)(149)(42)(199)Total
      fixed income2,33213,02462015,976AlternativesPrivate
      equity (d)——1,0051,005Hedge
      funds (e)——1,9861,986Real
      estate (f)——11Total
      alternatives——2,9922,992Cash
      and cash equivalents (g)71,864—1,871Other
      (h)(62)26(3)(39)Total
      assets at fair value$19,364$15,374$3,719$38,457

_______

(a)Net
      derivative position.  Gross equity derivative position includes
      assets of $0.4 million offset by liabilities of
      $1 million.  Gross fixed income derivative position
      includes assets of $40 million offset by liabilities of $239million.

(b)Debt
      securities primarily issued by government-sponsored enterprises
      ("GSEs").

(c)"Investment
      grade" bonds are those rated Baa3/BBB or higher by at least two rating
      agencies; "High yield" bonds are those rated below investment grade;
      "Other credit" refers to non-rated bonds.

(d)Diversified
      investments in private equity funds with the following
      strategies:  buyout (59%), venture capital (25%),
      mezzanine/distressed (9%), and other (7%).  Allocations are
      estimated based on latest available data for managers reflectingJune 30, 2009holdings.

(e)Funds
      investing in diverse hedge fund strategies with the following composition
      of underlying hedge fund investments within the U.S.pension
      plansat
      December 31, 2009:  global macro (39%), equity
      long/short (25%), event-driven (16%), relative value (12%), multi-strategy
      (7%) and cash (1%).

(f)Investment
      in private property funds broadly classified as core, value-added and
      opportunistic.

(g)Primarily
      short-term investment funds to provide liquidity to plan investment
      managers and cash held to pay benefits.

(h)Primarily
      cash related to net pending trade purchases/sales and net pending foreign
      exchange purchases/sales.



FS -

FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
18.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS(Continued)



Non-U.S.
      Plans2009Level
      1Level
      2Level
      3TotalAsset
      CategoryEquityU.S.
      companies$2,769$144$—$2,913International
      companies3,864468214,353Total
      equity6,633612217,266Fixed
      IncomeU.S.
      government67——67Government-sponsored
      enterprises (a)—147—147Government
      – non-U.S.—3,691773,768Corporate
      bonds (b)Investment
      grade—88428912High
      yield—10119120Other
      credit—4711Mortgage-backed
      and other asset-backed—15143194Commingled
      funds—518—518Derivative
      financial instruments (c)—123Total
      fixed income675,4971765,740AlternativesPrivate
      equity (d)——44Hedge
      funds (e)——244244Real
      estate (f)112—13Total
      alternatives112248261Cash
      and cash equivalents (g)22310—332Other
      (h)(45)133,9973,965Total
      assets at fair value$6,678$6,444$4,442$17,564

_______

(a)Debt
      securities primarily issued by GSEs.(b)"Investment
      grade" bonds are those rated Baa3/BBB or higher by at least two rating
      agencies; "High yield" bonds are those rated below investment grade;
      "Other credit" refers to non-rated bonds.(c)Net
      derivative position.  Fixed income derivative position includes
      assets of$12 million
      offset by liabilities of $9 million.(d)Investments
      in private investment funds (funds of funds) pursuing strategies broadly
      classified as venture capital and buyouts.(e)Funds
      investing in diversified portfolio of underlying hedge funds (commingled
      fund of funds).  At
      December 31, 2009,the
      composition of underlying hedge fund investments (within the U.K. and
      Canada pension plans) was:  equity long/short (26%), global
      macro (20%), event-driven (18%), relative value (16%), multi-strategy
      (14%) and cash (6%).(f)Investment
      in private property funds broadly classified as core, value-added and
      opportunistic.  Also includes investment in real
      assets.(g)Primarily
      short-term investment funds to provide liquidity to plan investment
      managers.(h)Primarily
      Ford-Werke GmbH ("Ford-Werke") plan assets (insurance contracts valued at
      $3,480million)
      and cash related to net pending trade purchases/sales and net pending
      foreign exchange
purchases/sales.



FS -

FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
18.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS(Continued)The
following table summarizes the changes in Level 3 pension benefits plan assets
measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the period ended
December 31, 2009 (in millions):U.S.
      Plans2009Return
      on plan assets:Fair
      Value atJanuary
      1,2009Attributable
      toAssets
      Held atDecember
      31,2009Attributable
      toAssets
      SoldNetPurchases/(Settlements)Net
      TransfersInto/(Out
      of)Level
      3Fair
      Value atDecember
      31,2009Asset
      CategoryEquityU.S.
      companies$2$—$—$—$13$15International
      companies1324(5)204092Commingled
      funds4(2)—1—3Total
      equity1922(5)2153110Fixed
      IncomeU.S.
      government19—(2)(17)——Government-sponsored
      enterprises12——(1)(4)7Government
      – non-U.S.254205(31)8256Corporate
      bondsInvestment
      grade371(4)12(133)(161)85High
      yield661—(45)(7)15Other
      credit298—(11)(5)21Mortgage-backed
      and other asset-backed7231663(416)(108)278Derivative
      financial instruments(140)(5)148(45)—(42)Total
      fixed income1,33436226(699)(277)620AlternativesPrivate
      equity868(84)—221—1,005Hedge
      funds1,1701379670—1,986Real
      estate1————1Total
      alternatives2,039539891—2,992Cash
      and cash equivalents3———(3)—Other——(2)(1)—(3)Total
      Level 3 fair value$3,395$111$228$212$(227)$3,719



FS -

FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
18.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS(Continued)



Non-U.S.
      Plans2009Return
      on plan assets:Fair
      Value atJanuary
      1,2009Attributable
      toAssets
      Held atDecember
      31,2009Attributable
      toAssets
      SoldNetPurchases/(Settlements)Net
      TransfersInto/(Out
      of)Level
      3Fair
      Value atDecember
      31,2009Asset
      CategoryEquityU.S.
      companies$1$—$—$(1)$—$—International
      companies106(1)2421Total
      equity116(1)1421Fixed
      IncomeGovernment
      – non-U.S.152103(43)(45)77Corporate
      bondsInvestment
      grade8014(14)(43)28High
      yield12212219Other
      credit51—(2)37Mortgage-backed
      and other asset-backed3851(8)743Derivative
      financial instruments16(3)—(11)—2Total
      fixed income303169(76)(76)176AlternativesPrivate
      equity———4—4Hedge
      funds318—223—244Real
      estate——————Total
      alternatives318—227—248Other
      *3,643354———3,997Total
      Level 3 fair value$3,960$394$8$152$(72)$4,442

_______

*Primarily
      Ford-Werke plan assets (insurance contracts valued at$3,480 million).



NOTE
19.  DEBT AND COMMITMENTS



Our debt
consists of short-term and long-term unsecured debt securities, convertible debt
securities, and unsecured and secured borrowings from banks and other
lenders.  Debt issuances are placed directly by us or through
securities dealers or underwriters and are held by institutional and retail
investors.  In addition, Ford Credit sponsors securitization programs
that provide short-term and long-term asset-backed financing through
institutional investors in the U.S. and international capital
markets.



Debt is
recorded on our balance sheet at par value adjusted for unamortized discount or
premium (in addition to adjustments related to debt in designated fair value
hedge relationships; see Note 26 for policy detail).  Discounts,
premiums, and costs directly related to the issuance of debt generally are
capitalized and amortized over the life of the debt and are recorded inInterest expenseusing the
interest method.  Gains and losses on the extinguishment of debt are
recorded inAutomotive
interest income and other non-operating income/(expense), netandFinancial Services other
income/(loss), net.



Although
we have not elected to mark any of our debt to fair value through earnings, we
estimate its fair value for disclosures.  The fair value of debt is
estimated based on quoted market prices, current market rates for similar debt
with approximately the same remaining maturities, or discounted cash flow models
utilizing current market rates.

FS -

FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
19.  DEBT AND COMMITMENTS(Continued)



Debt
outstanding at December 31 is shown below (in millions, except
percentages):



Interest
      Rates

Average
      Contractual (a)Weighted
      Average (b)


Automotive
      Sector

Debt
      payable within one year

Short-term3.2%4.5%3.2%4.5%$787$543

Long-term
      payable within one year

Public
      unsecured debt securities334—

Notes
      due to UAW VEBA Trust unsecured portion (c)859—

Secured
      term loan7770

Other
      debt371578

Unamortized
      discount(333)—

Total
      debt payable within one year2,0951,191

Long-term
      debt payable after one year

Public
      unsecured debt securities5,2609,148

Convertible
      notes3,4544,883

Subordinated
      convertible debentures3,1243,027

Secured
      term loan5,1846,790

Secured
      revolving loan7,527—

Notes
      due to UAW VEBA Trust (c)

Unsecured
      portion6,720—

Secured
      portion3,000—

U.S.
      Department of Energy loans1,221—

Other
      debt1,076951

Unamortized
      discount(4,245)(1,763)

Total
      long-term debt payable after one year (d)5.4%7.1%5.6%7.4%32,32123,036

Total
      Automotive sector$34,416$24,227

Fair
      value of debt$32,949$9,480

Financial
      Services Sector

Short-term
      debt

Asset-backed
      commercial paper$6,369$11,503

Other
      asset-backed short-term debt4,4825,569

Ford
      Interest Advantage (e)3,6801,958

Other
      short-term debt1,0881,538

Total
      short-term debt2.0%4.5%3.0%5.2%15,61920,568

Long-term
      debt

Unsecured
      debt

Notes
      payable within one year7,33815,712

Notes
      payable after one year33,88837,249

Asset-backed
      debt

Notes
      payable within one year18,96226,501

Notes
      payable after one year23,16328,734

Unamortized
      discount(530)(256)

Fair
      value adjustment (f)231334

Total
      long-term debt5.4%6.1%5.1%6.0%83,052108,274

Total
      Financial Services sector$98,671$128,842

Fair
      value of debt$100,231$112,389

Total
      Automotive and Financial Services sectors$133,087$153,069

Intersector
      elimination (g)(646)(492)

Total
      Company$132,441$152,577

__________

(a)Excludes
      the effect of interest rate swap agreements and facility
    fees.(b)Includes
      the effect of interest rate swap agreements and facility
    fees.(c)Amortizing
      Guaranteed Secured Notes maturing June 30, 2022 owed to UAWVEBA
      Trust.(d)Average
      Contractual and Weighted Average Interest Rates include long-term debt
      payable within one year.(e)The
      Ford Interest Advantage program consists of Ford Credit's floating rate
      demand notes.(f)Adjustments
      related to designated fair value hedges of unsecured
  debt.(g)Debt
      related to Ford's acquisition of Ford Credit debt securities; see Note 1
      for additional detail.

FS -

FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
19.  DEBT AND COMMITMENTS(Continued)



The fair
value of debt presented above reflects interest accrued but not yet
paid.  Interest accrued on Automotive sector debt is reported inAutomotive accrued liabilities and
deferred revenueand was $352 million and $438 million at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  Interest accrued
on Financial Services sector debt is reported inFinancial Services other liabilities
and deferred incomeand was $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  The change in the
fair value of our debt in 2009 was primarily driven by improvements in the
credit markets generally, and an improved market view of Ford
specifically.



Maturities



Debt
maturities at December 31, 2009 were as follows (in
millions):



20102011201220132014ThereafterTotal
      DebtMaturitiesAdj.
      (a)Total
      DebtCarryingValueAutomotive
      SectorPublic
      unsecured debt securities$334$—$—$—$—$5,260$5,594$—$5,594Unamortized discount—————(85)(85)—(85)Convertible
      notes—————3,4543,454—3,454Unamortized discount—————(877)(877)—(877)Subordinated
      convertible debentures————1402,9843,124—3,124Secured
      term loan7777775,030——5,261—5,261Secured
      revolving loan—838—6,689——7,527—7,527Notes
      due to UAW VEBA Trust (b)8598591,2381,2381,2385,14710,579—10,579Unamortized discount(333)(617)(593)(531)(463)(1,079)(3,616)—(3,616)U.S.
      Department of Energy loans——611221229161,221—1,221Short-term
      and other debt (c)1,158329273143362952,234—2,234Total
      Automotive debt2,0951,4861,05612,6911,07316,01534,416—34,416Financial
      Services SectorUnsecured
      debt12,10611,9537,3334,8793,7525,97145,994(304)45,690Asset-backed
      debt29,81315,3166,2081,4432217452,976552,981Total
      Financial Services debt41,91927,26913,5416,3223,7746,14598,970(299)98,671Intersector
      elimination (d)(646)—————(646)—(646)Total
      Company$43,368$28,755$14,597$19,013$4,847$22,160$132,740$(299)$132,441

__________

(a)Adjustment
      reflects unamortized (discount)/premium of debt and adjustments related to
      designated fair value hedges of unsecured debt.(b)Amortizing
      Guaranteed Secured Notes maturing June 30, 2022 due to UAWVEBA
      Trust.(c)Primarily
      non-U.S. affiliate debt.(d)Debt
      related to Ford's acquisition of Ford Credit debt securities; see Note 1
      for additional detail.

FS -

FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
19.  DEBT AND COMMITMENTS(Continued)



Automotive
Sector



Public
Unsecured Debt Securities



Our
public unsecured debt securities outstanding at December 31 were as follows
(in millions):



Aggregate
      Principal AmountOutstandingTitle of Security200920089.50%
      Guaranteed Debentures due June 1, 2010$334$4906
      1/2% Debentures due August 1, 20183614828
      7/8% Debentures due January 15, 2022861846.55% Debentures due October
      3, 2022(a)15157
      1/8% Debentures due November 15, 20252092977
      1/2% Debentures due August 1, 20261932506
      5/8% Debentures due February 15, 20281041276 5/8% Debentures due October
      1, 2028(b)6387606 3/8% Debentures due February
      1, 2029(b)2604585.95% Debentures due September
      3, 2029(a)886.15% Debentures due June 3,
      2030(a)10107.45% GLOBLS due July 16, 2031(b)1,7943,6998.900%
      Debentures due January 15, 20321513979.95%
      Debentures due February 15, 20324115.75% Debentures due April 2,
      2035(a)40407.50% Debentures due June 10,
      2043(c)5936907.75%
      Debentures due June 15, 2043731527.40%
      Debentures due November 1, 20463984699.980%
      Debentures due February 15, 20471812327.70%
      Debentures due May 15, 2097142377Total
      public unsecured debt securities (d)$5,594$9,148

__________

(a)Unregistered
      industrial revenue bonds.(b)Listed
      on the Luxembourg Exchange and on the Singapore
  Exchange.(c)Listed
      on the New York Stock Exchange.(d)Excludes9
      1/2% Debentures due September 15, 2011and9.215%
      Debentures due September 15, 2021with outstanding
      balances atDecember31,2009
      of$167 million
      and $180 million, respectively.  These securities
      are on-lent to Ford Holdings to fund Financial Services activity and are
      reported asFinancial
      Services debt.



April 2009 Unsecured Notes Tender
Offer.Pursuant to a cash tender offer conducted by Ford
Credit, on the settlement date of April 8, 2009, Ford Credit purchased
$3.4 billion principal amount of our public unsecured debt securities for
an aggregate cost of $1.1 billion cash (including transaction costs and
accrued and unpaid interest payments for such tendered debt
securities).  Upon settlement, Ford Credit transferred the repurchased
debt securities to us in satisfaction of $1.1 billion of its tax
liabilities to us.  As a result of the transaction, we recorded a
pre-tax gain of $2.2 billion (net of unamortized discounts, premiums and
fees) in the second quarter of 2009.



Other 2009 Debt
Repurchases.  In the first quarter of 2009, we repurchased
through a private market transaction $165 million principal amount of our
outstanding public unsecured debt securities for $37 million in
cash.  As a result, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $127 million
(net of unamortized discounts, premiums and fees).



2008 Debt for Equity
Exchanges.During the first half of 2008, we issued an
aggregate of 46,437,906 shares of Ford Common Stock, par value $0.01 per
share, in exchange for $431 million principal amount of our outstanding
public unsecured debt securities.  As a result of the exchange, we
recorded a pre-tax gain of $73 million (net of unamortized discounts,
premiums and fees).

FS -

FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
19.  DEBT AND COMMITMENTS(Continued)



Convertible
Notes



Convertible
Notes due December 15, 2036



At
December 31, 2009, we had outstanding $579 million of 2036
Convertible Notes that were originally issued in December 2006 with a principal
amount of $4.95 billion.  The 2036 Convertible Notes pay interest
semiannually at a rate of 4.25% per annum.  The 2036 Convertible
Notes are convertible into shares of Ford Common Stock, based on a conversion
rate (subject to adjustment) of 108.6957 shares per $1,000 principal
amount of 2036 Convertible Notes (which is equal to a conversion price of
$9.20 per share, representing a 25% conversion premium based on the
closing price of $7.36 per share on
December 6, 2006).



Upon
conversion we have the right to deliver, in lieu of shares of Ford Common Stock,
cash or a combination of cash and Ford Common Stock.  Holders may
require us to purchase all or a portion of the 2036 Convertible Notes for cash
on December 20, 2016 and December 15, 2026 or upon a change
in control of the Company, or for shares of Ford Common Stock upon a designated
event that is not a change in control, in each case for a price equal to 100% of
the principal amount of the 2036 Convertible Notes being repurchased plus any
accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the date of
repurchase.  We may redeem for cash all or a portion of the 2036
Convertible Notes at our option at any time or from time to time on or after
December 20, 2016 at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of
the 2036 Convertible Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to,
but not including, the redemption date.  We also may terminate the
conversion rights at any time on or after December 20, 2013 if the
closing price of Ford Common Stock exceeds 140% of the then-applicable
conversion price for 20 trading days during any consecutive 30-trading day
period.



Liability
and equity components of our 2036 Convertible Notes at December 31 are
summarized as follows (in millions):



20092008Liability
      componentPrincipal$579$4,883Unamortized
      discount(175)(1,619)Net carrying
      amount$404$3,264Equity
      component (recorded inCapital
      in excess of par value of stock)$(3,207)$(1,864)



We
recognized interest cost on our 2036 Convertible Notes as follows (in
millions):



200920082007Contractual
      interest coupon$74$210$210Amortization
      of discount49127115Total interest
      cost on 2036 Convertible Notes$123$337$325



The
discount on the liability component of the 2036 Convertible Notes will amortize
through December 20, 2016, the first put date.  The total
effective rate on the liability component was 10.5%.  If all
$579 million of 2036 Convertible Notes were converted into shares as of
December 31, 2009 at a share price of $10.00, the share value would
exceed the principal value of debt by $50 million.



April 2009
Conversion Offer.  Pursuant to an exchange offer we conducted,
on the settlement date for such exchange offer of April 8, 2009,
$4.3 billion principal amount of 2036 Convertible Notes was exchanged for
an aggregate of 467,909,227 shares of Ford Common Stock, $344 million in
cash ($80 in cash per $1,000 principal amount of 2036 Convertible Notes
exchanged) and the applicable accrued and unpaid interest on such 2036
Convertible Notes.  As a result of the conversion, we recorded a
pre-tax gain of $1.2 billion in the second quarter of
2009.



December 2008
Conversion Request.Pursuant to a request for conversion in the fourth
quarter of 2008, $67 million principal amount of 2036 Convertible Notes was
exchanged for an aggregate of 7,253,035 shares of Ford Common
Stock.  As a result of the conversion we retrospectively recorded a
pre-tax gain of $29 million.

FS
- - 57

FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS





NOTE
19.  DEBT AND COMMITMENTS(Continued)



Convertible
Notes due December 15, 2016



On
November 9, 2009, we issued $2.875 billion principal of our 2016
Convertible Notes.  This issuance included $2.5 billion from the
original offering on November 3,2009
and $375 million from the underwriters option to purchase additional
convertible notes exercised on November 6, 2009 ("Over-Allotment
Option").  The 2016 Convertible Notes pay interest semiannually at a
rate of 4.25% per annum.  The 2016 Convertible Notes are
convertible into shares of Ford Common Stock, based on a conversion rate
(subject to adjustment) of 107.5269 shares per $1,000 principal amount
of 2016 Convertible Notes (which is equal to a conversion price of
$9.30 per share, representing a 25% conversion premium based on the
closing price of $7.44 per share on
November 3, 2009).



Upon
conversion, we have the right to deliver, in lieu of shares of Ford Common
Stock, cash or a combination of cash and Ford Common Stock.  Holders
may require us to purchase all or a portion of the 2016 Convertible Notes upon a
change in control of the Company, or for shares of Ford Common Stock upon a
designated event that is not a change in control, in each case for a price equal
to 100% of the principal amount of the 2016 Convertible Notes being repurchased
plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the date of
repurchase.  We also may terminate the conversion rights at any time
on or after November 20, 2014 if the closing price of Ford Common
Stock exceeds 130% of the then-applicable conversion price for 20 trading days
during any consecutive 30-trading day period.



Liability
and equity components of our 2016 Convertible Notes at December 31 are
summarized as follows (in millions):



2009Liability
      componentPrincipal$2,875Unamortized
      discount(702)Net
      carrying amount$2,173Equity
      component (recorded inCapital in excess of par value
      of stock)$(704)



We
recognized interest cost on our 2016 Convertible Notes as follows (in
millions):



2009Contractual
      interest coupon$28Amortization
      of discount10Total
      interest cost on 2016 Convertible Notes$38



The
discount on the liability components of the 2016 Convertible Notes will amortize
through November 16, 2016.  The total effective rate on the
liability component was 9.2% on the original offering and 8.6% on the
Over-Allotment Option.  If all $2.9 billion of 2016 Convertible
Notes were converted into shares as of December 31, 2009 at a share
price of $10.00, the share value would exceed the principal value of debt by
$216 million.



Subordinated
Convertible Debentures



At
December 31, 2009, we had outstanding $3 billion of 6.50% Junior
Subordinated Convertible Debentures due 2032 ("Subordinated Convertible
Debentures") and $140 million of deferred interest, reported inAutomotive long-term
debt.  The $3 billion of Subordinated Convertible
Debentures are due to Trust II, a subsidiary trust, and are the sole assets of
Trust II.  As of January 15, 2007, the Subordinated
Convertible Debentures have become redeemable at our option.



At
December 31, 2009, Trust II had outstanding 6.50% Cumulative
Convertible Trust Preferred Securities with an aggregate liquidation preference
of $2.8 billion ("Trust Preferred Securities").  The Trust
Preferred Securities are convertible into shares of Ford Common Stock, based on
a conversion rate (subject to adjustment) of 2.8769 shares per $50 principal
amount of Trust Preferred Securities (which is equal to a conversion price of
$17.38 per share).  We guarantee the payment of all distribution and
other payments of the Trust Preferred Securities to the extent not paid by
Trust II, but only if and to the extent we have made a payment of interest
or principal on the Subordinated Convertible Debentures.  As announced
on March 27, 2009, we elected to defer future interest payments
related to the Trust Preferred Securities for up to 5
years.  Trust II is not consolidated by us as it is a VIE in
which we do not have a significant variable interest and of which we are not the
primary beneficiary.

FS -

FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
19.  DEBT AND COMMITMENTS(Continued)



During
the first quarter of 2009, pursuant to a request for conversion, we issued an
aggregate of 2,437,562 shares of Ford Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share,
in exchange for $43 million principal amount of our Subordinated
Convertible Debentures.



Secured
Term Loan and Revolving Loan



On
December 15, 2006, we entered into a secured credit agreement (the
"Credit Agreement") which provided for a seven-year, $7 billion term-loan
facility and a five-year revolving credit facility of
$11.5 billion.  Pursuant to our Credit Agreement, at
December 31, 2009, we had outstanding:



·$838 million
      of revolving loans which bear interest of LIBOR plus a margin of 2.25%,
      maturing on
December 15, 2011;·$6.7 billion
      of revolving loans which bear interest of LIBOR plus a margin of 3.25%,
      maturing on November 30, 2013;
and·$5.3 billion
      of a secured term loan maturing on
      December 15, 2013.  The term loan principal amount
      amortizes at a rate of $77 million (1% of original loan) per annum
      and bears interest at LIBOR plus a margin of
  3.00%.



Under
the Credit Agreement, we may designate certain of our domestic and foreign
subsidiaries, including Ford Credit, as borrowers under the revolving
facility.  We and certain of our domestic subsidiaries that constitute
a substantial portion of our domestic Automotive assets (excluding cash) are
guarantors under the Credit Agreement, and future material domestic subsidiaries
will become guarantors when formed or acquired.



Collateral.  The
borrowings of the Company, the subsidiary borrowers, and the guarantors under
the Credit Agreement are secured by a substantial portion of our domestic
Automotive assets (excluding cash).  The collateral includes a
majority of our principal domestic manufacturing facilities, excluding
facilities to be closed, subject to limitations set forth in existing public
indentures and other unsecured credit agreements; domestic accounts receivable;
domestic inventory; up to $4 billion of marketable securities or cash
proceeds therefrom; 100% of the stock of our principal domestic subsidiaries,
including Ford Credit (but excluding the assets of Ford Credit); certain
intercompany notes of Volvo Holding Company Inc., a holding company for Volvo,
Ford Motor Company of Canada, Limited and Grupo Ford S. de R.L. de C.V. (a
Mexican subsidiary); 66% to 100% of the stock of all major first tier foreign
subsidiaries (including Volvo); and certain domestic intellectual property,
including trademarks.



Covenants.  The
Credit Agreement requires ongoing compliance with a borrowing base covenant and
contains other restrictive covenants, including a restriction on our ability to
pay dividends.  The Credit Agreement prohibits the payment of
dividends (other than dividends payable solely in stock) on Ford Common and
Class B Stock, subject to certain limited exceptions.  In
addition, the Credit Agreement contains a liquidity covenant requiring us to
maintain a minimum of $4 billion in the aggregate of domestic cash, cash
equivalents, loaned and marketable securities and short-term VEBA assets and/or
availability under the revolving credit facility.



With
respect to the borrowing base covenant, we are required to limit the outstanding
amount of debt under the Credit Agreement as well as certain permitted
additional indebtedness secured by the collateral described above such that the
total debt outstanding does not exceed the value of the collateral as calculated
in accordance with the Credit Agreement.



Events of
Default.  In addition to customary payment, representation,
bankruptcy and judgment defaults, the Credit Agreement contains cross-payment
and cross-acceleration defaults with respect to other debt for borrowed money
and a change in control default.



2009 Secured
Revolver Actions.  Due to concerns about instability in the
capital markets and the uncertain state of the global economy, on
February 3, 2009, we borrowed $10.1 billion under the revolving
credit facility of the Credit Agreement to ensure access to these
funds.  As expected, the $890 million commitment of Lehman
Commercial Paper Inc. ("LCPI"), one of the lenders under the facility, was not
funded because LCPI filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code on October 5, 2008.  LCPI
subsequently assigned $110 million of its revolving commitment to other
lenders, and $89 million of these assignee lenders' revolving commitments
were funded in the third quarter of 2009.  On July 10, 2009,
we terminated the remaining LCPI commitment of
$780 million.

FS
- - 59

FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
19.  DEBT AND COMMITMENTS(Continued)



We also
received an additional $10 million under the revolving credit facility in
the third quarter of 2009 for amounts previously committed but not yet
received.



On
November 24, 2009, we entered into the Fourth Amendment to the Credit
Agreement.  Prior to the Fourth Amendment, revolving lenders held
commitments totaling $10.7 billion that matured on December 15, 2011, of which
$10.2 billion was drawn.  As a result of the Fourth Amendment,
revolving lenders have commitments totaling $7.2 billion in a new revolving
facility that matures on November 30, 2013.  Those lenders who agreed
to extend the maturity of their revolving commitments had the option to reduce
their commitments by up to 25%, and receive a 1 percentage point increase in
interest rate margins, an increase in quarterly fees, and payment of an upfront
fee.



Pursuant
to these arrangements, on December 3, 2009, $2.3 billion of the
existing secured revolver was repaid to effect the commitment reductions elected
by extending lenders, while other extending lenders increased their revolving
loan commitments by an aggregate of $400 million, resulting in a net cash
repayment of $1.9 billion.  Extending lenders also converted
$724 million of the previously-existing revolving facility into a new term
loan.  Lenders with revolving commitments totaling $886 million, of
which $838 million is drawn, elected not to extend those commitments which will
mature on the original maturity date of December 15, 2011.



At
December 31, 2009, $7.5 billion of the $8.1 billion combined
revolving facilities has been drawn.  In addition, $418 million
was utilized in the form of Letters of Credit, leaving $154 million
available to be drawn.



2009 Secured Term Loan
Actions.On March 27, 2009, Ford Credit purchased
from term loan lenders under the Credit Agreement $2.2 billion principal
amount of the secured term loan for an aggregate cost of $1.1 billion
(including transaction costs).  Consistent with previously-announced
plans to return capital from Ford Credit to us, Ford Credit distributed the
repurchased secured term loan to its immediate parent, Ford Holdings, whereupon
the debt was forgiven.  As a result of this transaction, we recorded a
pre-tax gain of $1.1 billion in the first quarter of 2009.



In the
third quarter of 2009, Ford Leasing purchased from a term loan lender under the
Credit Agreement $45 million principal amount of the secured term loan for
an aggregate cost of $37 million.  Ford Holdings elected to
receive the $37 million from Ford Leasing as a dividend, whereupon the debt
was immediately forgiven.  As a result of this transaction, we
recorded a pre-tax gain of $8 million.



On
December 3, 2009, as described above, $724 million of our secured
revolving loan was converted into an additional secured term loan that matures
on December 15, 2013.  The new term loan has the same
pricing, maturity, and other terms as the existing secured term loan, but is not
subject to mandatory prepayments (as defined in the Credit Agreement) as is the
existing term loan.



Notes
Due to UAW VEBA Trust



Pursuant
to the Amended Settlement Agreement as described in Note 18, at December 31,
2009 we had outstanding $7 billion in amortizing notes due to the UAW VEBA
Trust made up of New Note A and New Note B.  New Note A was recorded
at a fair value of $3.1 billion ($4.7 billion par value net of $1.6 billion
unamortized discount) using an effective yield of 9.2%.  New Note B
was recorded at a fair value of $3.9 billion ($5.9 billion par value net of $2
billion unamortized discount) using an effective yield of 9.9%.  The
New Notes mature June 30, 2022, and allow for prepayments that, if paid, are due
with the annual scheduled principal payment dates.  The New Notes are
secured on a second lien basis, limited to the lesser of an aggregate $3 billion
or the outstanding principal amount of obligations thereunder, with collateral
securing our obligations under the Credit Agreement.



Under New
Note B, we have the option, subject to certain conditions, of making each
payment in cash, Ford Common Stock, or a combination of cash and Ford Common
Stock.  Any Ford Common Stock to be delivered in satisfaction of such
payment obligation is to be valued based on its volume-weighted
average price per share for the 30 trading-day period ending on the second
business day prior to the relevant payment date.

FS -

FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
19.  DEBT AND COMMITMENTS(Continued)



DOE
Loan



Pursuant
to the Loan Arrangement and Reimbursement Agreement (the "Arrangement
Agreement") with the DOE entered into on September 16, 2009, we have
outstanding $1.2 billion in loans as of
December 31, 2009.  Under the terms of the Arrangement
Agreement, the DOE agreed to (i) arrange a 13-year multi-draw term loan facility
(the "Facility") under the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing ("ATVM")
Program in the aggregate principal amount of up to $5.9 billion, (ii)
designate us as a borrower under the ATVM Program and (iii) cause the Federal
Financing Bank ("FFB") to enter into the Note Purchase Agreement (the "Note
Purchase Agreement") for the purchase of notes to be issued by us evidencing
such loans under the Arrangement Agreement.  Loans under the ATVM are
made by and through the FFB, an instrumentality of the U.S. government that is
under the general supervision of the U.S. Secretary of the
Treasury.



The
proceeds of advances under the Facility will be used to finance certain costs
eligible for financing under the ATVM Program ("Eligible Project Costs") that
are incurred through mid-2012 in the implementation of 13 advanced technology
vehicle programs approved by the DOE (each, a "Project").  The
Arrangement Agreement limits the amount of advances that may be used to fund
Eligible Project Costs for each Project, and our ability to finance Eligible
Project Costs with respect to a Project is conditioned on us meeting agreed
timing milestones and fuel economy targets for that Project.



Maturity,
Interest Rate and Amortization.  Advances under the Facility
may be requested through June 30, 2012, and the loans will mature on
June 15, 2022 (the "Maturity Date").  Each advance bears
interest at a blended rate based on the Treasury yield curve at the time such
advance is borrowed, based on the principal amortization schedule for that
advance, with interest payable quarterly in arrears.  The principal
amount of the loans is payable in equal quarterly installments commencing on
September 15, 2012 and continuing through the Maturity
Date.  Per the Arrangement Agreement, we have the ability to
voluntarily prepay all or a portion of any advance under the Facility at a
prepayment price based on the Treasury yield curve at the time the prepayment is
made.  It is intended to replicate the price for such advance that
would, if it were purchased by a third party and held to maturity, produce a
yield to the third-party purchaser for the period from the date of purchase to
the Maturity Date substantially equal to the interest rate that would be set on
a loan from the Secretary of Treasury to the FFB to purchase an obligation
having a payment schedule identical to the payment schedule of such advance for
the period from the intended prepayment date to the Maturity
Date.



Collateral.The
$5.9 billion commitment is comprised of two loans:  (i) a
$1.5 billion note secured by a first priority lien on any assets purchased
or developed with the proceeds of the loans, and (ii) a $4.4 billion note
secured by a junior lien on all of the collateral pledged under our Credit
Agreement subordinated solely to (a) prior perfected security interests securing
certain indebtedness, letters of credit, cash-management obligations and hedging
obligations in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $19.1 billion as
described in the First Amendment to the Arrangement Agreement and
(b) certain other permitted liens described in the Arrangement
Agreement.



Guarantees.Certain
of our subsidiaries that, together with us, hold a substantial portion of the
consolidated domestic Automotive assets (excluding cash) and that guarantee the
Credit Agreement will guarantee our obligations under the Facility, and future
material domestic subsidiaries will become guarantors when formed or
acquired.



Affirmative
Covenants.The Arrangement Agreement contains affirmative
covenants substantially similar to those in the Credit Agreement (including
similar baskets and exceptions), as well as certain other affirmative covenants
required in connection with the ATVM Program, including compliance with ATVM
Program requirements, introduction of advanced technology vehicles to meet or
exceed projected overall annual fuel economy improvements and delivery of
progress reports and independent auditor reports with respect to the
Projects.



Negative
Covenants.The Arrangement Agreement contains negative
covenants substantially similar to those in the Credit Agreement.  The
Arrangement Agreement also contains a negative covenant substantially similar to
the liquidity covenant in the Credit Agreement requiring that we not permit
Available Liquidity (as defined in the Arrangement Agreement) to be less than
$4 billion.

FS
- - 61

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS





NOTE
19.  DEBT AND COMMITMENTS(Continued)



Events of
Default.  In addition to customary payment, representation,
bankruptcy and judgment defaults, the Arrangement Agreement contains
cross-payment and cross-acceleration defaults with respect to other debt for
borrowed money and a change in control default, as well as events of default
specific to the facility.



Other
Automotive Credit Facilities*



At
December 31, 2009, we had $628 million of other
contractually-committed Automotive credit facilities with financial
institutions, including $25 million of worldwide Automotive unsecured
credit facilities and $603 million of local credit facilities to foreign
Automotive affiliates.  Of the $628 million of
contractually-committed, $130 million has been utilized.  Of the
$498 million available for use, $60 million expire in 2010,
$65 million expire in 2013, and $373 million expire in
2014.



Financial
Services Sector



Unsecured
Debt



Debt
Repurchases.  During 2009, through private market transactions,
our Financial Services sector repurchased an aggregate of $3.6 billion
principal amount of its outstanding notes for $3.5 billion in
cash.  As a result, our Financial Services sector recorded a pre-tax
gain of $67 million (net of unamortized discounts, premiums and fees) in
2009 ($51 million related to Ford Holdings and $16 million related to Ford
Credit).



Asset-Backed
Debt



Ford
Credit transfers finance receivables and net investments in operating leases in
structured transactions to fund operations and to maintain
liquidity.  Each transaction is evaluated to determine whether for
accounting purposes the transfer qualifies as a sale of financial assets or a
secured borrowing.  The majority of Ford Credit's transactions do not
meet the criteria for selling and derecognizing financial
assets.  Accordingly, such transactions are recorded as a secured
borrowing and the assets continue to be reported on our financial statements asFinance receivables, netor asNet investment in
operating leases.



The
following table shows the assets and liabilities related to Ford Credit's
secured debt arrangements that are included in our financial statements for the
years ended December 31 (in billions):



20092008Cash
      andCashEquivalentsFinanceReceivablesand
      NetInvestmentin
      OperatingLeasesRelated
      DebtCash
      andCashEquivalentsFinanceReceivablesand
      NetInvestmentin
      OperatingLeasesRelated
      DebtRetail$3.4$44.9$35.7$3.3$51.6$42.6Wholesale0.519.510.61.222.117.6Net
      investment in operating leases1.310.46.61.015.612.0Total
      secured debt arrangements*$5.2$74.8$52.9$5.5$89.3$72.2

__________

*Includes
      debt of $46.2 billion and $62 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
      respectively, issued by VIEs of which Ford Credit is the primary
      beneficiary.  The carrying value of Ford Credit assets securing
      the debt issued by these VIEs was $4 billion and $3.9 billion of cash and
      cash equivalents, $41.7 billion and $41.9 billion of retail receivables,
      $16.5 billion and $19.6 billion of wholesale receivables, and $10.4
      billion and $15.6 billion of net investment in operating leases at
      December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  Refer to Note13 for
      further discussion regarding VIEs.



Financial
Services sector asset-backed debt also includes $97 million and
$96 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, that is
secured by property.

__________

*  Credit
facilities of our VIEs are excluded as we do not control their use.

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
19.  DEBT AND COMMITMENTS(Continued)



Credit
Facilities



At
December 31, 2009, Ford Credit and its majority-owned subsidiaries,
including FCE Bank, plc ("FCE"), had $1.3 billion of
contractually-committed unsecured credit facilities with financial institutions,
of which $645 million were available for use.  Of the credit
facilities available for use, $276 million, $308 million, and
$61 million expire in 2010, 2011, and 2012, respectively.  Of the
$1.3 billion of contractually-committed credit facilities, almost all are
FCE worldwide credit facilities.  The FCE worldwide credit facilities
may be used, at FCE's option, by any of FCE's direct or indirect, majority-owned
subsidiaries.  FCE will guarantee any such borrowings.  All
of the worldwide credit facilities are free of material adverse change clauses,
restrictive financial covenants (for example, debt-to-equity limitations and
minimum net worth requirements) and credit rating triggers that could limit Ford
Credit's ability to obtain funding.



In
addition, at December 31, 2009, Ford Credit had $9.3 billion of
contractually-committed liquidity facilities provided by banks to support its
FCAR program.  Of the $9.3 billion of contractually-committed
liquidity facilities, $4.4 billion and $4.9 billion expire in 2010 and
2012, respectively.  Utilization of these facilities is subject to
conditions specific to the FCAR program and Ford Credit having a sufficient
amount of eligible assets for securitization.  The FCAR program must
be supported by liquidity facilities equal to at least 100% of its outstanding
balance.  At December 31, 2009, $9.3 billion of FCAR's
bank liquidity facilities were available to support FCAR's asset-backed
commercial paper, subordinated debt or FCAR's purchase of Ford Credit's
asset-backed securities.  At December 31, 2009, the
outstanding commercial paper balance for the FCAR program was $6.4 billion,
of which $1 million was held by Ford Credit.



Committed
Liquidity Programs



FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
20.  OTHER INCOME/(LOSS)



Automotive
Sector



The
following table summarizes amounts included inAutomotive interest income and other
non-operating income/(expense), net(in millions):



200920082007Interest
      income$209$951$1,713Realized
      and unrealized gains/(losses) on cash equivalents and marketable
      securities372(1,309)(109)Gains/(Losses)
      on the sale of held-for-sale operations, equity and cost
      investments,and
      other dispositions(7)(527)139Gains/(Losses)
      on extinguishment of debt4,666170(512)Other
      *48(11)(70)Total$5,288$(726)$1,161

__________

*  2009
includes $5millionof expense
in other income associated with the overall debt reduction actions discussed in
Note 1.



Financial
Services Sector



The
following table summarizes the amounts included inFinancial Services other
income/(loss), net(in millions):



200920082007Interest
      income (non-financing related)$107$503$860Realized
      and unrealized gains/(losses) on cash equivalents and marketable
      securities42(8)39Gains/(Losses)
      on the sale of held-for-sale operations, equity and cost
      investments,and
      other dispositions1611954Gains/(Losses)
      on extinguishment of debt*71——Investment
      and other income related to sales of receivables(25)199391Insurance
      premiums earned, net100140169Other241196356Total$552$1,149$1,869

__________

*  2009
includes a gain of$4 millionbased on extinguishment of debt from the exercise of a
contractually-permitted put option.



NOTE
21.  SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION



At
December 31, 2009, a variety of Ford stock-based compensation grants
and awards were outstanding for employees (including officers) and members of
the Board of Directors.  All stock-based compensation plans are
approved by the shareholders.



Included
below is information on restricted stock units, stock option awards, and other
share-based awards.



We grant
performance and time-based restricted stock units to our
employees.  Restricted stock units awarded in stock ("RSU-stock")
provide the recipients with the right to shares of stock after a restriction
period.  We have stock-based compensation outstanding under two
Long-Term Incentive Plans ("LTIP"):  the 1998 LTIP and the
2008 LTIP.  No further grants may be made under the
1998 LTIP.  All outstanding stock-based compensation under the
1998 LTIP continues to be governed by the terms and conditions of the
existing agreements for those grants.  Grants may continue to be made
under the 2008 LTIP through April 2018.  Under the
2008 LTIP, 2% of our issued Common Stock as of December 31 becomes
available for granting plan awards in the succeeding calendar
year.  Any unused portion is available for later years.  The
limit may be increased up to 3% in any year, with a corresponding reduction in
shares available for grants in future years.  All unused shares from
previous years and shares available under the 2% limit were used in 2009, as
well as additional shares allocated from increasing the limit above
2%.



The fair
value of the awards under the two plans is calculated differently:



1998 LTIP- Fair
value is the average of the high and low market price of our Common Stock on the
grant date.



2008 LTIP- Fair
value is the closing price of our Common Stock on the grant date.

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
21.  SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION(Continued)



Outstanding
RSU-stock are either strictly time-based or a combination of performance and
time-based awards.  Expenses associated with RSU-stock are recorded inSelling,
administrative, and other expense.



·Time-based
      RSU-stock issued in 2006 and prior vest at the end of the restriction
      period and the expense is taken equally over the restriction
      period.

·Time-based
      RSU-stock issued in and after 2007 generally have a graded vesting feature
      whereby one-third of each RSU-stock vests after the first anniversary
      of the grant date, one-third after the second anniversary, and one-third
      after the third anniversary.  The expense is recognized using
      the graded vesting method.

·Performance
      RSU-stock have a performance period (usually 1-3 years) and a restriction
      period (usually 1-3 years).  Compensation expense for
      performance RSU-stock is not recognized until it is probable and
      estimable.  Expense is then recognized over the performance and
      restriction periods based on the fair market value of Ford Common Stock at
      grant date.



We
also grant stock options to our employees.  We measure the fair value
of the majority of our stock options using the Black-Scholes option-pricing
model, using historical volatility and our determination of the expected
term.  The expected term of stock options is the time period that the
stock options are expected to be outstanding.  Historical data are
used to estimate option exercise behaviors and employee termination
experience.  Based on our assessment of employee groupings and
observable behaviors, we determined that a single grouping is
appropriate.  Generally, 33% of the stock options are exercisable
after the first anniversary of the date of grant, 66% after the second
anniversary, and 100% after the third anniversary.  Stock options
expire ten years from the grant date and are expensed inSelling,
administrative, and other expensesusing a three-year graded vesting
methodology.



Upon
stock-settled compensation exercises and awards, we issued new shares of Common
Stock.  We do not expect to repurchase a significant number of shares
for treasury stock during 2010.



Restricted
Stock Units



RSU-stock
activity during 2009 was as follows:



Shares(millions)Weighted-Average
      Grant-Date
      Fair ValueAggregateIntrinsic
      Value(millions)Outstanding,
      beginning of year25.9$6.84Granted80.42.13Vested(9.5)6.88Forfeited(2.4)3.98Outstanding,
      end of year94.42.89$944.5RSU-stock
      expected to vest91.9N/A919.5



Intrinsic
value of RSU-stock is measured by applying the closing stock price as of
December 31 to the applicable number of units.  The fair value
and intrinsic value of RSU-stock during 2009, 2008, and 2007 were as follows (in
millions, except RSU per unit amounts):



200920082007Fair
      valueGranted$171$112$121Weighted
      average for multiple grant dates (per unit)2.136.057.64Vested66409Intrinsic
      valueVested95128



Compensation
cost for RSU-stock was as follows (in millions):



200920082007Compensation
      cost, net of taxes*$117$82$76

__________

*  No
taxes recorded in each period due to established valuation
allowances.

FS
- - 65

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
21.  SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION(Continued)



As of
December 31,2009, there
was approximately $86 million in unrealized compensation cost related to
non-vested RSU-stock.  This expense will be recognized over a weighted
average period of 1.3 years.



Stock
Options



Stock
option activity was as follows:



200920082007Shares(millions)Weighted-AverageExercisePriceShares(millions)Weighted-AverageExercisePriceShares(millions)Weighted-AverageExercisePriceOutstanding,
      beginning of year226.2$16.37247.3$17.57255.6$17.83Granted26.52.0613.56.1216.37.56Exercised*(1.3)7.35(0.3)7.65(1.2)7.61Forfeited
      (including expirations)(26.0)28.28(34.3)21.03(23.4)14.00Outstanding,
      end of year225.413.36226.216.37247.317.57Exercisable,
      end of year185.015.47194.817.86205.619.38

__________

*Exercised
      at option price ranging from $5.49 to $7.83 during 2009, option price
      ranging from $7.55 to $7.83 during 2008, and option price ranging from
      $7.12 to $7.83 during 2007.



The total
fair value of options that vested during the years ended December 31 was as
follows (in millions):



200920082007Fair
      value of vested options$41$65$81



We have
185 million fully-vested stock options, with a weighted-average exercise
price of $15.47 and remaining term of 3.5 years.  We expect
39.2 million stock options (after forfeitures), with a weighted-average
exercise price of $3.72 and remaining term of 8.7 years, to vest in the
future.



The
intrinsic value for vested and unvested options during the years ended
December 31 was as follows (in millions):



200920082007Intrinsic
      value of vested options*$132$—$—Intrinsic
      value of unvested options (after forfeitures)*246——

__________

*The intrinsicvalue for stock options is measured by comparing the awarded option
      price to the closing stock price at December 31.  There was
      no intrinsic value for vested and unvested options at
      December 31, 2007 and 2008 due to our stock closing at a market
      price lower
      than any of the outstanding option
  prices.



We
received approximately $10 million from the exercise of stock options in
2009.  The tax benefit realized wasde minimis.  An
equivalent of about $10 million in new issues were used to settle exercised
options.  For options exercised during the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, the difference between the fair
value of the common shares issued and their respective exercise price was
$2 million,de
minimis, and $1 million, respectively.



Compensation
cost for stock options was as follows (in millions):



200920082007Compensation
      cost, net of taxes*$29$35$75

__________

*  No
taxes recorded in each period due to established valuation
allowances.

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
21.  SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION(Continued)



As of
December 31,2009, there
was about $15 million in unrealized compensation cost related to non-vested
stock options.  This expense will be recognized over a weighted
average period of 1.3 years.  A summary of the status of our
non-vested shares and changes during 2009 follows:



Shares(millions)Weighted-Average
      Grant-Date
      Fair ValueNon-vested,beginning
      of year31.4$2.79Granted26.51.07Vested(16.0)2.68Forfeited(1.5)2.13Non-vested,end of
      year40.41.73



The
estimated fair value of stock options at the time of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model was as follows:



200920082007Fair
      value per stock option$1.07$2.65$3.57Assumptions:Annualized
      dividend yield—%—%—%Expected
      volatility52.0%37.7%39.2%Risk-free
      interest rate2.7%3.9%4.8%Expected
      stock option term (in years)6.06.06.5



Details
on various stock option exercise price ranges are as follows:



Outstanding
      OptionsExercisable
      OptionsRange
      of Exercise PricesShares(millions)Weighted-Average
      Life(years)Weighted-AverageExercisePriceShares(millions)Weighted-AverageExercisePrice$1.96
      - $10.5899.16.73$6.1158.7$7.76$10.62
      – $15.8146.74.4913.0346.713.03$15.91
      – $23.8854.15.5719.0054.119.00$23.97
      – $35.7925.51.1430.1625.530.16Total
      stock options225.4185.0



Other
Share-Based Awards



Under the
1998 LTIP and 2008 LTIP, we have granted other share-based awards to
select executives and other key employees, in addition to stock options and
restricted stock units.  These awards include restricted stock,
cash-awarded restricted stock units, performance stock rights, and stock
appreciation rights.  These awards have various vesting criteria which
may include service requirements, individual performance targets, and
company-wide performance targets.



Other
share-based compensation cost was as follows (in millions):



200920082007Compensation
      cost, net of taxes*$11$—$9

__________

*  No
taxes recorded in each period due to established valuation
allowances.

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
22.  EMPLOYEE SEPARATION ACTIONS



As part
of our plan to realign our vehicle assembly capacity to operate profitably at
the current demand and changing model mix, we have implemented a number of
different employee separation plans.  The accounting for employee
separation plans is dependent on the specific design of the plans.



Under
certain labor agreements, we are required to pay transitional benefits to our
employees who are idled.  For employees who will be temporary idled,
we expense the benefits on an as-incurred basis.  For employees who
will be permanently idled, we expense all of the future benefits payments in the
period when it is probable that the employees will be permanently
idled.  Our reserve balance for these future benefit payments to
permanently idled employees takes into account several factors:  the
demographics of the population at each affected facility, redeployment
alternatives, estimate of benefits to be paid, and recent experience relative to
voluntary redeployments.



We also
incur payments to employees for separation actions.  The costs of
unconditional voluntary employee separation actions are recorded at the time of
employee acceptance, unless the acceptance requires explicit approval by the
Company.  The costs of conditional voluntary separations are accrued
when all conditions are satisfied.  The costs of involuntary
separation programs are accrued when management has approved the program and the
affected employees are identified.



Automotive
Sector



Transitional
Benefits



Our
collective bargaining agreements with the UAW and the CAW require us to pay a
portion of wage and benefits for a specified period of time to idled employees
who meet certain conditions.  We have established a reserve for
employee benefits that we expect to provide under our collective bargaining
agreements.  The following table summarizes the activity in the
reserve:



Reserve
      (in millions)Number
      of EmployeesFull-Year2009Full-Year2008Full-Year2009Full-Year2008Beginning
      balance$411$8174,1878,316Additions
      to transitional benefits reserve/transfers from voluntaryseparation
      program (i.e., rescissions)318711,542806Voluntary
      separations and relocations(87)(248)(983)(2,880)Benefit
      payments and other adjustments(268)(229)(2,310)(2,055)Ending
      balance$374$4112,4364,187



During
the first quarter of 2009, we reached an agreement with the UAW to modify our
collective bargaining agreement.  We renegotiated Job Security
Benefits, modified Supplemental Unemployment Benefits, and established a new
Transition Assistance Plan.  This change in the contract benefits
combined with a change in our plans to redeploy employees in our operations
reduced our reserve.  Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2009, we
announced the closure of our St. Thomas Assembly Plant in Canada, which resulted
in an increase to the reserve.



During
2009, 2008, and 2007 we recorded inAutomotive cost of salesa
reduction of expense of $40 million, $346 million, and
$80 million, respectively.



Separation
Actions



UAW Voluntary
Separations.  Weestablished a
separation reserve for costs associated with separation actions recorded at the
time of employee acceptance of a voluntary termination.  At
December 31, 2009 and 2008, this reserve was $51 million and
$162 million, respectively.  The ending balance in the reserve
primarily represents the cost of separation packages for employees who accepted
separation packages but have not yet left the Company, as well as employees who
accepted a retirement package and ceased duties but remain on our employment
rolls until they reach retirement eligibility.

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
22.  EMPLOYEE SEPARATION ACTIONS(Continued)



We
recorded inAutomotive cost of
salespre-tax charges of $122 million and $323 million for 2009
and 2008, respectively, and recorded a reduction to expense for rescissions of
previous acceptances of $298 million for 2007.



Other Employee Separation
Actions.  The following table shows pre-tax charges for other
hourly and salaried employee separation actions, which are recorded inAutomotive cost of salesandSelling, administrative and
other expenses(in millions):



200920082007Ford
      Europe$109$38$45Ford
      North America (U.S. salaried-related)105186377Volvo2010811Ford
      South America20——Ford
      Asia Pacific Africa17905



The
charges above exclude costs for pension and OPEB.



Financial
Services Sector



Separation
Actions



In 2009,
Ford Credit announced plans to restructure its U.S. operations to meet changing
business conditions, including the decline in its receivables.  The
restructuring affects its servicing, sales, and central
operations.  In 2009, 2008, and 2007, Ford Credit recognized pre-tax
charges of $64 million, $16 million, and $37 million,
respectively, inSelling,
administrative and other expensesfor this and other employee separation
actions outside of the United States.



These
charges exclude pension costs.



NOTE
23.  INCOME TAXES



Income
Taxes



According
to U.S. GAAP, we have elected to recognize accrued interest related to
unrecognized tax benefits and tax-related penalties in theProvision for/(Benefit from) income
taxeson our consolidated statement of operations.



Valuation
of Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities



Deferred
tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on the future tax consequences
attributable to temporary differences that exist between the financial statement
carrying value of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and
operating loss and tax credit carryforwards on a taxing jurisdiction
basis.  We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted
tax rates that will apply in the years in which we expect the temporary
differences to be recovered or paid.



Our
accounting for deferred tax consequences represents our best estimate of the
likely future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our
financial statements or tax returns and their future probability.  In
assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider both positive and
negative evidence related to the likelihood of realization of the deferred tax
assets.  If, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more
likely than not the deferred tax assets will not be realized, we record a
valuation allowance.

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE 23.  INCOME
TAXES(Continued)



Components
of Income Taxes



Components
of income taxes excluding discontinued operations, cumulative effects of changes
in accounting principles, other comprehensive income, and equity in net results
of affiliated companies accounted for after-tax, are as follows:



200920082007Income/(Loss)
      before income taxes, excluding equity in net results of
      affiliatedcompanies
      accounted for after-tax (in millions)U.S.$1,869$(16,122)$(6,373)Non-U.S.1,1471,4482,113Total$3,016$(14,674)$(4,260)Provision
      for/(Benefit from) income taxes (in millions)CurrentFederal$(274)$(117)$(39)Non-U.S.293458313State
      and local7361Total
      current26377275DeferredFederal—95(1,749)Non-U.S.102(350)410State
      and local(59)(59)(269)Total
      deferred43(314)(1,608)Total$69$63$(1,333)Reconciliation
      of effective tax rateU.S.
      tax at statutory rate35.0%35.0%35.0%Non-U.S.
      income taxes(1.6)1.21.3State
      and local income taxes(1.6)0.24.2General
      business credits(5.0)1.15.4Dispositions
      and restructurings(3.4)15.8(6.1)Medicare
      prescription drug benefit—0.62.1Prior
      year settlements and claims8.3(0.6)1.0Tax-related
      interest(1.2)0.5(1.7)Other0.9(0.1)2.5Valuation
      allowance(29.1)(54.1)(12.4)Effective
      rate2.3%(0.4)%31.3%



No
provision for deferred taxes has been made on $1.3 billion of unremitted
earnings that are permanently invested in our non-U.S. operating
assets.  Had these earnings not been permanently reinvested in
non-U.S. operations, the U.S. tax consequences of their repatriation would have
been insignificant since these earnings were subject to foreign taxes that would
offset, as foreign tax credits, substantially all U.S. taxes.

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE 23.  INCOME
TAXES(Continued)



Components
of Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities



The
components of deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31 were as follows
(in millions):



20092008Deferred
      tax assetsEmployee
      benefit plans$8,590$9,482Net
      operating loss carryforwards1,9017,083Tax
      credit carryforwards2,9412,520Research
      expenditures2,477277Dealer
      and customer allowances and claims1,9601,873Other
      foreign deferred tax assets5,2913,948Allowance
      for credit losses1,7711,884All
      other2,1561,899Total
      gross deferred tax assets27,08728,966Less:
      valuation allowance(17,451)(17,268)Total
      net deferred tax assets9,63611,698Deferred
      tax liabilitiesLeasing
      transactions2,2453,206Depreciation
      and amortization (excluding leasing transactions)3,0802,890Finance
      receivables515786All
      other2,7313,743Total
      deferred tax liabilities8,57110,625Net
      deferred tax assets/(liabilities)$1,065$1,073



Operating
loss carryforwards for tax purposes were $5.8 billion at
December 31, 2009.  A substantial portion of these losses
begin to expire in 2029; the remaining losses will begin to expire in
2018.  Capital loss carryforwards for tax purposes were $465 million
at December 31, 2009.  Tax credits available to offset future tax
liabilities are $2.9 billion.  A substantial portion of these
credits have a remaining carryforward period of 10 years or
more.  Tax benefits of operating loss and tax credit carryforwards are
evaluated on an ongoing basis, including a review of historical and projected
future operating results, the eligible carryforward period, and other
circumstances.



Effective
September 30, 2006, the balance of deferred taxes primarily at our
U.S. entities has changed from a net deferred tax liability position to a net
deferred tax asset position.  Due to the cumulative losses we have
incurred at these operations and their near-term financial outlook, at
December 31, 2009 we have a valuation allowance of $17.5 billion
against the net deferred tax asset.

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE 23.  INCOME
TAXES(Continued)



Tax
Benefits Preservation Plan



On
September 11, 2009, our Board of Directors adopted a tax benefit
preservation plan designed to preserve shareholder value and the value of
certain tax assets including net operating losses, capital losses, and tax
credit carryforwards ("Tax Attributes").  At
December 31, 2009, we had Tax Attributes that would offset
$17 billion of U.S. taxable income.  Our ability to use
these Tax Attributes would be substantially limited if there were an "ownership
change" as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code.  In
general, an ownership change would occur if 5-percent shareholders (as defined
under U.S. federal income tax laws) collectively increase their ownership in
Ford by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year
period.



In
connection with the tax benefit preservation plan, our Board of Directors
declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right for each share of Ford
Common Stock and Class B Stock outstanding as of the close of business on
September 25, 2009.  In accordance with the Plan, shares
held by any person who acquires, without the approval of our Board of Directors,
beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of outstanding Ford Common Stock
(including any ownership interest held by that person's affiliates and
associates as defined under the tax benefit preservation plan) could be subject
to significant dilution.



Other



We
adopted the provisions of the accounting standard for uncertainty in income
taxes on January 1, 2007.  As a result of its
implementation, we recorded an increase of $1.3 billion toRetained
earnings.



A
reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits
is as follows for the years listed (in millions):



20092008Balance
      at January 1$1,898$1,810Increase –
      tax positions in prior periods282416Increase
      – tax positions in current period5564Decrease
      – tax positions in prior periods(213)(38)Settlements(836)(235)Lapse
      of statute of limitations(37)(23)Foreign
      currency translation adjustment24(96)Balance
      at December 31$1,173$1,898



The
amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2009 and 2008 that
would affect the effective tax rate if recognized was $745 million and
$964 million, respectively.



The U.S.
and Canadian governments have reached agreement on our transfer pricing
methodologies.  The agreement covers a number of years and has
resulted in a favorable impact to the income tax provision of $196 million
in 2009 after the impact of valuation allowances, primarily resulting from the
refund of prior Canadian tax payments.



Examinations
by tax authorities have been completed through 1999 in Germany, 2001 in Sweden,
2004 in Canada, 2005 in the United States, and 2006 in the United
Kingdom.  Although examinations have been completed in these
jurisdictions, various unresolved transfer pricing disputes exist for years
dating back to 1994.



During
2009 and 2008, we recorded in our consolidated statement of operations
approximately $54 million and $69 million in tax related interest
income, respectively.  As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we
had recorded a net payable of $38 million, and a net receivable of
$177 million, respectively, for tax-related interest.

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS





NOTE
24.  HELD-FOR-SALE OPERATIONS, DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, OTHER
DISPOSITIONS, AND ACQUISITIONS



We
classify disposal groups as held for sale when the sale is probable within one
year and the disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present
condition.  We classify disposal groups as discontinued operations
when the criteria to be classified as held for sale have been met and we will
not have any significant involvement with the disposal groups after the
sale.



We
perform an impairment test on disposal groups.  An impairment charge
is recognized when the carrying value of the disposal group exceeds the
estimated fair value, less transaction costs.  We estimate fair value
under the market approach to approximate the expected proceeds to be
received.



We
are required by U.S. GAAP to aggregate the assets and liabilities of all
held-for-sale disposal groups on the balance sheet for the period in which the
disposal group is held for sale.  To provide comparative balance
sheets, we also aggregate the assets and liabilities for significant
held-for-sale disposal groups on the prior-period balance sheet.



Automotive
Sector



Held-for-Sale
Operations



Volvo.In
the fourth quarter of 2008, we performed annual goodwill impairment testing for
our Volvo reporting unit.  We compared the carrying value of our Volvo
reporting unit to its fair value, and concluded that the goodwill was not
impaired.  We performed this measurement relying primarily on the
income approach, applying a discounted cash flow methodology.  Our
valuation was based on an in-use premise which considered a discount rate,
after-tax return on sales rate, growth rate, and terminal value consistent with
assumptions we believed principal market participants (i.e., other global
automotive manufacturers) would use.  This methodology produced
appropriate valuations for entities we disposed of in recent years; in light of
worsening economic conditions, however, we also considered other valuations,
including a discounted cash flow analysis using more conservative assumptions
than we initially used.  This alternative analysis incorporated a
significantly higher discount rate, offset partially by a higher growth rate; a
much lower after-tax return on sales rate; and a lower terminal
value.  This alternative analysis reduced the valuation of our Volvo
reporting unit by about 50%.  Even this more conservative
analysis, however, did not support an impairment of Volvo goodwill at year
end.



As
previously disclosed, in recent years we have undertaken efforts to divest
non-core assets in order to allow us to focus exclusively on our global Ford
brand.  Toward that end, in 2007 we sold our interest in Aston Martin;
in 2008, we sold our interest in our Jaguar Land Rover operations, and a
significant portion of our ownership in Mazda.  During the first
quarter of 2009, based on our strategic review of Volvo and in light of our goal
to focus on the global Ford brand, our Board of Directors committed to actively
market Volvo for sale, notwithstanding the current distressed market for
automotive-related assets.  Accordingly, in the first quarter of 2009
we reported Volvo as held for sale, and we ceased depreciation of its long-lived
assets in the second quarter of 2009.



Our
commitment to actively market Volvo for sale also triggered a held-for-sale
impairment test in the first quarter of 2009.  We received information
from our discussions with potential buyers that provided us a value for Volvo
using a market approach, rather than an income approach.  We concluded
that the information we received from our discussions with potential buyers was
more representative of the value of Volvo given the current market conditions,
the characteristics of viable market participants, and our anticipation of a
more immediate transaction for Volvo.  These inputs resulted in a
lower value for Volvo than the discounted cash flow method we had previously
used.



After
considering deferred gains reported inAccumulated
other comprehensive income/(loss),we
recognized a pre-tax impairment charge of $650 million related to our total
investment in Volvo.  The impairment was recorded inAutomotive cost
of salesfor the first quarter of 2009.



Had
we not committed to actively market Volvo for sale, we would not have been
afforded the benefit of the new information obtained in discussions with
potential buyers.  Rather, we would have continued to employ an in-use
premise to test Volvo's goodwill and long-lived assets, using a discounted cash
flow methodology with assumptions similar to those we used at year-end
2008.

FS
- - 73

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS





NOTE
24.  HELD-FOR-SALE OPERATIONS, DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, OTHER
DISPOSITIONS, AND ACQUISITIONS(Continued)



The
assets and liabilities of Volvo classified as held for sale at December 31 are
as follows:



20092008AssetsReceivables$440$399Inventories1,2761,630Net
      property4,9434,422Goodwill1,2411,150Other
      intangibles204198Other
      assets469615Impairment
      of carrying value(650)—Total
      assets of the held-for-sale operations$7,923$8,414LiabilitiesPayables$1,982$1,626Pension
      liabilities387560Warranty
      liabilities358494Other
      liabilities2,6292,807Total
      liabilities of the held-for-sale operations$5,356$5,487



Jaguar Land
Rover.In 2008, we sold our Jaguar Land Rover
operations.  We recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of
$421 million reported inAutomotive cost of salesand
a pre-tax loss of $136 million reported inAutomotive interest income and other
non-operating income/(expense), net.



As part
of this transaction, we continue to supply Jaguar Land Rover with powertrains,
stampings, and other vehicle components.  We also provide transitional
support, including engineering, information technology, accounting and other
services.  Ford Credit provided financing for Jaguar Land Rover
dealers and customers during a transition period, which varied by market, for up
to 12 months.



Automotive Components Holdings, LLC
("ACH") – Milan.In 2008, we
classified the ACH Milan plant, which produces fuel tanks and bumper fascias, as
held for sale.  At that time, a pre-tax impairment charge of
$18 million was recorded, which represented the excess of net book value of
the held-for-sale assets over the expected proceeds.  During the third
quarter of 2008, deteriorating domestic economic and industry conditions
significantly reduced the probability of this sale, and the Milan plant was
subsequently reclassified as held and used.  The pre-tax impairment
charge continues to be reported inAutomotive cost of
sales.



ACH –
Converca.In 2007, we completed the sale of the ACH
Converca plant to the Linamar Corporation.  The Converca plant, which
produced power transfer units, was a component of ACH in Mexico.  As a
result of the transaction, ACH reported a pre-tax gain on the sale of
$3 million (net of transaction costs and liabilities assumed), reported inAutomotive interest income and
other non-operating income/(expense), net.



Aston Martin.In
2007, Ford and our subsidiary (at that time), Jaguar Cars Limited, completed the
sale of our 100% interest in Aston Martin.  As a result of the sale,
we recognized a pre-tax gain of $181 million (net of transaction costs and
working capital adjustments) reported inAutomotive interest income and other
non-operating income/(expense), net.



European
dealerships.  In 2007, Ford and our subsidiary, FIECO
Holdings GmbH, completed the sale of its interest in three European dealerships
to MVC Automotive Group B.V.  As a result of the transaction, we
recognized a pre-tax loss on the sale of $14 million (net of transaction
costs and recognition of foreign currency translation adjustments) reported
inAutomotive interest income
and other non-operating income/(expense), net.

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS





NOTE
24.  HELD-FOR-SALE OPERATIONS, DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, OTHER
DISPOSITIONS, AND ACQUISITIONS(Continued)



Discontinued
Operations



Automotive Protection Corporation
("APCO").In 2007, we completed the sale of APCO and realized
a pre-tax gain of $51 million (net of transaction costs and working capital
adjustments), reported inIncome/(Loss) from discontinued
operations.In the second quarter of 2009, we received
additional proceeds related to the settlement of a state and local tax matter
that was unresolved at the time of sale and recognized an after-tax gain of
$3 million inIncome/(Loss) from discontinued
operations.



The
results of all discontinued Automotive sector operations are as follows (in
millions):



200920082007Sales$—$—$13Operating
      income/(loss) from discontinued operations$—$—$2Gain/(Loss)
      on discontinued operations3—51(Provision
      for)/Benefit from income taxes——(18)Income/(Loss)
      from discontinued operations$3$—$35



Other
Dispositions



Progress Ford Sales Limited
("PFS").In the second quarter of 2009, PFS was
liquidated.  As a result, we recognized inAutomotive cost of salesa
$281 million foreign exchange translation loss previously deferred inAccumulated other comprehensive
income/(loss).



NuCellSys.In
2009, we reached an agreement with Daimler AG ("Daimler") to sell our entire
ownership interest in NuCellSys to Daimler.  NuCellSys was a joint
venture created by Ford and Daimler in 2005 for research into and development
and manufacture of fuel cell systems.  As a result of the sale, we
recognized a loss of $29 million inAutomotive interest income and other
non-operating income/(expense), net.



ACH–Glass.In 2008, we
completed the sale of the ACH glass business to Zeledyne, LLC
("Zeledyne").  As a result of this transaction, we recognized a
pre-tax loss of $285 million reported inAutomotive interest income and other
non-operating income/(expense), net.During the third quarter
of 2008, the sale agreement between Ford and Zeledyne was amended resulting in
an additional $19 million pre-tax loss reported inAutomotive interest income and other
non-operating income/(expense), net.With this, our pre-tax
loss was $304 million.



Ballard Power Systems, Inc.
("Ballard").In 2008, we reached an agreement with Ballard to
exchange our entire ownership interest of 12.9 million shares of Ballard
stock for a 30% equity interest in AFCC along with $22 million in
cash.  AFCC is a joint venture between Ford (30%), Daimler (50.1%) and
Ballard (19.9%) that was created for the development of automotive fuel
cells.  We also have agreed to purchase from Ballard its 19.9% equity
interest for $65 million plus interest within five years.  As a
result of the exchange, we recognized inAutomotive cost of salesa
pre-tax loss of $70 million.  Our investment in AFCC is reported
inEquity innet assets of affiliated
companies.



Thai-Swedish Assembly Group
("TSA").In 2008, Ford and our subsidiary, Volvo Car
Corporation, completed the sale of TSA to Volvo Holding Sverige, AB (an
unrelated company, aka Volvo Truck and Bus (Thailand) Co.,
Ltd.).  Under the terms of the agreement, we sold $14 million of
net assets and received $24 million in gross proceeds.  We
recognized a pre-tax gain of $12 million (including $2 million of
foreign currency translation adjustments) inAutomotive interest income and other
non-operating income/(expense), net.



ACH – El
Jarudo.In 2007, we completed the sale of the ACH El Jarudo
plant to Cooper-Standard Automotive Inc.  The El Jarudo plant, which
produced fuel rails, fuel charging assemblies, and spring lock connectors, was a
component of ACH in Mexico.  As a result of the sale, we recognized ade minimispre-tax
loss, reported inAutomotive
interest income and other non-operating income/(expense),
net.

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
24.  HELD-FOR-SALE OPERATIONS, DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, OTHER
DISPOSITIONS, AND ACQUISITIONS(Continued)



Acquisitions



ACSA.In
2008, we acquired 72.4% of the shares of ACSA, a Romanian carmaker, from
Romania's Authority for State Assets Recovery ("AVAS") for
$87 million.  In 2009, we increased our ownership percentage to
97.1% and, to date, have invested€250 million
into Ford Romania towards the committed spend of€675 million
over a four-year period as outlined in the Sale and Purchase Agreement with the
Romanian government.  We plan to fulfill our outstanding investment
obligation of€425 million
($593 million) over the next three years and acquire the remaining minority
shareholder's equity interest.  Based on the continuing significance
of AVAS' control and participation in the operations of ACSA during the
four-year investment period, our investment is reflected inEquity in net
assets of affiliated companies.  We anticipate that we will
consolidate the operations upon the cessation of AVAS' control and participation
in the operations.



Financial
Services Sector



Held-for-Sale
Operations



Held-for-Sale
Finance Receivables.During the third quarter of 2009, Ford
Credit reclassified toAssets of
held-for-sale operations$911 million of Ford Credit Australia
held-for-investment finance receivables that it no longer had the intent to hold
for the foreseeable future or until maturity or payoff.  A valuation
allowance of $52 million was recorded inFinancial
Services other income/(loss), netrelated to these assets.  The
receivables were sold on October 1, 2009.



Primus Leasing
Company Limited ("Primus Thailand").In March 2009, Ford
Credit completed the sale of Primus Thailand, its operation in Thailand that
offered automotive retail and wholesale financing of Ford, Mazda and Volvo
vehicles.  As a result of the sale, Ford Credit received
$165 million in proceeds and recognized ade
minimispre-tax gain inFinancial
Services other income/(loss), net.



The
assets and liabilities of Primus Thailand classified as held for sale at
December 31, 2008 are summarized as follows (in
millions):



December
      31,2008AssetsFinance
      receivables, net$194Other
      assets4Total assets
      of the held-for-sale operations$198LiabilitiesAccounts
      payable$13Debt41Other
      liabilities1Total
      liabilities of the held-for-sale operations$55



Discontinued
Operations



Triad Financial
Corporation ("Triad").In 2005, Ford Credit completed the sale
of Triad.  Ford Credit received additional proceeds pursuant to a
contractual agreement entered into at the closing of the sale, causing Ford
Credit to recognize an after-tax gain of $2 million, $9 million and $6
million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, inIncome/(Loss)
from discontinued operations.



The
results of all discontinued Financial Services sector operations are as follows
(in millions):



200920082007Operating
      income/(loss) from discontinued operations$—$—$—Gain/(Loss) on
      discontinued operations31510(Provision
      for)/Benefit from income taxes(1)(6)(4)Income/(Loss)
      from discontinued operations$2$9$6

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
24.  HELD-FOR-SALE OPERATIONS, DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, OTHER
DISPOSITIONS, AND ACQUISITIONS(Continued)



Other
Dispositions



Nordic
Operations.In 2008, Ford Credit completed the creation of a
joint venture finance company and transferred the majority of its business and
assets from Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden into the joint
venture.  The joint venture will support the sale of Ford vehicles in
these markets.  As a result of the sale, we reducedFinance receivables, netby
$1.7 billion, and recognized a pre-tax gain of $85 million (net of
transaction costs and including $35 million of foreign currency translation
adjustments) inFinancial
Services other income/(loss), net.Ford Credit reports its
ownership interest in the joint venture as an equity method investment.



PRIMUS Financial Services Inc.
("PRIMUS Japan").In 2008, Ford Credit completed the sale of
96% of its ownership interest in PRIMUS Japan, its operation in Japan that
offered automotive retail and wholesale financing of Ford and Mazda
vehicles.  As a result of the sale, we reducedFinance receivables, netby
$1.8 billion, reducedDebtby $252 million,
and recognized a pre-tax gain of $22 million (net of transaction costs and
including $28 million of foreign currency translation adjustments) inFinancial Services other
income/(loss), net.Ford Credit reports its remaining
ownership interest as a cost method investment.



Primus Finance and Leasing, Inc.
("Primus Philippines").In 2008, Ford Credit completed the
sale of its 60% ownership interest in Primus Philippines, its operation in the
Philippines that offered automotive retail and wholesale financing of Ford and
Mazda vehicles.  Ford Credit also completed the sale of its 40%
ownership interest in PFL Holdings, Inc., a holding company in the Philippines
that owned the remaining 40% ownership interest in Primus
Philippines.  As a result of the sale, we recognized a pre-tax gain of
$5 million (net of transaction costs and including $1 million of
foreign currency translation adjustments) inFinancial Services other
income/(loss), net.



NOTE
25.  CAPITAL STOCK AND AMOUNTS PER SHARE



Capital Stock.  All
general voting power is vested in the holders of Common Stock and Class B
Stock.  Holders of our Common Stock have 60% of the general voting
power and holders of our Class B Stock are entitled to such number of votes per
share as will give them the remaining 40%.  Shares of Common Stock and
Class B Stock share equally in dividends when and as paid, with stock dividends
payable in shares of stock of the class held.  As discussed in
Note 19, we are restricted in our ability to pay dividends (other than
dividends payable in stock) under the terms of the amended Credit
Agreement.



If
liquidated, each share of Common Stock will be entitled to the first $0.50
available for distribution to holders of Common Stock and Class B Stock, each
share of Class B Stock will be entitled to the next $1.00 so available, each
share of Common Stock will be entitled to the next $0.50 so available and each
share of Common and Class B Stock will be entitled to an equal amount
thereafter.



Earnings Per
Share.  We calculate earnings per share on a basic and on a
diluted basis.  Basic earnings per share measures our performance over
the reporting period.  The numerator of our basic earnings per share
calculation is our income/(loss) from continuing operations attributable to Ford
Motor Company and the denominator is the average shares outstanding for the
period.  Diluted earnings per share measures our performance over the
reporting period (less restricted and uncommitted ESOP shares), while giving
effect to all dilutive potential common shares that were outstanding during the
period.  The dilutive earnings per share calculation adjusts the basic
calculation by the dilutive effect of potential Common Stock (securities such as
stock options, warrants, convertible securities, and contingent stock
agreements).  Each individual type of potential Common Stock is
evaluated for its dilutive effect.  If a security is determined to be
dilutive, income/(loss) from continuing operations attributable to Ford Motor
Company is then adjusted by the interest expense, amortization of discount,
amortization of fees, and other changes in income or loss that would result from
the assumed conversion.  The number of average shares outstanding is
adjusted by the number of shares this conversion would create.  A
security that is shown to be antidilutive would not be included in the diluted
earnings per share calculation.

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
25.  CAPITAL STOCK AND AMOUNTS PER SHARE(Continued)



Convertible
Securities



As
discussed in Note 19, Trust Preferred Securities with an aggregate
liquidation preference of $2.8 billion are outstanding at
December 31, 2009.  In the first quarter of 2009, holders of
862,889 Trust Preferred Securities with an aggregate liquidation preference of
$43 million elected to convert such securities into an aggregate 2,437,562
shares of Ford Common Stock.  In the third quarter of 2007, holders of
42,543,071 Trust Preferred Securities with an aggregate liquidation preference
of $2.1 billion elected to convert such securities into an aggregate
194,494,157 shares of Ford Common Stock.  At the option of the holder,
each Trust Preferred Security is convertible, at any time on or before
January 15, 2032, into shares of our Common Stock at a rate of
2.8769 shares for each Trust Preferred Security (equivalent to a conversion
price of $17.38 per share).  Conversion of all shares of such
Trust Preferred Securities would result in the issuance of 163 million
shares of our Common Stock.



As
discussed in Note 19, 2036 Convertible Notes with a principal amount of
$579 million are outstanding at December 31, 2009.  In
the second quarter of 2009, $4.3 billion principal amount of 2036
Convertible Notes was exchanged for an aggregate of 467,909,227 shares of Ford
Common Stock, $344 million in cash ($80 in cash per $1,000 principal
amount of 2036 Convertible Notes exchanged) and the applicable accrued and
unpaid interest on such 2036 Convertible Notes.  In the fourth quarter
of 2008, $67 million principal amount of 2036 Convertible Notes was
exchanged for an aggregate of 7,253,035 shares of Ford Common
Stock.  At the option of the holder, each 2036 Convertible Note
is convertible at any time on or before December 15, 2036, into shares
of Ford Common Stock at a rate of 108.6957 shares per $1,000 principal
amount of Convertible Notes (equivalent to a conversion price of $9.20 per
share).  Conversion of all shares of 2036 Convertible Notes would
result in the issuance of 63 million shares of our Common
Stock.



As
discussed in Note 19, 2016 Convertible Notes with a principal amount of
$2.9 billion are outstanding at December 31, 2009.  At
the option of the holder, each 2016 Convertible Note is convertible at any time
on or before November 16, 2016, into shares of Ford Common Stock at a
rate of 107.5269 shares per $1,000 principal amount of 2016 Convertible
Note (equivalent to a conversion price of $9.30 per
share).  Conversion of all shares of 2016 Convertible Notes would
result in the issuance of 309 million shares of our Common
Stock.



Other
Transactions Related to Capital Stock



In the
fourth quarter of 2007, we issued an aggregate of 62,000,761 shares of Ford
Common Stock in exchange for $567 million principal amount of our public
unsecured debt securities.



As
described in Note 19, during the first half of 2008, we issued an aggregate of
46,437,906 shares of Ford Common Stock in exchange for $431 million
principal amount of our outstanding public unsecured debt
securities.



On
May 18, 2009, we issued 345,000,000 shares of Ford Common Stock
pursuant to a public offering at a price of $4.75 per share, resulting in
total gross proceeds of $1.6 billion.



As
discussed in Note 1, we issued shares of Ford Common Stock from time to time
pursuant to an equity distribution agreement in market transactions and used the
proceeds to purchase outstanding Ford Credit debt securities maturing prior to
2012.  In the second half of 2008, we issued 88,325,372 shares of Ford
Common Stock resulting in proceeds of $434 million.  In the third
quarter of 2009, we issued 71,587,743 shares of Ford Common Stock resulting in
proceeds of $565 million.



On
December 4, 2009, we entered into a new equity distribution agreement
with certain broker-dealers pursuant to which we may offer and sell shares of
Ford Common Stock from time to time for an aggregate offering price of up to
$1 billion.  Sales of Ford Common Stock under this equity
distribution agreement are expected to be made over a several-month period by
means of ordinary brokers’ transactions on the New York Stock Exchange at market
prices or as otherwise agreed.  Through December 31, 2009
and February 15, 2010, we issued 9,840,429 shares and
41,896,329 shares of Ford Common Stock for an aggregate price of
$97 million and $470 million, respectively, resulting in net proceeds
of $96 million and $466 million, respectively, which will be used for
general corporate purposes.

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
25.  CAPITAL STOCK AND AMOUNTS PER SHARE(Continued)



Tax
Benefits Preservation Plan



For
information regarding our Tax Benefits Preservation Plan, see Note
23.



Warrants



In
conjunction with the transfer of assets to the UAW VEBA Trust on December 31,
2009, warrants to purchase 362,391,305 shares of Ford Common Stock at an
exercise price of $9.20 per share were issued.  The warrants expire on
January 1, 2013.



Amounts
Per Share Attributable to Ford Motor Company Common and Class B
Stock



Basic and
diluted income/(loss) per share were calculated using the following (in
millions):



200920082007Basic
      and Diluted Income/(Loss) Attributable to Ford Motor
    CompanyBasic
      income/(loss) from continuing operations$2,712$(14,775)$(2,836)Effect
      of dilutive 2016 Convertible Notes (a)27——Effect
      of dilutive 2036 Convertible Notes (a)(b)119——Effect
      of dilutive Trust Preferred Securities (a)(c)———Diluted
      income/(loss) from continuing operations$2,858$(14,775)$(2,836)Basic
      and Diluted SharesAverage
      shares outstanding2,9922,2731,979Restricted
      and uncommitted-ESOP shares(1)(1)(1)Basic
      shares2,9912,2721,978Net
      dilutive options, warrants, and restricted and uncommitted-ESOP shares
      (d)87——Dilutive
      2016 Convertible Notes45——Dilutive
      2036 Convertible Notes (b)189——Dilutive
      Trust Preferred Securities (c)———Diluted
      shares3,3122,2721,978

__________

(a)As
      applicable, includes interest expense, amortization of discount,
      amortization of fees, and other changes in income or loss that would
      result from the assumed conversion.Not
      included in calculation of diluted earnings per share due to their
      antidilutive effect:(b)537million
      sharesand
      538 million sharesfor 2008 and 2007, respectively, and the
      related income effect for 2036 Convertible Notes.(c)162million
      shares,
      162 million shares, and 233 million sharesfor 2009,
      2008, and 2007, respectively, and the related income effect for Trust
      Preferred Securities.(d)27 million and
      14 millioncontingently-issuable shares for 2008 and 2007.



FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
26.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING
ACTIVITIES



In the
normal course of business, our operations are exposed to global market risks,
including the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, certain
commodity prices, and interest rates.  To manage these risks, we enter
into various derivatives contracts.  Foreign currency exchange
contracts including forwards and options, are used to manage foreign exchange
exposure.  Commodity contracts including forwards and options are used
to manage commodity price risk.  Interest rate contracts including
swaps, caps, and floors are used to manage the effects of interest rate
fluctuations.  Cross-currency interest rate swap contracts are used to
manage foreign currency and interest rate exposures on foreign-denominated
debt.  The vast majority of our derivatives are over-the-counter
customized derivative transactions and are not
exchange-traded.  Management reviews our hedging program, derivative
positions, and overall risk management strategy on a regular
basis.  We only enter into transactions that we believe will be highly
effective at offsetting the underlying risk.



Consistent
with the FASB's new standard on disclosures for derivative instruments and
hedging activities effective January 1, 2009, in this initial year of
adoption, we have elected to not present earlier periods for comparative
purposes.



Overall Derivative Financial
Instruments and Hedge Accounting.All derivatives are
recognized on the balance sheet at fair value.  To ensure consistency
in our treatment of derivative and non-derivative exposures with regard to our
master agreements, we do not net our derivative position by counterparty for
purposes of balance sheet presentation and disclosure.



We have
elected to apply hedge accounting to certain derivatives in both the Automotive
and Financial Services sectors; derivatives that receive designated hedge
accounting treatment are documented and evaluated for effectiveness at the time
they are designated, as well as throughout the hedge period.  Cash
flows associated with designated hedges are reported in the same category as the
underlying hedged item.



Some
derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting; for others, we elect to not
apply hedge accounting.  We report changes in the fair value of
derivatives not designated as hedging instruments throughAutomotive cost of sales,Automotive interest income and
other non-operating income/(expense), net,orFinancial Services other
income/(loss), netdepending on the sector and underlying
exposure.  Cash flows associated with non-designated or de-designated
derivatives are reported inNet cash (used in)/provided by
investing activitiesin our statements of cash flows.



Cash Flow
Hedges.Our Automotive sector has designated certain forward
and option contracts as cash flow hedges of forecasted transactions with
exposure to foreign currency exchange and commodity price
risks.  During the second half of 2008, all foreign exchange forwards
and options previously designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted transactions
under critical terms match were de-designated and re-designated under the
"long-haul" method using regression analysis to assess hedge
effectiveness.  Since 2007, we have had no commodity derivatives
designated as cash flow hedges.



The
effective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges is deferred
inAccumulated other
comprehensive income/(loss)and is recognized inAutomotive cost of saleswhen
the hedged item affects earnings.  The ineffective portion is reported
currently inAutomotive cost
of sales.  Our policy is to de-designate cash flow hedges prior
to the time forecasted transactions are recognized as assets or liabilities on
the balance sheet and report subsequent changes in fair value throughAutomotive cost of
sales.  If it becomes probable that the originally-forecasted
transaction will not occur, the related amount also is reclassified fromAccumulated other comprehensive
income/(loss)and recognized in earnings.  Our cash flow hedges
mature within two years or less.



Fair Value
Hedges.Our Financial Services sector uses derivatives to
reduce the risk of changes in the fair value of liabilities.  We have
designated certain receive-fixed, pay-float interest rate swaps as fair value
hedges of fixed-rate debt under the "long haul" method of assessing
effectiveness.  The risk being hedged is the risk of changes in the
fair value of the hedged debt attributable to changes in the benchmark interest
rate.  We use regression analysis to assess hedge
effectiveness.  If the hedge relationship is deemed to be highly
effective, we record the changes in the fair value of the hedged debt related to
the risk being hedged inFinancial Services debtwith
the offset inFinancial
Services other income/(loss), net.The change in fair
value of the related derivative (excluding accrued interest) also is recorded inFinancial Services other
income/(loss), net.Hedge ineffectiveness, recorded directly
in earnings, is the difference between the two amounts.

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



When a
derivative is de-designated from a fair value hedge relationship, or when the
derivative in a fair value hedge relationship is terminated before maturity, the
fair value adjustment to the hedged debt continues to be reported as part of the
carrying basis of the item and is amortized over its remaining
life.



Net Investment
Hedges.We have used foreign currency exchange derivatives to
hedge the net assets of certain foreign entities to offset the translation and
economic exposures related to our investment in these entities.  The
effective portion of changes in the value of these derivative instruments is
included inAccumulated other
comprehensive income/(loss)as a foreign currency translation adjustment
until the hedged investment is sold or liquidated.  When the
investment is sold or liquidated, the effective portion of the hedge is
recognized inAutomotive
interest income and other non-operating income/(expense), netas part of
the gain or loss on sale.We have had no active
foreign currency derivatives classified as net investment hedges since the first
quarter of 2007.



Normal Purchases and Normal Sales
Classification.For physical supply contracts that are entered
into for the purpose of procuring commodities to be used in production over a
reasonable period in the normal course of our business, we have elected to apply
the normal purchases and normal sales classification.



Income
Effect of Derivative Instruments



The
following table summarizes by hedge designation the pre-tax gains/(losses)
recorded in Other comprehensive income/(loss)("OCI"),reclassified fromAccumulated other comprehensive
income/(loss)("AOCI" ) to incomeand recognized directly
in income (in millions):



2009Gain/(Loss)Recorded
      inOCIGain/(Loss)Reclassifiedfrom
      AOCI toIncomeGain/(Loss)Recognizedin
      IncomeAutomotive
      SectorDesignated
      Cash flow hedges:Foreign
      exchange contracts$(86)$37(a)$(1)Commodity
      contracts—4—Total$(86)$41$(1)Derivatives
      not designated as hedging instruments:Foreign
      exchange contracts – operating exposures (b)$(120)Foreign
      exchange contracts – investment portfolios (c)(11)Commodity
      contracts(4)Other
      – interest rate contracts and
      warrants(20)Total$(155)Financial
      Services SectorFair
      value hedges:Interest
      rate contractsNet
      interest settlements and accruals excluded from the assessment of hedge
      effectiveness$164Ineffectiveness
      (d)(13)Total$151Derivatives
      not designated as hedging instruments:Interest
      rate contracts$(63)Foreign
      exchange contracts (b)(268)Cross
      currency interest rate swap contracts (b)12Total$(319)



(a)Includes
      $4 million gain reclassified from AOCI to income in first quarter
      2009 attributable to transactions no longer probable to occur, primarily
      related to Volvo.(b)Gains/(Losses)
      related to foreign currency derivatives were partially offset by net
      revaluation impacts on foreign denominated assets and liabilities, which
      were recorded to the same statement of operations line item as the
      derivative gains/(losses).(c)Foreign
      exchange contracts – investment portfolios on the balance sheet were $0 at
      December 31, 2009.(d)Hedge
      ineffectiveness reflects change in fair value on derivatives of $46 million
      lossand change in fair value on hedged debtof $33 million
      gain in 2009.

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
26.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES(Continued)



For
our Automotive sector, we report inAutomotive cost
of saleson our consolidated statement of operations gains and losses on
cash flow hedges and foreign exchange contracts on operating exposures and
commodity contracts not designated as hedging instruments.  Gains and
losses on foreign exchange contracts on investment portfolios and other
contracts not designated as hedging instruments are reported inAutomotive
interest income and other non-operating income/(expense),
net.



For our Financial
Services sector, we report net interest settlements and accruals on fair value
hedges (which are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness) inInterest
expenseon our consolidated statement of operations, with the exception
of foreign currency revaluation on accrued interest ($2 million gain in
2009) which is reported inSelling,
administrative, and other expenses.  Ineffectiveness on fair
value hedges and gains and losses on interest rate contracts not designated as
hedging instruments are reported inFinancial
Services other income/(loss), net.  Gains and losses on foreign
exchange and cross currency interest rate swap contracts not designated as
hedging instruments are reported inSelling,
administrative, and other expenses.



Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) Activity



The
following table summarizes activity inAccumulated
other comprehensive income/(loss)related to designated cash flow hedges
for period ended December 31 (in millions):



2009Beginning
      of year: net unrealized gain/(loss) on derivative financial
      instruments$129Increase/(Decrease)
      in fair value of derivatives(86)Gains
      reclassified fromAccumulated other
      comprehensive income/(loss)(41)End
      of year: net unrealized gain/(loss) on derivative financial
      instruments$2



We
expect to reclassify existing net gains of $1 million fromAccumulated
other comprehensive income/(loss)toAutomotive cost
of salesduring the next twelve months as the underlying exposures are
realized.



Balance
Sheet Effect of Derivative Instruments



The
following table summarizes the estimated fair value of our derivative financial
instruments at December 31, 2009 (in millions):



Fair
      Value ofFair
      Value ofNotionalsAssetsLiabilitiesAutomotive
      SectorCash
      flow hedges:Foreign
      exchange contracts$118$—$5Derivatives
      not designated as hedging instruments:Foreign
      exchange contracts – operating exposures4,2555980Commodity
      contracts9801554Other
      – interest rate contracts and warrants180215Total
      derivatives not designated as hedging instruments5,41576149Total
      Automotive sector derivative instruments$5,533$76$154Financial
      Services SectorFair
      value hedges:Interest
      rate contracts$6,309$385$—Derivatives
      not designated as hedging instruments:Interest
      rate contracts68,5271,269846Foreign
      exchange contracts4,3862246Cross
      currency interest rate swap contracts3,873203282Total
      derivatives not designated as hedging instruments76,7861,4941,174Total
      Financial Services sector derivative instruments$83,095$1,879$1,174

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
26.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES(Continued)



In
our consolidated balance sheet, we report derivative assets inOther
assets,and derivative liabilities inPayablesandAccrued
liabilities and deferred revenuefor Automotive and Financial Services
sectors, respectively.



The
notional amounts of the derivative financial instruments do not necessarily
represent amounts exchanged by the parties and, therefore, are not a direct
measure of our exposure to the financial risks described above.  The
amounts exchanged are calculated by reference to the notional amounts and by
other terms of the derivatives, such as interest rates, foreign currency
exchange rates or commodity volumes and prices.



Counterparty
Risk and Collateral



Use
of derivatives exposes us to the risk that a counterparty may default on a
derivative contract.  We establish exposure limits for each
counterparty to minimize this risk and provide counterparty
diversification.  Substantially all of our derivative exposures are
with counterparties that have long-term credit ratings of single-A or
better.  The aggregate fair value of derivative instruments in asset
positions on December 31, 2009 was about $2 billion, representing
the maximum loss that we would recognize at that date if all counterparties
failed to perform as contracted.  We enter into master agreements with
counterparties that generally allow for netting of certain exposures; therefore,
the actual loss we would recognize if all counterparties failed to perform as
contracted would be significantly lower.



We
include an adjustment for non-performance risk in the fair value of derivative
instruments.  At December 31, 2009, our adjustment for
non-performance risk relative to a measure based on an unadjusted inter-bank
deposit rate (e.g., LIBOR) reduced derivative assets by $0 and
$6 million for Automotive and Financial Services sectors, respectively, and
reduced derivative liabilities by $1 million and $13 million for
Automotive and Financial Services sectors, respectively.  See Note 4
for more detail on valuation methodologies.



In
the third quarter of 2009, we began posting cash collateral with certain
counterparties based on our net position with regard to foreign currency and
commodity derivative contracts.  As of December 31, 2009, we
posted $64 million in cash collateral related to derivative instruments,
which is included in restricted cash and reported inOther
assetson our consolidated balance sheet.

FS
- - 83

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
27.  OPERATING CASH FLOWS



The
reconciliation ofNet
income/(loss) attributable to Ford Motor Companyto cash flows from
operating activities of continuing operations is as follows (in
millions):



2009AutomotiveFinancialServicesTotal*Net
      income/(loss) attributable to Ford Motor Company$1,563$1,154$2,717(Income)/Loss
      of discontinued operations(3)(2)(5)Depreciation
      and special tools amortization4,0943,9248,018Other
      amortization174(1,261)(1,087)Impairment
      charges (depreciation and amortization)157154311Held-for-sale
      impairment650—650Provision
      for credit and insurance losses—1,0301,030Net
      (gain)/loss on extinguishment of debt(4,666)(71)(4,737)Net
      (gain)/loss on investment securities(385)(25)(410)Net
      (gain)/loss on pension and OPEB curtailment(4)—(4)Net
      (gain)/loss on settlement of U.S. hourly retiree health care
      obligation248—248Net
      losses/(earnings) from equity investments in excess of dividends
      received1(7)(6)Foreign
      currency adjustments398(323)75Net
      (gain)/loss on sale of businesses29433Stock
      option expense27229Cash
      changes in operating assets and liabilities were as
    follows:Provision
      for deferred income taxes586(1,390)(804)Decrease/(Increase)
      in accounts receivable and other assets392,2052,244Decrease/(Increase)
      in inventory2,333—2,333Increase/(Decrease)
      in accounts payable and accrued and other liabilities(809)(994)(1,803)Other(341)753412Net
      cash (used in)/provided by operating activities$4,091$5,153$9,244__________

*See
      Note 1 for a reconciliation of the sum of the sector cash flows from
      operating activities of continuing operations to the consolidated cash
      flows from operating activities of continuing
  operations.



2008AutomotiveFinancialServicesTotal*Net
      income/(loss) attributable to Ford Motor Company$(13,174)$(1,592)$(14,766)(Income)/Loss
      of discontinued operations—(9)(9)Depreciation
      and special tools amortization5,8037,02312,826Other
      amortization274(643)(369)Impairment
      charges (depreciation and amortization)5,3182,0867,404Held-for-sale
      impairment421—421U.S.
      consolidated dealerships goodwill impairment88—88Provision
      for credit and insurance losses—1,8741,874Net
      (gain)/loss on extinguishment of debt(170)—(170)Net
      (gain)/loss on investment securities1,364121,376Net
      (gain)/loss on pension and OPEB curtailment(2,714)—(2,714)Net
      losses/(earnings) from equity investments in excess of dividends
      received60(4)56Foreign
      currency adjustments(484)(4)(488)Net
      (gain)/loss on sale of businesses551(29)522Stock
      option expense32335Cash
      changes in operating assets and liabilities were as
    follows:Provision
      for deferred income taxes4,602(2,648)1,954Decrease/(Increase)
      in accounts receivable and other assets(1,351)2,4461,095Decrease/(Increase)
      in inventory(358)—(358)Increase/(Decrease)
      in accounts payable and accrued and other liabilities(13,905)1,258(12,647)Other1,203(666)537Net
      cash (used in)/provided by operating activities$(12,440)$9,107$(3,333)__________

*See
      Note 1 for a reconciliation of the sum of the sector cash flows from
      operating activities of continuing operations to the consolidated cash
      flows from operating activities of continuing
  operations.



FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
27.  OPERATING CASH FLOWS(Continued)



2007AutomotiveFinancialServicesTotalNet
      income/(loss) attributable to Ford Motor Company$(3,552)$757$(2,795)(Income)/Loss
      of discontinued operations(35)(6)(41)Depreciation
      and special tools amortization6,7636,28913,052Other
      amortization274521795Goodwill
      impairment2,400—2,400Provision
      for credit and insurance losses—668668Net
      (gain)/loss on extinguishment of debt512—512Net
      (gain)/loss on investment securities60(40)20Net
      (gain)/loss on pension and OPEB curtailment(1,164)—(1,164)Net
      losses/(earnings) from equity investments in excess of dividends
      received(175)—(175)Foreign
      currency adjustments20613219Net
      (gain)/loss on sale of businesses(172)(7)(179)Stock
      option expense70575Cash
      changes in operating assets and liabilities were as
    follows:Provision
      for deferred income taxes(880)(4,597)(5,477)Decrease/(Increase)
      in accounts receivable and other assets313(268)45Decrease/(Increase)
      in inventory371—371Increase/(Decrease)
      in accounts payable and accrued and other liabilities(1,041)2,3891,348Net
      sales/(purchases) of trading securities4,53724,539Other238676914Cash
      flows from operating activities of continuing operations$8,725$6,402$15,127

__________

*See
      Note 1 for a reconciliation of the sum of the sector cash flows from
      operating activities of continuing operations to the consolidated cash
      flows from operating activities of continuing
  operations.



Cash
paid/(received) for interest and income taxes for continuing operations was as
follows (in millions):



200920082007InterestAutomotive
      sector$1,343$2,021$2,584Financial
      Services sector5,5877,6618,346Total
      interest paid$6,930$9,682$10,930Income
      taxes$(643)$685$(223)





NOTE
28.  SEGMENT INFORMATION



Our
operating activity consists of two operating sectors, Automotive and Financial
Services.  Segment selection is based on the organizational structure
we use to evaluate performance and make decisions on resource allocation, as
well as availability and materiality of separate financial results consistent
with that structure.



Automotive
Sector



In 2008,
we changed the reporting structure of our Automotive sector to separately
disclose the following seven segments:  1) Ford North America, 2) Ford
South America, 3) Ford Europe, 4) Ford Asia Pacific Africa, 5) Volvo,
6) Mazda, and 7) Jaguar Land Rover and Aston Martin.  Automotive
sector prior period information has been reclassified into these seven segments,
and is provided for these segments in the table below.  Included in
each segment described below are the associated costs to design, develop,
manufacture, and service vehicles and parts.



Ford
North America segment includes primarily the sale of Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury
brand vehicles and related service parts in North America (the United States,
Canada and Mexico).  In the first quarter of 2008, we changed the
reporting structure of this segment to include the sale of Mazda6 vehicles by
our consolidated subsidiary, AAI (previously included in the results for Ford
Asia Pacific Africa).  We have reclassified prior period information
to reflect this structural change to our segment reporting.

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
28.  SEGMENT INFORMATION(Continued)



Ford
South America segment includes primarily the sale of Ford-brand vehicles and
related service parts in South America.



Ford
Europe segment includes primarily the sale of Ford-brand vehicles and related
service parts in Europe (including all parts of Turkey and Russia).



Ford Asia
Pacific Africa segment includes primarily the sale of Ford-brand vehicles and
related service parts in the Asia Pacific region and South Africa.



The Volvo
segment includes primarily the sale of Volvo-brand vehicles and related service
parts throughout the world (including in North America, South America, Europe,
Asia Pacific, and Africa).



The Mazda
segment includes the equity income/(loss) associated with our investment in
Mazda (33.4% of Mazda's profit after tax before the sale of a portion of our
investment in November 2008), as well as certain of our Mazda-related
investments.  Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2008, our remaining
investment in Mazda (approximately 11%) is treated as marketable
securities.  All mark-to-market adjustments are recorded in Other
Automotive.



Prior to
the sale of these brands, the Jaguar Land Rover and Aston Martin segment
included primarily the sale of Jaguar Land Rover and Aston Martin vehicles and
related service parts throughout the world (including in North America, South
America, Europe, Asia Pacific, and Africa).  In May 2007 and
June 2008, respectively, we completed the sale of Aston Martin and Jaguar
Land Rover; sales of Aston Martin and Jaguar Land Rover vehicles and related
service parts throughout the world are included within this segment for the
period until each brand's respective date of sale.



The Other
Automotive component of the Automotive sector consists primarily of
centrally-managed net interest expense and related fair market value
adjustments.



Transactions
among Automotive segments generally are presented on a "where-sold,"
absolute-cost basis, which reflects the profit/(loss) on the sale within the
segment making the ultimate sale to an external entity.  This
presentation generally eliminates the effect of legal entity transfer prices
within the Automotive sector for vehicles, components, and product
engineering.  Beginning with the first quarter of 2008, income/(loss)
before income taxes on vehicle component sales by Volvo or Jaguar Land Rover to
each other or to any other segment and by the Ford-brand segments to either
Volvo or Jaguar Land Rover are reflected in the results for the segment making
the vehicle component sale.



Financial
Services Sector



The
Financial Services sector includes the following segments: 1) Ford Credit, and
2) Other Financial Services.  Ford Credit provides vehicle-related
financing, leasing, and insurance.  Other Financial Services includes
a variety of businesses including holding companies, real estate, and the
financing and leasing of some Volvo vehicles in Europe.

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
28.  SEGMENT INFORMATION(Continued)



(In
      millions)Automotive
      Sector

2009FordNorthAmericaFordSouthAmericaFordEuropeFord
      AsiaPacificAfricaVolvoMazdaJaguarLandRover
      /AstonMartinOtherTotal

Sales/Revenues

External
      customer$50,514$7,947$29,454$5,531$12,447$—$—$—$105,893

Intersegment347—608—48———1,003

Income

Income/(Loss)
      before income taxes(1,649)745(226)(97)(934)—33,3701,212

Other
      disclosures:

Depreciation
      and special tools amortization2,1561871,371228152———4,094

Amortization
      of intangibles1068—17———86

Interest
      expense———————1,5151,515

Automotive
      interest income55——————154209

Cash
      outflow for capital expenditures2,729300881215420———4,545

Unconsolidated
      affiliates

Equity
      in net income/(loss)88—(89)164(18)———145

Total
      assets at year-end*82,002




Sales/Revenues

External
      customer$53,382$8,647$39,009$6,474$14,679$—$6,974$—$129,165

Intersegment677—761—99—63—1,600

Income

Income/(Loss)
      before income taxes(10,248)1,230970(290)(1,690)(105)32(1,816)(11,917)

Other
      disclosures:

Depreciation
      and special tools amortization8,2721931,645254742—15—11,121

Amortization
      of intangibles777717———99

Interest
      expense———————2,0612,061

Automotive
      interest income61——————890951

Cash
      outflow for capital expenditures3,7182171,669321547—148—6,620

Unconsolidated
      affiliates

Equity
      in net income/(loss)90—(58)107(1)25——163

Total
      assets at year-end*73,815




Sales/Revenues

External
      customer$70,366$7,585$36,330$7,031$17,772$—$15,295$—$154,379

Intersegment523—712—118—153—1,506

Income

Income/(Loss)
      before income taxes(4,139)1,1727442(2,718)182846(1,170)(5,081)

Other
      disclosures:

Depreciation
      and special tools amortization3,8091171,423261770—383—6,763

Amortization
      of intangibles1769717—5—106

Interest
      expense———————2,3632,363

Automotive
      interest income87——————1,6261,713

Cash
      outflow for capital expenditures2,8951831,366258752—517—5,971

Unconsolidated
      affiliates

Equity
      in net income/(loss)66—4130—189——389

Total
      assets at year-end*118,455

__________

*As
reported on our sector balance sheet.

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
28.  SEGMENT INFORMATION(Continued)



(In
      millions)Financial
      Services SectorTotal
      Company

Ford
      CreditOtherFinancialServicesElimsTotalElims
      (a)Total


Sales/Revenues

External
      customer$12,112$303$—$12,415$—$118,308

Intersegment42915—444(1,447)—

Income

Income/(Loss)
      before income taxes2,001(187)—1,814—3,026

Other
      disclosures:

Depreciation
      and special tools amortization3,90334—3,937—8,031

Amortization
      of intangibles—————86

Interest
      expense5,162151—5,313—6,828

Automotive
      interest income—————209

Cash
      outflow for capital expenditures115—16—4,561

Unconsolidated
      affiliates

Equity
      in net income/(loss)1(136)—(135)—10

Total
      assets at year-end (b)117,3448,727(6,959)119,112(3,224)197,890




Sales/Revenues

External
      customer$15,679$270$—$15,949$—$145,114

Intersegment73812—750(2,350)—

Income

Income/(Loss)
      before income taxes(2,559)(22)—(2,581)—(14,498)

Other
      disclosures:

Depreciation
      and special tools amortization9,07237—9,109—20,230

Amortization
      of intangibles—————99

Interest
      expense7,634110—7,744—9,805

Automotive
      interest income—————951

Cash
      outflow for capital expenditures4432—76—6,696

Unconsolidated
      affiliates

Equity
      in net income/(loss)85—13—176

Total
      assets at year-end (b)150,12711,017(9,477)151,667(2,535)222,947




Sales/Revenues

External
      customer$15,955$238$—$16,193$—$170,572

Intersegment76115—776(2,282)—

Income

Income/(Loss)
      before income taxes1,2159—1,224—(3,857)

Other
      disclosures:

Depreciation
      and special tools amortization6,25732—6,289—13,052

Amortization
      of intangibles—————106

Interest
      expense8,63045—8,675—11,038

Automotive
      interest income—————1,713

Cash
      outflow for capital expenditures249—51—6,022

Unconsolidated
      affiliates

Equity
      in net income/(loss)14——14—403

Total
      assets at year-end (b)169,02310,520(10,282)169,261(2,023)285,693

__________

(a)Includes
      intersector transactions occurring in the ordinary course of
      business.

(b)As
      reported on our sector balance
sheet.



FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
29.  GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION



The
following table includes information for both Automotive and Financial Services
sectors (in millions):



200920082007Net
      Sales andRevenuesLong-LivedAssets*Net
      Sales andRevenuesLong-LivedAssets*Net
      Sales andRevenuesLong-LivedAssets*North
      AmericaUnited
      States$54,377$22,489$60,481$29,158$80,237$37,174Canada7,9745,0007,9646,3699,33210,280Mexico/Other1,3361,3932,2249502,2531,054Total
      North America63,68728,88270,66936,47791,82248,508EuropeUnited
      Kingdom8,4482,38814,4062,25916,6342,899Germany7,8433,4689,1463,8458,2393,849Italy4,529535,052315,53744France3,1025043,5545023,580581Spain2,1741,2803,5501,2235,0391,198Russia1,5732405,2112214,647166Belgium1,4601,2292,0291,3301,9121,621Other8,97634413,28642414,203842Total
      Europe38,1059,50656,2349,83559,79111,200All
      Other16,5163,66018,2113,08118,9593,871Total
      Company$118,308$42,048$145,114$49,393$170,572$63,579

__________

*IncludesNet investment in
      operating leasesandNet propertyfrom our
      consolidated balance sheet.



NOTE
30.  SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (unaudited)



(In
      millions, except per share amounts)20092008FirstQuarterSecondQuarterThirdQuarterFourthQuarterFirstQuarterSecondQuarterThirdQuarterFourthQuarterAutomotive
      SectorSales$21,368$23,989$27,870$32,666$39,117$37,057$27,733$25,258Operating
      income/(loss)(2,338)(1,568)667533552(5,892)(8)(3,945)Income/(Loss)
      before income taxes(1,468)1,776545359222(6,639)(732)(4,768)Financial
      Services SectorRevenues3,4103,2003,0222,7834,1754,0454,0133,716Income/(Loss)
      before income taxes(152)59567070164(2,420)159(384)Total
      CompanyIncome/(Loss)
      before income taxes(1,620)2,3711,2151,060286(9,059)(573)(5,152)Amounts
      Attributable to Ford Motor Company Common and Class B
      ShareholdersIncome/(Loss)
      from continuing operationsbefore
      cumulative effects of changes inaccounting
      principles(1,427)2,25699788669(8,705)(161)(5,978)Net
      income/(loss)(1,427)2,26199788670(8,697)(161)(5,978)Common
      and Class B per share from income/(loss) from continuing operations before
      cumulative effects of changes in accounting principlesBasic(0.60)0.750.310.270.03(3.89)(0.07)(2.51)Diluted(0.60)0.690.290.250.03(3.89)(0.07)(2.51)



Certain
of the quarterly results identified above include material unusual or
infrequently occurring items as follows:



The
pre-tax loss of $1.6 billion in the first quarter of 2009 includes a
$1.1 billion gain (net of transaction costs) related to Ford Credit's
acquisition of $2.2 billion principal amount of our secured term loan for
$1.1 billion of cash, a $292 million reduction of expense related to a
change in benefits and our ability to redeploy employees, and a
$650 million impairment charge related to our total investment in
Volvo.

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE
30.  SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (unaudited)(Continued)



The
pre-tax income of $2.4 billion in the second quarter of 2009 includes a
$2.2 billion gain (net of transaction costs, unamortized discounts,
premiums and fees) related to Ford Credit's acquisition of $3.4 billion
principal amount of our public unsecured debt securities for $1.1 billion,
a $1.2 billion gain related to a conversion offer on our
2036 Convertible Notes, and a $281 million foreign exchange
translation loss related to the liquidation of Progress Ford Sales
Limited.



The
pre-tax income of $1.1 billion in the fourth quarter of 2009 includes a
$310 million charge related to the announced closure of our St. Thomas
Assembly Plant in Canada, and a $264 million charge related to the
settlement of the UAW retiree health care obligation.



The
pre-tax income of $286 million in the first quarter of 2008 includes
$340 million in charges related to worldwide personnel-reduction
programs.



The
pre-tax loss of $9.1 billion in the second quarter of 2008 includes a
$5.3 billion impairment charge related to North America long-lived assets,
a $2.1 billion impairment charge related to Ford Credit operating leases in
its North America segment, and a $285 million loss related to the sale of
our ACH glass business.



The
pre-tax loss of $573 million in the third quarter of 2008 includes a
$2.6 billion OPEB curtailment gain, a $344 million reduction of
expense primarily related to employees at three ACH plants who were no longer
probable to be permanently idled, and a $290 million loss related to
returns on the TAA.



The
pre-tax loss of $5.2 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008 reflects the
sudden and dramatic decline in vehicle industry sales volume, particularly in
the United State and Europe, and a $259 million loss related to returns on
the TAA.



NOTE
31.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES



Guarantees
are recorded at fair value at the inception of the
guarantee.  Litigation and claims are accrued when losses are deemed
probable and reasonably estimable.



Estimated
warranty costs and additional service actions are accrued for at the time the
vehicle is sold to a dealer, including costs for basic warranty coverage on
vehicles sold, product recalls, and other customer service
actions.  Fees or premiums for the issuance of extended service plans
are recognized in income over the contract period in proportion to the costs
expected to be incurred in performing services under the contract.



Guarantees



At
December 31, 2009 and 2008, the following guarantees and
indemnifications were issued and outstanding:



Guarantees related to affiliates and
third parties.We guarantee debt and lease obligations of
certain joint ventures, as well as certain financial obligations of outside
third parties including suppliers to support our business and economic
growth.  Expiration dates vary through 2017, and guarantees will
terminate on payment and/or cancellation of the obligation.  A payment
by us would be triggered by failure of the guaranteed party to fulfill its
obligation covered by the guarantee.  In some circumstances, we are
entitled to recover from the third party amounts paid by us under the
guarantee.  However, our ability to enforce these rights is sometimes
stayed until the guaranteed party is paid in full, and may be limited in the
event of insolvency of the third party or other
circumstances.  Maximum potential payments under guarantees total
$215 million for 2009 and $206 million for 2008.  The
carrying value of our recorded liabilities related to guarantees was
$30 million and $24 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.  Our performance risk under these guarantees is reviewed
regularly, and has resulted in no changes to our initial
valuations.

FS -

FORD MOTOR
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE 31.  COMMITMENTS AND
CONTINGENCIES(Continued)



In
December 2005, we completed the sale of Hertz.  As part of this
transaction, we provided cash-collateralized letters of credit in an aggregate
amount of $200 million to support the asset-backed portion of the buyer's
financing for the transaction.  Our commitment to provide the letters
of credit expires no later than December 21, 2011 and supports the
payment obligations of Hertz Vehicle Finance LLC under one or more series of
asset-backed notes.  The letters of credit can be drawn upon on any
date funds allocated to pay interest on the asset-backed notes are insufficient
to payscheduled
interest payments, principal amounts due on the legal final maturity date, or
when the balance of assets supporting the asset-backed notes is less than the
outstanding balance of the asset-backed notes.  The carrying value of
our deferred gain related to the letters of credit was $9 million and
$14 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.  We believe future performance under these letters of
credit is remote.



Indemnifications.In
the ordinary course of business, we execute contracts involving indemnifications
standard in the industry and indemnifications specific to a transaction, such as
the sale of a business.  These indemnifications might include claims
relating to any of the following: environmental, tax, and shareholder matters;
intellectual property rights; power generation contracts; governmental
regulations and employment-related matters; dealers, supplier, and other
commercial contractual relationships; and financial matters, such as
securitizations.  Performance under these indemnities generally would
be triggered by a breach of terms of the contract or by a third-party
claim.



As part
of the sale of Jaguar Land Rover, we provided the buyer a customary set of
indemnifications, some of which were subject to an aggregate limit of $805
million (which expired June 1, 2009) and some of which (e.g., warranties related
to our capacity and authority to enter into the transaction, our ownership of
the companies sold and the shares of those companies being free from
encumbrances and certain tax covenants) are unlimited in
amount.  Outstanding claims relating to the $805 million
indemnification as well as indemnifications relating to certain warranties
described in the preceding sentence continue.  We believe that the
probability of payment under these claims and indemnifications is
remote.



We also
are party to numerous indemnifications which do not limit potential payment;
therefore, we are unable to estimate a maximum amount of potential future
payments that could result from claims made under these
indemnities.



Litigation
and Claims



Various
legal actions, governmental investigations, and proceedings and claims are
pending or may be instituted or asserted in the future against us, including but
not limited to those arising out of alleged defects in our products;
governmental regulations relating to safety, emissions and fuel economy, or
other matters; government incentives related to capital investments; tax
matters; financial services; employment-related matters; dealer, supplier, and
other contractual relationships; intellectual property rights; product
warranties; environmental matters; shareholder or investor matters; and
financial reporting matters.  Certain of the pending legal actions
are, or purport to be, class actions.  Some of the foregoing matters
involve or may involve compensatory, punitive, or antitrust or other treble
damage claims in very large amounts, or demands for recall campaigns,
environmental remediation programs, sanctions, loss of government incentives,
assessments, or other relief, which, if granted, would require very large
expenditures.



Litigation
is subject to many uncertainties, and the outcome of individual litigated
matters is not predictable with assurance.  We have established
accruals for certain of the matters discussed in the foregoing paragraph where
losses are deemed probable and reasonably estimable.  It is reasonably
possible, however, that some of the matters discussed in the foregoing paragraph
for which accruals have not been established could be decided unfavorably to us
and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts or a
range of amounts that cannot be estimated at
December 31, 2009.  We do not reasonably expect, based on
our analysis, that such matters would have a material effect on future financial
statements for a particular year, although such an outcome is
possible.



Warranty



Included
in the warranty cost accruals are costs for basic warranty coverages on vehicles
sold.  Additional service actions, such as product recalls and other
customer service actions, are not included in the warranty reconciliation below,
but are also accrued for at the time of sale.  Estimates for warranty
costs are made based primarily on historical warranty claim
experience.  Product warranty accruals accounted for inAccrued liabilities and deferred
revenueat December 31 were as follows (in millions):



20092008Beginning
      balance$3,346$4,209Payments
      made during the period(2,481)(2,747)Changes
      in accrual related to warranties issued during the period1,5611,969Changes
      in accrual related to pre-existing warranties672153Foreign
      currency translation and other121(238)Ending
      balance$3,219$3,346



FS -

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm





To the
Board of Directors and Stockholders

Ford
Motor Company:





Internal Control - Integrated
Framework



Our
audits were conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole.  The accompanying sector balance
sheets and the related sector statements of income and of cash flows are
presented for purposes of additional analysis and are not a required part of the
basic financial statements.  Such information has been subjected to the
auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and,
in our opinion, are fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the
basic financial statements taken as a whole.



As
discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
changed the manner in which it accounts for noncontrolling interests and
convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion
(including partial cash settlement) in 2009.  As discussed in Note 23
to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in
which it accounts for uncertain tax positions in 2007.



A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company’s internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of
the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and
(iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection
of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that
could have a material effect on the financial statements.





FS -



Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation
of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate./s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLPPricewaterhouseCoopers
LLPDetroit,
MichiganFebruary
25, 2010







FS - 93

FORD
MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



Schedule
II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

(in
millions)





DescriptionBalance
      atBeginning
      ofPeriodCharged
      toCosts
      andExpensesDeductionsBalance
      at Endof
      PeriodFor
      the Year Ended December 31, 2009Allowances
      deducted from assetsCredit
      losses$1,681$977$1,093(a)$1,565Doubtful
      receivables (b)204291(4)(c)499Inventories
      (primarily service part obsolescence) (b)280(14)(d)—266Deferred
      tax assets17,268183(f)—17,451Total
      allowances deducted from assets$19,433$1,437$1,089$19,781For
      the Year Ended December 31, 2008Allowances
      deducted from assetsCredit
      losses$1,102$1,773$1,194(a)$1,681Doubtful
      receivables (b)1755526(c)204Inventories
      (primarily service part obsolescence) (b)309(29)(d)—280Deferred
      tax assets (e)7,9889,280(f)—17,268Total
      allowances deducted from assets$9,574$11,079$1,220$19,433For
      the Year Ended December 31, 2007Allowances
      deducted from assetsCredit
      losses$1,121$592$611(a)$1,102Doubtful
      receivables (b)1546(15)(c)175Inventories
      (primarily service part obsolescence) (b)350(41)(d)—309Deferred
      tax assets (e)7,293695(f)—7,988Total
      allowances deducted from assets$8,918$1,252$596$9,574

__________

(a)Finance
      receivables and lease investments deemed to be uncollectible and other
      changes, principally amounts related to finance receivables sold and
      translation adjustments.

(b)Excludes
      Jaguar Land Rover and Volvo.

(c)Accounts
      and notes receivable deemed to be uncollectible as well as translation
      adjustments.

(d)Net
      change in inventory allowances.  Excludes Jaguar Land Rover and
      Volvo

(e)Includes
      Jaguar Land Rover.

(f)Includes
      $1.1 billion, $1.1billion,
      and $156 million
      in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, of valuation allowance for deferred
      tax assets throughAccumulated other
      comprehensive income/(loss)and $(879) million,
      $8.2 billion,and$539 millionin 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, of valuation allowance for deferred
      tax assets through the statement of operations.





FSS - 1

