ITEM 1.Business.



Ford Motor Company (referred to herein as "Ford," the "Company," "we," "our," or "us") was incorporated in Delaware in 1919.  We acquired the business of a Michigan company, also known as Ford Motor Company, which had been incorporated in 1903 to produce and sell automobiles designed and engineered by Henry Ford.  We are one of the world's largest producers of automobiles.  We and our subsidiaries also engage in other businesses, including financing vehicles.



In addition to the information about Ford and our subsidiaries contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 ("2012 Form 10-K Report" or "Report"), extensive information about our Company can be found atwww.corporate.ford.com, including information about our management team, our brands and products, and our corporate governance principles.



The corporate governance information on our website includes our Corporate Governance Principles, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Personnel, Code of Ethics for the Board of Directors, Code of Corporate Conduct for all employees, and the Charters for each of the Committees of our Board of Directors.  In addition, any amendments to our Code of Ethics or waivers granted to our directors and executive officers will be posted in this area of our website.  All of these documents may be accessed by going to our corporate website and clicking on "Our Company," then "Corporate Governance," and then "Corporate Governance Policies," or may be obtained free of charge by writing to our Shareholder Relations Department, Ford Motor Company, One American Road, P.O. Box 1899, Dearborn, Michigan 48126-1899.



In addition, all of our recent periodic report filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge through our website.  This includes recent Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those Reports.  Recent Section 16 filings made with the SEC by the Company or any of our executive officers or directors with respect to our Common Stock also are made available free of charge through our website.  We post each of these documents on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after it is electronically filed with the SEC.



To access our SEC reports or amendments or the Section 16 filings, go to our corporate website and click "Our Company," then "Investor Relations," then "Reports and SEC Filings," and then "SEC Filings," which links to a list of reports filed with the SEC.  Our reports filed with the SEC also may be found on the SEC's website atwww.sec.gov.



The foregoing information regarding our website and its content is for convenience only and not deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Report nor filed with the SEC.










ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)



OVERVIEW



Segments.We review and present our business results in two sectors:  Automotive and Financial Services.  Within these sectors, our business is divided into reportable segments based on the organizational structure that we use to evaluate performance and make decisions on resource allocation, as well as availability and materiality of separate financial results consistent with that structure.



The reportable segments within our Automotive and Financial Services sectors at December 31, 2012 were as described in the table below:

Business SectorReportable Segments (a)DescriptionAutomotive:Ford North AmericaPrimarily includes the sale of Ford- and Lincoln-brand vehicles, service parts, and accessories in North America (the United States, Canada, and Mexico), together with the associated costs to develop, manufacture, distribute, and service the vehicles, parts, and accessories. (b)Ford South AmericaPrimarily includes the sale of Ford-brand vehicles, service parts, and accessories in South America, together with the associated costs to develop, manufacture, distribute, and service the vehicles, parts, and accessories.Ford EuropePrimarily includes the sale of Ford-brand vehicles, components, service parts, and accessories in Europe, Turkey, and Russia, together with the associated costs to develop, manufacture, distribute, and service the vehicles, parts, and accessories.Ford Asia Pacific AfricaPrimarily includes the sale of Ford-brand vehicles, service parts, and accessories in the Asia Pacific region and South Africa, together with the associated costs to develop, manufacture, distribute, and service the vehicles, parts, and accessories.Financial Services:Ford Motor Credit CompanyPrimarily includes vehicle-related financing, leasing, and insurance.Other Financial ServicesIncludes a variety of businesses including holding companies and real estate.

__________

(a)We have experienced a number of changes to our reportable segments within the last five years, including the following:

•We discontinued the Mercury brand as of the end of 2010.

•We sold our Volvo operations on August 2, 2010.

•Based on significant reductions in our stock ownership, beginning with the fourth quarter of 2008 we have accounted for our interest in Mazda Motor Corporation ("Mazda") as a marketable security (instead of as an operating segment).

•We sold our Jaguar Land Rover operations on June 2, 2008.

•We sold Aston Martin on May 31, 2007.

(b)For periods prior to January 1, 2009, this segment also included the sale of Mazda6 vehicles produced by our then-consolidated affiliate AutoAlliance International, Inc. ("AAI").  AAI was an unconsolidated affiliate in 2009 - 2011, but was restructured in 2012 and consolidated.










ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)



AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR



General



Our vehicle brands are Ford and Lincoln.  In 2012, we sold approximately 5,668,000 vehicles at wholesale throughout the world.  See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" ("Item 7") for discussion of our calculation of wholesale unit volumes.



Substantially all of our vehicles, parts, and accessories are marketed through retail dealers in North America, and through distributors and dealers outside of North America (collectively, "dealerships"), the substantial majority of which are independently owned.  At December 31, 2012, the approximate number of dealerships worldwide distributing our vehicle brands was as follows:

BrandNumber of Dealershipsat December 31, 2012Ford10,537Ford-Lincoln (combined)876Lincoln206Total11,619



We do not depend on any single customer or small group of customers to the extent that the loss of such customer or group of customers would have a material adverse effect on our business.



In addition to the products we sell to our dealerships for retail sale, we also sell vehicles to our dealerships for sale to fleet customers, including commercial fleet customers, daily rental car companies, and governments.  We also sell parts and accessories, primarily to our dealerships (which in turn sell these products to retail customers) and to authorized parts distributors (which in turn primarily sell these products to retailers).  Through our dealerships, we also offer extended service contracts to retail customers.



The worldwide automotive industry, Ford included, is affected significantly by general economic conditions, among other factors, over which we have little control.  This is especially so because vehicles are durable goods, which provide consumers latitude in determining whether and when to replace an existing vehicle.  The decision whether to purchase a vehicle may be affected significantly by slowing economic growth, geopolitical events, and other factors (including the cost of purchasing and operating cars and trucks and the availability and cost of credit and fuel).  As we recently have seen in the United States and Europe, in particular, the number of cars and trucks sold may vary substantially from year to year.  Further, the automotive industry is a highly competitive business that has a wide and growing variety of product offerings from a growing number of manufacturers.



Our wholesale unit volumes vary with the level of total industry demand and our share of that industry demand.  In the short term, our wholesale unit volumes also are influenced by the level of dealer inventory.  Our share is influenced by how our products are perceived in comparison to those offered by other manufacturers based on many factors, including price, quality, styling, reliability, safety, fuel efficiency, functionality, and reputation.  Our share also is affected by the timing and frequency of new model introductions.  Our ability to satisfy changing consumer preferences with respect to type or size of vehicle, as well as design and performance characteristics, impacts our sales and earnings significantly.



As with other manufacturers, the profitability of our business is affected by many factors, including:



•Wholesale unit volumes

•Margin of profit on each vehicle sold - which in turn is affected by many factors, such as:

▪Market factors - volume and mix of vehicles and options sold, and net pricing (reflecting, among other factors, incentive programs)

▪Costs of components and raw materials necessary for production of vehicles

▪Costs for customer warranty claims and additional service actions

▪Costs for safety, emissions, and fuel economy technology and equipment

•A high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, so that small changes in wholesale unit volumes can significantly affect overall profitability



Our industry has a very competitive pricing environment, driven in part by industry excess capacity, particularly in mature markets such as North America and Europe.  For the past several decades, manufacturers typically have given








ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)



price discounts and other marketing incentives to maintain market share and production levels.  A discussion of our strategies to compete in this pricing environment is set forth in the "Overview" section in Item 7.



Competitive Position.The worldwide automotive industry consists of many producers, with no single dominant producer.  Certain manufacturers, however, account for the major percentage of total sales within particular countries, especially their countries of origin.  Key competitors with global presence include Fiat-Chrysler, General Motors Company, Honda Motor Company, Hyundai-Kia Automotive Group, PSA Peugeot Citroen, Renault-Nissan B.V., Suzuki Motor Corporation, Toyota Motor Corporation, and Volkswagen AG Group.



Seasonality.We generally record the sale of a vehicle (and recognize revenue) when it is produced and shipped or delivered to our customer (i.e., the dealership).  See the "Overview" section in Item 7 for additional discussion of revenue recognition practices.



We manage our vehicle production schedule based on a number of factors, including retail sales (i.e., units sold by our dealerships to their customers at retail) and dealer stock levels (i.e., the number of units held in inventory by our dealerships for sale to their customers).  In the past, we have experienced some seasonal fluctuation in the business, with production in many markets tending to be higher in the first half of the year to meet demand in the spring and summer (typically the strongest sales months of the year).



Raw Materials.We purchase a wide variety of raw materials from numerous suppliers around the world for use in production of our vehicles.  These materials include ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), non-ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), energy (e.g., natural gas), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene).  We believe that we have adequate supplies or sources of availability of raw materials necessary to meet our needs.  There always are risks and uncertainties with respect to the supply of raw materials, however, which could impact availability in sufficient quantities to meet our needs.  See the "Overview" section of Item 7 for a discussion of commodity and energy price trends, and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" ("Item 7A") for a discussion of commodity price risks.



Backlog Orders.We generally produce and ship our products on average within approximately 20 days after an order is deemed to become firm.  Therefore, no significant amount of backlog orders accumulates during any period.



Intellectual Property.We own or hold licenses to use numerous patents, copyrights, and trademarks on a global basis.  Our policy is to protect our competitive position by, among other methods, filing U.S. and international patent applications to protect technology and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business.  We have generated a large number of patents, and expect this portfolio to continue to grow as we actively pursue additional technological innovation.  We currently have approximately 20,600 active patents and pending patent applications globally, with an average age for patents in our active patent portfolio of just under five and a half years.  In addition to this intellectual property, we also rely on our proprietary knowledge and ongoing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position.  Although we believe that these patents, patent applications, and know-how, in the aggregate, are important to the conduct of our business, and we obtain licenses to use certain intellectual property owned by others, none is individually considered material to our business.  We also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of our Company and its products and services globally.  Certain of these marks are integral to the conduct of our business, a loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.



Warranty Coverage and Additional Service Actions.We currently provide warranties on vehicles we sell.  Warranties are offered for specific periods of time and/or mileage, and vary depending upon the type of product, usage of the product, and the geographic location of its sale.  In compliance with regulatory requirements, we also provide emissions-defects and emissions-performance warranty coverage.  Pursuant to these warranties, we will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship during the specified warranty period.  In addition to the costs associated with this warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also incur costs as a result of additional service actions, including product recalls and customer satisfaction actions.



For additional information regarding warranty and related costs, see "Critical Accounting Estimates" in Item 7 and Note 31 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.








ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)



Industry Sales Volume



Industry sales volume is an internal estimate based on publicly-available data collected from various government, private, and public sources around the globe.  The following chart shows industry sales volume for the last five years for certain key markets in each region, and for the total we track within each of our Ford North America, Ford South America, Ford Europe, and Ford Asia Pacific Africa regions (in millions of units):

Industry Sales Volume (a)20122011201020092008United States14.813.011.810.613.5Canada1.71.61.61.51.7Mexico1.00.90.80.81.1Ford North America17.515.514.212.916.3Brazil3.83.63.53.12.8Argentina0.80.80.70.50.6Ford South America (b)5.65.45.04.24.3Britain2.32.22.32.22.5Germany3.43.53.24.03.4Ford Europe (c)14.015.315.315.916.6Turkey0.80.90.80.60.5Russia3.02.72.01.53.1China18.918.418.314.19.9India3.63.33.12.32.0Australia1.11.01.00.91.0South Africa0.50.50.40.40.5ASEAN (d)3.42.62.41.92.0Ford Asia Pacific Africa (e)33.430.430.724.520.9

______________

(a)Throughout this Report, industry sales volume and wholesale unit volumes include sales of medium and heavy trucks.

(b)Ford South America industry sales volume and market share are based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations for the six markets we track in the region (i.e., Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and Venezuela).

(c)Ford Europe industry sales volume and market share are based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations for the 19 markets we track (i.e., Austria, Belgium, Britain, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland); sales of Ford-brand vehicles in Turkey and Russia by our unconsolidated affiliates Ford Otomotiv Sanayi Anonim Sirketi ("Ford Otosan") and Ford Sollers Netherlands B.V. ("FordSollers"), respectively, contribute to Ford Europe's wholesale unit volumes, but are not reflected in industry sales volume or market share for the region.

(d)ASEAN includes Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, and Vietnam.

(e)Ford Asia Pacific Africa industry sales volume and market share are based, in part, on estimated vehicle sales for the 12 markets we track (i.e., Australia, China, Japan, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam); market share data for 2008 to the present include Ford and local-brand vehicles produced by our unconsolidated affiliates, including our Chinese joint venture Jiangling Motors Corporation, Ltd. ("JMC").










ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)



Ford North America



The following tables show our wholesales and market share by market in North America:

Wholesales (a)(in thousands)20122011201020092008United States2,3022,2241,9471,5631,825Canada281273278223198Mexico83888880134Ford North America (b)2,7842,6862,4131,9272,329

______________

(a) Throughout this Report, wholesale unit volumes include all Ford-badged units (whether produced by Ford or by an unconsolidated affiliate), units manufactured by Ford that are sold to other manufacturers and units distributed for other manufacturers, and JMC-brand vehicles produced by our unconsolidated affiliate.  Revenue from certain vehicles in wholesale unit volumes (specifically, Ford-badged vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates, and JMC-brand vehicles produced by our unconsolidated affiliate) are not included in our revenue.  Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option, as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), are included in wholesale unit volumes.

(b)Throughout this Report, regional wholesale unit volumes include wholesales to various export markets.

Market Share (a)20122011201020092008United States15.2%16.5%16.4%15.3%14.2%Canada16.117.116.915.212.6Mexico8.29.410.511.812.1

______________

(a)  Throughout this Report, market share represents reported retail sales of our brands as a percent of total industry sales volume in the relevant market (as opposed to wholesale unit volumes reflecting sales directly by us to our customers, generally our dealers).



United States.The competitive environment in the United States continues to intensify as foreign manufacturers continue to increase both imports to the United States and production capacity in North America.  During 2012, Japanese manufacturers fully recovered from the production disruptions caused by natural disasters the previous year, production capacity expanded, and post-recessionary new product cadence strengthened among most manufacturers.



Overall, we see a long-term industry trend toward smaller and more fuel-efficient vehicles; the small car segment has increased its share from 14% in 2004 to nearly 21% in 2012 - one of the most significant segment shifts in the industry.  Sales of small cars showed the strongest expansion of any vehicle segment in 2012, posting a 23% increase compared with overall industry expansion of just 13%.  At the same time, our sales of small cars were up 29% in 2012, giving us just over 10% of the small car segment, more than a full percentage point increase compared to 2010, and our best share of the U.S. small car segment since 2003.



Mid-size cars were the fastest-growing segment of the U.S. industry following small cars.  In 2012, this segment grew 21%, to represent just over 17% of U.S. industry - the segment's largest share in more than a decade.  This growth can be attributed largely to the strong launch cadence of new products in the segment during 2012.  Since many of the all-new high-volume mid-size cars were launched in the second half of 2012 - including our 2013 Fusion launched in September 2012 - this segment of industry should continue to benefit from last year's launch activity.



Small car-based utilities grew at a slightly slower rate during 2012, at 12%, with segment share of the U.S. industry flat compared with the prior year at about 13%.  This segment likely will continue to grow in the years to come, as the number of "baby boomers" moving toward "empty nester" status continues to multiply.  Our Escape small utility produced another record sales year in 2012, with more than 260,000 vehicles sold - its best sales since launch of the vehicle in 2000.  In 2012, Ford was the number-one selling brand of utility in America for the second straight year.



Although the full-size pickup segment has begun to grow, its share of total U.S. industry has remained flat over the last three years at approximately 11.5%.  We will need to see a continued and sustainable recovery in the construction industry (including new housing starts) in order to see the full-size pickup segment increase significantly as a percentage of total industry sales.  Another factor that could positively influence full-size pickup truck sales in the years to come is the unusually high average age of the truck population, which is now at 10 years.  Within the full-size pickup truck segment, our F-Series retains strong market leadership, marking its 36thstraight year as America's best-selling pickup and its 31ststraight year as America's best-selling vehicle.  With a total of more than 645,000 pickups sold, F-Series grabbed 39% share of the full-size pickup segment during 2012, its highest share since 2001.










ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)



Our strong U.S. vehicle sales in 2012 reflected our balanced portfolio of fuel-efficient vehicles, as our passenger cars, utilities, and trucks each reported gains last year.



The data above include both retail and fleet sales.  Fleet sales include sales to commercial fleet customers, daily rental car companies, and governments; in general, fleet sales tend to be less profitable than retail sales.  In 2012, fleet sales were 30% of our total sales, compared with 32% in 2011; the majority was with commercial and government customers, which are more profitable than daily rentals.  In 2012, our daily rental business was 12% of total sales, equal to a year ago and to industry average.  As the leading manufacturer of commercial vehicles in the United States, commercial buyers are increasingly choosing Ford cars and crossovers because of our improved resale values, and continue to favor Ford trucks and vans.



Canada.Industry sales volume in Canada grew 6% in 2012.  Within that total, car sales increased by 1.7 percentage points to 45% of overall industry vehicle sales, while truck sales decreased to 55% of industry sales volume.  Our sales performance in the market earned Ford Canada the sales leadership title for the third year in a row.  In 2012, Ford Canada earned segment leadership with Mustang, Escape, Explorer, F-150, and Super Duty.  F-Series maintained truck leadership for the 47thstraight year, achieving record sales of more than 106,000 units.



Mexico.Industry sales volume in Mexico grew 9% during 2012.  The sales performance of our Fiesta and Ikon in the B-car segment - which is the fastest growing segment in the industry - favorably impacted our market share, although the improvement was limited by production availability.  The main contributors to share decline were discontinuation of Courier, balance-out of the EcoSport in advance of introduction of the new model, limited availability of the new Escape, and suspension of the free trade agreement with Argentina that affected import of Ranger pickups.  Our plans for near-term market share growth include continuing to pursue volume opportunities in the core B- and C-car segments and small SUVs by leveraging new product launches.



Ford South America



As indicated, we track industry sales and market share for six markets in South America - Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and Venezuela.  Ford South America's wholesales data are more inclusive, tracking Ford-brand vehicles in nearly every market in the region.  Brazil and Argentina are our highest-volume South American markets.  In particular, Brazil's economy and demographics, with growing per capita income, low vehicle ownership rates, and a young population, have allowed its automotive market to more than double since 2002.  These favorable factors are expected to continue to contribute to growth in vehicle sales in Brazil.  The following tables show our wholesales and market share in the largest markets and in total:

Wholesales(in thousands)20122011201020092008Brazil336346358336297Argentina107105856677Ford South America498506489443435

Market Share20122011201020092008Brazil9.1%9.5%10.4%10.3%10.0%Argentina12.312.912.413.312.4Ford South America9.09.39.810.29.7



The competition in Brazil continues to intensify, as a number of automotive manufacturers bring online substantial capacity increases in the market.  The intensifying competitive environment is putting pressure on industry net pricing; in the second half of 2012, we successfully initiated efforts to leverage our One Ford plan by introducing global products (e.g., EcoSport small utility and Ranger pickup), with additional global products to come that will continue to benefit us in this market.  The competitive environment, including new trade barriers and currency risks across the region, especially in Venezuela, may limit our growth in certain countries.



Ford Europe



The automotive industry in Europe is intensely competitive, and expected to intensify further as Japanese and Korean manufacturers increase production capacity in the region and manufacturers of premium brands (e.g., BMW, Mercedes-Benz and Audi) continue to broaden product offerings.








ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)



As indicated, our industry and market share measures focus on the following traditional 19 markets in Europe:  Austria, Belgium, Britain, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland.  Ford Europe's wholesales are more inclusive, tracking Ford-brand vehicles in every market in the region, including wholesales in Turkey and Russia from our unconsolidated affiliates Ford Otosan and FordSollers.



The nearly ten percent decline in industry sales volume for the 19 markets we track in Europe in 2012 compared with 2011 largely reflected the impact of the continuing Eurozone crisis and associated issues, and was heavily affected by the economic environment in Italy and Spain.

Wholesales(in thousands)20122011201020092008Ford Europe1,3531,6021,5731,5681,820

Market Share20122011201020092008Ford Europe7.9%8.3%8.4%9.1%8.6%



Ford was again the second best-selling car brand in our traditional 19 markets in 2012 - a position we have maintained for the past five years.  Our continued market strength reflects the strong momentum of our new vehicles, including the B-MAX recently launched in October 2012.



Within the 19 markets we track, Britain and Germany are our highest-volume markets.  Any change in the British or German market has a significant effect on the results of Ford Europe.  The following tables show our wholesales and market share for Britain and Germany (which are included within the traditional 19 markets data above):

Wholesales(in thousands)20122011201020092008Britain337342341354415Germany208250216286250

Market Share20122011201020092008Britain14.9%15.0%15.0%16.8%16.4%Germany6.87.46.97.67.0



Britain.Industry sales volume in Britain began to decline in 2008 with the global financial crisis, and since 2009 has remained in the 2.2 million - 2.3 million unit range (compared with 2.8 million units in 2007).  Britain was the only market  among our traditional 19 markets in Europe that experienced an increase in industry sales volume in 2012, increasing 3.8% compared with the prior year.  We had a slight decrease in our market share in 2012 compared with the prior year, with Ford continuing as the market share leader in Britain.  Unusually high market share in 2009 was driven by the launch of the popular Ford Ka and Fiesta small cars, coincident with the implementation of a government vehicle scrappage program designed to stimulate vehicle sales.



Germany.With 3.4 million new vehicle registrations in 2012, Germany's industry sales volume remained almost unchanged compared with the prior year.  Germany remains the largest vehicle market in the European Union.  Our decrease in market share in 2012 compared with the prior year primarily reflected competitive market pressures, as well as our reduced participation in low-margin business such as daily rental and demonstration vehicles.



Turkey and Russia.Although not included in results for the 19 European markets discussed above, Turkey and Russia also contribute to our Ford Europe segment results. The following tables show our wholesales and market share for the last five years:

Wholesales(in thousands)20122011201020092008Turkey1081401307978Russia1341249374183








ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)



Market Share20122011201020092008Turkey13.8%15.8%15.8%15.1%14.7%Russia4.34.34.65.56.1



Turkey.Industry growth slowed in 2008 as a result of the global financial crisis.  Beginning in 2009, industry vehicle sales accelerated due to government incentives put in place, with significant continuous increase in 2010 and 2011.  In 2012, however, industry decreased by 10% compared with the prior year, largely driven by increased consumption and gasoline taxes.  Our wholesales were affected by this industry downturn, and we experienced a share drop compared with the prior year, although Ford remains the leading automotive company for the 11thconsecutive year.



Russia.Following a 50% contraction in 2009 as a result of the impact of the global financial crisis reaching Russia, industry sales volume has returned almost to pre-crisis levels, with industry sales volume of 3 million units in 2012.  Russia is the second-largest market for vehicle sales in Europe, and is expected to become the largest over the next several years.  Our sales grew by 8% in 2012, led by strong Transit sales.  As previously reported, our Russian operations became part of the new FordSollers joint venture which began operations in October 2011.  We expect this joint venture to contribute to our ability to continue to grow profitably in this rapidly expanding market.



Ford Asia Pacific Africa



Ford Asia Pacific Africa industry sales and market share data focus on our 12 major markets in the region; wholesales are more inclusive, tracking every market in the region.  Of the markets we track in this region, ASEAN, Australia, China, India, and South Africa are our principal markets.



Small cars account for 60% of Asia Pacific Africa industry sales volume, and are anticipated to continue to benefit from government policy.  We anticipate that the ongoing relaxation of import restrictions (including duty reductions) will continue to intensify competition in the region, particularly around small, ultra-affordable passenger cars.  The highly successful launch of our all-new Focus small car once again demonstrates our ability to successfully compete in key growth segments in the region.  We anticipate further success with the introduction of the all-new EcoSport small utility in 2013.  The following tables show our wholesales and market share for key markets and in total for the last five years:

Wholesales(in thousands)20122011201020092008China627519483345251India8796843029Australia948310492102South Africa4949453851ASEAN9574513836Ford Asia Pacific Africa1,033901838604532

Market Share20122011201020092008China3.2%2.7%2.5%2.5%2.6%India2.42.92.61.31.4Australia8.19.09.210.310.3South Africa7.88.47.77.66.9ASEAN2.62.71.51.61.5Ford Asia Pacific Africa2.82.72.42.32.3



China and India are burgeoning markets that are expected to continue to experience rapid and substantial growth in the next ten years, driving new economic growth in the Asia Pacific Africa region.  Accordingly, we have increased and are planning to increase further our dealer networks and manufacturing capacity in the region.  We and our unconsolidated joint venture affiliates completed construction of two new plants in the region in the last year, announced significant expansions of existing facilities, and currently are building seven additional plants in the region - five in China and two in India - all as part of our plan to reach production capacity of 2.7 million vehicles by mid-decade.  These new state-of-the-art highly-flexible manufacturing facilities will help us reach the goal of increasing worldwide sales to about 8 million vehicles per year by mid-decade.










ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)



FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR



Ford Motor Credit Company LLC



Our wholly-owned subsidiary Ford Motor Credit Company LLC ("Ford Credit") offers a wide variety of automotive financing products to and through automotive dealers throughout the world.  The predominant share of Ford Credit’s business consists of financing our vehicles and supporting our dealers.  Ford Credit earns its revenue primarily from:



•Payments made under retail installment sale and lease contracts that it originates and purchases;

•Interest supplements and other support payments from us and our subsidiaries on special-rate financing programs; and

•Payments made under wholesale and other dealer loan financing programs.



As a result of these financing activities, Ford Credit has a large portfolio of finance receivables and leases which it classifies into two segments – "consumer" and "non-consumer."  Finance receivables and leases in the consumer segment relate to products offered to individuals and to businesses that finance the acquisition of vehicles from dealers for personal and commercial use.  The financing products include retail installment sale contracts for new and used vehicles, and leases for new vehicles to retail customers, government entities, daily rental car companies, and fleet customers.  Finance receivables in the non-consumer segment relate primarily to products offered to automotive dealers, including loans to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory (i.e., wholesale financing), for improvements to dealership facilities, for working capital, and for purchase of dealership real estate.  Ford Credit also purchases receivables generated by us and our subsidiaries, primarily in connection with the sale of parts and accessories.



Ford Credit does business in the United States and Canada through regional business centers.  Outside of the United States, FCE Bank plc ("FCE") is Ford Credit's largest operation; Europe is FCE's largest market.  Within Europe, FCE's largest markets are Germany and the United Kingdom.  About 70% of FCE's finance and lease receivables are from FCE's customers and Ford dealers in Germany, the United Kingdom, and France; about 15% are from FCE's customers and Ford dealers in Italy and Spain; and about 1% are from FCE's customers and Ford dealers in Greece, Ireland, and Portugal.  FCE, through its Worldwide Trade Financing division, also provides financing to dealers in countries where typically we have no established local presence.



Ford Credit's share of retail financing for new Ford and Lincoln vehicles sold by dealers in the United States and new Ford vehicles sold by dealers in Europe, as well as its share of wholesale financing for new Ford and Lincoln vehicles acquired by dealers in the United States (excluding fleet) and new Ford vehicles acquired by dealers in Europe were:

United StatesYears Ended December 31,Financing share – Ford and Lincoln201220112010Retail installment and lease38%36%32%Wholesale788081EuropeFinancing share – FordRetail installment and lease32%29%26%Wholesale989999



See Item 7 and Notes 7, 8, and 9 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of Ford Credit's receivables, credit losses, allowance for credit losses, loss-to-receivables ratios, funding sources, and funding strategies. See Item 7A for discussion of how Ford Credit manages its financial market risks.



We routinely sponsor special retail and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from Ford Credit.  In order to compensate Ford Credit for the lower interest or lease rates offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to Ford Credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract.  These programs increase Ford Credit's financing volume and share of financing sales of our vehicles.  See Note 2 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for information about our accounting for these programs.



In November 2008, we entered into an Amended and Restated Support Agreement with Ford Credit, pursuant to which, if its managed leverage for a calendar quarter were to be higher than 11.5 to 1 (as reported in its most recent periodic report), Ford Credit could require us to make or cause to be made a capital contribution to it in an amount sufficient to have caused such managed leverage to have been 11.5 to 1.  No capital contributions have been made pursuant to this agreement.  In addition, Ford Credit has an agreement to maintain FCE's net worth in excess of $500 million; no payments have been made pursuant to that agreement.








ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)



GOVERNMENTAL STANDARDS



Many governmental standards and regulations relating to safety, fuel economy, emissions control, noise control, vehicle recycling, substances of concern, vehicle damage, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor vehicles, engines, and equipment manufactured for sale in the United States, Europe, and elsewhere.  In addition, manufacturing and other automotive assembly facilities in the United States, Europe, and elsewhere are subject to stringent standards regulating air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances.  The most significant of the standards and regulations affecting us are discussed below:



Mobile Source Emissions Control



U.S. Requirements - Federal Emissions Standards.The federal Clean Air Act imposes stringent limits on the amount of regulated pollutants that lawfully may be emitted by new vehicles and engines produced for sale in the United States.  The current ("Tier 2") emissions regulations promulgated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") set standards for cars and light trucks.  Tier 2 emissions standards also establish durability requirements for emissions components to 120,000 miles or 150,000 miles (depending on the specific standards to which the vehicle is certified).  In 2013, EPA is expected to propose new "Tier 3" regulations, setting more stringent motor vehicle emissions standards for future model years.



EPA also has stringent emissions standards and requirements for EPA-defined "heavy duty" vehicles and engines (generally, those vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating of 8,500 pounds to 14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight).  In order to meet the standards for heavy duty diesel trucks, Ford and most other manufacturers use selective catalytic reduction ("SCR") systems, which require periodic customer maintenance.  EPA has issued guidance calling for increasingly stringent warning systems to alert motorists to the need for maintenance of SCR systems.  Development of the necessary warning systems is a challenging process, and obtaining certification of SCR-equipped diesel trucks by EPA and the California Air Resources Board ("CARB") is particularly challenging.



In 2011, EPA issued waivers under the Clean Air Act allowing the distribution and sale of gasoline containing 15% ethanol ("E15" fuel) for use in 2001 model year and later gasoline-powered vehicles.  Virtually all of the vehicles affected by the waivers were designed to accommodate gasoline containing a maximum ethanol content of 10%.  There are concerns that extensive use of E15 in these past model-year vehicles may lead to fuel system problems and other issues.  Various petitioners, including the automotive industry, sought judicial review of the EPA waivers; the District of Columbia Circuit Court of Appeals has denied relief, and petitioners may seek review by the U.S. Supreme Court.  If EPA's waivers are allowed to stand, Ford and other automotive manufacturers may face increased warranty claims and customer complaints, as well as the possibility of consumer litigation, due to the introduction of E15 into the market.



U.S. Requirements - California and Other State Emissions Standards.



The Clean Air Act also permits other states that do not meet National Ambient Air Quality Standards to adopt California's motor vehicle emissions standards no later than two years before the affected model year.  In addition to California, thirteen states, primarily located in the Northeast and Northwest, have adopted the California standards for current and/or future model years (and ten of these states also have adopted the ZEV requirements).  These states, together with California, account for more than 30% of our current U.S. light duty vehicle sales volume.  It is possible that additional states may adopt the California standards in the future.  The adoption of California standards by other states presents challenges for manufacturers, including:  1) managing fleet average emissions standards and ZEV mandate








ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)



requirements on a state-by-state basis, which presents difficulties from the standpoint of planning and distribution; 2) market acceptance of some vehicles required by the ZEV program varies from state to state, depending on weather and other factors; and 3) states adopting the California program have not adopted California's clean fuel regulations, which may impair the ability of vehicles in other states to meet California's in-use standards.



In 2012, CARB finalized revisions to its LEV and ZEV regulations.  The new "LEV III" program begins to take effect with the 2015 model year and includes more stringent tailpipe and evaporative emissions standards for light and medium duty vehicles; extended durability requirements; and changes to the certification test procedures, requiring manufacturers to certify vehicles on fuel containing 10% ethanol.  The amended ZEV regulations mandate substantial annual increases in the production and sale of battery-electric, fuel cell, and plug-in hybrid vehicles for the 2018 - 2025 model years.  By the 2025 model year, approximately 15% of a manufacturer's total California sales volume will need to be made up of such vehicles.



The LEV III regulations will require automobile manufacturers to design and develop new emissions after-treatment systems, which presents an engineering challenge.  The 2018 - 2025 model year ZEV rules pose an even greater obstacle that could have a substantial adverse effect on our sales volumes and profits.  Compliance with the ZEV mandate involves intensive planning efforts and large capital investments in order to deliver the required number of advanced-technology vehicles.  We are concerned that the market and infrastructure in California may not support the large volumes of advanced-technology vehicles that manufacturers will be required to produce, particularly in the 2018 - 2025 model years.  We also are concerned about potential enforcement of the ZEV mandate in other states that have adopted California's ZEV program, where the existence of a market for such vehicles is even less certain.  CARB conducts periodic reviews of its upcoming ZEV requirements, taking into account factors such as technology developments and market acceptance.  Ford and the industry will be active participants in such reviews, with the goal of ensuring that ZEV requirements are feasible and not excessively burdensome.



European Requirements.European Union ("EU") directives and related legislation limit the amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines sold in the EU.  Stringent new "Stage V" emissions standards took effect for vehicle registrations starting in January 2011; Stage VI requirements will apply from September 2014, with a second phase beginning in September 2017.  Stage V particulate standards drove the deployment of particulate filters across diesels, and Stage VI further tightens the standard for oxides of nitrogen.  This will drive the need for additional diesel exhaust after-treatment, which will add cost and potentially impact the diesel CO2advantage.  These technology requirements add cost and further erode the fuel economy cost/benefit advantage of diesel vehicles.  The additional requirements for the second phase of Stage VI will further increase stringency of particle emissions for direct injection gasoline vehicles, and apply more demanding on-board diagnostic thresholds for all vehicles.  There are some additional test procedures still in development for application as part of the second phase of Stage VI.



Vehicles equipped with SCR systems require a driver inducement and warning system for maintenance or repair.  The Stage V/VI emission legislation also mandated internet provision of all repair information (not just emissions-related), and provision of information to diagnostic tool manufacturers.



Other National Requirements.Many countries, in an effort to address air quality concerns, are adopting previous versions of European or United Nations Economic Commission for Europe ("UN-ECE") mobile source emissions regulations.  Some countries have adopted more advanced regulations based on the most recent version of European or U.S. regulations; for example, China plans to adopt the most recent European standards, to be implemented starting from 2013 in large cities.  Korea and Taiwan have adopted very stringent U.S.-based standards for gasoline vehicles, and European-based standards for diesel vehicles.  Although these countries have adopted regulations based UN-ECE or U.S. standards, there may be some unique testing provisions that require emission-control systems to be redesigned for these markets.



Furthermore, not all countries have adopted appropriate fuel quality standards to accompany the stringent emissions standards adopted.  This could lead to compliance problems, particularly if on-board diagnostic or in-use surveillance requirements are implemented.  Japan has unique standards and test procedures, which may require unique emissions control systems be designed for the Japanese market.  Canadian criteria emissions regulations are aligned with U.S. Tier 2 requirements discussed above; a new examination of mobile source emissions has commenced, and it is expected that any new regulation will align standards with the current U.S. regulations.



In South America, Brazil, Argentina, and Chile have introduced more stringent emissions standards.  Brazil approved European Stage V emissions and on-board diagnostic standards for heavy trucks starting in 2012; more stringent light vehicle limits come into effect starting in 2012.  Argentina also will apply Stage V standards beginning in 2014 (for new vehicle homologations) and 2016 (for new vehicle registrations).  Chile approved a plan to introduce more stringent








ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)



emission standards (i.e., European Stage IV and V or corresponding U.S. emissions standards) nationwide for light and medium duty vehicles, and progressive alignment with the Metropolitan Region (i.e., the capital city Santiago and surrounding area) by September 2014.  Heavy duty vehicles will be required to meet Stage V (or corresponding U.S. emissions standards) by October 2014.



Motor Vehicle Fuel Economy





U.S. Requirements - Light Duty Vehicles.  Federal law requires that light duty vehicles meet minimum corporate average fuel economy ("CAFE") standards set by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration ("NHTSA").  A manufacturer is subject to potentially substantial civil penalties if it fails to meet the CAFE standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for the preceding three model years and expected credits for the five succeeding model years.  The law requires NHTSA to promulgate and enforce separate CAFE standards applicable to each manufacturer's fleet of domestic passenger cars, imported passenger cars, and light trucks, respectively.



California also has asserted the right to regulate motor vehicle GHG emissions, and a 2007 U.S. Supreme Court decision paved the way for EPA to regulate motor vehicle GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act.  The potential for three sets of overlapping and conflicting regulations led to the establishment of the federal "One National Program," pursuant to which EPA and NHTSA have promulgated regulations establishing a harmonized national program of CAFE and GHG regulations for light duty vehicles for the 2012 - 2016 model years.  The 2012 - 2016 federal GHG and fuel economy standards are very challenging.  They require new light duty vehicles to ramp up to an industry average fuel economy of approximately 35.5 miles per gallon ("mpg") by the 2016 model year, which amounts to the steepest rate of increase in fuel economy standards since the inception of the CAFE program.  CARB has amended its regulations to provide that manufacturers who comply with One National Program regulations will be deemed to comply with California GHG regulations.



We believe that we will be able to comply with the harmonized federal CAFE/GHG standards for the 2012 - 2016 model years, as a result of aggressive actions to improve fuel economy that we built into our cycle plan, and through a variety of flexible compliance mechanisms.  In contrast, we had projected that we would be unable to comply with the state GHG standards that had been in place for the 2012 - 2016 period without undertaking costly product restrictions in some states.  Key differences that enable us to project compliance with the national program include:  1) One National Program standards, although very stringent, do not ramp up as steeply as the state standards they are replacing; and 2) One National Program allows us to determine compliance based on nationwide sales rather than state-by-state sales.  The ability to average across the nation eliminates state-to-state sales variability and is a critical element for us and for the automotive industry.  The 2012-2016 model year One National Program rules currently are being challenged in federal court by entities concerned about the ramifications of these rules on stationary source regulation.  The automotive industry has intervened in the litigation with the goal of preventing adverse changes to the existing One National Program.



In 2012, EPA and NHTSA jointly promulgated regulations extending the One National Program framework through the 2025 model year.  The new rules require manufacturers to achieve, across the industry, a light duty fleet average fuel economy of approximately 45 mpg by the 2021 model year, and approximately 54.5 mpg by the 2025 model year, assuming all of the CO2emissions reductions are achieved through the deployment of fuel economy technology.  This represents a reduction of roughly 5% per year in CO2emissions from passenger cars for the 2017 - 2025 model years.








ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)



For light trucks, the proposed standards represent a reduction in CO2emissions of about 3.5% per year for model years 2017 - 2021, and about 5% per year for model years 2022 - 2025.



It is important to note that EPA's 2022 - 2025 GHG standards are final rules; in contrast, NHTSA's 2022 - 2025 CAFE standards are conditional because, by statute, NHTSA may only set CAFE standards for up to five model years at a time.  Each manufacturer's specific task would depend on the mix of vehicles it sells.  The rules include the opportunity for manufacturers to earn credits for technologies that achieve real-world CO


reductions, and fuel economy improvements that are not captured by EPA fuel economy test procedures.  Manufacturers also can earn credits for GHG reductions not specifically tied to fuel economy, such as improvements in air conditioning systems.  The rules provide for a midterm evaluation process under which, by 2018, EPA will re-evaluate its standards for model years 2022 - 2025 in order to ensure that those standards are feasible and optimal in light of intervening events.  In parallel, NHTSA will undertake a process to promulgate final CAFE standards for those model years.  CARB has modified its GHG regulations to provide that compliance with the federal program satisfies compliance with California's requirements for the 2017 - 2025 model years.  As with the 2012 - 2016 rules, the 2017 - 2025 rules have been challenged in federal court by entities whose primary concern appears to be the ramifications of the vehicle rules on stationary source regulation.  The automotive industry has intervened in the litigation with the goal of avoiding adverse changes to the One National Program rules.



While the new rules are challenging, we believe they are feasible in light of our product plans and projected market conditions for the time period covered by our product planning process.  We also believe the new rules are preferable to engaging in protracted disputes with California and other states that use the California standards over the right to enforce state-specific GHG standards.



Ford's ability to comply with the 2022 - 2025 model year standards remains unclear because of the many unknowns regarding technology development, market conditions, and other factors so far into the future.  We intend to be an active participant in the midterm evaluation process for these standards.  If the agencies seek to impose and enforce extreme fuel economy or GHG standards in spite of unfavorable market conditions or inadequate technology development, we likely would be forced to take various actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume and profits.  Such actions likely would include restricting offerings of selected engines and popular options; increasing market support programs for our most fuel-efficient cars and light trucks; and ultimately curtailing the production and sale of certain vehicles such as high-performance cars, utilities, and/or full-size light trucks, in order to maintain compliance.



U.S. Requirements - Heavy Duty Vehicles.In 2011, EPA and NHTSA promulgated final regulations imposing, for the first time, GHG and fuel economy standards on heavy duty vehicles (generally, vehicles over 8,500 pounds gross vehicle weight rating).  In our case, the standards primarily affect our heavy duty pickup trucks and vans, plus vocational vehicles such as shuttle buses and delivery trucks.  These standards will be challenging, but we believe we will be able to comply.  EPA and NHTSA are expected to issue a new round of standards for these vehicles covering the 2019 model year and beyond; as the standards increase in stringency, it may become more difficult to comply while continuing to offer a full lineup of heavy duty trucks.  The 2014 - 2018 heavy duty GHG rules are being challenged in federal court by entities other than truck and engine manufacturers.  Remand or rejection by the court could have a substantial adverse impact on our future production and sale of heavy duty vehicles, depending on the court's specific order and agencies' response.



European Requirements.

In December 2008, the EU approved regulation of passenger car CO


emissions beginning in 2012 which limits the industry fleet average to a maximum of 130 grams per kilometer ("g/km"), using a sliding scale based on vehicle weight.  This regulation provides different targets for each manufacturer based on the respective average vehicle weight for its fleet of vehicles.  Limited credits are available for CO


off-cycle actions ("eco-innovations"), certain alternative fuels, and vehicles with CO


emissions below 50 g/km.  A penalty system will apply for manufacturers failing to meet targets, with fees ranging from €5 to €95 per vehicle per g/km shortfall in the years 2012 - 2018, and €95 per g/km shortfall beginning in 2019.  Manufacturers will be permitted to use a pooling agreement between wholly-owned brands to share the burden.  Further pooling agreements between different manufacturers also are possible, although it is not clear that these will be of much practical benefit under the regulations.  For 2020, an industry target of 95 g/km has been set.  This target will be further detailed in a review in 2013.  Other non-EU European countries are likely to follow with similar regulations.  For example, Switzerland has introduced similar rules, which began phasing-in starting in July 2012 with the same targets (which likely also will include a 2020 target of 95 g/km), although the industry average emission target is significantly higher.  We face the risk of advance premium payment requirements if, for example, unexpected market fluctuation within a quarter negatively impact our average fleet performance.



In separate legislation, so-called "complementary measures" have been mandated (for example, tire-related and gearshift indicator requirements), and more mandates are expected.  These include requirements related to fuel economy indicators, and more-efficient low-CO2mobile air conditioning systems.  The EU Commission, Council and Parliament have approved a target for commercial light duty vehicles to be at an industry average of 175 g/km (with phase-in from








ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)



2014 - 2017), and 147 g/km in 2020; it is likely that other European countries, like Switzerland, will implement similar rules but under even more difficult conditions.  This regulation also provides different targets for each manufacturer based on its respective average vehicle weight in its fleet of vehicles.  The final mass and CO2requirements for so-called "multi-stage vehicles" (e.g., our Transit chassis cabs) are fully allocated to the base manufacturer (e.g., Ford) so that the base manufacturer is fully responsible for the CO2performance of the final up-fitted vehicles.  The EU proposal also includes a penalty system, "super-credits" for vehicles below 50 g/km, and limited credits for CO2off-cycle eco-innovations, pooling, etc., similar to the passenger car CO2regulation.



Some European countries have implemented or are considering other initiatives for reducing CO2vehicle emissions, including fiscal measures and CO2labeling.  For example, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Spain, Portugal, and the Netherlands, among others, have introduced taxation based on CO2emissions.  The EU CO2requirements are likely to trigger further measures.  To limit GHG emissions, the EU directive on mobile air conditioning currently requires the replacement of the current refrigerant with a lower "global warming potential" refrigerant for new vehicle types, and for all newly registered vehicles starting in January 2017.  A refrigerant change adds considerable costs along the whole value chain.



Other National Requirements.The Canadian federal government has regulated vehicle GHG emissions under the Canadian Environmental Protection Act, beginning with the 2011 model year.  The standards track the new U.S. CAFE standards for the 2011 model year and U.S. EPA GHG regulations for the 2012 - 2016 model years.  The Canadian federal government now has published a draft regulation which maintains alignment with U.S. EPA vehicle GHG standards for the 2017 - 2025 model years.  The final regulation for 2014 - 2018 heavy duty vehicles is expected in February 2013.  In December 2009, Quebec also enacted province-specific regulations setting fleet average GHG standards for the 2010 - 2016 model years effective January 2010.  Now that the Canadian federal regulation is in place, the Quebec government has amended the Quebec regulation to recognize equivalency with the federal standards; reporting of Quebec fleet performance still is required.



Mexico also is in the process of adopting fuel economy/CO2standards based on the U.S. One National Program framework, to take effect in 2014.



Many Asia Pacific countries (such as Australia, China, Japan, India, South Korea, Taiwan, and Vietnam) are also developing or enforcing fuel efficiency or labeling targets. For example, Japan has fuel efficiency targets for 2015 and is preparing to promulgate more stringent 2020 targets, with incentives for early adoption.  China has been developing Stage III and Stage IV fuel economy targets for implementation for 2012 - 2015 and 2016 - 2020, respectively.  All of these fuel efficiency targets will impact the cost of vehicle technology in the future.



In South America, Brazil introduced a voluntary vehicle energy-efficiency labeling program, indicating fuel consumption rates for light duty vehicles with a spark ignition engine.  While the program is voluntary, Brazil also published a new automotive regime which requires participation in the fuel economy labeling program and a minimum 12% improvement in industry-wide fuel efficiency for 2017 light duty vehicles with a spark ignition engine in order to qualify for industrialized products tax reduction for customers.  Additional tax reductions are available if further fuel efficiency improvements are achieved.  Chile introduced requirements for fuel consumption and CO2emissions levels of light duty vehicles to be posted at sales locations and in owner manuals beginning in February 2013.  In general, fuel efficiency targets may impact the cost of technology of our models in the future.



Motor Vehicle Safety



U.S. Requirements.The National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 (the "Safety Act") regulates vehicles and vehicle equipment in two primary ways.  First, the Safety Act prohibits the sale in the United States of any new vehicle or equipment that does not conform to applicable vehicle safety standards established by NHTSA.  Meeting or exceeding many safety standards is costly, in part because the standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards.  Second, the Safety Act requires that defects related to motor vehicle safety be remedied through safety recall campaigns.  A manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard.  Should we or NHTSA determine that either a safety defect or noncompliance exists with respect to any of our vehicles, the cost of such recall campaigns could be substantial.



Other National Requirements.The EU and many countries around the world have established vehicle safety standards and regulations, and are likely to adopt additional or more stringent requirements in the future.  The European General Safety Regulation introduced UN-ECE regulations, which will be required for the European Type Approval process.  EU regulators also are focusing on active safety features such as lane departure warning systems, electronic stability control, and automatic brake assist.  These technologies have been implemented in Europe with final regulation








ITEM 1.  Business (Continued)



and implementing measures having become available in late 2011.  Globally, governments generally have been adopting UN-ECE based regulations with minor variations to address local concerns.  Any difference between North American and UN-ECE based regulations can add complexity and costs to the development of global platform vehicles, and we continue to support efforts to harmonize regulations to reduce vehicle design complexity while providing a common level of safety performance; several recently launched bilateral negotiations on free trade can potentially contribute to this goal.  New recall requirements in Asia Pacific Africa also may add substantial costs and complexity to our global recall practice.



Pollution Control Costs



During the period 2013 through 2017, we expect to spend about $125 million on our facilities in the Americas and Europe to comply with stationary source air and water pollution and hazardous waste control standards that are now in effect or are scheduled to come into effect during this period.  Of this total, we currently estimate we will spend between $25 million and $30 million in each of 2013 and 2014.  Specific environmental expenses are difficult to isolate because expenditures may be made for more than one purpose, making precise classification difficult.





EMPLOYMENT DATA



The approximate number of individuals employed by us and entities that we consolidated as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in thousands):

20122011AutomotiveFord North America8075Ford South America1716Ford Europe4647Ford Asia Pacific Africa2219Financial ServicesFord Credit67Total171164



The year-over-year increase in employment primarily reflects increases in North America and Asia Pacific Africa to support increased production, partially offset by the initiation of personnel-reduction programs in Europe.



Substantially all of the hourly employees in our Automotive operations are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements.  In the United States, approximately 99% of these unionized hourly employees in our Automotive sector are represented by the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America ("UAW" or "United Auto Workers").  Approximately two percent of our U.S. salaried employees are represented by unions.  Most hourly employees and many non-management salaried employees of our subsidiaries outside of the United States also are represented by unions.



In 2011, we entered into a four-year collective bargaining agreement with the UAW.  The agreement covers approximately 41,000 employees, and maintains our progress on improving competitiveness in the United States.  Excluding profit-sharing, compensation-related terms - including lump-sum payments (in lieu of general wage increases and cost of living increases) and continuation of an entry-level wage structure - are expected to increase U.S. hourly labor costs by less than 1% annually over the four-year contract period.  We also expect this increase will be more than offset by more flexible work rules that will allow us to increase manufacturing utilization and efficiency.



In 2012, we negotiated new collective bargaining agreements with labor unions in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Mexico, Romania, Taiwan, and Turkey.



In 2013, we will negotiate full agreements with labor unions in Brazil, Italy, Mexico, New Zealand, Thailand, South Africa, and Venezuela.  In addition, wage-only discussions will happen in numerous other locations across all regions.





ENGINEERING, RESEARCH, AND DEVELOPMENT



We engage in engineering, research, and development primarily to improve the performance (including fuel efficiency), safety, and customer satisfaction of our products, and to develop new products.  Engineering, research, and development expenses for 2012, 2011, and 2010 were $5.5 billion, $5.3 billion, and $5 billion, respectively.












