ITEM 1.Business



Ford Motor Company (referred to herein as "Ford", the "Company", "we", "our" or "us") was incorporated in Delaware in 1919.  We acquired the business of a Michigan company, also known as Ford Motor Company, which had been incorporated in 1903 to produce and sell automobiles designed and engineered by Henry Ford.  We are one of the world’s largest producers of cars and trucks.  We and our subsidiaries also engage in other businesses, including financing vehicles.



In addition to the information about Ford and our subsidiaries contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 ("2010 Form 10-K Report" or "Report"), extensive information about our Company can be found atwww.corporate.ford.com, including information about our management team, our brands and products, and our corporate governance principles.



The corporate governance information on our website includes our Corporate Governance Principles, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Personnel, Code of Ethics for the Board of Directors, Standards of Corporate Conduct for all employees, and the Charters for each of the Committees of our Board of Directors.  In addition, any amendments to our Code of Ethics or waivers granted to our directors and executive officers will be posted in this area of our website.  All of these documents may be accessed by going to our corporate website and clicking on "About Ford," then "Governance," and then "Corporate Governance Policies," or may be obtained free of charge by writing to our Shareholder Relations Department, Ford Motor Company, One American Road, P.O. Box 1899, Dearborn, Michigan 48126-1899.



In addition, all of our recent periodic report filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge through our website.  This includes recent Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those Reports.  Recent Section 16 filings made with the SEC by the Company or any of our executive officers or directors with respect to our Common Stock also are made available free of charge through our website.  We post each of these documents on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after it is electronically filed with the SEC.



To access our SEC reports or amendments or the Section 16 filings, go to our corporate website and click "Investors," then "Reports and Financial Information," then "View SEC Filings," which links to a list of reports filed with the SEC.  Our reports filed with the SEC may also be found on the SEC's website atwww.sec.gov.



The foregoing information regarding our website and its content is for convenience only and is not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Report nor filed with the SEC.



1ITEM 1. Business (continued)





OVERVIEW



Segments.We review and present our business results in two sectors:  Automotive and Financial Services.  Within these sectors, our business is divided into reportable segments based on the organizational structure that we use to evaluate performance and make decisions on resource allocation, as well as availability and materiality of separate financial results consistent with that structure.



The reportable segments within our Automotive and Financial Services sectors as of December 31, 2010 are as described in the table below:



Business SectorReportable Segments(a)DescriptionAutomotive:Ford North AmericaPrimarily includes the sale of Ford-and Lincoln-brand vehicles and related service parts in North America (the United States, Canada and Mexico), together with the associated costs to develop, manufacture, distribute and service these vehicles and parts. (b)Ford South AmericaPrimarily includes the sale of Ford-brand vehicles and related service parts in South America, together with the associated costs to develop, manufacture, distribute and service these vehicles and parts.Ford EuropePrimarily includes the sale of Ford-brand vehicles and related service parts in Europe, Turkey and Russia, together with the associated costs to develop, manufacture, distribute and service these vehicles and parts.Ford Asia Pacific AfricaPrimarily includes the sale of Ford-brand vehicles and related service parts in the Asia Pacific region and South Africa, together with the associated costs to develop, manufacture, distribute and service these vehicles and parts.Financial Services:Ford Motor Credit CompanyPrimarily includes vehicle-related financing, leasing, and insurance.Other Financial ServicesIncludes a variety of businesses including holding companies, and real estate.

(a)We have experienced a number of changes to our reportable segments in recent years, including the following:§We discontinued the Mercury brand as of the end of 2010.§We sold our Volvo operations on August 2, 2010.§During the fourth quarter of 2008, we sold a portion of our equity in Mazda Motor Corporation ("Mazda"), reducing our ownership percentage from approximately 33.4% at the time of sale to about 11% ownership shortly thereafter.  Through a subsequent sale in the fourth quarter of 2010, we further reduced our ownership to about 3.5%.  Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2008, we have accounted for our interest in Mazda as a marketable security (instead of as an operating segment).§We sold our Jaguar Land Rover operations on June 2, 2008.§We sold Aston Martin on May 31, 2007.(b)For periods prior to January 1, 2009, this segment also included the sale of Mazda6 vehicles produced by our then-consolidated affiliate AutoAlliance International, Inc. ("AAI").

We provide financial information (such as revenue, income, and assets) for each business sector and reportable segment in three areas of this Report:  (1) "Item 6. Selected Financial Data;" (2) "Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" ("Item 7"); and (3) Note 28 of the Notes to the Financial Statements located at the end of this Report.  Financial information relating to certain geographic areas is included in Note 29 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.



2ITEM 1. Business (continued)





AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR



General



Our vehicle brands are Ford and Lincoln.  In 2010, we sold approximately 5,524,000 vehicles at wholesale throughout the world.  See Item 7 for discussion of our calculation of wholesale unit volumes.



Substantially all of our cars, trucks and parts are marketed through retail dealers in North America, and through distributors and dealers (collectively, "dealerships") outside of North America, the substantial majority of which are independently owned.  At December 31, 2010, the approximate number of dealerships worldwide distributing our vehicle brands was as follows:



BrandNumber of Dealershipsat December 31, 2010Ford10,719Ford-Lincoln (combined)997Lincoln284Total12,000



In addition to the products we sell to our dealerships for retail sale, we also sell cars and trucks to our dealerships for sale to fleet customers, including commercial fleet customers, daily rental car companies, leasing companies, and governments.  We do not depend on any single customer or small group of customers to the extent that the loss of such customer or group of customers would have a material adverse effect on our business.



Through our dealer network and other channels, we provide retail customers with a wide range of after-sale vehicle services and products, including maintenance and light repair, heavy repair, collision repair, vehicle accessories and extended service contracts.  In North America, we market these products and services under several brands, including Ford Service, Lincoln Service, Ford Custom AccessoriesTM, Ford Extended Service PlanSM, and MotorcraftSM.



The worldwide automotive industry, Ford included, is affected significantly by general economic conditions, among other factors, over which we have little control.  This is especially so because vehicles are durable goods, which provide consumers latitude in determining whether and when to replace an existing vehicle.  The decision whether to purchase a vehicle may be affected significantly by slowing economic growth, geo-political events, and other factors (including the cost of purchasing and operating cars and trucks and the availability and cost of credit and fuel).  As we recently have seen in the United States and Europe, in particular, the number of cars and trucks sold may vary substantially from year to year.  Further, the automotive industry is a highly competitive business that has a wid
e and growing variety of product offerings from a growing number of manufacturers.



Our wholesale unit volumes vary with the level of total industry demand and our share of that industry demand.  In the short term, our wholesale unit volumes also are influenced by the level of dealer inventory.  Our share is influenced by how our products are perceived in comparison to those offered by other manufacturers based on many factors, including price, quality, styling, reliability, safety, fuel efficiency, functionality, and reputation.  Our share also is affected by the timing and frequency of new model introductions.  Our ability to satisfy changing consumer preferences with respect to type or size of vehicle, as well as design and performance characteristics, impacts our sales and earnings significantly.



3ITEM 1. Business (continued)

As with other manufacturers, the profitability of our business is affected by many factors, including:



§Wholesale unit volumes

§Margin of profit on each vehicle sold, which in turn is affected by many factors, such as:

●Mix of vehicles and options sold

●Costs of components and raw materials necessary for production of vehicles

●Level of "incentives" (e.g., price discounts) and other marketing costs

●Costs for customer warranty claims and additional service actions

●Costs for safety, emissions and fuel economy technology and equipment

§A high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, so that small changes in wholesale unit volumes can significantly affect overall profitability



Our industry continues to face a very competitive pricing environment, driven in part by industry excess capacity, particularly in mature markets such as North America and Europe.  For the past several decades, manufacturers typically have given price discounts and other marketing incentives to maintain market share and production levels.  A discussion of our strategies to compete in this pricing environment is set forth in the "Overview" section in Item 7.



Competitive Position.The worldwide automotive industry consists of many producers, with no single dominant producer.  Certain manufacturers, however, account for the major percentage of total sales within particular countries, especially their countries of origin.  Detailed information regarding our competitive position in the principal markets where we compete may be found below as part of the overall discussion of the automotive industry in those markets.



Seasonality.We generally record the sale of a vehicle (and recognize revenue) when it is produced and shipped or delivered to our customer (i.e., the dealership).  See the "Overview" section in Item 7 for additional discussion of revenue recognition practices.



We manage our vehicle production schedule based on a number of factors, including retail sales (i.e., units sold by our dealerships to their customers at retail) and dealer stock levels (i.e., the number of units held in inventory by our dealerships for sale to retail and fleet customers).  In the past, we have experienced some seasonal fluctuation in the business, with production in many markets tending to be higher in the first half of the year to meet demand in the spring and summer (typically the strongest sales months of the year).  Third quarter production has tended to be the lowest.  As a result, operating results for the third quarter typically have been less favorable than other quarters.



Raw Materials.We purchase a wide variety of raw materials from numerous suppliers around the world for use in production of our vehicles.  These materials include non-ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas), and resins (e.g., polypropylene).  We believe that we have adequate supplies or sources of availability of the raw materials necessary to meet our needs.  There are always risks and uncertainties with respect to the supply of raw materials, however, which could impact availability in sufficient quantities to meet our needs.  See the "Overview" section of Item 7 for a discussion of commodity and energy price trends, and 
"Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" ("Item 7A") for a discussion of commodity price risks.



Backlog Orders.We generally produce and ship our products on average within approximately 20 days after an order is deemed to become firm.  Therefore, no significant amount of backlog orders accumulates during any period.



Intellectual Property.We own or hold licenses to use numerous patents, copyrights and trademarks on a global basis.  Our policy is to protect our competitive position by, among other methods, filing U.S. and international patent applications to protect technology and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business.  We have generated a large number of patents, and expect this portfolio to continue to grow as we actively pursue additional technological innovation.  We currently have approximately 15,600 active patents and pending patent applications globally, with an average age for patents in our active patent portfolio of just over five and a half years.  In addition to this intellectual property, we a
lso rely on our proprietary knowledge and ongoing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position.  Although we believe that these patents, patent applications, and know-how, in the aggregate, are important to the conduct of our business, and we obtain licenses to use certain intellectual property owned by others, none is individually considered material to our business.  We also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of our Company and its products and services globally.  Certain of these marks are integral to the conduct of our business, a loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.



4ITEM 1. Business (continued)

Warranty Coverage and Additional Service Actions.We currently provide warranties on vehicles we sell.  Warranties are offered for specific periods of time and/or mileage, and vary depending upon the type of product, usage of the product and the geographic location of its sale.  In compliance with regulatory requirements, we also provide emissions-defects and emissions-performance warranty coverage.  Pursuant to these warranties, Ford will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship during the specified warranty period.  In addition to the costs associated with the warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also incur costs as a result of additional servic
e actions not covered by our warranties, including product recalls and customer satisfaction actions.



For additional information regarding warranty and related costs, see "Critical Accounting Estimates" in Item 7 and Note 31 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.



Industry Sales Volume



Industry volumes are internal estimates based on publicly-available data collected from various government, private, and public sources around the globe.  Our market share is a percentage that our sales represent in the total industry volumes.



The following chart shows industry sales volume for the United States, and for the markets we track in Europe, South America and Asia Pacific Africa for the last five years (in millions of units):



Industry Sales Volume *20102009200820072006United States11.810.613.516.517.1Europe15.315.916.618.017.8South America5.04.24.34.13.2Asia Pacific Africa30.724.520.920.418.6



*Throughout this Report, industry sales volume includes sales of medium and heavy trucks.  See discussion of each market below for definition of the markets we track.



United States



Industry Sales Data.The following table shows U.S. industry sales of cars and trucks (in millions of units):



U.S. Industry SalesYears Ended December 31,20102009200820072006Cars5.95.67.17.98.1Trucks5.95.06.48.69.0



We classify cars by small, medium, large, and premium segments, and trucks by compact pickup, bus/van (including minivans), full-size pickup, utilities (both car-based and traditional truck-based platform vehicles), premium, and medium/heavy segments.  In the tables below, we have classified all of our luxury cars and trucks as "premium," regardless of size.  Annually, we review various factors to determine the appropriate classification of vehicle segments and the vehicles within those segments, and this review occasionally results in a change of classification for certain vehicles.



5ITEM 1. Business (continued)

The following tables show the proportion of U.S. car and truck unit sales by segment for the industry (including domestic and foreign-based manufacturers) and for Ford:



U.S. Industry Vehicle Mix of Sales by SegmentYears Ended December 31,20102009200820072006CARSSmall21.9%23.7%22.9%19.8%19.0%Medium15.516.115.513.613.1Large5.35.46.17.07.5Premium6.97.37.87.87.6Total U.S. Industry Car Sales49.652.552.348.247.2TRUCKSCompact Pickup2.22.62.83.23.5Bus/Van5.75.56.16.67.8Full-Size Pickup11.710.811.913.513.3Utilities24.322.721.022.421.2Premium4.94.43.94.14.0Medium/Heavy1.61.52.02.03.0Total U.S. Industry Truck Sales50.447.547.751.852.8Total U.S. Industry Vehicle Sales100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%



Ford U.S. Vehicle Mix of Sales by Segment*Years Ended December 31,20102009200820072006CARSSmall13.9%14.0%15.0%12.8%12.5%Medium12.812.89.37.812.9Large6.86.87.78.48.2Premium2.53.13.12.53.1Total Ford U.S. Car Sales36.036.735.131.536.7TRUCKSCompact Pickup2.93.43.43.03.4Bus/Van7.05.86.57.28.6Full-Size Pickup27.325.627.229.129.6Utilities24.726.225.126.020.1Premium1.92.02.32.61.0Medium/Heavy0.20.30.40.60.6Total Ford U.S. Truck Sales64.063.364.968.563.3Total Ford U.S. Vehicle Sales100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%

_________

*These data include sales of Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury vehicles; as previously disclosed, the Mercury brand was discontinued at the end of 2010.



As the tables above indicate, the industry had been shifting from trucks to cars as consumer preferences moved toward smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles.  In 2010, this trend reversed as car-like crossover utilities became more prevalent in the marketplace.  The full-size pickup segment, both for recreational and commercial users, also has rebounded in response to new product introductions and economic improvement.  In 2010, overall changes in our U.S. vehicle mix generally followed the overall direction of U.S. industry trends.  Our year-over-year decline in car mix was slightly less than the general industry as our new Fiesta and full-year availability of our redesigned Fusion and Fusion Hybrid continued to gain customers.  In our truck segments, the F-Series outpaced the indust
ry full-size pickup segment as well as the total industry leading to the higher mix gain.  Also increasing our truck segment mix was the first full year of our Transit Connect van designed to combine improved fuel economy with commercial vehicle capability and durability.



Market Share Data.The competitive environment in the United States has intensified and is expected to continue to intensify as Japanese and Korean manufacturers increase imports to the United States and increase production capacity in North America.  Our principal competitors in the United States include General Motors Company ("General Motors"), Chrysler Group LLC ("Chrysler"), Toyota Motor Corporation ("Toyota"), Honda Motor Company ("Honda"), NissanMotor Company ("Nissan"), and Hyundai-Kia Automotive Group ("Hyundai-Kia").



6ITEM 1. Business (continued)

The following tables show U.S. car and truck market share for Ford (Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brand vehicles only) and for the other six leading vehicle manufacturers:



U.S. Car Market Shares (a)Years Ended December 31,20102009200820072006Ford5.9%5.5%5.0%4.6%5.8%General Motors7.59.09.99.69.8Chrysler2.62.53.64.24.1Toyota8.210.010.09.28.6Honda6.06.56.65.34.9Nissan5.04.84.43.83.2Hyundai-Kia5.14.83.53.02.8All Other (b)9.39.49.38.58.0Total U.S. Car Deliveries49.6%52.5%52.3%48.2%47.2%



U.S. Truck Market Shares (a)Years Ended December 31,20102009200820072006Ford10.5%9.8%9.2%10.0%10.2%General Motors11.310.612.013.614.1Chrysler6.66.37.28.48.4Toyota6.86.76.46.76.3Honda4.44.34.04.13.9Nissan2.72.52.72.72.8Hyundai-Kia2.52.11.51.71.6All Other (b)5.65.24.74.65.5Total U.S. Truck Deliveries50.4%47.5%47.7%51.8%52.8%



U.S. Combined Car and TruckMarket Shares (a)Years Ended December 31,20102009200820072006Ford16.4%15.3%14.2%14.6%16.0%General Motors18.819.621.923.223.9Chrysler9.28.810.812.612.5Toyota15.016.716.415.914.9Honda10.410.810.69.48.8Nissan7.77.37.16.56.0Hyundai-Kia7.66.95.04.74.4All Other (b)14.914.614.013.113.5Total U.S. Car and Truck Deliveries100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%

__________

(a)All U.S. sales data are based on publicly available information from the media and trade publications.

(b)"All Other" primarily includes other Japanese manufacturers and various European manufacturers, and, with respect to the U.S. Truck Market Shares table and U.S. Combined Car and Truck Market Shares table, includes medium and heavy truck manufacturers.



Our improvement in overall market share is the result of several factors, including favorable acceptance of our redesigned products, product focus on industry growth segments, and customers' increasing awareness and acceptance of our commitment to leadership in quality, fuel efficiency, safety, smart technologies, and value.



Fleet Sales.The sales and market share information provided above includes both retail and fleet sales.  Fleet sales include sales to commercial fleet customers, leasing companies, daily rental car companies, and governments.  In general, fleet sales tend to be less profitable than retail sales.  See Item 7 for discussion of revenue recognition for sales to daily rental car companies.



7ITEM 1. Business (continued)





The table below shows our fleet sales in the United States, and the amount of those combined sales as a percentage of our total U.S. car and truck sales for the last five years (in thousands):



Ford Fleet Sales*Years Ended December 31,20102009200820072006Commercial and Other Units256156217268277Daily Rental Units236205237304447Government Units126127153158162Total Fleet Units618488607730886Percent of Total U.S. Car and Truck Sales32%30%32%30%32%

________

*These data include sales of Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury vehicles.



Higher fleet sales in 2010 primarily reflected an overall industry increase in commercial and rental sectors.  We also improved year-over-year fleet segment market share as our commercial and government business outperformed the industry.  We continue to maintain commercial and government segment market share leadership over all brands.



Canada and Mexico



Canada and Mexico also are important markets for us.  In Canada, industry sales volume for new cars and trucks in 2010 was approximately 1.58 million units, up 7% from 2009 levels.  Industry sales volume in Mexico for new cars and trucks in 2010 was approximately 848,000 units, up about 10% from 2009.  The increase in industry sales volume in these markets reflected the recovery of the economy from the slowdown that had begun in late 2008.



Our combined car and truck market share in Canada was 16.9% in 2010 (up 2.1 percentage points from a year ago), which represents our highest full-year share since 2001 and made Ford the number-one selling automaker in Canada.  In Mexico, our market share in 2010 was 10.5%, down 1.3 percentage points from the previous year.



Europe



19 Markets Data.Outside of the United States, Europe is our largest market for the sale of cars and trucks.  The automotive industry in Europe is intensely competitive.  Our principal competitors in Europe include General Motors, Volkswagen A.G. Group, PSA Group, Renault Group, and Fiat SpA.  For the past 10 years, the top six manufacturers have collectively held between 69% and 75% of the total market.  This competitive environment is expected to intensify further as Japanese and Korean manufacturers increase their production capacity in Europe, and as manufacturers of premium brands (e.g., BMW, Mercedes-Benz, and Audi) continue to broaden their product offerings.



For purposes of this discussion, 2010 market data are based on estimated registrations currently available; percentage change is measured from actual 2009 registrations.  We track industry sales in Europe for the following 19 markets: Britain, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Austria, Belgium, Ireland, Netherlands, Portugal, Switzerland, Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary, and Poland.  In 2010, vehicle manufacturers sold approximately 15.3 million cars and trucks in these 19 markets, down about 3.5% from 15.9 million units in 2009.  The decline was largely attributable to the cessation of government scrappage programs during 2010, which were in place during 2009 to incentivize new vehicle purchases during the economic crisis that began in late 2008.  Ford-brand 
combined car and truck market share in 2010 was approximately 8.4% (down 0.7 percentage points from the previous year).



Britain and Germany are our highest-volume markets within Europe.  Any change in the British or German market has a significant effect on the results of our Ford Europe segment.  In Britain, industry sales increased to 2.3 million units in 2010, or by 3.2% from 2009 levels (which were considerably lower than the prior year due to the economic crisis that began late in 2008).  In Germany, government stimulus programs ended in the last quarter of 2009, contributing to a 21% decrease in 2010 industry sales to 3.2 million units compared with 4 million units in 2009.  Our Ford-brand combined car and truck share in 2010 was 15% in Britain (down 1.8 percentage points from the previous year), and 6.9% in Germany (down 0.8 percentage points from the previous year).



Turkey.Although not included in the 19 European markets discussed above, Turkey contributes to our Ford Europe segment results.  Industry sales volume in Turkey in 2010 was about 800,000 units, compared with 600,000 units in 2009.



8ITEM 1. Business (continued)

Ford's share of the Turkish market increased in 2010 by 0.7 percentage points to 15.8%, the ninth year in a row that the Ford brand led the market in sales in Turkey.



Russia.  In addition to the 19 markets and Turkey discussed above, Russia also is becoming a significant market for our Ford Europe segment.  As a result of government stimulus in Russia, industry sales volume in 2010 was about two million units, an increase of 31% compared to 2009 levels, which had fallen nearly 50% from 2008 levels as a result of the economic crisis.  In 2010, our market share in Russia declined by 0.9 percentage points from 2009 to 4.6%.



Over the next several years, we expect industry sales volumes in Russia to grow rapidly and perhaps even exceed sales volumes in Germany, Europe's largest market.  In February 2011, Russia introduced a new automotive industrial regime pursuant to which automotive manufacturers in Russia must meet the following criteria in order to qualify for reduced import duties on automotive components for the next eight years:  (i) assembly capacity of 350,000 vehicles annually within the next three years, (ii) substantial localization of component supply, including engines, stampings and other components, and (iii) establishment of a research and development center.  Applications to participate in this new industrial regime are due in February 2011.  We, together with our proposed Russian joint venture part
ner, have submitted an application to qualify for the reduced import duties.



Motor Vehicle Distribution in Europe.In October 2009, the European Commission decided to abolish the 2002 block exemption law that had been specific to vehicle distribution agreements, and to adopt instead a new generic regulation applying to all manufacturer-distributor relationships.  There were no changes to after-market rules, but for retail distribution the following significant changes as compared with the previous block exemption law are now in effect:



●Termination at will of distributor agreements is permitted (generally, with two years' notice) – previously, there could only be termination for cause.

●All distributor showroom/selling areas may be required to be exclusive – previously, manufacturers were required to permit multi-brand outlets.

●No guaranteed right exists for distributors to open additional sales or delivery outlets – previously, this right did exist.

●Manufacturers now may object to a transfer of ownership by the existing dealer, and have right of first refusal – previously, this right did not exist.



The new law represents a marked improvement for manufacturers, and Ford Europe currently is negotiating new agreements with its dealers reflecting these improvements.



South America



Ford South America market share is based on our six major markets in the region (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela).  Of these, Brazil, Argentina, and Venezuela are our principal markets in South America.  Industry sales in 2010 were approximately 3.5 million units in Brazil (up 11.9% from 2009), 655,000 units in Argentina (up 28.7% from 2009), and 126,000 units in Venezuela (down 7.4% from 2009).  Our combined car and truck share for Ford-brand vehicles in these markets was 10.4% in Brazil (up 0.1 percentage points from 2009), 12.4% in Argentina (down 0.9 percentage points from 2009), and 18.5% in Venezuela (down 2.4 percentage points from 2009).



Brazil's economic environment and demographics, with relatively low inflation in recent years, growing per capita income, low vehicle ownership rates and a young population, have allowed its automotive market to more than double since 2002.  These favorable factors are expected to continue to contribute to growth in vehicle sales in Brazil.



Asia Pacific Africa



Ford Asia Pacific Africa industry and market share data focus on our 12 major markets in the region (Australia, China, Japan, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam). Industry sales in the region in 2010 were more than 30 million units, up from 24 million units in 2009. Of the markets we track in this region, Australia, China, India, South Africa, and Taiwan are our principal markets. Industry sales in 2010 were approximately 1 million units in Australia (up 10.5% from 2009), 18.3 million units in China (up 30% from 2009), 3.1 million units in India (up 35.5% from 2009), 426,000 units in South Africa (up 20.3% from 2009), and 328,000 units in Taiwan (up 11.3% from 2009).



9ITEM 1. Business (continued)





Small cars account for 60% of Asia Pacific Africa industry sales volume, and are anticipated to continue to benefit from government fiscal policy.  We anticipate that the ongoing relaxation of import restrictions (including duty reductions) will continue to intensify competition in the region, particularly around small, ultra-affordable passenger cars.  The highly successful launch of our all-new Figo in India demonstrates our ability to successfully compete in key growth segments.



Our combined car and truck share in these markets (including sales of Ford-brand vehicles, and market share for certain unconsolidated affiliates, particularly in China) was as follows in 2010:



2010MarketMarket ShareOver/(Under) 2009Australia9.2%(1.1) ppt.China2.5%—India2.6%1.3 ppt.South Africa7.7%0.1 ppt.Taiwan6.1%—



China and India are key markets in the Asia Pacific Africa region that will continue to drive new economic growth.  Already, China's industry sales volume has increased from about six million units in 2005 to more than 18 million units in 2010, and India's industry sales volume increased from about one million units in 2005 to about three million units in 2010.  Moreover, the driving age population with disposable income for vehicle purchases is expected to grow from about 700 million to more than 1.1 billion in China by 2020, and from about 165 million to more than 500 million in India over the same period.  This suggests continued rapid and substantial growth in those markets in the next ten years.



Accordingly, we have increased and are planning to increase further our dealer networks and manufacturing capacity in the region.  In China, through our joint ventures, we plan to open three new plants by 2014 to meet anticipated demand and grow Ford-brand market share.  In India, we have invested $500 million to significantly increase our presence through expansion of our current manufacturing facility in Chennai for production of our new Ford Figo sub-B car, and construction of a fully-integrated and flexible engine manufacturing plant.  We are aggressively expanding in Thailand as well.  At our joint venture assembly facility in Rayong, Thailand we have completed a $500 million expansion for the production of Ford Fiesta and Mazda2 small cars, and announced an investment of $350 million to 
support the production of next-generation pickup trucks with production of the all-new Ford Ranger commencing this year.  Additionally, construction is underway for a new, highly-flexible $450 million Ford assembly plant, also located in Rayong, which is scheduled for completion in 2012 and which will begin with production of the new Ford Focus.



FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR



Ford Motor Credit Company LLC



Ford Motor Credit Company LLC ("Ford Credit") offers a wide variety of automotive financing products to and through automotive dealers throughout the world.  The predominant share of Ford Credit’s business consists of financing our vehicles and supporting our dealers.  Ford Credit earns its revenue primarily from:



●Payments made under retail installment sale and lease contracts that it originates and purchases;

●Interest supplements and other support payments from us and our subsidiaries on special-rate financing programs; and

●Payments made under wholesale and other dealer loan financing programs.



As a result of these financing activities, Ford Credit has a large portfolio of finance receivables and leases which it classifies into two segments – "consumer" and "non-consumer."  Finance receivables and leases in the consumer segment relate to products offered to individuals and businesses that finance the acquisition of vehicles from dealers for personal and commercial use.  The financing products include retail installment sale contracts for new and used vehicles, and leases for new vehicles to retail customers, government entities, daily rental companies and fleet customers.  Finance receivables in the non-consumer segment relate primarily to products offered to automotive dealers, including loans to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory (wholesale financing), for improvements to dealership 
facilities, for working capital, and for purchase of dealership real estate.  Ford Credit also purchases receivables generated by us and our subsidiaries, primarily in connection with the sale of parts and accessories.



Ford Credit does business in all states in the United States and in all provinces in Canada through regional business centers.  Outside of the United States, FCE Bank plc ("FCE") is Ford Credit's largest operation.  FCE's primary



10ITEM 1. Business (continued)businessis to support the sale of our vehicles in Europe through our dealer network.  FCE offers a variety of retail, leasing and wholesale finance plans in most countries in which it operates; FCE does business in the United Kingdom, Germany, and most other European countries.  Ford Credit, through its subsidiaries, also operates in the Asia Pacific and Latin American regions.  In addition, FCE, through its Worldwide Trade Financing division, provides financing to dealers in countries where typically we have no established local presence.



Ford Credit's share of retail financing for new Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brand vehicles sold by dealers in the United States and new Ford-brand vehicles sold by dealers in Europe, as well as Ford Credit's share of wholesale financing for new Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles acquired by dealers in the United States (excluding fleet) and of new Ford-brand vehicles acquired by dealers in Europe, were as follows during the last three years:



United StatesYears EndedDecember 31,Financing share – Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury201020092008Retail installment and lease32%29%39%Wholesale817977EuropeFinancing share – FordRetail installment and lease26%28%28%Wholesale999998



See Item 7 and Notes 7, 8 and 9 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of Ford Credit's receivables, credit losses, allowance for credit losses, loss-to-receivables ratios, funding sources, and funding strategies. See Item 7A for a discussion of how Ford Credit manages its financial market risks.



We routinely sponsor special retail and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from Ford Credit.  In order to compensate Ford Credit for the lower interest or lease rates offered to the retail customer, we transfer the discounted value of the incentive directly to Ford Credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract with the dealer's customer.  These programs increase Ford Credit's financing volume and share of financing sales of our vehicles.  See Note 2 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for information about our accounting for these programs.



On November 6, 2008, we and Ford Credit entered into an Amended and Restated Support Agreement ("Support Agreement").  Pursuant to the Support Agreement, if Ford Credit’s managed leverage for a calendar quarter were to be higher than 11.5 to 1 (as reported in Ford Credit’s then-most recent Form 10-Q Report or Form 10-K Report), Ford Credit could require us to make or cause to be made a capital contribution to Ford Credit in an amount sufficient to have caused such managed leverage to have been 11.5 to 1.  A copy of the Support Agreement was filed as Exhibit 10 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2008.  No capital contributions have been made to Ford Credit pursuant to the Support Agreement.  In addition, Ford Credit has an agr
eement to maintain FCE's net worth in excess of $500 million.  No payments have been made by Ford Credit to FCE pursuant to the agreement during the 2001 through 2010 periods.



GOVERNMENTAL STANDARDS



Many governmental standards and regulations relating to safety, fuel economy, emissions control, noise control, vehicle recycling, substances of concern, vehicle damage, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor vehicles, engines, and equipment manufactured for sale in the United States, Europe, and elsewhere.  In addition, manufacturing and other automotive assembly facilities in the United States, Europe, and elsewhere are subject to stringent standards regulating air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances.



Mobile Source Emissions Control



U.S. Requirements – Federal Emissions Standards.The federal Clean Air Act imposes stringent limits on the amount of regulated pollutants that lawfully may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines produced for sale in the United States.  The current ("Tier 2") emissions regulations promulgated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") set standards for cars and light trucks.  The Tier 2 emissions standards also establish durability requirements for emissions components to 120,000 or 150,000 miles (depending on the specific standards to which the vehicle is certified).  These standards require the use of sophisticated exhaust aftertreatment equipment, and present compliance challenges.



11ITEM 1. Business (continued)



U.S. Requirements – California and Other State Emissions Standards.Pursuant to the Clean Air Act, California may seek a waiver from the EPA to establish unique emissions control standards for motor vehicles; each new or modified proposal requires a new waiver of preemption from the EPA.  California has received a waiver from the EPA to establish its own unique emissions control standards for certain regulated pollutants.  New vehicles and engines sold in California must be certified by CARB.  CARB's current low emission vehicle or "LEV II" emissions standards treat most light-duty trucks the same as passenger cars, and require both types of vehicles to meet stringent new emissions requirements.  Like the EPA's Tier 2 emis
sions standards, CARB's LEV II vehicle emissions standards also present a difficult engineering challenge.



The California program includes requirements for manufacturers to produce and deliver for sale zero-emission vehicles ("ZEVs") which emit no regulated pollutants.  CARB has adopted amendments to the ZEV mandate that allow advanced-technology vehicles (e.g., hybrid electric vehicles or natural gas vehicles) with extremely low tailpipe emissions to qualify for ZEV credits.  The rules also give some ZEV credits for so-called "partial zero-emission vehicles" ("PZEVs"), which can be internal combustion engine vehicles certified to very low tailpipe emissions and zero evaporative emissions.  The current rules require increasing volumes of battery electric and other advanced technology vehicles with each passing model year.  We plan to comply with the ZEV regulations through the sale of a variety of batte
ry-electric vehicles, hybrid vehicles, plug-in hybrid vehicles, and PZEVs.  Our compliance plan entails significant costs, and has a variety of inherent risks, including potential component shortages that may make it difficult to produce vehicles in sufficient quantities.



The Clean Air Act permits other states that do not meet National Ambient Air Quality Standards ("NAAQS") to adopt California's motor vehicle emissions standards no later than two years before the affected model year.  In addition to California, fourteen states, primarily located in the Northeast and Northwest, have adopted the California standards for current and/or future model years (and eleven of these states also have adopted the ZEV requirements).  These states, together with California, account for more than 30% of Ford's current light-duty vehicle sales volume in the United States.  It is possible that other states may adopt the California standards in the future.  The adoption of California standards by other states presents challenges for manufacturers, including the following:  
1) managing fleet average emissions standards and ZEV mandate requirements on a state-by-state basis presents difficulties from the standpoint of planning and distribution; 2) market acceptance of some vehicles required by the ZEV program varies from state to state, depending on weather and other factors; and 3) the states adopting the California program have not adopted California's clean fuel regulations, which may impair the ability of vehicles in other states to meet California's in-use standards.



CARB has indicated that it is planning a complete overhaul of its LEV, ZEV, and GHG regulations.  The agency is expected to propose "LEV III" rules in the third quarter of 2011, and finalize the rules in 2012.  We anticipate that the LEV III rules will contain a host of new and more stringent requirements for tailpipe emissions, evaporative emissions, and test procedures beginning with the 2014 model year.  CARB also is expected to propose modifications to its ZEV regulations this year.  The revised ZEV program is expected to focus on requirements to produce ever-increasing numbers of vehicles using battery-electric, fuel cell, plug-in hybrid, and hydrogen internal combustion engine technologies.  Under the new regulatory approach, manufacturers that produce higher numbers of vehicl
es specified as ZEVs may be allowed to meet less stringent fleet average GHG levels.  The revised ZEV regulations likely will apply to the 2018-2025 model years, and preliminary indications are that the regulations will require a steep ramp-up in ZEVs.



12ITEM 1. Business (continued)

In general, compliance with the revised regulations is likely to require costly actions that could have a substantial adverse effect on our sales volume and profits, depending on such factors as the specific emission levels required in the LEV III program and the volumes of advanced-technology vehicles required by the ZEV mandate.  In particular, there is concern that neither consumer preferences nor the refueling/recharging infrastructure will support the dramatic increase in advanced-technology vehicles likely to be required by 2025 under the new ZEV mandate.  Ford will work with CARB directly and through the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers ("Alliance") in an effort to promote regulations that are reasonable and technologically feasible.



U.S. Requirements – Warranty, Recall, and On-Board Diagnostics.The Clean Air Act permits the EPA and CARB to require manufacturers to recall and repair non-conforming vehicles (which may be identified by testing or analysis done by the manufacturer, the EPA or CARB), and we may voluntarily stop shipment of or recall non-conforming vehicles.  The costs of related repairs or inspections associated with such recalls, or a stop-shipment order, could be substantial.



Both CARB and the EPA also have adopted on-board diagnostic ("OBD") regulations, which require a vehicle to monitor its emissions control system and notify the vehicle operator (via the "check engine" light) of any malfunction. These regulations have become extremely complicated, and require substantial engineering resources to create compliant systems. CARB's OBD rules for vehicles under 14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight include a variety of requirements that phase in between the 2006 and 2012 model years. CARB also has adopted OBD requirements for heavy-duty gasoline and diesel engines that apply to the 2010 and later model years, and EPA has adopted light-duty and heavy-duty OBD requirements that generally align with CARB's; the EPA also accepts certification to CARB's OBD requirements.





European Requirements.European Union ("EU") directives and related legislation limit the amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines sold in the EU.  Stringent new emissions standards ("Stage IV Standards") were applied to new passenger car certifications beginning January 1, 2005, and to new passenger car registrations beginning January 1, 2006.  The comparable light commercial truck Stage IV Standards went into effect for new certifications beginning January 1, 2006, and for new registrations beginning January 1, 2007.  This directive on emissions also introduced OBD requirements, more stringent evaporative emissions requirements, and in-service compliance
 testing and recall provisions for emissions-related defects that occur in the first five years or 100,000 kilometers of vehicle life.  Failure of in-service compliance tests could lead to vehicle recalls with substantial costs for related inspections or repairs.



Stage V emissions requirements began in September 2009 for vehicle registrations starting in January 2011; Stage VI requirements will apply from September 2014.  Stage V particulate standards drove the deployment of particulate filters across diesels, and Stage VI further tightens the standard for oxides of nitrogen.  This will drive the need for additional diesel exhaust aftertreatment which will add cost and potentially impact the diesel CO2advantage.  These technology requirements add cost and further erode the fuel economy cost/benefit advantage of diesel vehicles.



Vehicles equipped with SCR systems require a driver inducement and warning system to prevent the vehicle being operated for a significant period of time if the reductant (urea) dosing tank is empty.  The Stage V/VI emission



13ITEM 1. Business (continued)legislationalso mandated the internet provision of all repair information (not just emissions-related); information also must be provided to diagnostic tool manufacturers.



Other National Requirements.Many countries, in an effort to address air quality concerns, are adopting previous versions of European or United Nations Economic Commission for Europe ("UN-ECE") mobile source emissions regulations.  Some countries have adopted more advanced regulations based on the most recent version of European or U.S. regulations; for example, China plans to adopt the most recent European standards to be implemented starting from 2012 in large cities.  Korea and Taiwan have adopted very stringent U.S.-based standards for gasoline vehicles, and European-based standards for diesel vehicles.  Because fleet average requirements do not apply, some vehicle emissions control systems may have to be redesigned t
o meet the requirements in these markets.  Furthermore, not all of these countries have adopted appropriate fuel quality standards to accompany the stringent emissions standards adopted.  This could lead to compliance problems, particularly if OBD or in-use surveillance requirements are implemented.  Japan has unique standards and test procedures, and implemented more stringent standards beginning in 2009.  This may require unique emissions control systems be designed for the Japanese market.  Canadian criteria emissions regulations are aligned with U.S. federal Tier 2 requirements.



In South America, Brazil, Argentina and Chile also are introducing more stringent emissions standards.  Brazil approved Euro V emissions and OBD standards for heavy trucks starting in 2012; most heavy vehicle manufacturers will use urea SCR.  More stringent light vehicle limits come into effect in 2012.  Argentina approved Euro IV emissions standards starting in 2009, and Euro V for 2012.  Chile approved a new decontamination plan for its metropolitan region with more stringent emission requirements based on U.S. or EU regulations.



Fuel Quality and Content



U.S. Requirements.



Biomass-based diesel fuel, known as "biodiesel," also is becoming more common in the United States.  Biodiesel typically is a combination of petroleum-based diesel fuel and fuel derived from "biomass" (biological material from plant or animal sources).  Biodiesel is approved by the EPA as well as a number of U.S. state agencies for use in motor vehicles.  While diesel fuel containing 5% biomass-based fuel is now common, higher-concentration blends are becoming more common as well.  The content and quality of biodiesel fuels varies considerably.  Diesel fuel that contains higher concentrations of biomass-based fuels, and/or that contains lower-quality ingredients, can have adverse effects on the durability and performance of diesel engines and on the exhaust emissions from such engines.



European Requirements.In general, the use of automotive fuel derived from biomass is increasing in the EU, primarily driven by the EU directive on renewable energy.  EU member states have issued national implementation plans that suggest different national strategies to comply with its target of 10% renewable energy in 2020.  This non-harmonized approach may drive additional costs into engine development to ensure compatibility for higher bio-blend ranges (up to E25 and B10 or even more).



14ITEM 1. Business (continued)

Stationary Source Emissions Control



U.S. Requirements.The Clean Air Act requires the EPA to periodically review and update its NAAQS, and to designate whether counties or other local areas are in compliance with the new standards.  If an area or county does not meet the new standards ("non-attainment areas"), the state must revise its implementation plans to achieve attainment.  In 2006, the EPA issued a final rule increasing the stringency of the NAAQS standard for fine particulate matter (particles 2.5 micrometers in diameter or less), while maintaining the existing standard for coarse particulate matter (particles between 2.5 and 10 micrometers in diameter).  The EPA estimates that the new standard will put approximately 124 counties into non-attainment stat
us for fine particulate matter.  Various parties have filed petitions for review of the final particulate matter rules in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, in most cases seeking more stringent standards for both fine and coarse particulate matter.  In February 2009, the court ordered the EPA to reconsider the fine particulate standards, but left the standards in place in the meantime.  The EPA is in the process of developing new proposed fine particulate NAAQS standards, and we expect the revised standards to be more stringent than the 2006 standards.



In March 2008, the EPA promulgated rules setting a new ozone NAAQS at a level more stringent than the previous standard.  The EPA estimates that as a result of the new standard, the number of counties out of attainment for the ozone NAAQS could triple.  A number of states and environmental groups filed suit seeking to compel the EPA to issue an even more stringent ozone standard.  The EPA agreed to reconsider the rule and issued a new proposed rule in January 2010.  In the new proposal, the EPA is considering a primary NAAQS standard of 0.060 – 0.070 parts per million measured over eight hours (by comparison, the 2008 rule was set at 0.075 parts per million).  Depending upon the standard that ultimately is chosen, approximately 76% to 96% of all areas would be in non-attai
nment.  EPA had been expected to issue its final decision on the ozone NAAQS in 2010, but the timing has been postponed to 2011.



After issuance of the final ozone and particulate matter NAAQS and designation of non-attainment areas, areas that do not meet the standards will need to revise their implementation plans to require additional emissions control equipment and impose more stringent permit requirements on facilities in the area.  The existence of additional non-attainment areas can lead to increased pressure for more stringent mobile source emissions standards as well.  The cost of complying with the requirements necessary to help bring non-attainment areas into compliance with the revised NAAQS may be substantial.



The EPA also proposed a new hourly NAAQS for oxides of nitrogen (as measured by ambient concentrations of nitrogen dioxide ("NO2")) in 2009, and adopted a final NAAQS in January 2010.  The new rule will result in a substantial number of new non-attainment areas for oxides of nitrogen.  The NAAQS also incorporated a plan for monitoring NO2concentrations using a newly-developed roadside monitoring network.  The roadside monitoring plan may tend to impose additional scrutiny on mobile sources of NO2relative to other sources that contribute to overall ambient levels.  The revis
ed NAAQS for oxides of nitrogen may lead to additional NO2standards for both stationary and mobile sources that could be costly and technologically challenging.



The EPA also issued a final rule in 2009 establishing a national GHG reporting system.  Facilities with production processes that fall into certain industrial source categories, or that contain boilers and process heaters and emit 25,000 or more metric tons per year of GHGs, will be required to submit annual GHG emission reports to the EPA.  Facilities subject to the rule were required to begin collecting data as of January 1, 2010, and submit an annual report for calendar year 2010 by March 31, 2011.  Many of our facilities in the United States will be required to submit reports.  Under the rule, we also will be required to report emissions of certain GHGs from heavy-duty engines and vehicles; these requirements phase in beginning with the 2011 model year.



In 2010, the EPA issued a final rule (the "PSD Tailoring Rule") that defines the circumstances under which certain GHGs are regulated under the Clean Air Act's New Source Review - Prevention of Significant Deterioration ("PSD") rules and Title V operating permits program.  The PSD Tailoring Rule was issued due to concerns that, once the EPA begins regulating GHGs from motor vehicles, GHGs will become regulated air pollutants under PSD and Title V, triggering permit requirements for many small sources not currently regulated under those programs.  The PSD Tailoring Rule addresses this by phasing in permit requirements through 2012 for sources with at least a 100,000 ton per year CO2equivalent ("CO2e") emission level.  Emission sources that are required to obtain PSD permits will be required to apply "Best Available Control Technology" ("BACT") to limit CO2e emissions according to guidance issued by EPA.  EPA will reevaluate the rule over time to determine if smaller sources should be included in its scope.  A large number of lawsuits have been filed challenging the rule.



15ITEM 1. Business (continued)

A large percentage of our facilities will be required to obtain permits for GHG emissions.  EPA's implementation of the BACT guidance, parallel changes to state air programs, and the outcome of the litigation could lead to the installation of additional pollution control equipment, potential delay in the issuance of permits due to changes at a facility, and increased operating costs.



European Requirements.In Europe, environmental legislation is driven by EU law, in most cases in the form of EU directives that must be converted into national legislation.  All of our European plants are located in the EU region, with the exception of one in St. Petersburg, Russia and Ford Otomotiv Sanayi Anonim Sirketi ("Ford Otosan") in Turkey.  One of the core EU directives is the Directive on Integrated Pollution Prevention Control ("IPPC").  The IPPC regulates the permit process for facilities, and thus the allowed emissions from these facilities.  As in the United States, engine testing, surface coating, casting operations, and boiler houses all fall under this regime.  The Solvent Emission Directive which ca
me into effect in late 2007 and the Industry Emissions Directive which came into effect in 2011 affect vehicle manufacturing plants, which must upgrade their paint shops to meet the new requirements.  The cost of complying with these requirements could be substantial.



The European Emission Trading Scheme requires large emitters of carbon dioxide within the EU to monitor and annually report CO2emissions, and each is obliged every year to return an amount of emission allowances to the government that is equivalent to its CO2emissions in that year.  The impact of this regulation on Ford Europe primarily involves our on-site combustion plants, and we expect that compliance with this regulation may be costly as the system foresees stringent CO2emission reductions in progressive stages.  Periodic emission reporting also is required of EU Member States, in most c
ases defined in the permits of the facility.  The Release and Transfer Register requires more reporting regarding emissions into air, water and soil than its precursor.  The information required by these reporting systems is publicly available on the Internet.



Motor Vehicle Safety



U.S. Requirements.The National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 (the "Safety Act") regulates motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment in the United States in two primary ways. First, the Safety Act prohibits the sale in the United States of any new vehicle or equipment that does not conform to applicable motor vehicle safety standards established by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration ("NHTSA"). Meeting or exceeding many safety standards is costly, in part because the standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards. Second, the Safety Act requires that defects related to motor vehicle safety be remedied through safety recall campaigns. A manufacturer is obligated to recall veh
icles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. Should we or NHTSA determine that either a safety defect or noncompliance exists with respect to any of our vehicles, the cost of such recall campaigns could be substantial.



In 2010, there was substantial federal activity related to a spate of recalls from other automobile manufacturers, including significant investigative activity by both NHTSA and committees authorized by Congress.  NHTSA has taken an aggressive enforcement position related to safety defect investigations in general, increasing the likelihood of safety recalls and civil penalties for the entire industry.  While proposed new Safety Act legislation is not anticipated to be a top priority for the new Congress, it is anticipated that NHTSA will propose new regulations related to keyless ignition controls, transmission shifter designs, and brake override of the accelerator function.



The Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users was signed into law in 2005; the Cameron Gulbransen Kids Transportation Safety Act of 2007 mandates that NHTSA enact regulations related to rearward visibility and brake-to-shift interlock, and mandates that NHTSA consider regulations related to automatic reversal functions on power windows.  Both Acts establish substantive, safety-related rulemaking mandates for NHTSA that already have resulted in or will result in new regulations and product content requirements.  In 2010, NHTSA issued one final rule regulating the crash test requirements for vehicles with electric powertrains.  NHTSA also issued Notices of Proposed Rulemaking concerning rear visibility, ejection mitigation, and automatic reversal function on 
power windows.  Driver distraction continues to be a top priority for the Department of Transportation, and NHTSA activity is anticipated on this subject including voluntary visual-manual interface guidelines and additional research.  Each of these regulatory actions may add substantial cost to the design and development of new products, depending on the final rules adopted.



Foreign Requirements.The EU and many countries around the world have established safety standards and regulations applicable to motor vehicles, and are likely to adopt additional or more stringent requirements in the future.  Recent examples of such legislation for the EU include the adoption and mandatory fitment requirement for the new UN-ECE regulation for tire-pressure monitoring systems ("TPMS"); this regulation differs from the North



16ITEM 1. Business (continued)American regulationin that it addresses both safety and environmental aspects of TPMS.  In addition, the European General Safety Regulation was introduced that replaces existing European Directives with UN-ECE regulations.  These UN-ECE regulations will be required for the European Type Approval process.  EU regulators also are expected to focus on active safety features such as lane departure warning systems, electronic stability control, and automatic brake assist.  Globally, governments generally have been adopting EU-based regulations with minor variations to address local concerns.  The difference between North American and EU-based regulations adds complexity and costs to the development of global platform vehicles; we continue to support efforts to harmonize regulations to reduce vehicle 
design complexity while providing a common level of safety performance.



Global Technical Regulations ("GTRs") developed under the auspices of the United Nations ("UN") continue to have increasing impact on automotive safety activities.  The most recently adopted GTRs on electronic stability control, head restraints, and pedestrian protection by the UN "World Forum for the Harmonisation of Vehicle Regulations" are now in different stages of national implementation.  While global harmonization is fundamentally supported by the auto industry in order to reduce complexity, national implementation yet may introduce subtle differences into the system.



In the Asia Pacific Africa region, China adopted new motor vehicle recall requirements in 2010.  The full extent and application of these requirements will be further developed in 2011.  Governments within the Asia Pacific Africa region continue to adopt European requirements, often with local modifications.  Among other measures, Japanese regulators are pursuing accident avoidance measures for vulnerable road users.



South American countries are implementing requirements for features such as airbags, safety belts, and anti-lock braking systems ("ABS") consistent with U.S. and European requirements.  Examples of more stringent safety requirements in South America include the approval in Brazil of more severe impact requirements, the mandatory use of front airbags and ABS, and the introduction of mandatory vehicle tracking and blocking systems.  In Argentina, regulations have addressed mandatory phased-in introduction of front airbags, ABS, central head restraint, belt alarm, and daytime running lights.  A Latin American version of the European New Car Assessment Programme was introduced in late 2010.



Canadian safety legislation and regulations are similar to those in the United States, and the differences that do exist generally have not prevented the production of common product for both markets.  Recent amendments to Canadian standards have incorporated UN-ECE standards as a compliance option, where equivalency exists.



For each of these markets, the possibility of more stringent or different requirements exists, and the cost to comply with new standards may be substantial.



Motor Vehicle Fuel Economy



There are ever-increasing demands from regulators, public interest groups, and consumers for improvements in motor vehicle fuel economy, for a variety of reasons.  These include concerns regarding energy security and GHG emissions, and consumer preferences for more fuel-efficient vehicles.  In recent years, we have made significant changes to our product cycle plan to improve the overall fuel economy of vehicles we produce in upcoming model years.  These cycle plan changes involve both the deployment of various fuel-saving technologies, some of which have been announced publicly, and changes to the overall fleet mix of vehicles we offer, in response to a recent increase in demand for smaller vehicles.  There are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, 
however, primarily related to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, and the human, engineering and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time.



Our ability to comply with a given set of fuel economy standards (including GHG emissions standards, which are functionally equivalent to fuel economy standards), depends on a variety of factors, including:  1) prevailing economic conditions, including fluctuations in fuel prices; 2) the alignment of the standards with actual consumer demand for vehicles; and 3) adequate lead time to make the necessary product changes.  Consumer demand for vehicles tends to fluctuate based on a variety of external factors.  Consumers are more likely to pay for vehicles with fuel-efficient technologies (such as hybrid-electric vehicles) when the economy is robust and fuel prices are relatively high.  When the economy is in recession and/or fuel prices are relatively low, many consumers may put off new vehicle purcha
ses altogether, and among those who do purchase new vehicles, demand for higher-cost

17ITEM 1. Business (continued)technologies is not likely to bestrong.  If consumers demand vehicles that are relatively large, have high performance, and/or are feature-laden, while regulatory standards require the production of vehicles that are smaller and more economical, the mismatch of supply and demand would have an adverse effect on both regulatory compliance and our profitability.  Moreover, if regulatory requirements call for rapid, substantial increases in fleet average fuel economy (or decreases in fleet average GHG emissions), we may not have adequate resources and time to make major product changes across most or all of our vehicle fleet (assuming the necessary technology can be developed).

U.S. Requirements – Light Duty Vehicles – Federal Standards.Federal law requires that light-duty vehicles meet minimum corporate average fuel economy ("CAFE") standards set by NHTSA.  A manufacturer is subject to potentially substantial civil penalties if it fails to meet the CAFE standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for the preceding three model years and expected credits for the five succeeding model years.



In December 2007, Congress enacted new energy legislation restructuring the CAFE program and requiring NHTSA to set new CAFE standards beginning with the 2011 model year.  The key features of the law are as follows:  1) maintaining the distinction between cars and trucks; 2) requiring NHTSA to set "reformed" CAFE standards for cars along the lines of the reformed truck standards in which each manufacturer's CAFE obligation is based on the specific mix of vehicles it sells; 3) calling for NHTSA to set car and truck standards such that the combined fleet of cars and trucks in the United States achieves a 35 mile per gallon ("mpg") industry average by model year 2020; 4) allowing manufacturers to trade credits among their CAFE fleets; and 5) retaining CAFE credits for the manufacture of flexible-fuel vehicles, 
but phasing them out by model year 2020.  Domestic passenger cars also are subject to a minimum fleet average of the greater of 27.5 mpg or 92% of NHTSA's projected fleet average fuel economy for domestic and imported passenger cars for that model year.  In March 2009, NHTSA published a final rule setting CAFE standards for the 2011 model year.



Pressure to increase CAFE standards stems in part from concerns about the impact of carbon dioxide and other GHG emissions on the global climate.  In 1999, a petition was filed with the EPA requesting that it regulate carbon dioxide emissions from motor vehicles under the Clean Air Act.  This is functionally equivalent to imposing fuel economy standards, because the amount of carbon dioxide emitted by a vehicle is directly proportional to the amount of fuel consumed.  The EPA denied the petition on the grounds that the Clean Air Act does not authorize the EPA to regulate GHG emissions because they did not constitute "air pollutants," and only NHTSA is authorized to regulate fuel economy under the CAFE law.  A number of states, cities, and environmental groups filed for review of the EPA's decision.



The matter was eventually brought before the U.S. Supreme Court, which ruled that GHGs did constitute "air pollutants" subject to regulation by the EPA pursuant to the Clean Air Act.  Upon taking office, the Obama Administration indicated its intention to promulgate rules to control mobile source GHG emissions.  Under the Clean Air Act, EPA must issue a determination that GHGs endanger the public health and welfare in order for EPA to finalize GHG regulations for both mobile and stationary sources.  In December 2009, EPA issued its endangerment finding for GHGs.  In early 2010, several industry groups filed a petition for review of the endangerment finding; nevertheless, EPA is proceeding with rulemaking activity to regulate GHGs.



As described more fully below, the Obama Administration has brokered an agreement in principle for a harmonized national program of mobile source fuel economy and GHG regulations for light-duty vehicles for the 2012-2016 model years.  This program includes new CAFE standards for the 2012-2016 model years.  To put this program in context, it is important to understand the GHG standards for light-duty vehicles promulgated by California and other states.



U.S. Requirements – Light Duty Vehicles – California and Other State Standards.In 2004, pursuant to a law known as Assembly Bill 1493 ("AB 1493"), CARB adopted California GHG emissions regulations applicable to 2009-2016 model-year cars and trucks.  Although adopted under California's authority to set vehicle emission standards, the practical effect of these regulations was to impose more stringent fuel economy standards than those set by NHTSA.  Pursuant to the Clean Air Act, thirteen other states subsequently adopted California's GHG regulations for motor vehicles.  In order for the states to enforce the AB 1493 rules, EPA needed to issue a waiver of preemption under the Clean Air Act.



The prospect of state-by-state regulation of motor vehicle GHG emissions and fuel economy is very troubling to the automobile industry.  The adoption of the AB 1493 rules created an unwieldy patchwork of state-by-state regulations, with a strong likelihood that there would need to be product restrictions in some states in order to comply.  Because the mix of vehicles sold varies from state to state, the potential need for product restrictions is much greater if compliance with fuel economy or GHG standards is based on state (or even regional) sales than if it is based on nationwide sales.



18ITEM 1. Business (continued)



U.S. Requirements – Light Duty Vehicles – "One National Program" for Model Years 2012-2016.By early 2009, it had become apparent that the United States was headed toward a series of overlapping regulations aimed at motor vehicle fuel economy and GHGs.  NHTSA was setting federal CAFE standards, EPA was planning to regulate motor vehicle GHG emissions at the federal level, and California and other states were getting set to impose stringent regulations on motor vehicle emissions at the state level if and when a Clean Air Act waiver was granted.





The agreement in principle now has been implemented.  The EPA issued a revised decision granting a Clean Air Act waiver for California's GHG regulations.  The automotive industry refrained from challenging that decision (although the waiver decision was challenged by the National Automobile Dealers Association and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and that case is pending).  CARB adopted the modifications to its regulations necessary to implement the agreement in principle.  Most importantly, in May 2010 EPA and NHTSA promulgated a joint rulemaking establishing harmonized GHG and fuel economy standards for the 2012-2016 model years.  In response to these actions, the automobile industry sought and obtained dismissal of its federal court preemption litigation in California, Vermont, and Rhode 
Island.



The 2012-2016 federal GHG and fuel economy standards are very challenging.  They require new light-duty vehicles to ramp up to an industry average fuel economy of approximately 35.5 mpg by the 2016 model year, which amounts to the steepest rate of increase in fuel economy standards since the inception of the CAFE program.  We believe that we will be able to comply with the California GHG standards for the 2009-2011 period, and the harmonized federal CAFE/GHG standards for the 2012-2016 period, as a result of aggressive actions to improve fuel economy built into our cycle plan and through a variety of flexible compliance mechanisms.  In contrast, we had projected that we would be unable to comply with the state GHG standards throughout the 2012-2016 period without undertaking costly product restrictions in so
me states.  Key differences that enable us to project compliance with the national program include:  1) the new federal standards, although very stringent, do not increase rates as steeply as the state standards they are replacing; and 2) the national program allows us to determine compliance based on nationwide sales rather than state-by-state sales.  The ability to average across the nation eliminates state-to-state sales variability and is a critical element for us and for the auto industry.





19ITEM 1. Business (continued)with the 2017 model year.  Compliance with both of these regimeswould at best add enormous complexity to our planning processes, and at worst could be virtually impossible.  If either of these regulatory regimes impose and enforce extreme fuel economy or GHG standards, we likely would be forced to take various actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume and profits.

Such actions likely would include restricting offerings of selected engines and popular options; increasing market support programs for our most fuel-efficient cars and light trucks; and ultimately curtailing the production and sale of certain vehicles such as high-performance cars, utilities, and/or full-size light trucks, in order to maintain compliance.  These actions might need to occur on a state-by-state basis, in response to the rules adopted by California and other states, or they may need to be taken at the national level if the federal standards are excessively stringent.  Therefore, we believe that for 2017 and beyond, it is essential to 1) maintain a single national program that regulates motor vehicle GHGs and fuel economy in a harmonized fashion, and 2) develop national fuel economy and GHG standards tha
t are reasonable in light of consumer preferences, infrastructure limitations, and technology barriers.  We will work toward legislative and regulatory solutions that would establish such a national program on a permanent basis.



In 2006, California enacted a law known as Assembly Bill 32 ("AB 32") mandating that statewide GHG emissions be capped at 1990 levels by the year 2020, which would represent a significant reduction from current levels.  It also requires the monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions by all "significant" sources, and delegates authority to CARB to develop and implement GHG emissions reduction measures.  AB 32 also provides that CARB must implement alternative measures to control mobile source GHG emissions if they do not achieve the emission reductions envisioned by AB 1493.  The full ramifications of AB 32 are not clear, but it may lead to the imposition of additional regulations on the auto industry.



U.S. Requirements – Heavy Duty Vehicles – Federal Standards.



European Requirements.In December 2008, the EU approved a regulation of passenger car carbon dioxide beginning in 2012 which limits the industry fleet average to a maximum of 130 g/km, using a sliding scale based on vehicle weight. This regulation provides different targets for each manufacturer based on its respective average vehicle weight for its fleet of vehicles. Limited credits are available for CO2off-cycle actions ("eco-innovations"), certain alternative fuels, and vehicles with CO2emissions below 50 g/km. For manufacturers failing to meet targets, a penalty system will apply with fees ranging per vehicle from €5 t
o €95 per each g/km shortfall in the years 2012-18, and €95 for each g/km shortfall beginning in 2019. Manufacturers would be permitted to use a pooling agreement between wholly-owned brands to share the burden. Further pooling agreements between different manufacturers are also possible, although it is not clear that they will be of much practical benefit under the regulations. For 2020, an industry target of 95 g/km has been set. This target will be further detailed in a review in 2013. Other non-EU European countries (such as Switzerland, for example) are likely to follow with similar regulation.



In separate legislation, so-called "complementary measures" have been mandated (for example, tire-related requirements) and more mandates are expected.  These include requirements related to gearshift indicators, fuel economy indicators, and more-efficient low-CO2mobile air conditioning systems.  These proposals are likely to be finalized in 2011.  The EU Commission, Council and Parliament are close to formally approving a target for commerciallight duty



20ITEM 1. Business (continued)vehicles to be at an industry average of 175 g/km (with phase-in from 2014 – 2017), and 147 g/km in 2020.  This regulation would also provide different targets for each manufacturer based on its respective average vehicle weight in its fleet of vehicles.  The final mass and CO2requirements for so-called ‘multi-stage vehicles’ (e.g., Transit chassis cabs) are fully allocated to the base manufacturer (e.g., Ford) so that the base manufacturer is fully responsible for the CO2performance of the final up-fitted vehicles.  The EU proposal also includes a penalty system, "super-credits" for vehicles below 50 g/km, and limited credits for CO2off-cycle actions (“eco-innovations”), pooling, etc., similar to the passenger car CO<
font style="DISPLAY: inline; FONT-SIZE: 70%; VERTICAL-ALIGN: sub">2regulation.

Some European countries have implemented or are still considering other initiatives for reducing CO2emissions from motor vehicles, including fiscal measures and CO2labeling.  For example, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Spain, Portugal, and the Netherlands among others have introduced taxation based on carbon dioxide emissions.  The EU CO2requirements are likely to trigger further measures.



Other National Requirements.



Some Asian countries (such as China, Japan, India, South Korea, and Taiwan) also have adopted fuel efficiency or labeling targets.  For example, Japan has fuel efficiency targets for 2015 which are even more stringent than the 2010 targets, with incentives for early adoption.  China implemented second-stage fuel economy targets from 2008, and is working on the third stage for 2012 phase-in.  All of these fuel efficiency targets will impact the cost of technology of our models in the future.



In South America, Brazil introduced a voluntary vehicle energy efficiency labelling program, indicating both emissions and fuel consumption rates for light vehicles with spark ignition engine. Chile also will adopt a fuel-consumption and emissions-labelling system. In general, fuel efficiency targets may impact the cost of technology of our models in the future.



Chemical Regulation and Substance Restrictions



U.S. Requirements.



21ITEM 1. Business (continued)

European Requirements.The Commission has implemented its regulatory framework for a single system to register, evaluate, and authorize the use of chemicals with a production volume above one ton per year ("REACH").  The rules took effect on June 1, 2007, with a preparatory period through June 1, 2008 followed by a six-month registration phase.  Compliance with the legislation is likely to be administratively burdensome for all entities in the supply chain, and research and development resources may be redirected from "market-driven" to "REACH-driven" activities.  We and our suppliers have registered those chemicals that were identified to fall within this requirement.  The regulation also will accelerate restri
ction or banning of certain chemicals and materials, which could increase the costs of certain products and processes used to manufacture vehicles and parts.  We are implementing and ensuring compliance within Ford and our suppliers through a common strategy together with the global automotive industry.



The European End-of-Life Vehicle directive and EU Battery directive prohibit the use of the heavy metals lead, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and mercury with limited exceptions that are regularly scrutinized.  These regulations also include broad manufacturer responsibility for disposing of vehicle parts and substances, including taking vehicles back without charge for disposal and recycling requirements.  This legislation has triggered similar regulatory actions around the globe, including, for example, in China, Korea, and possibly India in the near future.  Other European regulatory developments will ban the use of refrigerants with a "global warming potential" higher than 150 on the European scale (which would include the refrigerant commonly in use) beginning in 2011 in new vehicle models and in 20
17 for all new vehicles, which some other governments, such as Japan, have been closely monitoring and are likely to adopt in some form.  This European restriction is expected to lead to a general change in refrigerants for future vehicles worldwide.



Regulations requiring a globally-harmonized system of classification and labeling of chemicals also took effect in January 2009.  This regulation is the implementation of the UN regulation UN-GHS, and should harmonize the classification and labeling of chemicals worldwide with impact on existing storage facilities and labeling.



Pollution Control Costs



During the period 2011 through 2015, we expect to spend about $200 million on our facilities in the Americas and Europe to comply with stationary source air and water pollution and hazardous waste control standards that are now in effect or are scheduled to come into effect during this period.  Of this total, we currently estimate we will spend between $30 million and $40 million in each of 2011 and 2012.  Specific environmental expenses are difficult to isolate because expenditures may be made for more than one purpose, making precise classification difficult.



EMPLOYMENT DATA



The approximate number of individuals employed by us and entities that we consolidated as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 was as follows (in thousands):



20102009*AutomotiveFord North America7571Ford South America1515Ford Europe4949Ford Asia Pacific Africa1815Volvo—19Financial ServicesFord Credit78Total164177* Data reflect retrospective application of the accounting standard for consolidation of variable interest entities ("VIEs").



The year-over-year decrease in employment primarily reflects completion of the sale of Volvo, as well as Ford Credit global personnel-reduction programs, offset partially by increases in North America and Asia Pacific Africa largely to support increased production.



Substantially all of the hourly employees in our Automotive operations are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements.  In the United States, approximately 99% of these unionized hourly employees in our Automotive sector are represented by the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America ("UAW" or "United Auto Workers").  Approximately two percent of our U.S.



22ITEM 1. Business (continued)salaried employees arerepresented by unions.  Most hourly employees and many non-management salaried employees of our subsidiaries outside of the United States also are represented by unions.

We have entered into collective bargaining agreements with the UAW, and the National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada ("CAW").  In 2007, we negotiated with the UAW a transformational agreement, enabling us to improve our competitiveness and establishing a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association ("VEBA") trust ("UAW VEBA Trust") to fund our retiree health care obligations.  We completed prepayment in full of our obligation to the UAW VEBA Trust during 2010; see "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 7 and Note 19 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion of the prepayment of this obligation.



In March 2009, Ford-UAW membership ratified modifications to the existing collective bargaining agreement that significantly improved our competitiveness, saving us up to $500 million annually and bringing us near to competitive parity with the U.S. operations of foreign-owned automakers.  The operational changes affected wage and benefit provisions, productivity, job security programs, and capacity actions, allowing us to increase manufacturing efficiency and flexibility.



On November 1, 2009, the CAW announced that a majority of its members employed by Ford Canada had voted to ratify modifications to the terms of the existing collective bargaining agreement between Ford Canada and the CAW.  The modifications are patterned off of the modifications agreed to by the CAW for its agreements with the Canadian operations of General Motors and Chrysler and are expected to result in annual cost savings.  The agreement also confirmed the end of production at the St. Thomas Assembly Plant in 2011.



On November 2, 2009, the UAW announced that a majority of its members employed by Ford had voted against ratification of a tentative agreement that would have further modified the terms of the existing collective bargaining agreement between Ford and the UAW.  These latest modifications were designed to closely match the modified collective bargaining agreements between the UAW and our domestic competitors, General Motors and Chrysler.  Among the proposed modifications was a provision that would have precluded any strike action relating to improvements in wages and benefits during the negotiation of a new collective bargaining agreement upon expiration of the current agreement, and would have subjected disputes regarding improvements in wages and benefits to binding a
rbitration, to determine competitiveness based on wages and benefits paid by other automotive manufacturers operating in the United States.



Even with recent modifications, our agreements with the UAW and CAW provide for guaranteed wage and benefit levels for the term of the respective agreements, and a degree of employment security, subject to certain conditions.  As a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses during the terms of the agreements.  Our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW expires on September 14, 2011; our collective bargaining agreement with the CAW expires on September 14, 2012.



In 2010, we negotiated new collective bargaining agreements with labor unions in Argentina, Brazil, France, Germany, Mexico, Russia, Taiwan and Venezuela.



In addition to the United States, in 2011 we negotiate new collective bargaining agreements with labor unions in Argentina, Brazil, Britain, France, Mexico, New Zealand, Romania, Russia, Taiwan and Thailand.



ENGINEERING, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT



We engage in engineering, research and development primarily to improve the performance (including fuel efficiency), safety, and customer satisfaction of our products, and to develop new products.  We maintain extensive engineering, research and design centers for these purposes, including large centers in Dearborn, Michigan; Dunton, England; and Aachen and Merkenich, Germany.  Most of our engineering, research and development relates to our Automotive sector.



We recorded $5 billion, $4.7 billion, and $7.1 billion of engineering, research, and development costs that we sponsored during 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively (pre-2010 data adjusted to reflect the impact of the accounting standard on consolidation of VIEs).  The significant decrease in costs in recent years primarily reflects efficiencies in our global processes and the non-recurrence of costs related to our former Volvo operations in 2010 and to our former Jaguar Land Rover operations in 2009.  Research and development costs sponsored by third parties during 2010 were not material.




