ITEM 1.BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

We are in the business of discovering, developing, manufacturing and commercializing small molecule drugs.  We invest in scientific innovation to create transformative medicines for patients with serious diseases in specialty markets.  Since mid-2011, we have obtained approval for, and initiated commercial sales of, our first two products: KALYDECO (ivacaftor) and INCIVEK (telaprevir).  We market KALYDECO in the United States and international markets for the treatment of patients six years of age and older with cystic fibrosis, or CF, who have a specific genetic mutation in their cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator, orCFTR,gene, which is referred to as the G551D mutation.  INCIVEK is approved in the United States and Canada for the treatment of adults with genotype 1 hepatitis C virus, or HCV, infection.  Our collaborators, Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, or Janssen, and Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, or Mitsubishi Tanabe, market telaprevir in other international markets.

Our business is focused on developing and commercializing therapies for the treatment of cystic fibrosis and advancing our other research and early-stage development programs.

Cystic Fibrosis -Our goal is twofold: to develop treatment regimens that will provide benefits to as many patients with CF as possible and to maximize those benefits.

•KALYDECO.KALYDECO was approved in 2012 in the United States and European Union as a treatment for patients with CF six years of age and older who have the G551D mutation in theirCFTRgene.  We have submitted a supplemental New Drug Application, or sNDA, to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and a Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, variation in the European Union seeking approval to market ivacaftor for the treatment of patients with CF six years of age and older who have specified other mutations in theirCFTRgene, which were studied in our first label-expansion clinical trial for ivacaftor.  We also are seeking to expand the number of patients eligible for treatment with ivacaftor by (i) evaluating ivacaftor as a potential treatment for patients with CF who have residual CFTR function, including patients with CF who have the R117H mutation in theirCFTRgene, and (ii) evaluating ivacaftor as a potential treatment for patients with CF two to five years of age who have specific mutations in theirCFTRgenes.

•Ivacaftor in Combination with CFTR Corrector Compounds.In October 2013, we completed enrollment in an international pivotal Phase 3 development program to evaluate combinations of lumacaftor (VX-809), our most advanced investigational CFTR corrector compound, and ivacaftor.  The Phase 3 development program includes two Phase 3 clinical trials, referred to as TRAFFIC and TRANSPORT, that each enrolled patients with CF 12 years of age and older with two copies (homozygous) of the F508del mutation in theirCFTRgene.  The F508del mutation is the most prevalent genetic mutation that causes CF.  We expect data from TRAFFIC and TRANSPORT in mid-2014.  If these clinical trials are successful, we plan to submit a New Drug Application, or NDA, to the FDA and an MAA in the European Union, in the second half of 2014.  We also are evaluating VX-661, a second investigational CFTR corrector, in combination with ivacaftor, in Phase 2 clinical development.

•CF Research Programs.We are seeking to identify and develop next-generation CFTR corrector compounds that could be evaluated in regimens combining ivacaftor with two CFTR corrector compounds.

Research and Early-stage Development Programs -We are engaged in a number of other research and early-stage development programs, including programs in the areas of oncology, multiple sclerosis and other serious and rare diseases.  Over the last year, we have evaluated in Phase 2 clinical trials: VX-135, an HCV nucleotide analogue, in combination with daclatasvir, an NS5A replication complex inhibitor being developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb, or BMS; VX-509, our JAK3 inhibitor, in patients with rheumatoid arthritis; and VX-787, a drug candidate for the treatment of influenza A.  We are in discussions with Alios BioPharma, Inc., or Alios, from whom we exclusively license VX-135, and BMS regarding potential next steps for further clinical evaluation of VX-135 and are seeking collaborators to advance clinical development of VX-509 and VX-787.  We plan to continue investing in our research programs and fostering scientific innovation in order to identify and develop transformative medicines.  We believe that pursuing research in diverse areas allows us to balance the risks inherent in drug development and may provide drug candidates that will form our pipeline in future years.












CYSTIC FIBROSIS

Background

Cystic fibrosis is a rare, life-threatening genetic disease affecting approximately 75,000 people in North America, Europe and Australia.  CF is caused by a defective or missing CFTR protein resulting from mutations in theCFTRgene.  Children must inherit two defectiveCFTRgenes, which are referred to as alleles - one from each parent - to have CF.  There are more than 1,900 known mutations in theCFTRgene, some of which result in CF, including two of the most prevalent mutations, the G551D mutation and the F508del mutation.

The G551D mutation results in a defect in the CFTR protein in which the defective CFTR protein reaches the surface of a cell but does not efficiently transport chloride ions across the cell membrane.  The F508del mutation results in a defect in the CFTR protein in which the CFTR protein does not reach the surface of cells in sufficient quantities.  The absence of working CFTR proteins results in poor flow of salt and water into and out of cells in a number of organs, including the lungs.  As a result, thick, sticky mucus builds up and blocks the passages in many organs, leading to a variety of symptoms.  In particular, mucus builds up and clogs the airways in the lungs, causing chronic lung infections and progressive lung damage.  Ivacaftor, known as a CFTR potentiator, keeps the CFTR protein channels on the cell surface open longer, to increase the flow of salt and water into and out of the cell.  CFTR correctors, such as lumacaftor and VX-661, are believed to help CFTR protein reach the cell surface.

We chose to develop KALYDECO (ivacaftor) and our other CF drug candidates because of their potential to improve the function of defective CFTR proteins in patients with CF, which is the underlying cause of CF.  We discovered ivacaftor, lumacaftor and VX-661 in our research collaboration with the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Therapeutics Incorporated, or CFFT.  Our research group is continuing to work to identify additional corrector compounds that could be included in future dual- and/or triple-combination treatment regimens with the potential to provide additional benefits to patients with CF.  We hold worldwide development and commercialization rights to ivacaftor, lumacaftor and VX-661.  We pay royalties to CFFT on net sales of ivacaftor and will pay royalties to CFFT on any net sales of lumacaftor, VX-661 and any other corrector compounds discovered under the CFFT collaboration, if they are approved.

We market KALYDECO in specified approved indications in the United States and international markets.  Our ivacaftor development program for additional indications has received a Breakthrough Therapy designation from the FDA.  The FDA also has designated the combination regimens of lumacaftor with ivacaftor and VX-661 with ivacaftor for the treatment of patients with CF who have the F508del mutation on both alleles as Breakthrough Therapies.  We are expecting data from these clinical programs in 2014.

KALYDECO (ivacaftor)

KALYDECO (ivacaftor) is an orally-administered CFTR potentiator that is approved in the United States, Australia, Canada and the European Union for the treatment of patients six years of age and older with CF who have the G551D mutation in their

CFTR

KALYDECO is approved for the treatment of patients with CF six years of age and older who have at least one copy of the G551D mutation in theirCFTRgene.  We believe there are approximately 2,000 patients with CF six years of age and












older in North America, Europe and Australia who have the G551D mutation in theCFTRgene.Since KALYDECO's approval in 2012, most of these patients have started treatment with KALYDECO.KALYDECO currently is available to eligible patients in the United States, England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales, the Republic of Ireland, France, Germany, Austria, Denmark, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden.  In many international markets, including Australia and Canada, patients generally are not able to obtain access to drugs until the relevant agencies authorize public reimbursement for the cost of the drug.  We are in discussions with regulatory agencies in Australia and Canada regarding public reimbursement of KALYDECO costs in these countries.

We submitted an sNDA to the FDA and an MAA variation in the European Union in September 2013 and October 2013, respectively, seeking approval to market ivacaftor for the treatment of patients with CF six years of age and older who have specified other mutations in theirCFTRgene.  These submissions incorporated clinical data from our first ivacaftor label-expansion Phase 3 clinical trial.  The FDA has set a target date of March 27, 2014 to complete its review of this sNDA under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA).  We estimate that in North America, Europe and Australia approximately 400 patients with CF six years of age and older have at least one of the mutations evaluated in this clinical trial, including approximately 150 patients in the United States.

CF Drug Development Programs

We are continuing our work in CF to develop treatment regimens that will provide benefits to as many patients with CF as possible and to maximize those benefits.  We are seeking to increase the number of patients with CF who could benefit from our medicines both by evaluating ivacaftor in additional patient groups who may benefit, and by evaluating combinations of ivacaftor with our investigational corrector compounds, lumacaftor and VX-661, in patients with the most prevalent form of CF, those with two copies of the F508del mutation.

Ivacaftor

We have completed a Phase 3 clinical trial to evaluate ivacaftor  in patients with the R117H mutation in theirCFTRgene.  We are conducting a fully-enrolled proof-of-concept Phase 2 clinical trial in which we are evaluating ivacaftor in patients with CF who have clinical evidence of residual CFTR function.  We also are conducting a fully-enrolled Phase 3 clinical trial in which we are evaluating ivacaftor, in the form of minitablets or granules, as a treatment for children with CF two to five years of age with particular mutations in theirCFTRgene, including the G551D mutation.

R117H Mutation

In December 2013, we reported data from a Phase 3 clinical trial that evaluated ivacaftor in patients six years of age and older with CF who have the R117H mutation on at least one allele of theirCFTRgene.  Patients diagnosed with CF who have the R117H mutation exhibit a range of severity and signs and symptoms of the disease.

The 24-week doubled-blinded Phase 3 clinical trial enrolled 69 patients.  Patients 12 years of age and older had lung function at screening of 40 to 90 percent predicted FEV1, and children six to eleven years of age had FEV1at screening of 40 to 105 percent predicted FEV1.  FEV1is a measure of the amount of air that an individual can exhale in one second.  The primary endpoint of the clinical trial was the absolute change from baseline in FEV1throughout the treatment period for ivacaftor compared to placebo across all patients (intent-to-treat).  The clinical trial did not meet its primary endpoint of a statistically significant absolute change from baseline in FEV1.  However, a pre-specified subgroup analysis demonstrated a clinical benefit in patients with CF 18 years of age and older who have the R117H mutation on at least one allele.  We plan to meet with the FDA in early 2014 to discuss these results and the potential submission of an sNDA for patients with the R117H mutation.  We estimate that in North America, Europe and Australia approximately 1,100 patients with CF six years of age and older have at least one copy of the R117H mutation in theirCFTRgene.  In the United States, approximately 300 patients with CF 18 years of age and older have the R117H mutation in theirCFTRgene.

Results from R117H Clinical Trial

Lung Function (FEV1) Results In the Total Clinical Trial Population.  The primary endpoint of the clinical trial was the absolute change from baseline in FEV1throughout the treatment period for ivacaftor compared to placebo across all patients (intent-to-treat).  In the clinical trial, the mean absolute improvement in percent predicted FEV1between those treated with ivacaftor and placebo was 2.1 percentage points (p=0.20).  The result of statistical testing is often defined in terms of a "p-value," with p<0.05 generally considered to represent a statistically significant difference.  The treatment difference for this endpoint was not statistically significant, thus the clinical trial did not meet its












primary endpoint.  The mean absolute percent predicted FEV1improvement during ivacaftor treatment (within-group) was 2.6 percentage points (p = 0.03).

Secondary Endpoints.  In the clinical trial, the mean relative treatment difference in percent predicted FEV1was 5.0 percent (p = 0.06) through the 24-week treatment period.  The mean relative percent predicted FEV1improvement during ivacaftor treatment (within-group) was 4.8 percent (p=0.01).  Treatment with ivacaftor, regardless of age, resulted in statistically significant decreases in sweat chloride and improvement in patient-reported outcomes as measured by the respiratory domain of the Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire Revised (CFQ-R).  No significant differences in the frequency of pulmonary exacerbations or changes in body mass index were noted.

Safety and Tolerability.  The safety and tolerability results observed in this clinical trial were consistent with those observed in prior Phase 3 clinical trials of ivacaftor in patients with CF who have the G551D mutation.  The most commonly observed adverse events in those who received ivacaftor were infective pulmonary exacerbation, cough and headache, which occurred with similar frequency compared to those who received placebo.  Serious adverse events occurred in 17 percent of patients who received placebo versus 12 percent for patients who received ivacaftor.

Subgroup Analyses.  A pre-specified subgroup analysis was conducted to evaluate the effect of ivacaftor on patients 18 years of age and older, in patients 12 to 17 years of age and in patients six to eleven years of age.  Data from these subgroup analyses are provided below:

•Patients 18 years of age and older:50 patients 18 years of age and older were enrolled in this clinical trial and had a mean baseline percent predicted FEV1of 65 percent.  A pre-specified subset analysis in these patients showed statistically significant improvements in lung function and other key secondary endpoints.  In these patients, the mean absolute improvement in percent predicted FEV1between treatment with ivacaftor and placebo was 5.0 percentage points (p=0.01) and the mean relative improvement in percent predicted FEV1was 9.1 percent (p=0.008) in each case through the 24-week treatment period.  An additional analysis was conducted on percent predicted FEV1four weeks following the completion of treatment with ivacaftor.  Mean lung function returned toward baseline in the patients who received ivacaftor, who showed a -3.1 percentage point (p=0.001) mean absolute within-group change from Week 24 to Week 28 (four weeks after the end of treatment).  Data from these subgroup analyses of patients 18 years of age and older are provided below:

Ivacaftor (n=24)Placebo (n=26)Treatment DifferenceMean Absolute Change in FEV1*4.5 (p=0.002)-0.5 (p=0.728)5.0 (p=0.01)Mean Relative Change in FEV17.7 (p=0.002)-1.5 (p=0.526)9.1 (p=0.008)Proportion of Patients with Mean Absolute Improvement in FEV1of 5 percentage points or more54.2%15.4%38.8% (p=0.007)CFQ-R Score (respiratory domain)*12.2 (p=<0.0001)-0.5 (p=0.861)12.6 (p=0.002)

*Pre-specified analyses

•Patients 12 to 17 years of age:Two patients 12 to 17 years of age enrolled in this clinical trial; one received placebo and one received ivacaftor.  There were too few patients to make a statistical comparison of patients in this age range.

•Patients six to eleven years of age:Seventeen patients six to eleven years of age enrolled in this clinical trial and had a mean baseline percent predicted FEV1of 96 percent.  In these patients, there was a mean absolute decline from baseline in percent predicted FEV1of -2.8 percentage points (p=0.132) in patients who received ivacaftor (n=9) compared to a mean absolute increase from baseline in percent predicted FEV1of 3.5 percentage points (p=0.084) for patients who received placebo (n=8).  The mean absolute treatment difference was -6.3 percentage points (p=0.03).

Pediatric Formulation

We are conducting a fully-enrolled Phase 3 clinical trial to evaluate ivacaftor, in the form of minitablets or granules, as a treatment for children with CF two to five years of age with specific mutations in theirCFTRgene, including the G551D












mutation.  We expect data from this clinical trial in the second quarter of 2014.  If this clinical trial is successful, we plan to submit an NDA in the second half of 2014.  We estimate that in North America, Europe and Australia approximately 300 patients with CF two to five years of age have one of the CFTR mutations in theirCFTRgene that is being evaluated in this clinical trial.

Residual CFTR Function

We are conducting a fully-enrolled proof-of-concept Phase 2 clinical trial in which we are evaluating ivacaftor in patients with CF who have clinical evidence of residual CFTR function.  We expect data from this clinical trial in the second quarter of 2014.  We estimate that in North America, Europe and Australia more than 3,000 patients with CF six years of age and older have non-R117H CFTR mutations that result in residual function.

Lumacaftor in Combination with Ivacaftor

Phase 3 Program in Patients with CF Who Have Two Copies (homozygous) of the F508del Mutation

We have completed enrollment of patients in an international pivotal Phase 3 clinical program to evaluate combinations of lumacaftor and ivacaftor in patients with CF who have two copies (homozygous) of the F508del mutation in their

CFTR

gene.  We are conducting two 24-week Phase 3 clinical trials, which are referred to as TRAFFIC and TRANSPORT, that are designed to support approval of the combination of lumacaftor and ivacaftor for patients 12 years of age and older.  Each Phase 3 clinical trial enrolled approximately 550 patients with CF who are homozygous for the F508del mutation, for a total of approximately 1,100 patients.  TRAFFIC and TRANSPORT are identical in design and together are being conducted at approximately 200 clinical trial sites in North America, Europe and Australia.  Two treatment regimens of lumacaftor (600mg once-daily (QD) and 400mg every twelve hours (q12h)) in combination with ivacaftor (250mg every twelve hours (q12h)) are being evaluated.  Fixed-dose tablets that contain both lumacaftor and ivacaftor or placebo are being used in both clinical trials.  In TRAFFIC and TRANSPORT, we will evaluate absolute and relative improvement in percent predicted FEV


, as well as change in body mass index (BMI) or weight gain, number of pulmonary exacerbations and improvements in patient-reported outcomes as measured by the CFQ-R.  Following recent discussions with regulatory agencies, we have agreed that for both TRAFFIC and TRANSPORT the primary endpoint will be absolute change in percent predicted FEV


through 24 weeks compared to placebo.  The initial 24-week treatment period in TRAFFIC and TRANSPORT is being followed by a separate rollover double-blind extension clinical trial where all eligible patients, including those who received placebo, will receive one of the combination treatment regimens for up to an additional 96 weeks.

We expect data from TRAFFIC and TRANSPORT in mid-2014.  If these clinical trials are successful, we plan to submit an NDA to the FDA and an MAA in the European Union in the second half of 2014.  We believe that in North America, Europe and Australia more than 28,000 patients with CF six years of age and older have two copies of the F508del mutation in theirCFTRgene, including approximately 22,000 patients 12 years of age and older.

We also are conducting a clinical trial to evaluate lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor in children with CF six to eleven years of age who have two copies of the F508del mutation.  We have completed part 1 of this clinical trial and expect to begin part 2 of this clinical trial in the second half of 2014.  If this clinical trial is successful, we plan to use the data from this clinical trial, along with data from TRAFFIC and TRANSPORT, for registration of this combination in patients six to eleven years of age, which we expect would occur subsequent to approval in patients 12 years of age and older, if achieved.

The two combination dosing regimens we selected for evaluation in TRAFFIC and TRANSPORT were evaluated in separate parts of a Phase 2 clinical trial of lumacaftor and ivacaftor referred to as Cohort 2 and Cohort 3.  Safety results from Cohort 2 and Cohort 3 were similar to one another.  In both dose groups, lumacaftor was generally well-tolerated alone and in combination with ivacaftor.  The most common adverse events in both groups were respiratory in nature.  In Cohort 3, one patient in the treatment group discontinued treatment because of a pulmonary adverse event.












•Cohort 2 -We evaluated the 600mg once-daily (QD) dose of lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor (250mg q12h) in Cohort 2 in 21 patients with CF who are homozygous for the F508del mutation.  This regimen resulted in statistically significant improvements in lung function (within group and versus placebo) during the combination dosing period, as set forth in the following table:

Mean Absolute and Relative Changes in Percent Predicted FEV1Day 0 - 28;        lumacaftor aloneDay 28 - 56;        lumacaftor + ivacaftorDay 0 - 56lumacaftor (600mg QD) + ivacaftor (250mg q12h)Within GroupAbsolute-2.9 (p=0.07)+6.1 (p<0.001)+3.4 (p=0.03)Relative-3.5 (p=0.13)+9.7 (p<0.001)+5.3 (p=0.02)Versus PlaceboAbsolute-2.0 (p=0.36)+8.6 (p <0.001)+6.7 (p=0.002)Relative-3.9 (p=0.21)+12.8 (p<0.001)+9.2 (p=0.004)

•Cohort 3 -We evaluated the 400mg (q12h) dose of lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor in Cohort 3 in 11 patients with CF who are homozygous for the F508del mutation.  Cohort 3 also included the randomization of four patients to placebo to allow for a blinded safety assessment.  Three patients completed treatment in the placebo group.  The pattern of lung function response observed in Cohort 3 was similar to that observed in the 600mg (QD) dose group in Cohort 2, with a decline in FEV1during the lumacaftor monotherapy dosing period followed by a statistically significant increase in FEV1during the lumacaftor and ivacaftor combination dosing period.  Additional lung function results for Cohort 3 are provided below:

Mean Absolute and Relative Changes in Percent Predicted FEV1Day 0 - 28;        lumacaftor aloneDay 28 - 56;        lumacaftor + ivacaftorDay 0 - 56lumacaftor (400mg q12h) + ivacaftor (250mg q12h)Within GroupAbsolute-4.3 (p=0.04)+6.6 (p=0.01)+1.9 (p=0.57)Relative-6.3 (p=0.08)+8.8 (p=0.01)+2.5 (p=0.67)

Phase 2 Clinical Trial in Patients with One Copy (heterozygous) of the F508del Mutation

We recently began enrollment in an 8-week Phase 2 clinical trial of lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor in patients with CF who are 18 years of age and older and who have one copy of the F508del mutation in theirCFTRgene and one copy of a mutation in theirCFTRgene that is not expected to respond to either ivacaftor or lumacaftor alone.  In the Phase 2 clinical trial that previously evaluated heterozygous patients, the improvement in lung function was smaller than the improvement seen in homozygous patients.  The clinical trial we recently initiated was requested by the FDA and is designed to provide additional safety and lung function data on the combination of ivacaftor and lumacaftor in heterozygous patients.  This clinical trial will evaluate a twice-daily administration of lumacaftor (400 mg) and ivacaftor (250 mg).

VX-661

Phase 2 Clinical Trial

In April 2013, we announced the data from a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2 clinical trial of VX-661 alone and in combination with ivacaftor.  This clinical trial enrolled 128 patients with CF who were 18 years of age and older with two copies of the F508del mutation.  One group of patients was randomized to receive either VX-661 (10, 30, 100 and 150 mg dosed once daily), or placebo, alone for 28 days.  A separate group of patients was randomized to receive the combination of VX-661 (10, 30, 100 and 150 mg dosed once daily) and ivacaftor (150 mg dosed twice daily), or placebo, for 28 days.  The primary endpoints of the clinical trial were safety, tolerability and change in sweat chloride levels.  Change in lung function (FEV1) was measured as a secondary endpoint.

There were statistically significant mean absolute decreases in sweat chloride levels, both within group and versus placebo, across the combination and monotherapy groups.  These changes generally were modest and were variable across the dose groups.












VX-661 generally was well-tolerated when dosed alone and in combination with ivacaftor.  The most common adverse events were pulmonary in nature.  Most adverse events were mild to moderate in severity and similar between the treatment and placebo groups, and the types and frequency of adverse events were similar between the treatment and placebo groups. The rate of serious adverse events also was similar between the treatment arms and the placebo arm.

Lung Function Results for Combination Dosing

Mean absolute and relative improvements in lung function were observed in all the combination dosing groups (10, 30, 100 and 150 mg), both within group and versus placebo.  The improvements in lung function were dose-dependent, with the greatest improvements observed in the groups that received the highest doses of VX-661 in combination with ivacaftor.  A summary of these lung function results is provided in the following table:

Mean Changes in Lung FunctionMean Relative Change in Percent Predicted FEV1From BaselineMean Absolute Change in Percent Predicted FEV1From BaselineDay 0 - 2828 Days Post-Treatment(Within-Group Mean)*Day 0 - 2828 Days Post-Treatment(Within-Group Mean)*Placebo (n=23) (within group)0.03 (NS)1.6-0.4 (NS)0.6Combination Treatment Armsvs. Placebovs. PlaceboVX-661 (10 mg) + ivacaftor (150 mg) (n=17)4.1 (NS)1.72.3 (NS)0.8VX-661 (30 mg) + ivacaftor (150 mg) (n=17)5.4 (NS)1.23.4 (NS)0.5VX-661 (100 mg) + ivacaftor (150 mg) (n=15)9.0 (p=0.01)1.74.8 (p=0.01)0.5VX-661 (150 mg) + ivacaftor (150 mg) (n=16)7.5 (p=0.02)1.44.5 (p=0.01)0.7

NS = Not Statistically Significant

* The statistical analysis plan (SAP) for this clinical trial did not include statistical comparisons for the 28-day washout period

Planned and Ongoing Phase 2 Clinical Trials

We are preparing to conduct an additional Phase 2 clinical trial of VX-661, a CFTR corrector compound, in combination with ivacaftor in patients with CF who have two copies of the F508del mutation in theirCFTRgene.  We have submitted the protocol for this 12-week Phase 2 clinical trial to the FDA and expect to begin enrollment in the first half of 2014.  The primary endpoint of this clinical trial is safety, with secondary endpoints to assess efficacy and pharmacokinetics of the combination in order to characterize VX-661 for further clinical development.  If the safety and efficacy data from this Phase 2 clinical trial is satisfactory, we expect to conduct further evaluation of VX-661.  Long term, our primary strategy is to develop VX-661 as a triple-combination regimen with ivacaftor and a next-generationCFTRcorrector compound.  Additionally, we may consider developing VX-661 in a dual-combination regimen with ivacaftor.

We have completed enrollment in a Phase 2 clinical trial to evaluate a 4-week regimen of VX-661 in combination with ivacaftor in patients with one copy of the G551D mutation and one copy of the F508del mutation in theirCFTRgenes.  This clinical trial is intended to explore whether the addition of a CFTR corrector to treatment with ivacaftor can provide greater clinical benefit than treatment with KALYDECO alone in these patients.



HCV INFECTION

Background

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, has estimated that approximately 2.7 million to 3.9 million people in the United States are chronically infected with HCV.  The World Health Organization, or WHO, has estimated that about 170 million people are chronically infected with HCV worldwide.  Although exposure to HCV often leads to chronic infection, patients frequently do not have symptoms and are unaware that they have become infected with HCV.  Over time, many patients develop liver inflammation.  This inflammation can progress to scarring of the liver, called fibrosis, or more advanced scarring of the liver, called cirrhosis.  Patients with cirrhosis may go on to develop liver failure or other










complications, including liver cancer.  The WHO estimates that HCV infection is responsible for more than 50% of all liver cancer cases and two-thirds of all liver transplants in the developed world.

Genotype 1 HCV infection is the most prevalent form of HCV infection in the United States and the most difficult to treat.  There are many other less prevalent HCV infection genotypes, each of which tends to respond differently to treatment.  Patients who are treated successfully maintain undetectable HCV RNA levels after treatment has been completed, which is referred to as a sustained viral response, or SVR.

In addition to our HCV protease inhibitor INCIVEK, there are three oral direct-acting antiviral drugs approved for the treatment of genotype 1 HCV infection in the United States: Gilead Sciences, Inc.'s, or Gilead's, SOVALDI™ (sofosbuvir), an HCV nucleotide analogue NS5B polymerase inhibitor that was approved by the FDA in December 2013; Janssen's OLYSIO™ (simeprevir), an HCV protease inhibitor that was approved by the FDA in November 2013, and Merck's VICTRELIS™ (boceprevir), an HCV protease inhibitor that was approved by the FDA in 2011.  Each of these direct-acting antiviral drugs generally are prescribed in combination with pegylated-interferon, or peg-IFN, a drug that is administered by weekly injection, and ribavirin, or RBV.

INCIVEK/INCIVO/TELAVIC

INCIVEK (telaprevir) is an orally-administered HCV protease inhibitor for adults with genotype 1 HCV infection that is prescribed in combination with peg-IFN and RBV.  We market INCIVEK in the United States and Canada, where it was approved in 2011.  In 2011, our collaborators, Janssen and Mitsubishi Tanabe, also obtained marketing approval for telaprevir from the European Commission and the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, respectively.  Janssen markets telaprevir under the brand name INCIVO in Europe and other countries in its territories, and Mitsubishi Tanabe markets telaprevir under the brand name TELAVIC in Japan.  Janssen paid us royalties on net sales of INCIVO through the fourth quarter of 2013 and beginning in the first quarter of 2014 has a fully-paid license to market INCIVO in its territories.  Mitsubishi Tanabe also has a fully-paid license to market telaprevir in its territories.  Telaprevir was discovered in our collaboration, now ended, with Eli Lilly and Company, and we pay Eli Lilly and Company royalties on net sales of telaprevir.

INCIVEK achieved rapid acceptance for the treatment of patients with genotype 1 HCV infection in the United States and accounted for a majority of our net product revenues in 2011, 2012 and 2013.  However, INCIVEK revenues have been declining since reaching a peak in the fourth quarter of 2011.  In response to the continued and rapid decline in the number of patients being treated with INCIVEK in the United States and anticipated competition resulting from the expected approval of direct-acting antivirals SOVALDI and OLYSIO, we reduced our promotion and support for INCIVEK in 2013.  We expect that only a small portion of our net product revenues in 2014 will be due to INCIVEK.

VX-135

We are evaluating the development of all-oral, interferon-free regimens of 12 weeks or less in duration incorporating our HCV nucleotide analogue NS5B polymerase inhibitor VX-135.  A number of pharmaceutical companies are investigating combination regimens that incorporate one or more of an HCV protease inhibitor, an HCV nucleotide analogue, an HCV non-nucleotide polymerase inhibitor and an NS5A inhibitor.  Clinical trials of these investigational combination regimens are being conducted in a wide variety of patient populations, including treatment-naïve and treatment-failure patients, and across all HCV genotypes, which respond differently to different combinations of molecules employing different mechanisms.

Many of our competitors' potential all-oral treatment regimens are more advanced, including all-oral treatment regimens that are being evaluated in Phase 3 clinical trials by Gilead, Abbvie, Inc., or Abbvie, and BMS.  While the development and regulatory timelines for drug candidates for the treatment of HCV infection are subject to risk and uncertainty, we believe that (i) substantial additional clinical data regarding potential all-oral treatment regimens will become available in 2014 and (ii) it is possible that one or more all-oral treatment regimens for genotype 1 HCV infection could be commercially available as soon the second half of 2014.  As a result, if we are successful in developing an all-oral treatment regimen that includes VX-135, we expect that our all-oral treatment regimen would compete directly with several all-oral treatment regimens that were approved several years prior to the approval of our all-oral treatment regimen.

Partial Clinical Hold

In July 2013, the FDA placed a partial clinical hold on VX-135 in the United States.  The partial clinical hold was placed on VX-135 in the United States following observation of reversible elevated liver enzymes in patients who received 400 mg










of VX-135 in combination with RBV in a Phase 2 clinical trial conducted in Europe.  Until the partial clinical hold has been resolved, we cannot pursue further evaluation of VX-135 in the United States.

VX-135 in Combination with Daclatasvir

We, in collaboration with BMS, are evaluating VX-135 in combination with daclatasvir, an NS5A replication complex inhibitor being developed by BMS, in a Phase 2a clinical trial.  The first two cohorts of this open-label Phase 2a study of VX-135 in combination with daclatasvir were conducted in New Zealand and evaluated 100 mg and 200 mg once-daily doses of VX-135 in combination with daclatasvir once daily (60 mg) for 12 weeks of total treatment.  Twenty-three patients with genotype 1 HCV who were new to treatment (treatment-naïve) and did not have liver cirrhosis were enrolled in these cohorts.  More than 75 percent of all patients enrolled had genotype 1a HCV infection.

•200 mg of VX-135 in Combination with Daclatasvir (60 mg):Based on the intent-to-treat analysis, 58 percent (7 of 12) of patients in this treatment arm had undetectable HCV RNA levels after 4 weeks of treatment and 83 percent (10 of 12) of these patients had undetectable HCV RNA levels four weeks after the completion of treatment, or SVR4.  One patient in this treatment arm experienced a serious adverse event (vomiting/nausea) and discontinued treatment after the first dose.  This patient did not achieve SVR4.  The eleven other patients in this arm completed 12 weeks of treatment and 91 percent (10 of 11) of these patients achieved SVR4.  One patient relapsed during the follow-up period and did not achieve SVR4.

•100 mg of VX-135 in Combination with Daclatasvir (60 mg):Based on an intent-to-treat analysis, 73 percent (8 of 11) of patients in this treatment arm achieved undetectable HCV RNA levels after 4 weeks of treatment and 73 percent (8 of 11) of patients had undetectable HCV RNA levels four weeks after the completion of treatment (SVR4).  Two patients in this arm experienced viral breakthrough while receiving the combination regimen, and one patient relapsed during the follow-up period.

We are in discussions with Alios BioPharma, Inc., or Alios, and BMS regarding these data and potential next steps for further evaluation of VX-135 in combination with daclatasvir.



AUTOIMMUNE DISEASES (RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS)

Background

Autoimmune diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis, or RA, are characterized by inflammation that is believed to be the result of an incorrectly regulated immune response.  Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic disease that affects 0.5% to 1.0% of the world’s population and, according to the CDC, approximately 1.5 million adults in the United States.  Rheumatoid arthritis causes destruction of joint cartilage and erosion of adjacent bone, resulting in deformity, loss of function and substantial disability.  Many patients with rheumatoid arthritis also eventually require joint replacements.  There are a number of approved treatments for rheumatoid arthritis, including oral and injectable disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, or DMARDs, and a Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor that is marketed by Pfizer in the United States.  These treatments are effective in a portion of patients with rheumatoid arthritis, but a significant portion of patients do not respond adequately to currently available drugs or experience a decrease in the effectiveness of these drugs over time.  We are seeking to develop an oral therapy for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis that could be used alone or in combination with existing DMARDs.

VX-509

VX-509 is an investigational oral drug candidate intended to inhibit Janus kinase 3, or JAK3, which is involved in the modulation of a type of white blood cell, referred to as a lymphocyte, that is central to autoimmune disease pathology.  Because of JAK3’s role in lymphocyte biology, we believe it is a promising target for the design of immunosuppressant drugs for treatment of a variety of autoimmune diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis.  Based onin vitroandin vivodata, VX-509 shows promise as a potent and selective inhibitor of JAK3.

We recently completed the evaluation of VX-509 in a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled 24-week Phase 2b clinical trial that enrolled and dosed 358 people with RA who had active disease despite methotrexate treatment.  Patients in the clinical trial continued to receive stable doses of methotrexate during the clinical trial.  Up to 20 percent of the patients in the clinical trial had previously been treated with a single tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitor.  Patients in the clinical trial were randomized to receive placebo or one of four dose regimens of VX-509 (100 mg once daily (QD), 150 mg once daily, 200 mg once daily or 100 mg given twice daily (BID)) for 24 weeks.










The primary endpoints of the clinical trial were the proportion of patients who achieved a 20 percent improvement in signs and symptoms of RA, as measured by the ACR improvement criteria, or ACR20, response at week 12 and the change from baseline in Disease Activity Score for 28 joints, or DAS28, at week 12.  Additional secondary endpoints were used to evaluate the clinical activity of VX-509, including the proportion of patients who achieved 50 percent and 70 percent improvement in signs and symptoms of RA, or ACR50 and ACR70, respectively, at week 12.  In all VX-509 treatment arms, the proportion of patients achieving ACR20 and ACR50 and the decrease from baseline in DAS28 were significantly greater than in placebo.  The three highest dose groups showed ACR20 responses of between 58 percent and 68 percent, compared to 18 percent for placebo, and statistically significant ACR70 responses versus placebo.

From week 12 to 24, data from this clinical trial showed continued improvements in the signs and symptoms of RA as measured by ACR20, ACR50 and ACR70.  At week 24, all doses of VX-509 showed statistically significant ACR20, ACR50 and ACR70 responses versus placebo.  Across the four VX-509 dose groups, the ACR20, ACR50 and ACR70 responses were between 61 and 63 percent, 38 and 47 percent and 15 and 25 percent, respectively, through 24 weeks of treatment.  The ACR20, ACR50 and ACR70 responses for patients who received placebo were 17, 7 and 3 percent, respectively, through 24 weeks.

Safety results through 12 and 24 weeks of treatment were similar.  Through 24 weeks, the discontinuation rate due to adverse events was 9.1 percent for the pooled VX-509 treatment group and 8.5 percent for the placebo group.  Overall, adverse event rates through 24 weeks were 59.9 percent in the pooled VX-509 treatment groups compared to 42.3 percent for those who received placebo.  There were two deaths in the clinical trial, including one death in the VX-509 200 mg QD group in a patient with pancytopenia and pneumonia and one death in the VX-509 100 mg BID group in a patient who had cardiac failure.

In addition to the Phase 2b clinical trial in RA, we have completed several drug-drug interaction studies of VX-509 in healthy volunteers. These studies demonstrate that dosing of VX-509 inhibits CYP3A4 and indicates that dose modification with frequently prescribed medicines (e.g., atorvastatin and methylprednisone) or limited concomitant use of certain medications (e.g. oral midazolam) with VX-509 may be required.   We are seeking a collaborator for VX-509.



INFLUENZA

Background: Effects and Prevalence of Influenza

The CDC has estimated that in the United States more than 200,000 patients with influenza infection are hospitalized annually with respiratory and cardiac-related complications.  While the number of influenza-related deaths varies significantly depending on the severity of the influenza season, the CDC has estimated the number of influenza-related deaths in the United States averages approximately 25,000 per year.  In addition to vaccinations designed to prevent the spread of infection, we believe that there is a significant market for antiviral agents that could potentially be used to treat influenza.  Currently, neuraminidase inhibitors oseltamivir (Tamiflu) and zanamivir (Relenza) are the antiviral agents that are used to treat influenza infection, but these drugs must be administered within 24 to 48 hours of initial infection in order to be effective and do not produce responses in a significant portion of patients.

VX-787










frequently reported class of adverse events in the VX-787 and placebo arms were those typically associated with influenza-like illness.  We are seeking a collaborator to advance VX-787 development beyond this stage.



COMMERCIAL ORGANIZATION

Our commercial organization focuses on supporting sales of KALYDECO in the United States, Europe, Canada and Australia.  Our sales force and managed markets organizations are responsible for promoting products to health care providers and obtaining reimbursement for products from third-party payors, including regulatory and governmental organizations in the United States and international markets.  Following our October 2013 restructuring, we no longer have a U.S. field-based sales force focused on supporting sales of INCIVEK.

Our U.S. field-based CF commercial team includes approximately 15 therapeutic specialists who each have experience with CF.  We focus our CF marketing efforts in the United States on a relatively small number of physicians and health care professionals who write most of the prescriptions for CF medicines.  Many of these physicians and health care professionals are located at one of the approximately 110 accredited centers in the United States focused on the treatment of CF.  In international markets, we have a small sales force to promote KALYDECO.

We market our products and educate physicians by calling on individual physicians, advertising, sending direct mail, public relations activities and other activities.  In addition, our government affairs and public policy group advocates for policies that promote life sciences innovation and increase awareness of the diseases on which we are focusing, with state and federal legislatures, government agencies, public health officials and other policy-makers.  We also have established programs in the United States that provide our products to qualified uninsured or underinsured patients at no charge or at a reduced charge, based on specific eligibility criteria.



RESEARCH

We believe that our integrated drug design approach has significantly enhanced our ability to discover and develop small molecule drug candidates directed at biologically complex targets associated with serious diseases.  Our platform integrates biology, pharmacology, drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics, toxicology, material sciences, biophysics, medicinal chemistry and process chemistry, automation and information technologies in a coordinated fashion throughout the discovery process.  We believe that our approach has been validated through our success in moving novel drug candidates into clinical trials and obtaining marketing approvals for KALYDECO and INCIVEK.  Currently, the disease areas of highest priority to us from a research perspective are: CF and other genetic diseases; cancer; neurological diseases and disorders and autoimmune diseases.  We focus our research activities on products that would be prescribed by specialist physicians for the treatment of rare or life-threatening diseases, which are referred to as specialty markets.  In CF, our research group is working to identify additional corrector compounds that could be included in future dual- and/or triple-combination treatment regimens that have the potential to provide additional benefits to patients with CF.

Driven by the complexity of the disease areas selected, we attempt to identify multiple approaches within each indication that, either as a stand-alone therapy or combination therapy, could provide treatment options that are transformational in nature. We select disease areas by mapping our research strengths onto disease areas with high unmet medical need, with an emphasis on indications, where based on scientific insights, we believe that we, independently or in collaboration with other third parties, will be able to discover, develop and commercialize important medicines for serious diseases.

Our past drug discovery efforts have produced a variety of drug candidates that have been commercialized or are in preclinical or clinical development.  We believe our ongoing research programs will continue to create value for us by generating new drug candidates in areas of significant unmet medical need.  We expect one or more compounds from our research programs to enter into clinical development in 2014.

To augment our internal research programs, we seek to collaborate with leading academic research institutions, government laboratories, foundations and other organizations in order to advance research in our areas of therapeutic interest as well as in areas of basic technological enablement.  We have established relationships with organizations and consortia of organizations from around the world with expertise in areas of interest to us and intend to leverage that experience to further our research efforts.












COLLABORATIONS

We have entered into collaborations with pharmaceutical and other companies and organizations that provide us financial and other resources, including capabilities in research, development, manufacturing and sales and marketing, and licenses to intellectual property.  These collaborations have provided us with drug candidates and/or important financial and non-financial resources that have contributed to our products and a number of the drug candidates in our current development pipeline.  We may seek to license or acquire drugs, drug candidates and other technologies that have the potential to add to our pipeline or to provide us with new commercial opportunities.  Furthermore, we may seek collaborators to support, develop and/or commercialize some of our current drug candidates and/or additional drug candidates that may emerge from our research activities.

Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Therapeutics Incorporated

We began working with CFFT in 1998.  We entered into the current collaboration agreement with CFFT in 2004 and amended it several times to support research and development activities related to potentiator compounds and corrector compounds, including ivacaftor, lumacaftor and VX-661.  Pursuant to an April 2011 amendment to the collaboration agreement, CFFT agreed to provide financial support for development activities for VX-661, a corrector compound discovered under the collaboration, and additional research and development activities directed at discovering new corrector compounds.  We retain worldwide rights to develop and commercialize ivacaftor, lumacaftor, VX-661 and any other compounds discovered during the course of the research collaboration with CFFT and are obligated to pay CFFT tiered royalties ranging from single digits to sub-teens, calculated as a percentage of net sales, on ivacaftor, as well as lumacaftor, VX-661 and any other compounds discovered during the original research term or the research term that began in 2011.  We have made the two commercial milestone payments required under the collaboration agreement upon achievement of certain sales levels of KALYDECO.  Under the collaboration agreement, we also are obligated to make a total of two one-time commercial milestone payments upon achievement of certain sales levels for CFTR corrector compounds.

For each compound commercialized under this collaboration, we will have royalty obligations to CFFT until the expiration of patents covering that compound.  We have patents in the United States and European Union covering the composition-of-matter of ivacaftor that expire in 2027 and 2025, respectively, subject to potential patent life extensions. We have patent applications in the United States and European Union covering the composition-of-matter of lumacaftor that expire in 2026, subject to potential patent life extensions.  CFFT may terminate its funding obligations under the collaboration, as amended, in certain circumstances, in which case there will be a proportional reduction in the royalty rates and commercial milestone payments for certain CFTR corrector compounds.  The collaboration also may be terminated by either party for a material breach by the other, subject to notice and cure provisions.

Alios BioPharma, Inc.

In June 2011, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Alios, a privately-held biotechnology company.  Pursuant to the agreement, we are collaborating on the research, development and commercialization of VX-135, an HCV nucleotide analogue discovered by Alios.  In 2012, we ended development of ALS-2158, a second HCV nucleotide analogue discovered by Alios and licensed to us pursuant to the agreement.  We are responsible for all costs related to development and commercialization of VX-135.  Our research program with Alios directed to the discovery of additional HCV nucleotide analogues that act on the HCV polymerase has ended.

Under the terms of the agreement, we have exclusive worldwide development and commercialization rights to VX-135.  Upon entering into the agreement, we paid Alios a$60.0 millionup-front payment.  As of December 31, 2013, Alios had earned an aggregate of $60.0 millionin development milestone payments pursuant to the agreement.  The agreement provides for development milestone payments to Alios of up to an additional $312.5 millionif VX-135 is approved and commercialized.  Alios also is eligible to receive commercial milestone payments of up to$750.0 million, as well as tiered royalties on net sales of approved drugs.

We may terminate our agreement with Alios (i) upon 30 days’ notice to Alios if we cease development of VX-135 after it has experienced a technical failure and/or (ii) upon 60 days’ notice to Alios at any time after we complete Phase 2a clinical trials.  The agreement also may be terminated by either party for a material breach by the other, and by Alios for our inactivity or if we challenge certain Alios patents, in each case subject to notice and cure provisions.  Unless earlier terminated, the agreement will continue in effect until the expiration of our royalty obligations, which expire on a country-by-country basis on the later of (a) the date the last-to-expire patent covering a licensed product expires or (b) ten years after the












first commercial sale in the country.  In the United States and European Union, there are patent applications pending covering the composition-of-matter of VX-135 that, if granted, would expire in 2031.

Janssen Pharmaceutica NV

In June 2006, we entered into a license, development, manufacturing and commercialization agreement with Janssen.  Under the agreement, we collaborated with Janssen on the development and commercialization of telaprevir.  We have exclusive commercial rights to telaprevir in North America and led the development program for telaprevir in North America and the Janssen territories.  Janssen has exclusive rights to commercialize INCIVO (telaprevir) outside of North America and the Far East.  In the fourth quarter of 2013, we entered into an amendment to our agreement with Janssen, the 2013 Janssen Amendment.  Pursuant to the 2013 Janssen Amendment, (i) Janssen paid us $152.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2013, (ii) Janssen's obligations to pay us royalties on net sales of INCIVO terminated after the fourth quarter of 2013, and (iii) Janssen received a fully-paid license to commercialize INCIVO in its territories, subject to the continued payment of certain third-party royalties on net sales of INCIVO in its territories.

The agreement will continue in effect until the later of (i) the expiration of the last-to-expire patent covering INCIVO or (ii) the last to expire third-party royalty payment on net sales of INCIVO.  In the European Union, there is a patent covering the composition-of-matter of INCIVO that expires in 2026.

Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation

We have a collaboration agreement with Mitsubishi Tanabe pursuant to which Mitsubishi Tanabe has a fully-paid license to manufacture and commercialize TELAVIC (telaprevir) to treat HCV infection in Japan and other specified countries in the Far East.  This agreement was entered into in 2004 and amended in 2009.  Pursuant to this agreement, Mitsubishi Tanabe provided financial and other support for the development and commercialization of telaprevir, made a $105.0 million payment to us in connection with the 2009 amendment of the collaboration agreement and made a $65.0 million payment to us in the fourth quarter of 2011 related to the commercialization of TELAVIC in Japan.  There are no further payments due to us under this collaboration agreement.  Mitsubishi Tanabe is responsible for its own development and manufacturing costs in its territory.  Mitsubishi Tanabe may terminate the agreement at any time without cause upon 60 days’ prior written notice to us.  The agreement also may be terminated by either party for a material breach by the other, subject to notice and cure provisions.  Unless earlier terminated, the agreement will continue in effect until the expiration of the last-to-expire patent covering TELAVIC.  In Japan, we have a patent covering the composition-of-matter of TELAVIC that expires in 2021.



INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

We actively seek protection for our products and proprietary information by means of U.S. and foreign patents, trademarks and copyrights, as appropriate.  In addition, we rely upon trade secret protection and contractual arrangements to protect certain of our proprietary information and products.  We have patents and pending patent applications that relate to potential drug targets, compounds we are developing to modulate those targets, methods of making or using those compounds and proprietary elements of our drug discovery platform.

Much of our technology and many of our processes depend upon the knowledge, experience and skills of key scientific and technical personnel.  To protect our rights to our proprietary know-how and technology, we require all employees, as well as our consultants and advisors when feasible, to enter into confidentiality agreements that require disclosure and assignment to us of ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions made by these employees, consultants and advisors in the course of their service to us.










While we have numerous issued patents and pending patent applications in our patent portfolio, we believe that the patents and patent applications in the United States and the European Union that are the most important to our business are those that claim the composition-of-matter of our drugs and drug candidates that have progressed at least into Phase 2 clinical trials.  The following table sets forth the status of the primary patents and patent applications in the United States and the European Union covering the composition-of-matter of these drugs and drug candidates:

Drug/Drug CandidateStatus of United States Patent(Anticipated Expiration,Subject to Potential Extensions)Status of European Union Patent(Anticipated Expiration,Subject to Potential Extensions)KALYDECO (ivacaftor)Granted (2027)Application Pending (2025)lumacaftorApplication Pending (2026)Application Pending (2026)VX-661Granted (2027)Application Pending (2027)INCIVEK/INCIVO (telaprevir)Granted (2025)Granted (2026)VX-135Application Pending (2031)Application Pending (2031)VX-509Granted (2026)Application Pending (2025)VX-787Application Pending (2030)Application Pending (2030)

We hold issued patents and pending patent applications in the United States, and in foreign countries we deem appropriate, claiming intellectual property developed as part of our research and development programs.  In addition to the composition-of-matter patents and patent applications listed above, our intellectual property holdings include:

•U.S. and foreign patent applications covering potentiator compounds and corrector compounds for the CFTR protein, including ivacaftor, lumacaftor and VX-661 and many other related compounds, and the use of those potentiators and correctors to treat CF.

•U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications covering telaprevir and other HCV protease and polymerase inhibitors and the use of these compounds to treat HCV infection.

•U.S. and foreign patent applications licensed from Alios covering VX-135 and the use of VX-135 to treat HCV infection.

•U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications covering inhibitors of a variety of kinase proteins, including VX-509,  and the use of those inhibitors to treat autoimmune disease, including rheumatoid arthritis.

•U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications covering influenza virus inhibitors, including VX-787.

•U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications covering the manufacture, pharmaceutical compositions, related solid forms, formulations, dosing regimens and methods of use of these compounds, including our two marketed products ivacaftor and telaprevir.

We cannot be certain, however, that issued patents will be enforceable or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents.

From time to time we enter into non-exclusive license agreements for proprietary third-party technology used in connection with our research activities.  These license agreements typically provide for the payment by us of a license fee, but may also include terms providing for milestone payments or royalties for the development and/or commercialization of our drug products arising from the related research.

Ivacaftor was granted orphan drug status in the United States and the European Union.  We have a U.S. patent that covers the composition-of-matter of ivacaftor that we expect will provide intellectual property protection in the United States through its expiration date in 2027.  We are entitled to orphan drug exclusivity for ivacaftor in the United States, which means that the FDA may not approve another application to market ivacaftor for the same indication for a period of seven years from approval except in very limited circumstances.  As a result of the seven-year orphan drug marketing exclusivity period, even if a competitor successfully challenges the ivacaftor patents, it could not obtain approval from the FDA to market ivacaftor for the treatment of patients with a G551D mutation in theirCFTRgene in the United States until January 2019.












MANUFACTURING

Manufacturing Approach and Philosophy

As we market and sell our approved products and advance our drug candidates through clinical development toward commercialization, we continue to build and maintain our supply chain and quality assurance resources.  We rely on an international network of third parties, including sole source suppliers of certain components of our products and drug candidates, to manufacture and distribute our products for commercial sale and post-approval clinical trials and to manufacture and distribute our drug candidates for clinical trials.  We expect that we will continue for the foreseeable future to rely on third parties to meet most of our commercial supply needs and some of our clinical supply needs.  We are in the process of establishing our own small-scale manufacturing capabilities, which we plan to use for clinical trial supplies and as a secondary source for commercial supplies.

Our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step international endeavor.  Third-party contract manufacturers, including some in China, supply us with raw materials, and contract manufacturers in the European Union and the United States convert these raw materials into drug substance, and convert the drug substance into final dosage form.  Establishing and managing this global supply chain for each of our drugs and drug candidates requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships.

We have developed systems and processes to track, monitor and oversee our third-party manufacturers’ activities, including a quality assurance program intended to ensure that our third-party manufacturers comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP.  We regularly evaluate the performance of our third-party manufacturers with the objective of confirming their continuing capabilities to meet our needs efficiently and economically.  Manufacturing facilities, both foreign and domestic, are subject to inspections by or under the authority of the FDA and other U.S. and foreign government authorities.

Manufacture of KALYDECO (ivacaftor)

We obtain ivacaftor to meet our commercial and clinical supply needs through a third-party manufacturing network.  A disruption in the commercial supply of KALYDECO would have a significant effect on patients, our business and our product revenues.  A disruption in the clinical supply of ivacaftor could delay the completion of clinical trials and/or affect timelines for submitting an sNDA or NDA.  Our supply chain includes a sole-source manufacturer that has the capability of providing its services to us from multiple sites.  In 2013, we obtained an alternative source for the active ingredient of ivacaftor.

Manufacture of Co-formulated Ivacaftor/Lumacaftor



COMPETITION

The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive research efforts, rapid technological progress and intense competition.  There are many public and private companies, including pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, engaged in developing products for the indications our drugs are approved to treat and the therapeutic areas we are targeting with our research and development activities.  Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial,










technical and human resources than we do.  We face competition based on the safety and efficacy of our products and drug candidates, the timing and scope of regulatory approvals, the availability and cost of supply, marketing and sales capabilities, reimbursement coverage, price, patent protection and other factors.  Our competitors may develop or commercialize more effective, safer or more affordable products than we are able to develop or commercialize or obtain more effective patent protection.  As a result, our competitors may commercialize products more rapidly or effectively than we do, which would adversely affect our competitive position, the likelihood that our drug candidates, if approved, would achieve and maintain market acceptance and our ability to generate meaningful revenues from our products.  Future competitive products may render our products, or future products, obsolete or noncompetitive.

Cystic Fibrosis

A number of companies are seeking to identify and develop drug candidates for the treatment of CF, including Novartis, Pfizer, Genzyme, which is a division of Sanofi, and several private companies.  While we are the first company to successfully develop a drug that treats the underlying cause of CF, KALYDECO is approved to treat only a small portion of patients with CF.  Our competitors have research and development programs directed at identifying and developing CFTR potentiators, CFTR correctors and drug candidates with other mechanisms of action that seek to address the underlying cause of CF, and our success in rapidly developing and commercializing KALYDECO may increase the resources that our competitors allocate to the development of these potential treatments for CF.  We do not believe that any of these competitive programs yet have entered late-stage clinical development.  However, in the future, if one or more competing therapies are successfully developed as a treatment for patients with CF, our revenues from KALYDECO and/or our other CF drug candidates, if then approved, could face significant competitive pressure.

HCV Infection

The number and type of treatments for HCV infection has changed, and likely will continue to change, rapidly.  Factors that may affect the market for any specific HCV treatment regimen include the introduction of new competitive drugs or drug combinations, increased sales from currently-approved drugs, adverse information regarding the safety characteristics or efficacy of the regimen, significant new information regarding potential treatment regimens being evaluated in clinical trials and enrollment by patients in clinical trials being conducted by us or our competitors.

Since 2011, we have marketed INCIVEK in direct competition with Merck & Co., Inc.'s VICTRELIS (boceprevir), another HCV protease inhibitor.  In the fourth quarter of 2013, the FDA approved Gilead's SOVALDI (sofosbuvir), an HCV nucleotide analogue NS5B polymerase inhibitor and Janssen's OLYSIO™ (simeprevir), the third HCV protease inhibitor.  Each of these direct-acting antiviral drugs are generally prescribed in combination with peg-IFN and RBV.  Due to increased competition from newly introduced competitive therapies and our reduced promotion of INCIVEK, we expect that only a small portion of our net product revenues in 2014 will be due to INCIVEK.

On the basis of clinical data reported by our competitors from numerous late-stage clinical trials, it appears likely that the recent approval of SOVALDI and OLYSIO could be quickly followed by drugs to be co-administered in all-oral regimens that do not require peg-IFN, an injectable.  Many companies are seeking to develop all-oral treatment regimens for HCV infection that could render uncompetitive current and future treatment regimens that include the administration of peg-IFN by injection.  Many of our competitors' potential all-oral treatment regimens are more advanced than VX-135 combination regimens, including all-oral treatment regimens that are being evaluated in Phase 3 clinical trials being conducted by Gilead, Abbvie and BMS.  While the development and regulatory timelines for these drug candidates are subject to risk and uncertainty, we believe that (i) substantial additional clinical data regarding potential all-oral treatment regimens will become available in 2014 and (ii) it is possible that one or more all-oral treatment regimens for genotype 1 HCV infection could be commercially available as soon the second half of 2014.  As a result, if we are successful in developing an all-oral treatment regimen that includes VX-135, we expect that our all-oral treatment regimen would compete directly with several all-oral treatment regimens that were approved several years prior to the approval of our all-oral treatment regimen.










Where companies have control of multiple drug candidates that span different mechanisms of action, they typically are investigating combination regimens of those drug candidates, with or without the addition of RBV.  In addition, many companies, including us, are pursuing a strategy of evaluating drug candidates they control in combination with drug candidates controlled by third parties.  For example, we entered into a non-exclusive collaboration to evaluate VX-135 in combination with BMS's HCV NS5A inhibitor daclatasvir, and BMS is evaluating daclatasvir in combination with Gilead's SOVALDI.   There can be no assurance that third parties will agree to enter into or expand existing collaborative arrangements with respect to the development of combination regimens for the treatment of HCV infection that include VX-135.



GOVERNMENT REGULATION

The research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, approval, labeling, packaging, storage, record keeping, promotion, advertising, distribution and marketing of our products and drug candidates are subject to extensive regulation by United States and foreign governmental authorities.

United States Government Regulation

New Drug Application Approval Processes

In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or the FDCA, and implementing regulations.  The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent compliance with applicable federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources.  Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the drug development process, approval process or after approval, may subject us to administrative or judicial sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us.  These sanctions could include:

•refusal to approve pending applications;

•withdrawal of an approval;

•imposition of a clinical hold;

•warning letters;

•product seizures;

•total or partial suspension of production or distribution; or

•injunctions, fines, disgorgement, or civil or criminal penalties.

The process required by the FDA before a drug may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following:

•completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies conducted according to Good Laboratory Practices, or GLP, and other applicable regulations;

•submission to the FDA of an investigational new drug, or IND, application, which must become effective before clinical trials in the United States may begin;

•performance of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials according to Good Clinical Practices, or GCP, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug for its intended use;

•submission to the FDA of an NDA;

•satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product will be produced to assess compliance with cGMP to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the product’s identity, strength, quality and purity; and

•FDA review and approval of the NDA.










Once a drug candidate is identified for development, it enters the preclinical testing stage.  Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as animal pharmacology and toxicology studies.  An IND sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, to the FDA as part of the IND.  Preclinical or nonclinical testing typically continues even after the IND is submitted.  In addition to including the results of the preclinical studies, the IND also will include a protocol detailing, among other things, the objectives of the initial clinical trial and the parameters to be used in monitoring safety.  The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day time period, places the IND on clinical hold.  If an IND is placed on clinical hold, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before clinical trials can begin.  A clinical hold may occur at any time during the life of an IND, and may affect one or more specific clinical trials or all clinical trials conducted under the IND.

All clinical trials must be conducted under the supervision of one or more qualified investigators in accordance with GCP.  They must be conducted under protocols detailing the objectives of the trial, dosing procedures, subject selection and exclusion criteria and the safety and effectiveness criteria to be evaluated.  Each protocol and any amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND, and progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and more frequently in other situations, including the occurrence of serious adverse events.  An institutional review board, or IRB, at each institution participating in the clinical trial must review and approve the protocol and any amendments before a clinical trial commences or continues at that institution, approve the information regarding the clinical trial and the consent form that must be provided to each trial subject or his or her legal representative, and monitor the clinical trial until completed and otherwise comply with IRB regulations.

Clinical trials typically are conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap or be combined:

•Phase 1.The drug initially is introduced into healthy human subjects and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and elimination.  In the case of some drug candidates for severe or life-threatening diseases, such as cancer, especially when the drug candidate may be inherently too toxic to ethically administer to healthy volunteers, the initial human testing is often conducted in patients.

•Phase 2.Clinical trials are initiated in a limited patient population intended to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the drug candidate for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage.

•Phase 3.Clinical trials are undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and safety in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites.  These clinical trials are intended to establish the overall risk-benefit ratio of the drug candidate and provide an adequate basis for regulatory approval and product labeling.

Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 testing may not be completed successfully within any specified period, if at all.  The FDA or the sponsor may suspend a clinical trial at any time for a variety of reasons, including a finding that the healthy volunteers or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk.  Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB’s requirements or if the drug candidate has been associated with unexpected serious harm to healthy volunteers or patients.

We estimate that it generally takes 10 to 15 years, or possibly longer, to discover, develop and bring to market a new pharmaceutical product in the United States, as outlined below:

PhaseEstimated DurationDiscovery2 to 4 yearsPreclinical1 to 2 yearsPhase 11 to 2 yearsPhase 22 to 4 yearsPhase 32 to 4 yearsFDA approval6 months to 2 years

During the development of a new drug, sponsors are given opportunities to meet with the FDA at certain points.  These points may be prior to submission of an IND, at the end of Phase 2 testing, and before an NDA is submitted.  Meetings at other times may be requested.  These meetings can provide an opportunity for the sponsor to share information about the data gathered to date, for the FDA to provide advice, and for the sponsor and FDA to reach agreement on the next phase of










development.  Sponsors typically use the end of Phase 2 meeting to discuss their Phase 2 clinical results and present their plans for the pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial that they believe will support approval of the drug candidate.

Concurrently with clinical trials, companies usually complete additional animal safety studies and also must develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the drug and finalize a process for manufacturing the product in accordance with cGMP requirements.  The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the drug candidate, and the manufacturer must develop methods for testing the quality, purity and potency of the final products.  Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the drug candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf-life.

The results of drug development, preclinical studies and clinical trials, along with descriptions of the manufacturing process, analytical tests conducted on the chemistry of the drug candidate, proposed labeling and other relevant information are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the drug candidate.  The FDA reviews each NDA submitted to ensure that it is sufficiently complete for substantive review before it accepts it for filing.  It may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing.

Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review.  The FDA may not approve an NDA if the applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or may require additional clinical or other data.  Even if such data are submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval.  The FDA reviews an NDA to determine, among other things, whether a drug candidate is safe and effective for its intended use and whether its manufacturing is cGMP-compliant to assure and preserve the drug candidate’s identity, strength, quality and purity.  The FDA may refer the NDA to an advisory committee for review and recommendation as to whether the NDA should be approved and under what conditions.  The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it generally follows such recommendations.  Before approving an NDA, the FDA will inspect the facility or facilities where the drug candidate is manufactured and tested.

The FDA may require, as a condition of approval, restricted distribution and use, enhanced labeling, special packaging or labeling, expedited reporting of certain adverse events, pre-approval of promotional materials, restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising or commitments to conduct additional research post-approval.  The FDA will issue a complete response letter if the agency decides not to approve the NDA in its present form.  The complete response letter usually describes all of the specific deficiencies in the NDA identified by the FDA.  If a complete response letter is issued, the applicant may either resubmit the NDA, addressing all of the deficiencies identified in the letter, or withdraw the application.

Expedited Review and Approval

Post-approval Requirements

Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market.  Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product or complete withdrawal of the product from the market.  In addition, under










the FDCA the sponsor of an approved drug in the United States may not promote that drug for unapproved, or off-label, uses, although a physician may prescribe a drug for an off-label use in accordance with the practice of medicine.  After approval, some types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes and additional labeling claims, are subject to further FDA review and approval.  In addition, the FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effect of approved products that have been commercialized, and the FDA has the power to prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of these post-marketing programs.

Products manufactured or distributed by us pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things:

•record-keeping requirements;

•reporting of adverse experiences with the product;

•providing the FDA with updated safety and efficacy information;

•drug sampling and distribution requirements;

•notifying the FDA and gaining its approval of specified manufacturing or labeling changes;

•complying with certain electronic records and signature requirements; and

•complying with FDA promotion and advertising requirements.

Drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved products are required to register with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and some state agencies for compliance with cGMP and other laws.

We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the production of our products.  Future FDA and state inspections may identify compliance issues at the facilities of our contract manufacturers that may disrupt manufacture or distribution of our products, or require substantial resources to correct.

From time to time, new legislation is enacted that changes the statutory provisions governing the approval, manufacturing and marketing of products regulated by the FDA.  In addition, FDA regulations and guidance often are revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products.  It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed.

Patent Term Restoration and Marketing Exclusivity

Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of FDA approval of the use of our drugs, some of our United States patents may be eligible for limited patent term extension under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments.  The Hatch-Waxman Amendments permit a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process.  However, patent term restoration cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the product’s approval date.  The patent term restoration period is generally one-half the time between the effective date of an IND, and the submission date of an NDA, plus the time between the submission date of an NDA and the approval of that application.  Only one patent applicable to an approved product is eligible for the extension and the extension must be applied for prior to expiration of the patent.  The United States Patent and Trademark Office, in consultation with the FDA, reviews and approves the application for any patent term extension or restoration.  In the future, we may apply for restorations of patent term for some of our currently owned or licensed patents to add patent life beyond their current expiration date, depending on the expected length of clinical trials and other factors involved in the submission of the relevant NDA.

Market exclusivity provisions under the FDCA also can delay the submission or the approval of certain applications.  The FDCA provides a five-year period of non-patent marketing exclusivity within the United States to the first applicant to gain approval of an NDA for a new chemical entity.  For a new chemical entity that qualifies for Orphan Drug designation, the FDCA provides such marketing exclusivity for a period of seven years.  A product is a new chemical entity if the FDA has not previously approved any other new product containing the same active moiety, which is the molecule responsible for the action of the drug substance.  During the exclusivity period, the FDA may not accept for review an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, or a 505(b)(2) NDA submitted by another company for another version of such product where the










applicant does not own or have a legal right of reference to all the data required for approval.  However, an application may be submitted after four years if it contains a certification of patent invalidity or non-infringement.  The FDCA also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for an NDA, 505(b)(2) NDA or supplement to an existing NDA if new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability studies, that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are deemed by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application, for example, for new indications, dosages, or strengths of an existing drug.  This three-year exclusivity covers only the conditions associated with the new clinical investigations and does not prohibit the FDA from approving ANDAs for drugs containing the original active agent.

Pediatric Exclusivity

Section 505A of the FDCA, as amended by the FDA Amendments Act of 2007, permits certain drugs to obtain an additional six months of exclusivity, if the sponsor submits information requested in writing by the FDA, or a written request, relating to the use of the drug in children.  The FDA may not issue a written request for clinical trials on unapproved or approved indications or where it determines that information relating to the use of a drug in a pediatric population, or part of the pediatric population, may not produce health benefits in that population.

Foreign Regulation

In addition to regulations in the United States, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our products.  Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a drug candidate, we must obtain approval by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries or economic areas, such as the European Union, before we can commence clinical trials or market products in those countries or areas.  The approval process and requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from place to place, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval.

Under European Union regulatory systems, a company may submit marketing authorization applications either under a centralized or decentralized procedure.  The centralized procedure, which is compulsory for medicines produced by biotechnology or those medicines intended to treat AIDS, cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, or diabetes and optional for those medicines that are highly innovative, provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states.  The decentralized procedure provides for approval by one or more “concerned” member states based on an assessment of an application performed by one member state, known as the “reference” member state.  Under the decentralized approval procedure, an applicant submits an application, or dossier, and related materials to the reference member state and concerned member states.  The reference member state prepares a draft assessment and drafts of the related materials within 120 days after receipt of a valid application.  Within 90 days of receiving the reference member state’s assessment report, each concerned member state must decide whether or not to approve the assessment report and related materials.  If a member state does not recognize the marketing authorization, the disputed points are eventually referred to the European Commission, whose decision is binding on all member states.

Orphan Drug Designation

Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drug candidates intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 people in the United States, or more than 200,000 people in the United States and for which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making available in the United States a drug for this type of disease or condition will be recovered from sales in the United States for that drug.  Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an NDA.  After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA.  Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in or shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process.  KALYDECO and lumacaftor have been granted designation as orphan drugs by the FDA.

If a drug candidate that has orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication, except in very limited circumstances, for seven years.  Orphan drug exclusivity, however, also could block the approval of our drug candidates for seven years if a competitor obtains approval of the same product as defined by the FDA or if our drug candidate is determined to be contained within the competitor’s product for the same indication or disease.

As in the United States, we may apply for designation of a drug candidate as an orphan drug for the treatment of a specific indication in the European Union before the application for marketing authorization is made.  Orphan drugs in










Europe enjoy economic and marketing benefits, including up to 10 years of market exclusivity for the approved indication unless another applicant can show that its product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to the orphan-designated product.

The FDA and foreign regulators expect holders of exclusivity for orphan drugs, such as KALYDECO, to assure the availability of sufficient quantities of their orphan drugs to meet the needs of patients.  Failure to do so could result in the withdrawal of marketing exclusivity for the orphan drug.

Breakthrough Therapy Designation

In July 2012, the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA, was enacted, amending the FDCA.  As part of FDASIA, Congress created a new drug designation called “Breakthrough Therapy.”  This designation is intended to facilitate expedited development and review of a compound which, alone or in combination with one or more other compounds, is intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and for which preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the compound may demonstrate substantial clinical improvement over existing therapies.  Breakthrough Therapy designation may be requested at the filing of, or as an amendment to, an IND based on criteria established by the FDA.

Actions identified in FDASIA that may expedite the development and review of a Breakthrough Therapy include, as appropriate: holding meetings with the sponsor and the review team throughout the development of the drug; involving senior managers and experienced review staff, as appropriate, in a collaborative, cross-disciplinary review; and assigning a cross-disciplinary project lead for the FDA review team to facilitate efficient review of the development program and serve as a scientific liaison between the review team and the sponsor.  We expect that over time the FDA will develop regulations and/or provide additional guidance regarding the development of drug candidates that receive Breakthrough Therapy designation.   As this is an evolving regulatory designation, we cannot determine the specific implications of the Breakthrough Therapy designations on our development programs.

Reimbursement

Sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which our products will be covered by third-party payors, such as government health programs, commercial insurance and managed health care organizations.  These third-party payors increasingly are reducing reimbursements for medical products and services.  Additionally, the containment of health care costs has become a priority of federal and state governments, and the prices of drugs have been a focus in this effort.  The U.S. government, state legislatures and foreign governments have shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products.  Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could limit our revenues.  Decreases in third-party reimbursement for a product or a decision by a third-party payor to not cover a product could reduce physician usage of the product.

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provides funding for the federal government to compare the effectiveness of different treatments for the same illness.  A plan for the research will be developed by the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and the National Institutes of Health,










and periodic reports on the status of the research and related expenditures will be made to the U.S. Congress.  Although the results of the comparative effectiveness studies are not intended to mandate coverage policies for public or private payors, it is not clear what effect, if any, the research will have on the sales of our products.  It is possible that comparative effectiveness research demonstrating benefits of a competitor’s product could adversely affect the sales of our products.  If third-party payors do not consider our products to be cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not cover our products as a benefit under their plans or, if they do, the level of payment may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis.

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, which is referred to as the ACA, was enacted in March 2010 and is designed to expand coverage for the uninsured while at the same time containing overall health care costs.  With regard to pharmaceutical products, among other things, the ACA is designed to expand and increase industry rebates for drugs covered under Medicaid programs, impose an annual fee on branded pharmaceutical manufacturers and make changes to the coverage requirements under the Medicare Part D program.  In 2013, 2012 and 2011, our rebates associated with the Medicare Part D “donut hole” were $1.9 million, $1.8 million and $1.4 million, respectively.  In 2013 and 2012, we recorded $10.4 million and $1.8 million, respectively, in sales, general and administrative expenses related to the branded prescription drug fee established pursuant to the ACA.  We were not subject to this fee prior to 2012. The branded prescription drug fee is not tax deductible.  We cannot predict all of the effects of the ACA on pharmaceutical companies as many of the ACA reforms require the promulgation of detailed regulations implementing the statutory provisions, which has not yet occurred.

In Europe and many other foreign countries, the success of KALYDECO, and any other drug candidates we may develop, depends largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement, because in many foreign countries patients are unlikely to use prescription pharmaceutical products that are not reimbursed by their governments.  Negotiating reimbursement rates in foreign countries can delay the commercialization of a pharmaceutical product and generally results in a reimbursement rate that is lower than the net price that companies can obtain for the same product in the United States.

In some countries, such as Germany and France, commercial sales of a product can begin while the reimbursement rate that a company will receive in future periods is under discussion.  In other countries, a company must complete the reimbursement discussions prior to the commencement of commercial sales of the pharmaceutical product.  The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country.  For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of drugs for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of drugs for human use.  A member state may approve a specific price for the drug or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the drug on the market.  Recently, many countries in the European Union have increased the amount of discounts required on pharmaceuticals and these efforts could continue as countries attempt to manage healthcare expenditures, especially in light of the severe fiscal and debt crises experienced by many countries in the European Union.  There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for pharmaceutical products will allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements for any of our products.

Other United States Regulations

Pharmaceutical companies also are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws, and the reporting of payments to physicians and teaching hospitals.

Anti-kickback Laws

U.S. federal laws prohibit fraud and abuse involving state and federal health care programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid.  These laws are interpreted broadly and enforced aggressively by various state and federal agencies, including the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, the Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector General for HHS and various state agencies.  These anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, arranging for or recommending of an item or service that is reimbursable, in whole or in part, by a federal health care program.  Remuneration is broadly defined to include anything of value, such as, cash payments, gifts or gift certificates, discounts, or the furnishing of services, supplies or equipment.  The anti-kickback laws are broad and prohibit many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the health care industry.










The penalties for violating the anti-kickback laws can be severe.  The sanctions include criminal and civil penalties, and possible exclusion from the federal health care programs.  Many states have adopted laws similar to the federal anti-kickback laws, and some apply to items and services reimbursable by any payor, including third-party payors.

State and Federal Prohibitions on False Claims

Federal Prohibitions on Health Care Fraud and False Statements Related to Health Care Matters

Physician Payment Sunshine Act

The Physician Payment Sunshine Act will require pharmaceutical manufacturers to report annually to the Secretary of HHS payments or other transfers of value made by that entity to physicians and teaching hospitals.  In February 2013, regulations were released that contain detailed guidance regarding the information that must be collected and reported.  We were required to collect information regarding such payments starting in August 2013 and will be required to begin reporting such information in March 2014.  Over the next several years, we will need to continue to dedicate significant resources to enhance our systems and processes in order to comply with these regulations.  Failure to comply with the reporting requirements would result in significant civil monetary penalties.  Similar laws have been enacted or are under consideration in foreign jurisdictions, including France which has adopted theLoi Bertrand, or French Sunshine Act, which became effective in 2013.

The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act

The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad.  In many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.










Other Regulations

In addition to the statutes and regulations described above, we also are subject to regulation in the United States under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations, now or hereafter in effect.



EMPLOYEES

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had approximately1,800employees, which was a decrease of18%from approximately2,200onDecember 31, 2012.  Of these employees, approximately1,500were based in the United States, approximately200were based in Europe and approximately100were based in Canada.  Our scientific staff members have diversified experience and expertise in molecular and cell biology, biochemistry, synthetic organic chemistry, protein X-ray crystallography, protein nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, microbiology, computational chemistry, biophysical chemistry, medicinal chemistry, clinical pharmacology and clinical medicine.  Our clinical development personnel have extensive expertise in designing and executing clinical trials.  Employees in our commercial organization have extensive experience in selling and marketing pharmaceutical products as well as seeking reimbursement from government and third-party payors for pharmaceutical products.  Our employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, except for a small number of employees in France and Spain.  Science magazine named Vertex as one of its top employers in the life sciences in 2011, 2012 and 2013.  We consider our relations with our employees to be good.



OTHER MATTERS

Financial Information and Significant Customers

Financial information about (i) our net product revenues and other revenues generated in the principal geographic regions in which we operate and our significant customers is set forth inNote X, "Segment Information,"to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, (ii) net income (loss) per share attributable to Vertex common shareholders and our total assets are provided in our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and (iii) our research and development expenses in each of the last three fiscal years and our deconsolidation of Alios as of December 31, 2013 is provided in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."  A discussion of the risks attendant to our international operations is set forth in the “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Information Available on the Internet

Our internet address iswww.vrtx.com.Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, are available to you free of charge through the “Investors-SEC Filings” section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after those materials have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Corporate Information

Vertex was incorporated in Massachusetts in 1989, and our principal executive offices are located at 50 Northern Avenue Boston, Massachusetts 02210.  We have research sites located in San Diego, California; Coralville, Iowa; Montreal, Canada and Milton Park, U.K.  We also have an office in Washington, D.C.  We have established our European headquarters in Switzerland and have offices in Australia, France, Germany, Ireland, Spain, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom.












DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The names, ages and positions held by our executive officers and directors are as follows:

NameAgePositionJeffrey M. Leiden, M.D., Ph.D.58Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and PresidentStuart A. Arbuckle48Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial OfficerKenneth L. Horton, J.D.47Executive Vice President and Chief Legal OfficerPeter Mueller, Ph.D.57Executive Vice President, Global Research and Development, and Chief Scientific OfficerIan F. Smith48Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThomas Connolly56Senior Vice President, Human ResourcesMegan Pace41Senior Vice President, Corporate CommunicationsAmit K. Sachdev, J.D.46Senior Vice President, Global Government Strategy, Market Access and ValuePaul M. Silva48Senior Vice President and Corporate ControllerDavid Altshuler, M.D., Ph.D.49DirectorJoshua S. Boger, Ph.D.62DirectorTerrence C. Kearney59DirectorYuchun Lee48DirectorMargaret G. McGlynn54DirectorWayne J. Riley, M.D.54DirectorBruce I. Sachs54DirectorElaine S. Ullian66Director

Mr. Arbuckle is our Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, a position he has held since September 2012.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Arbuckle held multiple commercial leadership roles at Amgen, Inc., a 17,000 person biotechnology company, from July 2004 through August 2012.  Mr. Arbuckle has worked in the biopharmaceuticals industry since 1986, including more than 15 years at GlaxoSmithKline plc, where he held sales and marketing roles of increasing responsibility for medicines aimed at treating respiratory, metabolic, musculoskeletal, cardiovascular and other diseases.  He currently is a member of the Board of Directors of the Cancer Support Community, an international non-profit organization dedicated to providing support, education and hope to people affected by cancer.  Mr. Arbuckle holds a BSc in pharmacology and physiology from the University of Leeds.

Mr. Horton is our Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, a position he has held since June 2012.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Horton served as General Counsel and Executive Vice President of Corporate Development at Nordion Inc. (formerly MDS Inc.), a global health science company, from 2005 to 2011.  He joined MDS from PerkinElmer, Inc., where he was Vice President, Acquisitions, Ventures and General Counsel for the Life and Analytical Sciences business unit.  Mr.












Horton began his legal career practicing corporate law at Ropes & Gray in Boston after working as a strategy consultant in the United States and Europe.  Mr. Horton currently serves on the Board of Advisors for Beth Israel Deaconess-Needham Hospital and was formerly Chairman of Lumira Capital.  Mr. Horton holds an A.B. from Dartmouth College, a J.D. from Harvard Law School and was awarded the D.A.A.D. Direktstipendium for study at the Universitaet Bonn.

Dr. Mueller is our Executive Vice President, Global Research and Development, a position he has held since May 2009, and has been our Chief Scientific Officer since July 2003.  Dr. Mueller was our Executive Vice President, Drug Innovation and Realization, from February 2006 to May 2009, and our Senior Vice President, Drug Discovery and Innovation, from July 2003 to February 2006.  Prior to joining us, Dr. Mueller was the Senior Vice President, Research and Development, of Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc., with responsibility for the development of all drug candidates in the company’s portfolio in North America.  He led research programs in the areas of immunology, inflammatory cardiovascular disease and gene therapy on a global basis.  During his time with Boehringer Ingelheim, Dr. Mueller oversaw the discovery of numerous development candidates and held several positions in basic research, medicinal chemistry and management.  Dr. Mueller received both an undergraduate degree and a Ph.D. in chemistry at the Albert Einstein University of Ulm, Germany, where he also holds a Professorship in Theoretic Organic Chemistry.  He completed fellowships in quantum pharmacology at Oxford University and in biophysics at Rochester University.

Mr. Smith is our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, a position he has held since February 2006.  From November 2003 to February 2006, he was our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and from October 2001 to November 2003, he served as our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Smith served as a partner in the Life Science and Technology Practice Group of Ernst & Young LLP, an accounting firm, from 1999 to 2001.  Mr. Smith initially joined Ernst & Young’s U.K. firm in 1987, and then joined its Boston office in 1995.  Mr. Smith currently is a member of the Boards of Directors of Acorda Therapeutics, Inc., a drug development company, and Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a drug development company.  Mr. Smith holds a B.A. in accounting and finance from Manchester Metropolitan University, U.K., is a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and is a Chartered Accountant of England and Wales.

Mr. Connolly is our Senior Vice President, Human Resources, a position he has held since August 2013.  Mr. Connolly served as our Vice President, Human Resources from September 2012 through August 2013.   From January 2009 to September 2012, Mr. Connolly was a Senior Vice President and the Chief Human Resources Officer at MF Global.  Prior to MF Global, he held human resources leadership positions at UBS, Goldman Sachs, Citibank, Aetna and Lehman Brothers.  He currently serves as a special advisor on human resources and other organizational matters to Save the Children, and serves on the Advisory Board of the Center for Innovation & Change Leadership at Suffolk University.  Mr. Connolly holds a B.S. in Psychology from the University of Connecticut, an M.B.A. from Leonard N. Stern School of Business at New York University, an M.S. in Industrial/Organizational Psychology from Stevens Institute of Technology and an M.S. in Health Care Administration from the University of Phoenix.

Ms. Pace is our Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications, a position she has held since July 2012.  Ms. Pace served as our Vice President, Corporate Communications from May 2010 through July 2012.  Prior to joining us, Ms. Pace was a Senior Director at Genentech, Inc., a biotechnology company, from 2005 through April 2010, where she led the team responsible for public affairs, product public relations and patient advocacy.  Prior to Genentech, she held government affairs and public relations roles at Eli Lilly & Company, and worked at Porter Novelli, a global public relations firm, where she managed disease awareness and public health campaigns for several biopharmaceutical companies and government agencies.  Ms. Pace holds a B.A. from the College of Charleston.

Mr. Sachdev is our Senior Vice President, Global Government Strategy, Market Access and Value, a role he assumed in February 2013.  As a Senior Vice President, he has led our government affairs, public policy and patient advocacy functions since he joined us in July 2007 and built and managed our Canadian business operations from October 2010 through February 2013.  Mr. Sachdev served as Executive Vice President, Health of the Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO) from April 2005 through June 2007.  Mr. Sachdev was the Deputy Commissioner for Policy at the FDA from April 2004 through April 2005, and held several other senior positions within the FDA from September 2002 through April 2004.  From 1998 to 2002, Mr. Sachdev served as Majority Counsel to the Committee on Energy and Commerce in the United States House of Representatives.  From 1993 to 1997, Mr. Sachdev practiced law, first at the Chemical Manufacturers Association, and then with the law firm of Ropes & Gray.  Mr. Sachdev holds a B.S from Carnegie Mellon University, and a J.D. from Emory University School of Law.












Mr. Silva is our Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, a position he has held since April 2011.  Mr. Silva joined us in August 2007 as Senior Director, Accounting Operations and was our Vice President and Corporate Controller from September 2008 through April 2011.  Prior to joining us, he was the Vice President, Internal Reporting at Iron Mountain Incorporated from July 2006 until August 2007 and a consultant to Iron Mountain’s financing department from April 2005 until July 2006.  He was the Finance Director of the Bioscience Technologies Division of Thermo Electron Corporation from 2002 to April 2005.  Mr. Silva holds a B.S. in accounting from Assumption College.

Dr. Altshuler has been a member of our Board of Directors since May 2012.  Dr. Altshuler is the Director of the Program in Medical and Population Genetics at the Broad Institute of Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, a position he has held since 2003.  He has served as the Institute's Deputy Director and Chief Academic Officer since 2009.  He is one of four founding members of the Broad Institute, a research collaboration of Harvard, MIT, The Whitehead Institute and the Harvard Hospitals.  Dr. Altshuler joined the faculty at Harvard Medical School and the Massachusetts General Hospital in 2000 and has held the academic rank of Professor of Genetics and Medicine since 2008.  He has served as Adjunct Professor of Biology at MIT since 2012.  Dr. Altshuler earned a B.S. from MIT, a Ph.D. from Harvard University and an M.D. from Harvard Medical School.  Dr. Altshuler completed his clinical training in Internal Medicine, and in Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, at the Massachusetts General Hospital.

Dr. Boger is the founder of Vertex and has been a director since our inception in 1989.  He was our Chief Executive Officer from 1992 through May 2009.  He was our Chairman of the Board from 1997 until May 2006 and our President from our inception until December 2000, and from 2005 through February 2009.  He was our Chief Scientific Officer from 1989 until May 1992.  Prior to founding Vertex in 1989, Dr. Boger held the position of Senior Director of Basic Chemistry at Merck Sharp & Dohme Research Laboratories in Rahway, New Jersey, where he headed both the Department of Medicinal Chemistry of Immunology & Inflammation and the Department of Biophysical Chemistry.  Dr. Boger holds a B.A. in chemistry and philosophy from Wesleyan University and M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in chemistry from Harvard University.

Mr. Kearney has been a member of our Board of Directors since May 2011.  Mr. Kearney served as the Chief Operating Officer of Hospira, Inc., a specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company, from April 2006 to January 2011.  From April 2004 to April 2006, he served as Hospira’s Senior Vice President, Finance, and Chief Financial Officer, and he served as Acting Chief Financial Officer through August 2006.  Mr. Kearney served as Vice President and Treasurer of Abbott Laboratories from 2001 to April 2004.  From 1996 to 2001, Mr. Kearney was Divisional Vice President and Controller for Abbott’s International Division.  He received his B.S. in biology from the University of Illinois and his M.B.A. from the University of Denver.

Mr. Lee has been a member of our Board of Directors since September 2012.  Mr. Lee has served as an Executive in Residence (XIR) and Partner of General Catalyst Partners, a venture capital firm, since April of 2013.  Mr. Lee was the Vice President of IBM's Enterprise Marketing Management Group from November 2010 through January 2013.  Mr. Lee co-founded Unica Corporation, a provider of software and services used to automate marketing processes, in 1992, and was Unica's President and/or Chief Executive Officer from 1992 through November 2010, when Unica was acquired by IBM.  From 1989 to 1992, Mr. Lee was a senior consultant at Digital Equipment Corporation, a supplier of general computing technology and consulting services.  Mr. Lee holds a B.S. and an M.S. in electrical engineering and computer science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an M.B.A. from Babson College.

Ms. McGlynn has been a member of our Board of Directors since May 2011.  Since July 2011, Ms. McGlynn has served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative, a global not-for-profit organization whose mission is to ensure the development of safe, effective and accessible HIV vaccines for use throughout the world.  Ms. McGlynn served as President, Vaccines and Infectious Diseases of Merck & Co., Inc. from 2005 until 2009.  Ms. McGlynn joined Merck in 1983 and served in a variety of marketing, sales and managed care roles.  Ms. McGlynn serves as a member of the Board of Directors for Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., a company specializing in gases and chemicals for industrial uses, and Amicus Therapeutics, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company.  She is also a member of the National Industrial Advisory Committee at the University at Buffalo School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences.  Ms. McGlynn holds a B.S. in Pharmacy and an M.B.A. in Marketing from the State University of New York at Buffalo.

Dr. Riley has been a member of our Board of Directors since July 2010.  Dr. Riley is Clinical Professor of Medicine, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine and Adjunct Professor of Healthcare Management, Owen Graduate School of Management at Vanderbilt University.  From January 2007 until July 2013, Dr. Riley was President and Chief Executive Officer of Meharry Medical College.  At Meharry he held the rank of tenured Professor of Internal Medicine and was a Senior Health Policy Associate at the Robert Wood Johnson Center for Health Policy at Meharry.  From May 2004 to












December 2006, Dr. Riley served as a corporate officer and member of the executive management team as Vice President and Vice Dean for Health Affairs and Governmental Relations and Associate Professor of Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine, and Assistant Chief of Medicine at Ben Taub General Hospital.  Dr. Riley is a member of the Board of Directors of HCA Holdings, Inc., the parent company of Hospital Corporation of America, a leading operator of hospitals and health facilities, where he serves on the Audit & Compliance Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and is the Chair of the Patient Safety and Quality Committee.  Dr. Riley formerly served as a Director of Pinnacle Financial Partners and of the Nashville Branch Board of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta.  Dr. Riley earned a B.A. from Yale University, an M.P.H. in health systems management from Tulane University School of Public Health & Tropical Medicine, an M.D. from the Morehouse School of Medicine and an M.B.A. from Rice University's Jones Graduate School of Management.

Mr. Sachs has been a member of our Board of Directors since 1998.  He is a General Partner at Charles River Ventures, a venture capital firm he joined in 1999.  From 1998 to 1999, he served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of Ascend Communications, Inc.  From 1997 until 1998, Mr. Sachs served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Stratus Computer, Inc.  From 1995 to 1997, he served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Internet Telecom Business Group at Bay Networks, Inc.  From 1993 to 1995, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer at Xylogics, Inc.  Mr. Sachs was a director of BigBand Networks, Inc., a network-based platform company, from 2005 through June 2009.  Mr. Sachs holds a B.S.E.E. in electrical engineering from Bucknell University, an M.E.E. in electrical engineering from Cornell University, and an M.B.A. from Northeastern University.

Ms. Ullian has been a member of our Board of Directors since 1997.  From 1996 through January 2010, she served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Medical Center, a private, not-for-profit, 626-bed, academic medical center with a community-based focus.  From 1994 to 1996, she served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston University Medical Center Hospital.  From 1987 to 1994, Ms. Ullian served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Faulkner Hospital.  She also serves as a director of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and Hologic, Inc.  Ms. Ullian holds a B.A. in political science from Tufts University and an M.P.H. from the University of Michigan.














