Item 1.Business



BorgWarner Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries (the
    “Company”) is a Delaware corporation that was
    incorporated in 1987. We are a leading, global supplier of
    highly engineered automotive systems and components, primarily
    for powertrain applications. Our products help improve vehicle
    performance, fuel efficiency, stability and air quality. These
    products are manufactured and sold worldwide, primarily to
    original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) of
    light-vehicles (passenger cars, sport-utility vehicles, vans and
    light-trucks). The Company’s products are also sold to
    other OEMs of commercial trucks, buses and agricultural and
    off-highway vehicles. We also manufacture and sell our products
    to certain Tier One vehicle systems suppliers and into the
    aftermarket for light and commercial vehicles. The Company
    operates manufacturing facilities serving customers in the
    Americas, Europe and Asia, and is an original equipment supplier
    to every major automotive OEM in the world.



Financial
    Information About Reporting Segments



Refer to Note 19, “Reporting Segments and Related
    Information” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8 of this report for financial
    information about business segments.



Narrative
    Description of Reporting Segments



The Company reports its results under two reporting segments:
    Engine and Drivetrain. Net revenues by segment for the three
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 are as follows
    :



Year Ended December 31,Net Sales201020092008(Millions of dollars)Engine$4,060.8$2,883.2$3,861.5Drivetrain1,611.41,093.51,426.4Inter-segment eliminations(19.4)(14.9)(24.0)Net sales$5,652.8$3,961.8$5,263.9





The sales information presented above excludes the sales by the
    Company’s unconsolidated joint ventures (See “Joint
    Ventures” section). Such unconsolidated sales totaled
    approximately $779 million in 2010, $599 million in
    2009 and $792 million in 2008.



Engine



The Engine Group develops and manufactures products to manage
    engines for fuel efficiency, reduced emissions, and enhanced
    performance. Concern about fuel prices and availability, and the
    need to lower
    CO2emissions are driving demand for the Company’s products in
    smaller, more efficient gasoline and diesel engines and
    alternative powertrains. Engine Group products currently fall
    into the following major categories: turbochargers, timing
    devices and chain products, emissions systems, thermal systems,
    diesel cold start and gasoline ignition technology and cabin
    heaters.



The Engine Group provides turbochargers for light-vehicle,
    commercial-vehicle and off-road applications for diesel and
    gasoline engine manufacturers in Europe, North America, South
    America and Asia. The Engine Group has greatly benefited from
    the growth in turbocharger demand in Europe. This growth is
    linked to increasing demand for diesel engines in light
    vehicles, which typically use turbochargers, and for
    turbocharged gasoline engines. Benefits of turbochargers in both
    light-vehicle and commercial-vehicle applications include
    increased power for a given engine size, improved fuel economy
    and significantly reduced emissions.



Sales of turbochargers for light-vehicles represented
    approximately 26%, 27%, and 24% of the Company’s total
    revenues for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company
    currently supplies light-





vehicle turbochargers to many OEMs including Volkswagen,
    Renault, PSA, Daimler, Hyundai, Fiat, BMW, Ford and General
    Motors. The Company also supplies commercial-vehicle
    turbochargers to Caterpillar, John Deere, Daimler,
    Navistar, Deutz and MAN.



The Company’s newest technologies are its regulated
    two-stage turbocharging system known as
    R2S®,

    variable turbine geometry (“VTG”) turbochargers and
    turbochargers for gasoline direct injected engines. In 2008, the
    Company announced the start of production of its award winning
    R2S technology for Daimler’s four-cylinder diesel engine
    range. The Company also began shipping VTG turbochargers for
    VW’s common-rail engine range and announced the launch of a
    VTG turbocharger for use with low-pressure exhaust gas
    recirculation to reduce emissions on VW’s Jetta Clean
    Diesel TDI. In 2010, the Company began shipping turbochargers
    for Ford’s 3.5 liter V6 direct-injected gasoline EcoBoost
    engine for rear-wheel drive cars and trucks. Ford selected
    BorgWarner’s leading gasoline turbocharger technology for
    their new four-cylinder EcoBoost engine, which made its global
    debut in 2010.



The Engine Group also designs and manufactures products to
    control emissions and improve fuel economy. These products
    include electric air pumps, turbo actuators that use integrated
    electronics to precisely control turbocharger speed and pressure
    ratio, and exhaust gas recirculation coolers, tubes and valves
    for gasoline and diesel applications.



The Engine Group’s chain and chain systems products include
    timing chain and timing drive systems, variable cam timing
    (“VCT”) systems, crankshaft and camshaft sprockets,
    tensioners, guides and snubbers, HY-VO®front-wheel drive (“FWD”) transmission chain and
    four-wheel drive (“4WD”) chain, and MORSE GEMINI®chain systems for light-vehicle and commercial-vehicle
    applications.



The Company’s timing chain systems are used on Ford’s
    family of engines, including the Duratec, Modular and in-line
    four-cylinder engines, as well as on a number of Chrysler’s
    engines, including its 3.7 liter and 4.7 liter engines, the
    four-cylinder World Engine and the new 3.6 liter Pentastar
    engine. In addition, the Company provides timing systems to a
    number of Asian OEMs, including Honda, Nissan, and Hyundai, and
    to several European OEMs. The Company believes that it is the
    world’s leading manufacturer of timing chain systems.



The Engine Group’s newest technology is its VCT with mid
    position lock, which allows a greater range of camshaft
    positioning thereby enabling greater control over airflow and
    the opportunity to improve fuel economy, function and efficiency
    compared with conventional VCT systems. BorgWarner is currently
    working with five OEMs to implement the technology.



The Company believes it is the world’s leading manufacturer
    of chain for FWD transmissions and 4WD transfer cases. HY-VO
    chain is used to transfer power from the engine to the
    drivetrain. The chain in a transfer case distributes power
    between a vehicle’s front and rear output shafts which, in
    turn, provide torque to the front and rear wheels. The
    Company’s MORSE GEMINI transmission chain system emits
    significantly less chain pitch frequency noise than conventional
    transmission chain systems.



The Company also believes it is a leading global provider of
    engine thermal solutions for truck, agricultural and off-highway
    applications. The group designs, manufactures and markets
    viscous fan drives that control fans to sense and respond to
    multiple cooling requirements. The Engine Group also
    manufactures and markets polymer fans for engine cooling
    systems. The Company’s thermal products provide improved
    vehicle fuel economy and reduced engine emissions while
    minimizing parasitic horsepower loss. The Company has been
    awarded the “standard position” (the OEM-designated
    preferred supplier of component systems available to the
    end-customer) at the major global heavy truck producers.



In 2005, the Company acquired approximately 69.4% of the
    outstanding shares of BERU Aktiengesellschaft
    (“BERU”), headquartered in Ludwigsburg, Germany.
    Through a series of transactions and legal actions, the Company
    became the only shareholder of BERU effective September 30,
    2009. That company’s corporate form and name was changed to
    BorgWarner BERU Systems GmbH (“BERU Systems”) in late
    2009.





BERU System’s operating results are included within the
    Company’s Engine Group segment. BERU Systems is a leading
    global automotive supplier of diesel cold start technology (glow
    plugs and instant starting systems). In 2008, BERU launched its
    new Pressure Sensor Glow Plug with which the combustion process
    of a diesel engine is monitored and enhanced, allowing the
    lowest
    CO2and
    NOxemissions possible. It also designs and manufactures gasoline
    ignition technology (spark plugs and ignition coils); and
    electronic control units and sensor technology (tire pressure
    sensors, diesel cabin heaters and selected sensors).



On June 2, 2009, the Company announced the purchase of
    advanced gasoline ignition technology and related intellectual
    property from Florida-based Etatech, Inc. The high-frequency
    ignition technology enables high-performing, lean burning
    engines to significantly improve fuel economy and reduce
    emissions compared with conventional combustion technologies.



On April 10, 2010, the Company acquired 100% of Dytech ENSA
    S.L. (“Dytech”), headquartered in Vigo, Spain. Dytech
    is a leading producer of exhaust gas recirculation (EGR)
    coolers, EGR tubes, and integrated EGR modules including valves
    for automotive and commercial vehicle applications, both on- and
    off-road.



In anticipation of market growth expected for its electric cabin
    heaters, the Company completed the acquisition of
    BERU-Eichenauer GmbH by acquiring the shares of its former joint
    venture partner, Eichenauer Heizelemente GmbH & Co.
    KG. The former 50/50 joint venture was formed in 2000 to develop
    and manufacture electric cabin heaters. The acquisition formally
    took effect on May 1, 2010.



Drivetrain



The Drivetrain Group leverages the Company’s expertise in
    clutching and control systems to enable efficient transmission
    of engine torque through the vehicle drivetrain and management
    of torque distribution to the driven wheels. The Company’s
    technology can improve fuel efficiency and help reduce emissions
    in all types of powertrains. The Drivetrain Group’s major
    products are transmission components and systems, and all-wheel
    drive (“AWD”) torque management systems.



The Drivetrain Group designs and manufactures automatic
    transmission components and modules and is a supplier to
    virtually every major automatic transmission manufacturer in the
    world for both conventional automatic, new dual-clutch
    transmissions (“DCT”) and automated manual
    transmissions.



Friction and mechanical products include dual clutch modules,
    friction clutch modules, friction plates, transmission bands,
    torque converter clutches, one-way clutches and torsional
    vibration dampers. Controls products feature electro-hydraulic
    solenoids for standard and high pressure hydraulic systems,
    transmission solenoid modules and dual clutch control modules.



The Company’s 50%-owned joint venture in Japan, NSK-Warner
    Kabushiki Kaisha (“NSK-Warner”), is a leading producer
    of friction plates and one-way clutches in Japan. NSK-Warner is
    also the joint venture partner with a 40% interest in the
    Drivetrain Group’s Korean subsidiary, BorgWarner
    Transmission Systems Korea, Inc.



The Company has led the globalization of today’s DCT
    technology for over ten years. Following the development of its
    DCT technology in the 1990s, the Company established its
    industry-leading position in Europe in 2003 with the production
    launch of its award-winning
    DualTronic®innovations with VW/Audi. In 2007, the Company launched its
    first dual-clutch technology application in a Japanese
    transmission with Nissan.



The Company has announced DCT programs with customers that
    include VW, Audi, SAIC and Nissan, in addition to Getrag DCT
    programs with BMW, Ford and other global automakers. Also, the
    Company is working on several other DCT programs with OEMs
    around the world. BorgWarner DualTronic technology enables a
    conventional, manual gearbox to function as a fully automatic
    transmission by eliminating the interruption in power flow that
    occurs when a single clutch manual transmission shifts gears.
    The result is a smooth shifting automatic transmission with the
    fuel efficiency and great driving experience of a manual gearbox.





On November 18, 2008, we entered into a joint venture
    agreement with China Automobile Development United Investment
    Company, a company owned by leading Chinese automakers, to
    produce various dual clutch transmission modules. The joint
    venture’s operations will be located in Dalian, China and
    production is scheduled to begin in 2011. The Company owns 66%
    of the joint venture.



In conventional automatic transmissions, there has been a global
    market trend from four and five speeds to six, seven, and even
    eight speed transmissions. Transmissions with more speeds
    improve fuel economy and vehicle performance and offer growth
    opportunities.



The Drivetrain Group’s torque management products include
    rear-wheel drive (“RWD”)/AWD transfer case systems,
    FWD/AWD electromagnetic coupling systems and advanced products.
    The Company’s focus is on electronically controlled
    (active) torque management devices and systems for their vehicle
    dynamics, fuel economy and stability benefits.



Transfer cases are installed primarily on light-trucks,
    sport-utility vehicles (“SUV“s), rear-wheel drive
    based cross-over utility vehicles (“CUV“s) and
    passenger cars. A transfer case attaches to the transmission and
    distributes torque to the front and rear axles improving vehicle
    traction and stability in dynamic driving conditions.



The Company is involved in the FWD/AWD market with
    electromagnetic couplings that use electronically controlled
    clutches to distribute power to the rear wheels instantly as
    traction is required. The
    NexTrac®AWD device is our latest product innovation that produces
    outstanding stability and traction while promoting better fuel
    economy. The NexTrac AWD device launched in 2008 on the Hyundai
    Santa Fe, Tucson and KIA Sportage.



With the trend toward vehicle electrification gaining momentum,
    the Company is also applying its years of expertise to deliver
    robust and highly efficient single and multiple speed electric
    gear reduction solutions for hybrids and electric vehicles.
    Currently, we supply our
    eGearDrive(tm)single-speed gearbox to the Ford Transit Connect Electric. We
    are actively engaged with traditional and non-traditional OEMs
    on a number of other transmission programs for plug-in hybrid
    and electric vehicles.



On January 31, 2011, the Company acquired the Traction
    Systems division of Haldex Group, a leading provider of
    innovative all-wheel drive (AWD) products for the global vehicle
    industry headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden. The purchase price
    was approximately $205 million (1.425 billion Swedish
    Krona). The operating results will be reported within the
    Company’s Drivetrain reporting segment from the date of
    acquisition.



This acquisition is expected to accelerate BorgWarner’s
    growth in the global AWD market as it continues to shift toward
    front-wheel drive (FWD) based vehicles. The acquisition will add
    industry leading FWD/AWD technologies, with a strong European
    customer base, to BorgWarner’s existing portfolio of front
    and rear-wheel drive based products. This enables BorgWarner to
    provide global customers a broader range of all-wheel drive
    solutions to meet their vehicle needs.



Joint
    Ventures



As of December 31, 2010, the Company had 11 joint ventures
    in which it had a less-than-100% ownership interest. Results
    from the eight ventures in which the Company is the majority
    owner are consolidated as part of the Company’s results.
    Results from the three ventures in which the Company’s
    effective ownership interest is 50% or less, were reported by
    the Company using the equity method of accounting.





Management of the unconsolidated joint ventures is shared with
    the Company’s respective joint venture partners. Certain
    information concerning the Company’s joint ventures is set
    forth below:



PercentageOwned byLocationFiscal 2010YeartheofSales (MillionsJoint VentureProductsOrganizedCompany (a)OperationJoint Venture Partnerof Dollars) (b)Unconsolidated:NSK-Warner K.K.Transmission components196450%Japan/ChinaNSK Ltd.$634.7Turbo Energy Limited(c)Turbochargers198732.6%IndiaSundaram Finance Limited;$137.9Brakes India LimitedBERU Diesel Start Systems Pvt. Ltd.Glow Plugs199649%IndiaJayant Dave$6.3Consolidated:BorgWarner Transmission Systems Korea, Inc.Transmission components198760%(d)KoreaNSK-Warner K.K.$148.1Divgi-Warner Pvt. Ltd.Transfer cases andautomatic locking hubs199560%IndiaDivgi Metalwares, Ltd.$20.8Borg-Warner Shenglong (Ningbo) Co. Ltd.Fans and fan drives199970%ChinaNingbo Shenglong Group Co., Ltd.$49.7BorgWarner TorqTransfer Systems Beijing Co. Ltd.Transfer cases200080%ChinaBeijing Automotive Industry Corporation$63.6SeohanWarner Turbo Systems Ltd.Turbochargers200371%KoreaKorea Flange Company$90.0BorgWarner United Transmission Systems Co. Ltd.Transmission components200966%ChinaChina Automobile DevelopmentUnited Investment Co., Ltd.$—BERU Korea Co. Ltd.Ignition coils and pumps200151%KoreaMr. K.B. Mo and Mr. D.H. Kim$45.6BorgWarner-Vikas Emissions Systems India Private LimitedEGR coolers200760%IndiaKenmore Vikas Pvt. Ltd. and Man Mohak Fin. Invest Pvt. Ltd.$5.1









(a)In the second quarter of 2008, the Company and BERU completed a
    Domination and Profit Transfer Agreement (“DPTA”),
    giving BorgWarner full control of BERU. For the joint ventures
    in which BERU Systems is a party, the percentage of ownership
    for each joint venture reflects BERU System’s ownership
    percentage.(b)All sales figures are for the year ended December 31, 2010,
    except NSK-Warner and Turbo Energy Limited. NSK-Warner’s
    sales are reported for the 12 months ended
    November 30, 2010. Turbo Energy Limited’s sales are
    reported for the 12 months ended September 30, 2010.(c)The Company made purchases from Turbo Energy Limited totaling
    $22.9 million, $24.2 million and $25.4 million
    for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008,
    respectively.(d)BorgWarner Inc. owns 50% of NSK-Warner, which has a 40% interest
    in BorgWarner Transmission Systems Korea, Inc. This gives the
    Company an additional indirect effective ownership percentage of
    20%. This results in a total effective ownership interest of 80%.



Financial
    Information About Geographic Areas



Refer to Note 19, “Reporting Segments and Related
    Information” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8 of this report for financial
    information about geographic areas.



Approximately 74% of the Company’s consolidated sales for
    2010 were outside the United States, including exports. However,
    a portion of such sales were to OEMs headquartered outside the
    United States that produce vehicles that are, in turn, exported
    to the United States.



Customers



Approximately 77% of the Company’s total sales in 2010 were
    for light-vehicle applications; 16% of the Company’s sales
    were to a diversified group of commercial truck, bus,
    construction and agricultural vehicle manufacturers; and the
    remaining 7% to distributors of aftermarket replacement parts.





For the most recent three-year period, the Company’s
    worldwide sales to the following customers (including their
    subsidiaries) were approximately as follows:



Customer201020092008Volkswagen19%22%19%Ford11%12%9%





No other single customer accounted for more than 10% of our
    consolidated sales in any year of the periods presented.



The Company’s automotive products are generally sold
    directly to OEMs substantially pursuant to negotiated annual
    contracts, long-term supply agreements or terms and conditions
    as may be modified by the parties. Deliveries are subject to
    periodic authorizations based upon the production schedules of
    the OEMs. The Company typically ships its products directly from
    its plants to the OEMs.



Sales and
    Marketing



Each of the Company’s business units within its two
    reporting segments has its own sales function. Account
    executives for each of our business units are assigned to serve
    specific OEM customers for one or more of a business unit’s
    products. Our account executives spend the majority of their
    time in direct contact with OEM purchasing and engineering
    employees and are responsible for servicing existing business
    and for identifying and obtaining new business. Because of their
    close relationship with OEMs, account executives are able to
    identify and meet customers’ needs based upon their
    knowledge of our products design and manufacturing capabilities.
    Upon securing a new order, account executives participate in
    product launch team activities and serve as a key interface with
    the customers.



In addition, the sales and marketing employees of our Engine
    segment and Drivetrain segment often work together to explore
    cross-development opportunities for the business units. The
    development of
    DualTronic®,

    the Company’s wet-clutch and control-system technology for
    a new-concept automated transmission, is an example of a
    successful collaboration.



Seasonality



The Company’s business is moderately seasonal because the
    Company’s largest North American customers typically halt
    vehicle production for approximately two weeks in July and one
    week in December. Customers in Europe and Asia typically shut
    down vehicle production during portions of July or August and
    one week in the fourth quarter. Accordingly, the Company’s
    third and fourth quarters may reflect those practices.



Research and
    Development



The Company conducts advanced engine and drivetrain research at
    the reporting segment level. This advanced engineering function
    looks to leverage know-how and expertise across product lines to
    create new engine and drivetrain systems and modules that can be
    commercialized. A venture capital fund that was created by the
    Company as seed money for new innovation and collaboration
    across businesses is managed by this function.



In addition, each of the Company’s business units within
    its two reporting segments has its own research and development
    (“R&D”) organization. The Company has
    approximately 700 employees, including engineers, mechanics
    and technicians, engaged in R&D activities at facilities
    worldwide. The Company also operates testing facilities such as
    prototype, measurement and calibration, life cycle testing and
    dynamometer laboratories.



By working closely with the OEMs and anticipating their future
    product needs, the Company’s R&D personnel conceive,
    design, develop and manufacture new proprietary automotive
    components and systems. R&D personnel also work to improve
    current products and production processes. The Company believes
    its commitment to R&D will allow it to obtain new orders
    from its OEM customers.





The following table presents the Company’s gross and net
    expenditures on R&D activities:



Year Ended December 31,201020092008(Millions of dollars)Gross R&D expenditures$233.2$219.0$273.4Customer reimbursements(48.2)(63.8)(67.7)Net R&D expenditures$185.0$155.2$205.7





The Company’s net R&D expenditures are included in the
    selling, general, and administrative expenses of the
    Consolidated Statements of Operations. Net R&D expenditures
    as a percentage of net sales were 3.3% in 2010 and 3.9% in both
    2009 and 2008. Customer reimbursements are netted against gross
    R&D expenditures upon billing of services performed. The
    Company has contracts with several customers at the
    Company’s various R&D locations. No such contract
    exceeded $6.0 million in any of the years presented.



Patents and
    Licenses



The Company has approximately 4,000 active domestic and foreign
    patents and patent applications pending or under preparation,
    and receives royalties from licensing patent rights to others.
    While it considers its patents on the whole to be important, the
    Company does not consider any single patent, any group of
    related patents or any single license essential to its
    operations in the aggregate or to the operations of any of the
    Company’s business groups individually. The expiration of
    the patents individually and in the aggregate is not expected to
    have a material effect on the Company’s financial position
    or future operating results. The Company owns numerous
    trademarks, some of which are valuable, but none of which are
    essential to its business in the aggregate.



The Company owns the “BorgWarner” and
    “Borg-Warner Automotive” trade names and housemarks,
    and variations thereof, which are material to the Company’s
    business.



Competition



The Company’s operating segments compete worldwide with a
    number of other manufacturers and distributors which produce and
    sell similar products. Many of these competitors are larger and
    have greater resources than the Company. Technological
    innovation, application engineering development, quality, price,
    delivery and program launch support are the primary elements of
    competition.



The Company’s major competitors by product type follow:



Product Type: EngineName of CompetitorTurbochargers:Holset (Cummins Inc.)HoneywellIHIMitsubishi Heavy Industries (MHI)Timing devices and chains:DensoIwisSchaeffler GroupTsubaki GroupEmissions systems:BehrPierburgValeoThermal systems:BehrHorton/SachsUsuiDiesel cold start, gasoline ignition technology and cabin
    heaters:BoschNGK





Product Type: DrivetrainName of CompetitorTorque transfer:GKN DrivelineJTEKTMagna PowertrainTransmission:BoschDensoDynaxSchaeffler Group





In addition, a number of the Company’s major OEM customers
    manufacture, for their own use and for others, products which
    compete with the Company’s products. Other current OEM
    customers could elect to manufacture products to meet their own
    requirements or to compete with the Company. There can be no
    assurance that the Company’s business will not be adversely
    affected by increased competition in the markets in which it
    operates.



For many of its products, the Company’s competitors include
    suppliers in parts of the world that enjoy economic advantages
    such as lower labor costs, lower health care costs and, in some
    cases, export subsidiesand/orraw
    materials subsidies. Also, see Item 1A. Risk Factors.



Workforce



As of December 31, 2010, the Company and its consolidated
    subsidiaries had a salaried and hourly workforce of
    approximately 17,500 (as compared with approximately 12,500 at
    December 31, 2009), of which approximately 5,000 were in
    the U.S. Approximately 23% of the Company’s
    U.S. workforce is unionized. The hourly workforces at
    certain of our international facilities are also unionized. The
    Company believes its present relations with our workforce to be
    satisfactory.



Our only domestic collective bargaining agreement is for our
    Ithaca and Cortland, New York facilities. This agreement expires
    in September 2012.



Raw
    Materials



The Company uses a variety of raw materials in the production of
    its automotive products including steel, aluminum, copper,
    plastic resins, and certain alloy elements. Manufacturing
    operations for each of the Company’s operating segments are
    dependent upon natural gas, fuel oil, and electricity.



Due to a global economic recovery in 2010, commodity prices
    increased after dropping sharply in 2009. The 2009 decline in
    commodity prices was due to falling global demand and oversupply.



As developed economies continue to recover and auto production
    accelerates, certain commodities may experience temporary
    shortages and inflated prices until production volumes again
    reach equilibrium with market demands. The Company uses a
    variety of tactics in order to limit the impact of supply
    shortages and inflationary pressures.



The Company’s global procurement organization works to
    accelerate cost reductions, purchases from lower cost regions,
    supplier rationalization, risk mitigation efforts, and
    collaborative buying activities. In addition, the Company uses
    long-term contracts, cost sharing arrangements, design changes,
    customer buy programs, and limited financial instruments to help
    control costs. The Company intends to use similar measures in
    2011 and beyond. Refer to Note 10, “Financial
    Instruments” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8 of this report for information related
    to the Company’s hedging activities.



For  2011, the Company believes that its supplies of raw
    materials and energy are adequate and available from multiple
    sources to support its manufacturing requirements.





Available
    Information



Through its Internet website (www.borgwarner.com), the Company
    makes available, free of charge, its Annual Report onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,Current Reports onForm 8-K,all amendments to those reports, and other filings with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after they are filed or furnished. The Company also
    makes the following documents available on its Internet website:
    the Audit Committee Charter; the Compensation Committee Charter;
    the Corporate Governance Committee Charter; the Company’s
    Corporate Governance Guidelines; the Company’s Code of
    Ethical Conduct; and the Company’s Code of Ethics for CEO
    and Senior Financial Officers. You may also obtain a copy of any
    of the foregoing documents, free of charge, if you submit a
    written request to Investor Relations, 3850 Hamlin Road, Auburn
    Hills, Michigan 48326.



Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



Set forth below are the names, ages, positions and certain other
    information concerning the executive officers of the Company as
    of February 10, 2011.



NameAgePosition With CompanyTimothy M. Manganello60Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerRobin J. Adams57Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief
    Administrative OfficerJohn Sanderson58Executive Vice PresidentRoger J. Wood48Executive Vice PresidentJan Bertsch54Vice President and TreasurerDaniel CasaSanta56Vice PresidentJohn J. Gasparovic53Vice President, General Counsel & SecretaryRonald T. Hundzinski52Vice President and ControllerJanice K. McAdams52Vice President, Human ResourcesJames R. Verrier48Vice PresidentThomas Waldhier48Vice President





Mr. Manganello has been Chairman of the Board since June
    2003 and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since February
    2003. Mr. Manganello is also a director of Bemis Company,
    Inc. and Zep Inc. and he serves as the Board Chairman of Federal
    Reserve Bank of Chicago, Detroit branch.



Mr. Adams has been Executive Vice President, Chief
    Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer since April
    2004. Mr. Adams serves as a member of BorgWarner’s
    Board of Directors. Mr. Adams also is a director of
    Carlisle Companies Inc.



Mr. Sanderson has been Executive Vice President of the
    Company and Group President and General Manager of the
    Drivetrain Group since January 2010. From February 2009 until
    December 2009 he was Vice President of the Company and President
    and General Manager of BorgWarner Transmission Systems Inc. From
    October 1999 until June 2008 he was Chief Executive Officer,
    Americas of Siemens VDO.



Mr. Wood has been Executive Vice President of the Company
    since May 2009 and Group President of the Engine Group since
    January 2010. He was President of BorgWarner Turbo Systems Inc.
    and BorgWarner Emissions Systems Inc. from August 2005 through
    December 2009.



Ms. Bertsch has been Vice President and Treasurer of the
    Company since November 30, 2009. From July 2008 through
    November 2009 she was Senior Vice President, Treasurer, and
    Chief Information Officer for Chrysler Group, LLC and Chrysler
    LLC. From May 2006 through June 2008 she was Vice President and
    Chief Information Officer of Daimler Chrysler’s Chrysler
    Group and Mercedes Benz NAFTA organizations and Chrysler LLC.
    From July 2001 through April 2006 she was Vice President, Global
    Sales and Marketing Finance for Chrysler LLC.



Mr. CasaSanta has been Vice President of the Company and
    President and General Manager of BorgWarner Thermal Systems Inc.
    (“Thermal Systems”) since January 2010. He was General
    Manager of Thermal Systems from June 2009 through December 2009.
    He was President and General Manager of





BorgWarner TorqTransfer Systems Inc. (“TTS”) from June
    2008 until June 2009. He was Vice President and General Manager
    of Thermal Systems from January 2003 until June 2008.



Mr. Gasparovic has been Vice President, General Counsel and
    Secretary of the Company since January 2007. He was Senior Vice
    President and General Counsel of Federal-Mogul Corporation from
    February 2005 until December 2006.



Mr. Hundzinski has been Vice President and Controller of
    the Company since April 2010. He was Vice President of Finance
    of BorgWarner Turbo Systems from June 2005 to April 2010.



Ms. McAdams has been Vice President, Human Resources since
    March 2010. She was Director of Compensation and Benefits from
    May 2005 to March 2010. She was Vice President of Human
    Resources at Metaldyne from January 2004 until December 2004.



Mr. Verrier has been Vice President of the Company and
    President and General Manager of BorgWarner Morse TEC Inc.
    (“Morse TEC”) since January 2010. He was Vice
    President and General Manager, Passenger Car of BorgWarner Turbo
    Systems Inc. from January 2006 through December 2009. He was
    Vice President and General Manager of BorgWarner Turbo Europe
    from November 2004 until January 2006.



Mr. Waldhier has been Vice President of the Company since
    November 2008 and President and General Manager of BorgWarner
    BERU and Emissions Systems since January 2010. He was Chief
    Executive Officer of BERU from October 2007 through December
    2009 when it ceased to be a publicly held German company. He was
    Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of SAS
    Automotive from April 2004 until October 2007.



