Item 1.Business



BorgWarner Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries (the
    “Company”) is a Delaware corporation that was
    incorporated in 1987. We are a leading, global supplier of
    highly engineered automotive systems and components, primarily
    for powertrain applications. Our products help improve vehicle
    performance, fuel efficiency, stability and air quality. These
    products are manufactured and sold worldwide, primarily to
    original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) of
    light-vehicles (passenger cars, sport-utility vehicles, vans and
    light-trucks). The Company’s products are also sold to
    other OEMs of commercial trucks, buses and agricultural and
    off-highway vehicles. We also manufacture and sell our products
    to certain Tier One vehicle systems suppliers and into the
    aftermarket for light and commercial vehicles. The Company
    operates manufacturing facilities serving customers in the
    Americas, Europe and Asia, and is an original equipment supplier
    to every major automotive OEM in the world.



Financial
    Information About Segments



Refer to Note 19, “Reporting Segments and Related
    Information” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8 of this report for financial
    information about business segments.



Narrative
    Description of Reporting Segments



The Company reports its results under two reporting segments:
    Engine and Drivetrain. Net revenues by segment for the three
    years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are as follows
    (in millions of dollars):



Year Ended December 31,Net Sales200920082007Millions of dollarsEngine$2,883.2$3,861.5$3,761.3Drivetrain1,093.51,426.41,598.8Inter-segment eliminations(14.9)(24.0)(31.5)Net sales$3,961.8$5,263.9$5,328.6





The sales information presented above excludes the sales by the
    Company’s unconsolidated joint ventures (See “Joint
    Ventures” section). Such unconsolidated sales totaled
    approximately $599 million in 2009, $792 million in
    2008 and $720 million in 2007.



Engine



The Engine Group develops and manufactures products to manage
    engines for fuel efficiency, reduced emissions, and enhanced
    performance. Concern about fuel prices and availability, and the
    need to lower
    CO2emissions are driving demand for the Company’s products in
    smaller, more efficient gasoline and diesel engines and
    alternative powertrains in hybrid vehicles. Engine Group
    products currently fall into the following major categories:
    turbochargers, chain products, emissions systems, thermal
    systems, diesel cold start and gasoline ignition technology and
    cabin heaters.



The Engine Group provides turbochargers for light-vehicle,
    commercial-vehicle and off-road applications for diesel and
    gasoline engine manufacturers in Europe, North America, South
    America and Asia. The Engine Group has greatly benefited from
    the growth in turbocharger demand in Europe. This growth is
    linked to increasing demand for diesel engines in light vehicles
    which typically use turbochargers and for turbocharged gasoline
    engines. Benefits of turbochargers in both light-vehicle and
    commercial-vehicle applications include increased power for a
    given engine size, improved fuel economy and significantly
    reduced emissions.



Sales of turbochargers for light-vehicles represented
    approximately 27%, 24%, and 21% of the Company’s total
    revenues for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company
    currently supplies light-





vehicle turbochargers to many OEMs including Volkswagen,
    Renault, PSA, Daimler, Hyundai, Fiat, BMW, Ford and General
    Motors. The Company also supplies commercial-vehicle
    turbochargers to Caterpillar, John Deere, Daimler,
    International, Deutz and MAN.



The Company’s newest technologies are its regulated
    two-stage turbocharging system known as
    R2S®,

    variable turbine geometry (“VTG”) turbochargers and
    turbochargers for gasoline direct injected engines. In 2008, the
    Company announced the start of production of its award winning
    R2S technology for Daimler’s new 4 cylinder diesel engine
    range. The Company also began shipping VTG turbochargers for
    VW’s new common-rail engine range and announced the launch
    of a VTG turbocharger for use with low-pressure exhaust gas
    recirculation to reduce emissions on VW’s Jetta Clean
    Diesel TDI. In 2009, the Company began shipping turbochargers
    for Ford’s 3.5 liter V6 direct-injected gasoline engines
    for rear-wheel drive cars and trucks. Additionally, Ford
    selected BorgWarner’s leading gasoline turborcharger
    technology for their new four-cylinder EcoBoost engine,
    scheduled to make its global debut early in 2010.



The Engine Group also designs and manufactures products to
    control emissions and improve fuel economy. These products
    include electric air pumps, turbo actuators that use integrated
    electronics to precisely control turbocharger speed and pressure
    ratio, and exhaust gas recirculation valves for gasoline and
    diesel applications.



The Engine Group’s chain and chain systems products include
    timing chain and timing drive systems, variable cam timing
    (“VCT”) systems, crankshaft and camshaft sprockets,
    tensioners, guides and snubbers, HY-VO®front-wheel drive (“FWD”) transmission chain and
    four-wheel drive (“4WD”) chain, and MORSE GEMINI®chain systems for light-vehicle and commercial-vehicle
    applications.



The Company’s timing chain systems are used in Ford’s
    family of overhead cam engines, including the Duratec and
    Modular, and in-line 4 cylinder engines, as well as on
    Chrysler’s 3.7 liter and 4.7 liter, overhead cam engines,
    and the 4 cylinder World Engine family of engines. In addition,
    the Company provides timing systems to a number of Asian OEMs
    and their North American operations, including Honda, Nissan,
    and Hyundai, and to several European OEMs. The Company believes
    that it is the world’s leading manufacturer of timing chain
    systems.



The Engine Group has successfully launched its latest VCT
    product; Cam Torque
    Actuatedtm(“CTA”) VCT. VCT is a means of precisely controlling
    the flow of air into and out of an engine by allowing the
    camshaft to be dynamically phased relative to its crankshaft.
    The Company’s CTA technology utilizes camshaft torque as
    its main actuation energy, instead of the conventional
    oil-pressure actuated approach. The CTA system has been launched
    on Ford’s 3.0 liter Duratec engine featured in the Ford
    Escape, Ford Fusion, Mazda 6, and Mercury Mariner.



The Company believes it is the world’s leading manufacturer
    of chain for FWD transmissions and 4WD transfer cases. HY-VO
    chain is used to transfer power from the engine to the
    drivetrain. The chain in a transfer case distributes power
    between a vehicle’s front and rear output shafts which, in
    turn, provide torque to the front and rear wheels. The
    Company’s MORSE GEMINI transmission chain system emits
    significantly less chain pitch frequency noise than conventional
    transmission chain systems.



The Engine Group believes it is a leading global provider of
    engine thermal solutions for truck, agricultural and off-highway
    applications. The group designs, manufactures and markets
    viscous fan drives that control fans to sense and respond to
    multiple cooling requirements. The Engine Group also
    manufactures and markets polymer fans for engine cooling
    systems. The Company’s thermal products provide improved
    vehicle fuel economy and reduced engine emissions while
    minimizing parasitic horsepower loss. The Company has been
    awarded the “standard position” (the OEM-designated
    preferred supplier of component systems available to the
    end-customer) at the major global heavy truck producers.



In 2005, the Company acquired approximately 69.4% of the
    outstanding shares of BERU Aktiengesellschaft
    (“BERU”), headquartered in Ludwigsburg, Germany. In
    2007, the Company increased its ownership to approximately
    82.2%. In the second quarter of 2008, the Company and BERU
    completed a Domination and Profit Transfer Agreement
    (“DPTA”), giving BorgWarner full control of BERU. On
    January 7, 2009 the Company informed BERU of its intention
    to purchase the remaining outstanding shares at that time





of approximately 4%, using the required German legal process
    referred to as a “squeeze-out” to gain 100% ownership.
    The “squeeze-out” became effective on
    September 30, 2009, making the Company the only shareholder
    of BERU. The Company’s corporate form and name were changed
    to BorgWarner BERU Systems GMBH (“BERU Systems”) in
    late 2009. Refer to Note 18, “Recent
    Transactions” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8 of this report for further information
    related to the Company’s DPTA agreement with BERU.



BERU System’s operating results are included within the
    Company’s Engine Group segment. BERU Systems is a leading
    global automotive supplier of diesel cold starting technology
    (glow plugs and instant starting systems). It also designs and
    manufactures gasoline ignition technology (spark plugs and
    ignition coils); and electronic control units and sensor
    technology (tire pressure sensors, diesel cabin heaters and
    selected sensors). In 2008, BERU launched its new Pressure
    Sensor Glow Plug with which the combustion process of a diesel
    engine is monitored and enhanced, allowing the lowest
    CO2and
    NOxemissions possible.



On June 2, 2009, the Company announced the purchase of
    advanced gasoline ignition technology and related intellectual
    property from Florida-based Etatech, Inc. The high-frequency
    ignition technology enables high-performing, lean burning
    engines to significantly improve fuel economy and reduce
    emissions compared with conventional combustion technologies.



Drivetrain



The Drivetrain Group leverages the Company’s expertise in
    clutching and control systems to enable efficient transmission
    of engine torque through the vehicle drivetrain and management
    of torque distribution to the driven wheels. The Company’s
    technology can improve fuel efficiency and help reduce emissions
    in all types of powertrains. The Drivetrain Group’s major
    products are transmission components and systems, and AWD torque
    management systems.



The Drivetrain Group designs and manufactures automatic
    transmission components and modules and is a supplier to
    virtually every major automatic transmission manufacturer in the
    world for both conventional automatic, new dual-clutch
    transmissions (“DCT”) and automated manual
    transmissions.



Friction and mechanical products include dual clutch modules,
    friction clutch modules, friction plates, transmission bands,
    torque converter clutches, one-way clutches and torsional
    vibration dampers. Controls products feature electro-hydraulic
    solenoids for standard and high pressure hydraulic systems,
    transmission solenoid modules and dual clutch control modules.



The Company’s 50%-owned joint venture in Japan, NSK-Warner
    Kabushiki Kaisha (“NSK-Warner”), is a leading producer
    of friction plates and one-way clutches in Japan. NSK-Warner is
    also the joint venture partner with a 40% interest in the
    Drivetrain Group’s Korean subsidiary, BorgWarner
    Transmission Systems Korea, Inc.



The Company has led the globalization of today’s DCT
    technology for over ten years. Following the development of its
    DCT technology in the 1990s, the Company established its
    industry-leading position in Europe in 2003 with the production
    launch of its award-winning
    DualTronic®innovations with VW/Audi. In 2007, the Company launched its
    first dual-clutch technology application in a Japanese
    transmission with Nissan.



The Company has announced DCT programs with customers that
    include VW, Audi, SAIC and Nissan, in addition to Getrag DCT
    programs with BMW, Ford and other global automakers. Also, the
    Company is working on several programs with OEMs around the
    world. BorgWarner DualTronic technology enables a conventional,
    manual gearbox to function as a fully automatic transmission by
    eliminating the interruption in power flow that occurs when a
    single clutch manual transmission shifts gears. The result is a
    smooth shifting automatic transmission with the fuel efficiency
    and great driving experience of a manual gearbox.



On November 18, 2008, we entered into a joint venture
    agreement with China Automobile Development United Investment
    Company, a company owned by leading Chinese automakers, to
    produce various dual clutch transmission modules. The joint
    venture will be located in Dalian, China and production is
    scheduled to begin in 2011. BorgWarner will own 66% of the joint
    venture.





In conventional automatic transmissions, there has been a global
    market trend from four and five speeds to six, seven, and even
    eight speed transmissions. Transmissions with more speeds
    improve fuel economy and vehicle performance and offer growth
    opportunities.



The Drivetrain Group’s torque management products include
    rear-wheel drive (“RWD”)/all-wheel drive
    (“AWD”) transfer case systems, FWD/AWD electromagnetic
    coupling systems and advanced products. The Company’s focus
    is on electronically controlled (active) torque management
    devices and systems for their vehicle dynamics, fuel economy and
    stability benefits.



Transfer cases are installed primarily on light-trucks,
    sport-utility vehicles (“SUV”s), rear-wheel drive
    based cross-over utility vehicles (“CUV”s) and
    passenger cars. A transfer case attaches to the transmission and
    distributes torque to the front and rear axles improving vehicle
    traction and stability in dynamic driving conditions.



The Company is involved in the FWD/AWD market with
    electromagnetic couplings that use electronically controlled
    clutches to distribute power to the rear wheels instantly as
    traction is required. The
    NexTrac®AWD device is our latest product innovation that produces
    outstanding stability and traction while promoting better fuel
    economy. The NexTrac AWD device launched in 2008 on the Hyundai
    Santa Fe, Tucson and KIA Sportage.



With the trend toward vehicle electrification gaining momentum,
    the Company is also applying its years of expertise to deliver
    robust and highly efficient single and multiple speed electric
    gear reduction solutions for hybrids and electric vehicles.
    Currently, we supply our
    eGearDrivetmsingle-speed gearbox to the all-electric Tesla Roadster, and
    will also supply our eGearDrive to the all-electric CODA sedan
    scheduled for introduction in California in 2010. Additionally,
    we are actively engaged with traditional and non-traditional
    OEMs on seven other transmission programs for plug-in hybrid and
    electric vehicles.



Joint
    Ventures



As of December 31, 2009, the Company had 11 joint ventures
    in which it had a less-than-100% ownership interest. Results
    from the seven ventures in which the Company is the majority
    owner are consolidated as part of the Company’s results.
    Results from the four ventures in which the Company’s
    effective ownership interest is 50% or less, were reported by
    the Company using the equity method of accounting.



Management of the unconsolidated joint ventures is shared with
    the Company’s respective joint venture partners. Certain
    information concerning the Company’s joint ventures is set
    forth below:



PercentageOwned byLocationFiscal 2009YeartheofSales ($ inJoint VentureProductsOrganizedCompany (a)OperationJoint Venture Partnermillions) (b)Unconsolidated:NSK-Warner K.K.Transmission components196450%Japan/ChinaNSK Ltd.$494.5Turbo Energy Limited(c)Turbochargers198732.6%IndiaSundaram Finance Limited; Brakes India Limited$86.0BERU Diesel Start Systems Pvt. Ltd.Glow Plugs199649%IndiaJayant Dave$2.9BERU-EichenauerSub-systems for dieselcabin heaters200050%GermanyFritz Eichenauer GmbH & Co. KG$15.7Consolidated:BorgWarner Transmission Systems Korea, Inc.Transmission components198760%(d)KoreaNSK-Warner K.K.$91.4Divgi-Warner Pvt. Ltd.Transfer cases andautomatic locking hubs199560%IndiaDivgi Metalwares, Ltd.$9.7Borg-Warner Shenglong (Ningbo) Co. Ltd.Fans and fan drives199970%ChinaNingbo Shenglong Group Co., Ltd.$32.2BorgWarner TorqTransfer Systems Beijing Co. Ltd.Transfer cases200080%ChinaBeijing Automotive Industry Corporation$38.0SeohanWarner Turbo Systems Ltd.Turbochargers200371%KoreaKorea Flange Company$41.3





PercentageOwned byLocationFiscal 2009YeartheofSales ($ inJoint VentureProductsOrganizedCompany (a)OperationJoint Venture Partnermillions) (b)BorgWarner United Transmission Systems Co. Ltd.Transmission components200966%ChinaChina Automobile Development United Investment Co., Ltd.$—BERU Korea Co. Ltd.Ignition coils and pumps200151%KoreaMr. K.B. Mo and Mr. D.H. Kim$32.6









(a)In the second quarter of 2008, the Company and BERU completed a
    Domination and Profit Transfer Agreement (“DPTA”),
    giving BorgWarner full control of BERU. For the joint ventures
    in which BERU Systems is a party, the percentage of ownership
    for each joint venture reflects BERU System’s ownership
    percentage.(b)All sales figures are for the year ended December 31, 2009,
    except NSK-Warner and Turbo Energy Limited. NSK-Warner’s
    sales are reported for the 12 months ended
    November 30, 2009. Turbo Energy Limited’s sales are
    reported for the 12 months ended September 30, 2009.(c)The Company made purchases from Turbo Energy Limited totaling
    $24.2 million, $25.4 million and $25.1 million
    for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007,
    respectively.(d)BorgWarner Inc. owns 50% of NSK-Warner, which has a 40% interest
    in BorgWarner Transmission Systems Korea, Inc. This gives the
    Company an additional indirect effective ownership percentage of
    20%. This results in a total effective ownership interest of 80%.



Financial
    Information About Geographic Areas



Refer to Note 19, “Reporting Segments and Related
    Information” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8 of this report for financial
    information about geographic areas.



Approximately 73% of the Company’s consolidated sales for
    2009 were outside the United States, including exports. However,
    a portion of such sales were to OEMs headquartered outside the
    United States that produce vehicles that are, in turn, exported
    to the United States.



Customers



Approximately 75% of the Company’s total sales in 2009 were
    for light-vehicle applications; 17% of the Company’s sales
    were to a diversified group of commercial truck, bus,
    construction and agricultural vehicle manufacturers; and the
    remaining 8% to distributors of aftermarket replacement parts.



For the most recent three-year period, the Company’s
    worldwide sales to the following customers (including their
    subsidiaries) were approximately as follows:



Customer200920082007Volkswagen22%19%15%Ford12%9%12%





No other single customer accounted for more than 10% of our
    consolidated sales in any year of the periods presented.



The Company’s automotive products are generally sold
    directly to OEMs substantially pursuant to negotiated annual
    contracts, long-term supply agreements or terms and conditions
    as may be modified by the parties. Deliveries are subject to
    periodic authorizations based upon the production schedules of
    the OEMs. The Company typically ships its products directly from
    its plants to the OEMs.



Sales and
    Marketing



Each of the Company’s business units within its two
    reporting segments has its own sales function. Account
    executives for each of our business units are assigned to serve
    specific OEM customers for one or more of a business unit’s
    products. Our account executives spend the majority of their
    time in direct contact





with OEM purchasing and engineering employees and are
    responsible for servicing existing business and for identifying
    and obtaining new business. Because of their close relationship
    with OEMs, account executives are able to identify and meet
    customers’ needs based upon their knowledge of our
    customer’s needs and our products and design and
    manufacturing capabilities. Upon securing a new order, account
    executives participate in product launch team activities and
    serve as a key interface with the customers.



In addition, the sales and marketing employees of our Engine
    segment and Drivetrain segment often work together to explore
    cross-development opportunities for the business units. The
    development of DualTronic, the Company’s wet-clutch and
    control-system technology for a new-concept automated
    transmission, is an example of a successful collaboration.



Seasonality



The Company’s business is moderately seasonal because the
    Company’s largest North American customers typically halt
    vehicle production for approximately two weeks in July and one
    week in December. Additionally, customers in Europe and Asia
    typically shut down vehicle production during portions of July
    or August and one week in the fourth quarter. Accordingly, the
    Company’s third and fourth quarters may reflect those
    practices.



Research and
    Development



The Company conducts advanced engine and drivetrain research at
    the segment level. This advanced engineering function looks to
    leverage know-how and expertise across product lines to create
    new engine and drivetrain systems and modules that can be
    commercialized. A venture capital fund that was created by the
    Company as seed money for new innovation and collaboration
    across businesses is managed by this function.



In addition, each of the Company’s business units within
    its two reporting segments has its own research and development
    (“R&D”) organization. The Company has
    approximately 700 employees, including engineers, mechanics
    and technicians, engaged in R&D activities at facilities
    worldwide. The Company also operates testing facilities such as
    prototype, measurement and calibration, life cycle testing and
    dynamometer laboratories.



By working closely with the OEMs and anticipating their future
    product needs, the Company’s R&D personnel conceive,
    design, develop and manufacture new proprietary automotive
    components and systems. R&D personnel also work to improve
    current products and production processes. The Company believes
    its commitment to R&D will allow it to obtain new orders
    from its OEM customers.



The following table presents the Company’s gross and net
    expenditures on R&D activities:



Year Ended December 31,200920082007Millions of dollarsGross R&D expenditures$219.0$273.4$246.7Customer reimbursements(63.8)(67.7)(35.9)Net R&D expenditures$155.2$205.7$210.8





The Company’s net R&D expenditures are included in the
    selling, general, and administrative expenses of the
    Consolidated Statements of Operations. Net R&D expenditures
    as a percentage of net sales were 3.9% in 2009 and 2008 and 4.0%
    in 2007. Customer reimbursements are netted against gross
    R&D expenditures upon billing of services performed. The
    Company has contracts with several customers at the
    Company’s various R&D locations. No such contract
    exceeded $6.0 million in any of the years presented.



Patents and
    Licenses



The Company has approximately 4,200 active domestic and foreign
    patents and patent applications pending or under preparation,
    and receives royalties from licensing patent rights to others.
    While it considers





its patents on the whole to be important, the Company does not
    consider any single patent, any group of related patents or any
    single license essential to its operations in the aggregate or
    to the operations of any of the Company’s business groups
    individually. The expiration of the patents individually and in
    the aggregate is not expected to have a material effect on the
    Company’s financial position or future operating results.
    The Company owns numerous trademarks, some of which are
    valuable, but none of which are essential to its business in the
    aggregate.



The Company owns the “BorgWarner” and
    “Borg-Warner Automotive” trade names and housemarks,
    and variations thereof, which are material to the Company’s
    business.



Competition



The Company’s operating segments compete worldwide with a
    number of other manufacturers and distributors which produce and
    sell similar products. Many of these competitors are larger and
    have greater resources than the Company. Price, quality,
    delivery, technological innovation, application engineering
    development and program launch support are the primary elements
    of competition.



The Company’s major competitors by product type follow:



Product Type: EngineName of CompetitorTurbochargers:Holset (Cummins Inc.)HoneywellIHIMitsubishi Heavy Industries (MHI)VCT:AisinDensoHitachiChains:IwisSchaeffler GroupTsubaki GroupEmissions products:BoschPierburgValeoThermal products:BehrHorton/SachsUsuiDiesel cold start technology:BoschNGK





Product Type: DrivetrainName of CompetitorTorque transfer products:GKN DrivelineJTEKTMagna PowertrainTransmission products:BoschDensoDynaxSchaeffler Group





In addition, a number of the Company’s major OEM customers
    manufacture, for their own use and for others, products which
    compete with the Company’s products. Other current OEM
    customers could elect to manufacture products to meet their own
    requirements or to compete with the Company. There can be no
    assurance that the Company’s business will not be adversely
    affected by increased competition in the markets in which it
    operates.



For many of its products, the Company’s competitors include
    suppliers in other parts of the world that enjoy economic
    advantages such as lower labor costs, lower health care costs
    and, in some cases, export subsidiesand/orraw
    materials subsidies. Also, see Item 1A. Risk Factors.





Employees



As of December 31, 2009, the Company and its consolidated
    subsidiaries had approximately 12,500 salaried and hourly
    employees (as compared with approximately 13,800 employees
    at December 31, 2008), of which approximately 4,100 were
    U.S. employees. The approximately 13,800 employees at
    December 31, 2008 included anticipated reductions, which
    did occur in 2009. Refer to Note 17,
    “Restructuring” of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for a
    discussion of actions taken in 2009. Approximately 19% of the
    Company’s U.S. workforce is unionized. The hourly
    employees at certain of our international facilities are also
    unionized. The Company believes its present relations with
    employees to be satisfactory.



Our only domestic collective bargaining agreement is for our
    Ithaca and Cortland, New York facilities. This agreement expires
    in September 2012.



Raw
    Materials



The company uses a variety of raw materials in the production of
    its automotive products including steel, aluminum, copper,
    plastic resins, and certain alloying elements. Manufacturing
    operations for each of the Company’s operating segments are
    dependent upon natural gas, fuel oil, and electricity.



Commodity prices dropped sharply in 2009 due to falling global
    demands and their subsequent oversupply. Commodity prices have
    recovered much of their value and have returned to 2007 levels
    after bottoming out during the recession of 2009.



As developed economies recover and auto production accelerates,
    certain commodities may experience temporary shortages and
    inflated prices until production volumes again reach equilibrium
    with market demands. The Company uses a variety of tactics in
    order to limit the impact of supply shortages and inflationary
    pressures.



The Company formed a global procurement organization to
    accelerate: cost reductions, purchases from lower cost regions,
    supplier rationalization, risk mitigation efforts, and
    collaborative buying activities. In addition, the Company uses
    long-term contracts, cost sharing arrangements, design changes,
    customer buy programs, and limited financial instruments to help
    control costs. The Company intends to use similar measures in
    2010 and beyond. Refer to Note 10, “Financial
    Instruments” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8 of this report for information related
    to the Company’s hedging activities.



For 2010, the Company believes that its supplies of raw
    materials and energy are adequate and available from multiple
    sources to support its manufacturing requirements.



Environmental
    Regulation and Proceedings



The Company and certain of its current and former direct and
    indirect corporate predecessors, subsidiaries and divisions have
    been identified by the United States Environmental Protection
    Agency and certain state environmental agencies and private
    parties as potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”) at
    various hazardous waste disposal sites under the Comprehensive
    Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
    (“Superfund”) and equivalent state laws and, as such,
    may presently be liable for the cost ofclean-upand
    other remedial activities at 35 such sites. Responsibility forclean-upand
    other remedial activities at a Superfund site is typically
    shared among PRPs based on an allocation formula.



The Company believes that none of these matters, individually or
    in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on its
    results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.
    Generally, this is because either the estimates of the maximum
    potential liability at a site are not large or the liability
    will be shared with other PRPs, although no assurance can be
    given with respect to the ultimate outcome of any such matter.



Based on information available to the Company (which in most
    cases includes: an estimate of allocation of liability among
    PRPs; the probability that other PRPs, many of whom are large,
    solvent public companies, will fully pay the cost apportioned to
    them; currently available information from PRPsand/orfederal or state environmental agencies concerning the scope of
    contamination and estimated remediation and consulting





costs; remediation alternatives; and estimated legal fees), the
    Company has an accrual for indicated environmental liabilities
    with a balance at December 31, 2009 of $21.0 million.
    The Company has accrued amounts that do not exceed
    $3.0 million related to any individual site except for the
    Crystal Springs site discussed below, and we do not believe that
    the costs related to any of these sites will have a material
    adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash
    flows or financial condition. The Company expects to pay out
    substantially all of the amounts accrued for environmental
    liability over the next three to five years.



In connection with the sale of Kuhlman Electric Corporation, the
    Company agreed to indemnify the buyer and Kuhlman Electric for
    certain environmental liabilities, then unknown to the Company,
    relating to certain operations of Kuhlman Electric that pre-date
    the Company’s 1999 acquisition of Kuhlman Electric. During
    2000, Kuhlman Electric notified the Company that it discovered
    potential environmental contamination at its Crystal Springs,
    Mississippi plant while undertaking an expansion of the plant.
    The Company is continuing to work with the Mississippi
    Department of Environmental Quality and Kuhlman Electric to
    investigate and remediate to the extent necessary, historical
    contamination at the plant and surrounding area. Kuhlman
    Electric and others, including the Company, were sued in
    numerous related lawsuits, in which multiple claimants alleged
    personal injury and property damage relating to the alleged
    environmental contamination. In 2005, the Company and other
    defendants entered into settlements that resolved approximately
    99% of those claims and the remainder of them have since been
    dismissed.



In 2007 and 2008, four additional lawsuits were filed against
    Kuhlman Electric and others, including the Company, on behalf of
    approximately 340 plaintiffs, alleging personal injury relating
    to the alleged environmental contamination. At this stage of the
    litigation, the Company cannot make any predictions as to the
    outcome, but it is vigorously defending against the suits.



Conditional Asset
    Retirement Obligations



and/or



Available
    Information



Through its Internet website (www.borgwarner.com), the Company
    makes available, free of charge, its Annual Report onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,Current Reports onForm 8-K,all amendments to those reports, and other filings with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after they are filed or furnished. The Company also
    makes the following documents available on its Internet website:
    the Audit Committee Charter; the Compensation Committee Charter;
    the Corporate Governance Committee Charter; the Company’s
    Corporate Governance Guidelines; the Company’s Code of
    Ethical Conduct; and the Company’s Code of Ethics for CEO
    and Senior Financial Officers. You may also obtain a copy of any
    of the foregoing documents, free of charge, if you submit a
    written request to Investor Relations, 3850 Hamlin Road, Auburn
    Hills, Michigan 48326.





Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



Set forth below are the names, ages, positions and certain other
    information concerning the executive officers of the Company as
    of February 11, 2010.



NameAgePosition With CompanyTimothy M. Manganello60Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerRobin J. Adams56Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief
    Administrative OfficerJohn Sanderson57Executive Vice PresidentRoger J. Wood47Executive Vice PresidentJan Bertsch53Vice President and TreasurerDaniel CasaSanta55Vice PresidentAngela J. D’Aversa63Vice President, Human ResourcesJohn J. Gasparovic52Vice President, General Counsel & SecretaryJeffrey L. Obermayer54Vice President and ControllerJames R. Verrier47Vice PresidentThomas Waldhier47Vice President





Mr. Manganello has been Chairman of the Board since June
    2003 and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since February
    2003. Mr. Manganello is also a director of Bemis Company,
    Inc. and he serves as the Board Chairman of Federal Reserve Bank
    of Chicago, Detroit branch.



Mr. Adams has been Executive Vice President, Chief
    Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer since April
    2004. He was Executive Vice President — Finance and
    Chief Financial Officer of American Axle &
    Manufacturing Holdings Inc. (“American Axle”) from
    July 1999 until April 2004. Mr. Adams also is a director of
    Carlisle Companies Inc.



Mr. Sanderson has been Executive Vice President of the
    Company and Group President and General Manager of the
    Drivetrain Group since January 2010. From February 2009 until
    December 2009 he was Vice President of the Company and President
    and General Manager of BorgWarner Transmission Systems Inc. From
    October 1999 until June 2008 he was Chief Executive Officer,
    Americas of Siemens VDO.



Mr. Wood has been Executive Vice President of the Company
    since May 2009 and Group President and General Manager of the
    Engine Group since January 2010. He was President and General
    Manager of BorgWarner Turbo Systems Inc. and BorgWarner
    Emissions Systems Inc. from August 2005 through December 2009.
    He was President and General Manager of Morse TEC from January
    2001 until July 2005.



Ms. Bertsch has been Vice President and Treasurer of the
    Company since November 30, 2009. From June 2009 through
    November 2009 she was Senior Vice President, Treasurer, and
    Chief Information Officer for Chrysler Group, LLC. From July
    2008 through May 2009 she was Senior Vice President, Treasurer,
    and Chief Information Officer of Chrysler LLC. From May 2006
    through June 2008 she was Vice President and Chief Information
    Officer of Daimler Chrysler’s Chrysler Group and Mercedes
    Benz NAFTA organizations and Chrysler LLC. From July 2001
    through April 2006 she was Vice President, Global Sales and
    Marketing Finance.



Mr. CasaSanta has been Vice President of the Company and
    President and General Manager of BorgWarner Thermal Systems Inc.
    (“Thermal Systems”) since January 2010. He was General
    Manager of Thermal Systems from June 2009 through December 2009.
    He was President and General Manager of BorgWarner TorqTransfer
    Systems Inc. (“TTS”) from June 2008 until June 2009.
    He was Vice President and General Manager of Thermal Systems
    from January 2003 until June 2008.



Ms. D’Aversa has been Vice President, Human Resources
    since October 2004. She was Acting Vice President, Human
    Resources from April 2004 until September 2004 and Senior
    Director, Management and Organization Development from April
    2004 until September 2004.





Mr. Gasparovic has been Vice President, General Counsel and
    Secretary of the Company since January 2007. He was Senior Vice
    President and General Counsel of Federal-Mogul Corporation from
    February 2005 until December 2006.



Mr. Obermayer has been Vice President since December 1999
    and Controller since January 2005. He was Vice President and
    Treasurer of the Company from December 1999 through December
    2004.



Mr. Verrier has been Vice President of the Company and
    President and General Manager of BorgWarner Morse TEC Inc.
    (“Morse TEC”) since January 2010. He was Vice
    President and General Manager, Passenger Car of BorgWarner Turbo
    Systems Inc. from January 2006 through December 2009. He was
    Vice President and General Manager of BorgWarner Turbo Europe
    from November 2004 until January 2006.



Mr. Waldhier has been Vice President of the Company since
    November 2008 and President and General Manager of BorgWarner
    BERU Systems since January 2010. He was Chief Executive Officer
    of BERU from October 2007 through December 2009 when it ceased
    to be a publicly held German company. He was Executive Vice
    President and Chief Operating Officer of SAS Automotive from
    April 2004 until October 2007.



