ITEM 1.   BUSINESS



BorgWarner Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries (the “Company”) is a Delaware corporation  incorporated in 1987. We are a leading global supplier of highly engineered automotive systems and components primarily for powertrain applications. Our products help improve vehicle performance, fuel efficiency, stability and air quality. These products are manufactured and sold worldwide, primarily to original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) of light vehicles (passenger cars, sport-utility vehicles ("SUVs"), vans and light-trucks). The Company's products are also sold to other OEMs of commercial vehicles (medium-duty trucks, heavy-duty trucks and buses) and off-highway vehicles (agricultural and construction machinery and marine applications). We also manufacture and sell our products to certain Tier One vehicle systems suppliers and into the aftermarket for light, commercial and off-highway vehicles. The Company operates manufacturing facilities serving customers in the Americas, Europe and Asia, and is an original equipment supplier to every major automotive OEM in the world.



Financial Information About Reporting Segments



Refer to Note 19, “Reporting Segments and Related Information,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for financial information about the Company's reporting segments.



Narrative Description of Reporting Segments



The Company reports its results under two reporting segments: Engine and Drivetrain. Net sales by reporting segment for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are as follows:



Year Ended December 31,(millions of dollars)201120102009Engine$5,050.6$4,060.8$2,883.2Drivetrain2,084.51,611.41,093.5Inter-segment eliminations(20.4)(19.4)(14.9)Net sales$7,114.7$5,652.8$3,961.8



The sales information presented above excludes the sales by the Company's unconsolidated joint ventures (See sub-heading “Joint Ventures”). Such unconsolidated sales totaled approximately $817 million, $779 million and $599 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



Engine



The Engine Group develops and manufactures products to manage engines for fuel efficiency, reduced emissions and enhanced performance. Concern about fuel prices and availability, as well as the need to lower CO2emissions are driving demand for the Company's products in smaller, more efficient gasoline and diesel engines and alternative powertrains. Engine Group products currently fall into the following major categories: turbochargers, emissions systems, timing devices and chain products, thermal systems, diesel cold start, gasoline ignition technology and cabin heaters.



The Engine Group provides turbochargers for light, commercial and off-highway applications for diesel and gasoline engine manufacturers in the Americas, Europe and Asia.  The Engine Group has greatly benefited from the growth in turbocharger demand in Europe.  This growth is linked to increasing demand for diesel engines in light vehicles, which typically use turbochargers, and for turbocharged gasoline engines.  Benefits of turbochargers in light, commercial and off-highway applications include increased power for a given engine size, improved fuel economy and reduced emissions.









Sales of turbochargers for light-vehicles represented approximately26%of total net sales for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and27%of total net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009. The Company currently supplies light-vehicle turbochargers to many OEMs including Volkswagen, Renault, PSA, Daimler, Hyundai, Fiat, BMW, Ford and General Motors. The Company also supplies commercial vehicle turbochargers to Daimler, Navistar, Deutz and MAN and off-highway turbochargers to Caterpillar and John Deere.



The Company's newest turbocharger technologies are its regulated two-stage turbocharging system, known as R2S®, variable turbine geometry ("VTG") turbochargers and turbochargers for gasoline direct injected engines, all of which may be found in numerous applications around the world.  For example, the Company supplies its award winning R2S®turbocharger technology to Volkswagen's 2.0 liter four-cylinder common-rail diesel engine featured in the Transporter T5 and Amarok pickup. Also, the Company supplies VTG turbochargers to Renault's 1.6 liter R9M diesel engine featured in the Mégane Scénic and Ford selected BorgWarner's leading gasoline turbocharger technology for their new 1.6 liter and 2.0 liter four-cylinder EcoBoost engines, the latter launching in the U.S. in the 2012 Explorer and 2012 Edge models, and in China in the Ford Mondeo.



The Engine Group also designs and manufactures products to control emissions and improve fuel economy.  These products include electric air pumps, turbo actuators using integrated electronics to precisely control turbocharger speed and pressure ratio and exhaust gas recirculation ("EGR") coolers, tubes and valves for gasoline and diesel applications.  In 2010, the Company acquired Dytech Ensa S.L., a leading producer of EGR coolers, EGR tubes and integrated EGR modules including valves for light, commercial and off-highway applications.



The Engine Group's timing devices and chain products include timing chain and timing drive systems, variable cam timing (“VCT”) systems, crankshaft and camshaft sprockets, tensioners, guides and snubbers, HY-VO®front-wheel drive (“FWD”) transmission chain and four-wheel drive (“4WD”) chain and MORSE GEMINI®chain systems for light vehicles.



The Company is a leading manufacturer of timing chain systems to OEMs around the world. BorgWarner timing chain systems are featured on Ford's family of engines, including the Duratec, Modular, and in-line four-cylinder engines, Chrysler's 3.6 liter Pentastar engine, Volkswagen's EA888 family, Hyundai's Gamma, Nu and Theta families and numerous other applications around the world.



The Engine Group's newest chain product technology is its VCT with mid position lock, which allows a greater range of camshaft positioning thereby enabling greater control over airflow and the opportunity to improve fuel economy, function and efficiency compared with conventional VCT systems. VCT with mid-position lock made its debut on Subaru's Boxer®2.0 liter engine. BorgWarner is currently working with a number of other OEMs interested in implementing this technology.



The Company is a leading manufacturer of chain for FWD transmissions and 4WD transfer cases.  The Company's HY-VO®chain is used to transfer power from the engine to the drivetrain. The chain in a transfer case distributes power between a vehicle's front and rear output shafts which, in turn, provide torque to the front and rear wheels. The Company's MORSE GEMINI®transmission chain system emits significantly less chain pitch frequency noise than conventional transmission chain systems.



The Company is a leading global provider of engine thermal solutions for truck, agricultural and off-highway applications. The Engine Group designs, manufactures and markets viscous fan drives that control fans to sense and respond to multiple cooling requirements. The Engine Group also manufactures and markets polymer fans for engine cooling systems. The Company's thermal products provide improved vehicle fuel economy and reduced engine emissions while minimizing parasitic horsepower loss. The Company has been awarded the "standard position" (the OEM-designated preferred supplier of component systems available to the end-customer) at several major global heavy truck producers.











The Company is a leading global automotive supplier of diesel cold start technology (glow plugs and instant starting systems), including its Pressure Sensor Glow Plug which monitors and enhances the combustion process of a diesel engine, minimizing CO2and NOxemissions.  The Company also designs and manufactures gasoline ignition technology (spark plugs and ignition coils) and electronic control units and sensor technology (diesel cabin heaters and selected sensors).



In 2009, the Company announced the purchase of advanced gasoline ignition technology and related intellectual property from Florida-based Etatech, Inc. The high-frequency ignition technology enables high-performing, lean burning engines to significantly improve fuel economy and reduce emissions compared with conventional combustion technologies.



In anticipation of market growth expected for its electric cabin heaters, the Company completed the acquisition of BERU-Eichenauer GmbH by acquiring the shares of its former joint venture partner, Eichenauer Heizelemente GmbH & Co. KG. The former 50/50 joint venture was formed in 2000 to develop and manufacture electric cabin heaters. The acquisition formally took effect on May 1, 2010.



Drivetrain



The Drivetrain Group leverages the Company's expertise in clutching and control systems to enable efficient transmission of engine torque through the vehicle drivetrain and management of torque distribution to the driven wheels. The Company's technology can improve fuel efficiency and help reduce emissions in all types of powertrains. The Drivetrain Group's major products are transmission components and systems, and all-wheel drive ("AWD") torque management systems.



The Drivetrain Group designs and manufactures automatic transmission components and modules and is a supplier to virtually every major automatic transmission manufacturer in the world for conventional automatic, new dual-clutch transmissions (“DCT”) and automated manual transmissions. In conventional automatic transmissions, there has been a global market trend from four and five speeds to six, seven and eight speed transmissions. Transmissions with more speeds improve fuel economy and vehicle performance and offer growth opportunities.



Friction and mechanical products include dual clutch modules, friction clutch modules, friction plates, transmission bands, torque converter clutches, one-way clutches and torsional vibration dampers. Controls products feature electro-hydraulic solenoids for standard and high pressure hydraulic systems, transmission solenoid modules and dual clutch control modules. The Company's 50%-owned joint venture in Japan, NSK-Warner Kabushiki Kaisha ("NSK-Warner"), is a leading producer of friction plates and one-way clutches in Japan.



The Company has led the globalization of today's DCT technology for over 10 years.  Following the development of its DCT technology in the 1990s, the Company established its industry-leading position in Europe in 2003 with the production launch of its award-winning DualTronic®innovations with VW/Audi.  In 2007, the Company launched its first dual-clutch technology application in a Japanese transmission with Nissan.



The Company has announced DCT programs with customers that include VW/Audi, SAIC and Nissan, in addition to Getrag DCT programs with BMW, Ford and other global automakers. The Company is working on several other DCT programs with OEMs around the world.  BorgWarner DualTronic technology enables a conventional, manual gearbox to function as a fully automatic transmission by eliminating the interruption in power flow that occurs when shifting a single clutch manual transmission. The result is a smooth shifting automatic transmission with the fuel efficiency and great driving experience of a manual gearbox.











In 2008, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement with China Automobile Development United Investment Company, a company owned by 12 leading Chinese automakers, to produce various dual clutch transmission modules.  The joint venture's operations are located in Dalian, China and production is scheduled to begin in the first half of 2012.  The Company owns 66% of the joint venture.



The Drivetrain Group's torque management products include rear-wheel drive (“RWD”)/AWD transfer case systems, FWD/AWD electromagnetic coupling systems and advanced products.  The Company's focus is on electronically controlled (active) torque management devices and systems for their vehicle dynamics, fuel economy and stability benefits.



Transfer cases are installed primarily on light-trucks, SUVs, RWD based cross-over utility vehicles ("CUVs") and passenger cars. A transfer case attaches to the transmission and distributes torque to the front and rear axles improving vehicle traction and stability in dynamic driving conditions.



The Company is involved in the AWD market for FWD based vehicles with electromagnetic couplings that use electronically controlled clutches to distribute power to the rear wheels instantly as traction is required. The NexTrac®AWD device is our latest product innovation that produces outstanding stability and traction while promoting better fuel economy. The NexTrac AWD device launched in 2008 on the Hyundai Santa Fe, Tucson and KIA Sportage.



On January 31, 2011, the Company acquired the Traction Systems division of Haldex Group, a leading provider of innovative AWD products for the global vehicle industry headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden. This acquisition is expected to accelerate BorgWarner's growth in the global AWD market as it continues to shift toward FWD based vehicles. The acquisition will add industry leading AWD technologies for FWD based vehicles, with a strong European customer base, to BorgWarner's existing portfolio of front and rear-wheel drive based products. This enables BorgWarner to provide global customers a broader range of AWD solutions to meet their vehicle needs.



With the trend toward vehicle electrification gaining momentum, the Company is also applying its years of expertise to deliver robust and highly efficient single and multiple speed electric gear reduction solutions for hybrids and electric vehicles. Currently, we supply our eGearDrive®single-speed gearbox to the Ford Transit Connect Electric. We are actively engaged with traditional and non-traditional OEMs on a number of other transmission programs for plug-in hybrid and electric vehicles.











Joint Ventures



As of December 31, 2011, the Company had 10 joint ventures in which it had a less-than-100% ownership interest. Results from the seven joint ventures in which the Company is the majority owner are consolidated as part of the Company's results. Results from the three joint ventures in which the Company's effective ownership interest is 50% or less, were reported by the Company using the equity method of accounting.



Management of the unconsolidated joint ventures is shared with the Company's respective joint venture partners. Certain information concerning the Company's joint ventures is set forth below:



Joint ventureProductsYear organizedPercentageowned by theCompanyLocation ofoperationJoint venture partnerFiscal 2011 sales(millions of dollars) (a)Unconsolidated:NSK-WarnerTransmission components196450%Japan/ChinaNSK Ltd.$655.2Turbo Energy Limited (b)Turbochargers198732.6%IndiaSundaram Finance Limited; Brakes India Limited$156.0BERU Diesel Start Systems Pvt. Ltd.Glow Plugs199649%IndiaJayant Dave$6.2Consolidated:BorgWarner Transmission Systems Korea Ltd. (c)Transmission components198760%KoreaNSK-Warner K.K.$204.0Divgi-Warner Private LimitedTransfer cases andautomatic locking hubs199560%IndiaDivgi Metalwares, Ltd.$20.4Borg-Warner Shenglong (Ningbo) Co. Ltd.Fans and fan drives199970%ChinaNingbo Shenglong Group Co., Ltd.$50.3BorgWarner TorqTransfer Systems Beijing Co. Ltd.Transfer cases200080%ChinaBeijing Automotive Components Stock Co. Ltd.$76.2BorgWarner BERU Systems Korea Co. Ltd.Ignition coils and pumps200151%KoreaMr. K.B. Mo and Mr. D.H. Kim$43.4SeohanWarner Turbo Systems Ltd.Turbochargers200371%KoreaKorea Flange Company$126.7BorgWarner United Transmission Systems Co. Ltd.Transmission components200966%ChinaChina Automobile Development United Investment Co., Ltd.$—

________________

(a)All sales figures are for the year ended December 31, 2011, except NSK-Warner and Turbo Energy Limited. NSK-Warner’s sales are reported for the 12 months ended November 30, 2011. Turbo Energy Limited’s sales are reported for the 12 months ended September 30, 2011.

(b)The Company made purchases from Turbo Energy Limited totaling $22.5 million,  $22.9 million and $24.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

(c)BorgWarner Inc. owns 50% of NSK-Warner, which has a 40% interest in BorgWarner Transmission Systems Korea Ltd. This gives the Company an additional indirect effective ownership percentage of 20%. This results in a total effective ownership interest of 80%.



Financial Information About Geographic Areas



During the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately76%of the Company's consolidated net sales were outside the United States ("U.S."), including exports. However, a portion of such sales were to OEMs headquartered outside the U.S. that produce vehicles that are, in turn, exported to the U.S.



Refer to Note 19, “Reporting Segments and Related Information,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for financial information about geographic areas.



Product Lines and Customers



During the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 78% of the Company's net sales were for light vehicle applications; approximately 10% were for commercial vehicle applications; approximately 6% were for off-highway vehicle applications; and approximately 6% were to distributors of aftermarket replacement parts.











The Company’s worldwide net sales to the following customers (including their subsidiaries) were approximately as follows:



Year Ended December 31,Customer201120102009Volkswagen19%19%22%Ford12%11%12%



No other single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net sales in any of the years  presented.



The Company's automotive products are generally sold directly to OEMs, substantially pursuant to negotiated annual contracts, long-term supply agreements or terms and conditions as may be modified by the parties. Deliveries are subject to periodic authorizations based upon the production schedules of the OEMs. The Company typically ships its products directly from its plants to the OEMs.



Sales and Marketing



Each of the Company's business units within its two reporting segments has its own sales function. Account executives for each of our business units are assigned to serve specific OEM customers for one or more of a business unit's products. Our account executives spend the majority of their time in direct contact with OEM purchasing and engineering employees and are responsible for servicing existing business and for identifying and obtaining new business.  Because of their close relationship with OEMs, account executives are able to identify and meet customers' needs based upon their knowledge of our products design and manufacturing capabilities. Upon securing a new order, account executives participate in product launch team activities and serve as a key interface with the customers.



In addition, the sales and marketing employees of our Engine and Drivetrain reporting segments often work together to explore cross-development opportunities for the business units. The development of DualTronic®, the Company's wet-clutch and control-system technology for a new-concept automated transmission, is an example of a successful collaboration.



Seasonality



Our operations are directly related to the automotive industry. Consequently, we may experience seasonal fluctuations to the extent automotive vehicle production slows, such as in the summer months when many customer plants typically close for model year changeovers or vacations. Historically, model changeovers or vacations have generally resulted in lower sales volume in the third quarter.



Research and Development



The Company conducts advanced Engine and Drivetrain research at the reporting segment level. This advanced engineering function looks to leverage know-how and expertise across product lines to create new Engine and Drivetrain systems and modules that can be commercialized. A venture capital fund that was created by the Company as seed money for new innovation and collaboration across businesses is managed by this function.



In addition, each of the Company's business units within its two reporting segments has its own research and development (“R&D”) organization, including engineers and technicians, engaged in R&D activities at facilities worldwide. The Company also operates testing facilities such as prototype, measurement and calibration, life cycle testing and dynamometer laboratories.











By working closely with the OEMs and anticipating their future product needs, the Company's R&D personnel conceive, design, develop and manufacture new proprietary automotive components and systems. R&D personnel also work to improve current products and production processes. The Company believes its commitment to R&D will allow it to obtain new orders from its OEM customers.



The Company's net R&D expenditures are included in selling, general and administrative expenses of the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Customer reimbursements are netted against gross R&D expenditures as they are considered a recovery of cost. Customer reimbursements for prototypes are recorded net of prototype costs based on customer contracts, typically either when the prototype is shipped or when it is accepted by the customer. Customer reimbursements for engineering services are recorded when performance obligations are satisfied in accordance with the contract and accepted by the customer. Financial risks and rewards transfer upon shipment, acceptance of a prototype component by the customer or upon completion of the performance obligation as stated in the respective customer agreement.



Year Ended December 31,(millions of dollars)201120102009Gross R&D expenditures$294.7$233.2$219.0Customer reimbursements(51.0)(48.2)(63.8)Net R&D expenditures$243.7$185.0$155.2



Net R&D expenditures as a percentage of net sales were3.4%,3.3%and3.9%in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company has contracts with several customers at the Company's various R&D locations. No such contract exceeded5%of net R&D expenditures in any of the years presented.



Patents and Licenses



The Company has more than 4,000 active domestic and foreign patents and patent applications pending or under preparation, and receives royalties from licensing patent rights to others. While it considers its patents on the whole to be important, the Company does not consider any single patent, any group of related patents or any single license essential to its operations in the aggregate or to the operations of any of the Company's business groups individually. The expiration of the patents individually and in the aggregate is not expected to have a material effect on the Company's financial position or future operating results. The Company owns numerous trademarks, some of which are valuable, but none of which are essential to its business in the aggregate.



The Company owns the “BorgWarner” and “Borg-Warner Automotive” trade names and housemarks, and variations thereof, which are material to the Company's business.



Competition



The Company's reporting segments compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. Many of these competitors are larger and have greater resources than the Company. Technological innovation, application engineering development, quality, price, delivery and program launch support are the primary elements of competition.











The Company’s major competitors by product type follow:



Product Type: EngineNames of CompetitorsTurbochargers:HoneywellMitsubishi Heavy Industries (MHI)IHIEmissions systems:BehrModinePierburgValeoTiming devices and chains:DensoSchaeffler GroupIwisTsubaki GroupThermal systems:BehrUsuiHorton/SachsDiesel cold start, gasoline ignitionBoschNGKtechnology and cabin heaters:DensoSensataEberspacher Catem



Product Type: DrivetrainNames of CompetitorsTorque transfer:GKN DrivelineMagna PowertrainJTEKTTransmission:BoschSchaeffler GroupDynaxUnick



In addition, a number of the Company's major OEM customers manufacture, for their own use and for others, products that compete with the Company's products. Other current OEM customers could elect to manufacture products to meet their own requirements or to compete with the Company. There is no assurance that the Company's business will not be adversely affected by increased competition in the markets in which it operates.



For many of its products, the Company's competitors include suppliers in parts of the world that enjoy economic advantages such as lower labor costs, lower health care costs, lower tax rates and, in some cases, export subsidies and/or raw materials subsidies. Also, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors."



Workforce



As of December 31, 2011, the Company had a salaried and hourly workforce of approximately 19,250 (as compared with approximately 17,500 at December 31, 2010), of which approximately 5,300 were in the U.S.  Approximately 22% of the Company's U.S. workforce is unionized. The workforces at certain international facilities are also unionized. The Company believes the present relations with our workforce to be satisfactory.



Our only domestic collective bargaining agreement is for our Ithaca and Cortland, New York facilities. This agreement expires in September 2012.











Raw Materials



The Company uses a variety of raw materials in the production of its automotive products including steel, aluminum, copper, nickel, plastic resins and certain alloy elements. Manufacturing operations for each of the Company's operating segments are dependent upon natural gas, fuel oil and electricity.



Commodity prices rose in 2011 due to expanding global demand and cautious capacity recovery which constrained supply. The Company uses a variety of tactics in order to limit the impact of supply shortages and inflationary pressures. The Company's global procurement organization works to accelerate cost reductions, purchases from lower cost regions, supplier rationalization, risk mitigation efforts and collaborative buying activities. In addition, the Company uses long-term contracts, cost sharing arrangements, design changes, customer buy programs and limited financial instruments to help control costs. The Company intends to use similar measures in 2012 and beyond.  Refer to Note 10, “Financial Instruments,” of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for information related to the Company's hedging activities.



For 2012, the Company believes that its supplies of raw materials are adequate and available from multiple sources to support its manufacturing requirements.



Available Information



Through its Internet website (www.borgwarner.com), the Company makes available, free of charge, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed or furnished. The Company also makes the following documents available on its Internet website: the Audit Committee Charter; the Compensation Committee Charter; the Corporate Governance Committee Charter; the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines; the Company's Code of Ethical Conduct; and the Company's Code of Ethics for CEO and Senior Financial Officers. You may also obtain a copy of any of the foregoing documents, free of charge, if you submit a written request to Investor Relations, 3850 Hamlin Road, Auburn Hills, Michigan 48326.





Executive Officers of the Registrant



Set forth below are the names, ages, positions and certain other information concerning the executive officers of the Company as of February 14, 2012.



NameAgePosition with the CompanyTimothy M. Manganello62Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerRobin J. Adams58Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative OfficerJohn Sanderson59Executive Vice PresidentJan A. Bertsch55Vice President and ControllerDaniel CasaSanta57Vice PresidentBrady D. Ericson40Vice PresidentJoseph F. Fadool45Vice PresidentJohn J. Gasparovic54Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryRonald T. Hundzinski53Vice President and TreasurerRobin Kendrick47Vice PresidentPete B. Kohler56Vice PresidentFrederic B. Lissalde44Vice PresidentJanice K. McAdams53Vice President, Human ResourcesJames R. Verrier49Vice President











Mr. Manganello has been Chairman of the Board since June 2003 and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since February 2003.  Mr. Manganello is also a director of Bemis Company, Inc. and Zep Inc.



Mr. Adams has been Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer of the Company since April 2004. Mr. Adams serves as a member of BorgWarner's Board of Directors.  Mr. Adams is also a director of Carlisle Companies Inc.



Mr. Sanderson has been Executive Vice President of the Company and Group President and General Manager of the Drivetrain Group since January 2010. From February 2009 to January 2010, he was Vice President of the Company and President and General Manager of BorgWarner Transmission Systems Inc. From October 1999 to June 2008, he was Chief Executive Officer, Americas of Siemens VDO.



Ms. Bertsch has been Vice President and Controller of the Company since August 2011. From November  2009 through mid-August 2011, she was the Vice President and Treasurer of the Company. From July 2008 through November 2009, she was Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Information Officer for Chrysler Group, LLC and Chrysler LLC.  From May 2006 through June 2008, she was Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Daimler Chrysler's Chrysler Group and Mercedes Benz NAFTA organizations.



Mr. CasaSanta has been Vice President of the Company and President and General Manager of BorgWarner Thermal Systems Inc. since January 2010. He was General Manager of BorgWarner Thermal Systems Inc. from June 2009 through December 2009. He was President and General Manager of BorgWarner TorqTransfer Systems Inc.  from June 2008 until June 2009. He was Vice President and General Manager of Thermal Systems from January 2003 until June 2008.



Mr. Ericson has been Vice President of the Company and President and General Manager of BorgWarner BERU Systems and Emissions Systems since September 2011. He was Vice President and General Manager of BorgWarner Emissions Systems from April 2010 through August 2011. From August 2009 through March 2010, he was Vice President, Global Manufacturing Strategies for BorgWarner Turbo and Emissions Systems. From January 2008 through July 2009, he was Vice President, Operations - China and Korea for BorgWarner Turbo and Emissions Systems. From April 2005 through December 2007, he was Managing Director, SeohanWarner Turbo Systems in Korea.



Mr. Fadool has been Vice President of the Company and President and General Manager of BorgWarner TorqTransfer Systems Inc. since June 2011. He was Vice President and General Manager of TorqTransfer Systems Inc. from July 2010 until June 2011. From May 2009 until July 2010, he was Vice President for North American Operations for the Central Electronics Plants at Continental Automotive Systems. From  July 2007 until July 2010, he was Vice President, Huntsville Operations at SiemensVDO. From September 2003 until July 2007, he was Vice President, North American Powertrain Electronics at SiemensVDO.



Mr. Gasparovic has been Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company since January 2007.



Mr. Hundzinski has been Vice President and Treasurer of the Company since August 2011. From April 2010 until mid-August 2011, he was Vice President and Controller of the Company.  From June 2005 until April 2010, he was Vice President of Finance of BorgWarner Turbo Systems.











Mr. Kendrick has been Vice President of the Company and President and General Manager of BorgWarner Transmissions Systems Inc. since September 2011. From January 2011 until September 2011, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Ruia Global Fasteners, a spin-off of Acument Global Technologies. From September 2008 to January 2011, he was Vice President and General Manager, Europe for Acument Global Technologies. From March 1999 until September 2008, he held various positions at American Axle and Manufacturing including Vice President & General Manager of Driveshafts & Halfshafts, Managing Director of AAM Europe, and Executive Director of Sales.



Mr. Kohler has been Vice President of the Company and President and General Manager of BorgWarner Turbo Systems Commercial Diesel Products since May 2011. He was Acting President and General Manager of BorgWarner Turbo Systems Commercial Diesel from March 2011 to May 2011.  He was Vice President and General Manager for BorgWarner Turbo Systems Commercial Vehicles from February 2006 to March 2011.



Mr. Lissalde has been Vice President of the Company and President and General Manager of BorgWarner Turbo Systems Passenger Car Products since May 2011. He was Acting President and General Manager of BorgWarner Turbo Systems Passenger Car Products from March 2011 until May 2011. He was Vice President and General Manager for Turbo Systems Passenger Car from January 2010 until March 2011.  He was Vice President and General Manager, DualTronic and Clutch Systems, BorgWarner Transmission Systems Inc. from January 2008 to January 2010.  He was the Vice President of Global Sales of that entity from May 2007 to January 2008.  He was General Manager at BorgWarner Tulle SAS from July 2004 to May 2007.



Ms. McAdams has been Vice President, Human Resources since March 2010. She was Director of Compensation and Benefits from May 2005 to March 2010.



Mr. Verrier has been Vice President of the Company and President and General Manager of BorgWarner Morse TEC Inc. since January 2010. He was Vice President and General Manager, Passenger Car of BorgWarner Turbo Systems Inc. from January 2006 to January 2010.





