10-K


tenk.htm

2000 10-K

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

CATERPILLAR

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[X]

ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000

OR

[  ]

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from __________ to __________.

Commission File No. 1-768

CATERPILLAR INC.

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject
to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X]  No [ ].

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

As of December 31, 2000, there were 343,396,810 shares of
common stock of the Registrant outstanding, and the aggregate market value of
the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant (assuming only for
purposes of this computation that directors and officers may be affiliates) was
$16,042,645,570.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions of the documents listed below have been incorporated
by reference into the indicated parts of this Form 10-K, as specified in the
responses to the item numbers involved.

2001 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement ("Proxy Statement") -
          Part III

Annual Report to Security Holders filed as an appendix to the

2001 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement ("Appendix") - Parts I,
          II, and IV


i

PART I

Item 1. Business.

Principal Lines of Business

Caterpillar operates in three principal lines of business:

Machinery

- design, manufacture, and marketing of
          construction, mining, agricultural, and forestry machinery - track and
          wheel tractors, track and wheel loaders, pipelayers, motor graders,
          wheel tractor-scrapers, track and wheel excavators, backhoe loaders,
          mining shovels, log skidders, log loaders, off-highway trucks,
          articulated trucks, paving products, telescopic handlers, skid steer
          loaders, and related parts.

Engines

- design, manufacture, and marketing of engines
          for Caterpillar

Machinery,

on-highway trucks and locomotives;
          marine, petroleum, construction, industrial, agricultural, and other
          applications; electric power generation systems; and related parts.
          Reciprocating engines meet power needs ranging from 5 to over 22,000
          horsepower (4 to over 16 200 kilowatts). Turbines range from 1,340 to
          18,000 horsepower (1000 to 13 500 kilowatts).

Financial Products

- financing to customers and dealers
          for the purchase and lease of Caterpillar and noncompetitive related
          equipment, as well as some financing for Caterpillar sales to dealers.
          Also provides various forms of insurance to customers and dealers to
          help support the purchase and lease of our equipment. This line of
          business consists primarily of Caterpillar Financial Services
          Corporation and its subsidiaries and Caterpillar Insurance Services
          Corporation.

Due to financial information required by Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 131,

Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information,

we have also divided our business into
eight operating segments for financial reporting purposes. Information about our
operating segments, including geographic information, is incorporated by
reference from Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on
pages A-17 through A-19 of the Appendix.

Nature of Operations

We conduct operations in our

Machinery and Engines'

lines
of business under highly competitive conditions, including intense price
competition. We place great emphasis upon the high quality and performance of
our products and our dealers' service support. Although no one competitor is
believed to produce all of the same types of machines and engines, there are
numerous companies, large and small, which compete with us in the sale of each
of our products.

Our

Financial Products'

line of business also
conducts business under highly competitive conditions. Financing for users of
Caterpillar products is available through a variety of competitive sources,
principally commercial banks and finance and leasing companies. We emphasize
prompt and responsive service to meet customer requirements and offer various
financing plans designed to increase the opportunity for sales of our products
and generate financing income for our company.

Financial Products'

activity
is primarily conducted in the United States, with additional offices in Asia,
Australia, Canada, Europe, and Latin America.


Information about our operations in 2000 and outlook for
2001, including risks associated with foreign operations, are incorporated by
reference from "Management's Discussion and Analysis" on pages A-22
through A-30 of the Appendix.

Acquisitions

During the fourth quarter of 2000 we reached an agreement with
DaimlerChrysler to create a global engine alliance to develop, manufacture,
market and distribute medium-duty engines and fuel systems for sale to
third-party customers and for captive use. The alliance will create a
medium-duty engine joint venture, a fuel systems joint venture, research and
engineering cooperation, and combined purchasing volume focused on procurement
synergies. The alliance is expected to be finalized in the second quarter of
2001.

During the second quarter of 1999 we acquired the remaining
51% interest in FG Wilson.

FG Wilson is a leading packager of diesel-powered generator sets. During the
first quarter of 1998, we acquired the net assets of Perkins Ltd. and the stock
of several related subsidiaries for $1.328 billion. Perkins is a leading
manufacturer of small- to medium-sized engines. Both acquisitions were accounted
for using the purchase method of accounting.

Dealers

Machines are distributed principally through a worldwide
organization of dealers, 63 located in the United States and 157 located outside
the United States. Worldwide, these dealers have over 2,700 places of business
(including about 650 rental stores) and serve 171 countries. Reciprocating
engines are sold principally through the worldwide dealer organization and to
other manufacturers for use in products manufactured by them. Some of the
reciprocating engines manufactured by Perkins are also sold through their
worldwide distributor network. Our dealers do not deal exclusively with our
products; however, in most cases sales and servicing of our products are our
dealers' principal business. Turbines and large marine reciprocating engines are
sold through sales forces employed by Solar and MaK, respectively. Occasionally,
these employees are assisted by independent sales representatives.

Patents and Trademarks

Our products are sold primarily under the marks
"Caterpillar," "Cat," design versions of "Cat" and
"Caterpillar," "Solar," "MaK,"
"Perkins," "FG Wilson," and "Olympian." We own a
number of patents and trademarks relating to the products we manufacture, which
have been obtained over a period of years. These patents and trademarks have
been of value in the growth of our business and may continue to be of value in
the future. We do not regard any of our business as being dependent upon any
single patent or group of patents.

Research and Development

We have always placed strong emphasis on product-oriented research
and engineering relating to the development of new or improved machines, engines
and major components. In 2000, 1999, and 1998, we spent $854 million, $814
million, and $838 million, respectively, on our research and engineering
programs. Of these amounts, $649 million in 2000, $626 million in 1999, and $643
million in 1998 were attributable to new prime products, major component
development and major improvements to existing products. The remainders were
attributable to engineering


costs incurred during the early production phase as well as
ongoing efforts to improve existing products.

Employment

At December 31, 2000, we employed 68,440 persons of whom 30,780 were
located outside the United States.

Sales

Sales outside the United States were 50% of consolidated sales for
2000, 50% for 1999, and 49% for 1998.

Environmental Matters

The company is regulated by federal,
state, and international environmental laws governing our use of substances and
control of emissions. Compliance with these existing laws has not had a material
impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position.

We are cleaning up hazardous waste at a number of locations,
often with other companies, pursuant to federal and state laws. When it is
likely we will pay clean-up costs at a site and those costs can be estimated,
the costs are charged against our earnings. In doing that estimate, we do not
consider amounts expected to be recovered from insurance companies and others.

The amount set aside for environmental clean-up is not
material and is included in "Accrued expenses" in Statement 3 of the
Appendix. If a range of liability estimates is available on a particular site,
we accrue the lower end of that range.

We cannot estimate costs on sites in the very early stages of
clean-up. Currently, we have five of these sites, and there is no more than a
remote chance that a material amount for clean-up will be required.

Item
1a. Executive Officers of the Registrant as of December 31, 2000

Item 2. Properties.

General Information

Caterpillar's operations are highly integrated. Although the
majority of our plants are involved primarily in the production of either
machines or engines, several plants are involved in the manufacture of both. In
addition, several plants are involved in the manufacture of components which are
used in the assembly of both machines and engines. Caterpillar's parts
distribution centers are involved in the storage and distribution of parts for
machines and engines. Also, the research and development activities carried on
at the Technical Center involve both machines and engines.

Properties we own are believed to be generally well
maintained and adequate for present use. Through planned capital expenditures,
we expect these properties to remain adequate for future needs. Properties we
lease are covered by leases expiring over terms of generally 1 to 10 years. We
anticipate no difficulty in retaining occupancy of any leased facilities, either
by renewing leases prior to expiration or by replacing them with equivalent
leased facilities.


Plant Closings

Information regarding plant closing costs is incorporated by
reference from Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page
A-17 of the Appendix.

Headquarters

Our corporate headquarters are in Peoria, Illinois. Additional
marketing headquarters are located both inside and outside the United States.
The Financial Products Division is headquartered in leased offices located in
Nashville, Tennessee.

Distribution

Distribution of our products is conducted from parts distribution
centers inside and outside the United States. Caterpillar Logistics Services,
Inc. distributes other companies' products utilizing certain of our distribution
facilities as well as other non-Caterpillar facilities located both inside and
outside the United States. We also own or lease other storage facilities which
support distribution activities.

Changes in Fixed Assets

During the five years ended December 31, 2000, changes in our
investment in property, plant and equipment were as follows (stated in millions
of dollars):

At December 31, 2000, the net book value of properties located outside the
United States represented about 28% of the net book value of all properties
reflected in our consolidated financial position. Additional information about
our investment in property, plant, and equipment is incorporated by reference
from Note 1F on page A-8 and Note 9 on page A-11 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements of the Appendix.

Technical Center, Training Centers, Demonstration Areas, and
Proving Grounds

We own a Technical Center located in Mossville, Illinois and various
other training centers, demonstration areas, and proving grounds located both
inside and outside the United States.

Manufacturing, Remanufacturing, and Overhaul

Manufacturing, remanufacturing, and overhaul of our products are
conducted at the following locations. These facilities are believed to be
suitable for their intended purposes with adequate capacities for current and
projected needs for existing products.



PART II

Item
5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters.

Information required by Item 5 is incorporated by reference
from "Price Ranges" and "Number of Stockholders" on page
A-31 and from "Dividends declared per share of common stock" on page
A-21 of the Appendix.

Non-U.S. Employee Stock Purchase Plans

We have twenty-three employee stock purchase plans administered
outside the United States for our foreign employees. As of December 31, 2000,
those plans had approximately 7,324 participants in the aggregate. During the
fourth quarter of 2000, a total of 24,788 shares of Caterpillar common stock or
foreign denominated equivalents were distributed under the plans.

Put Options

In conjunction with its stock repurchase program, Caterpillar sells
put options to independent third parties on a private basis. These put options
entitle the holders to sell shares of Caterpillar common stock to the Company on
certain dates at specified prices. On December 31, 2000, 240,000 put options
were outstanding with exercise prices ranging from $34.25 to $38.50 per share.
The put options expired between February 6, 2001 and March 8, 2001, and were
exercisable by the holders on their expiration dates. During the fourth quarter
of 2000, Caterpillar received $.4 million in proceeds from the sale of put
options.

Item 6. Selected
Financial Data.

Information required by Item 6 is incorporated by reference
from the "Five-year Financial Summary" on page A-21 of the Appendix.

Item
7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.

Information required by Item 7 is incorporated by reference
from "Management's Discussion and Analysis" on pages A-22 through A-30
of the Appendix.

SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES LITIGATION

REFORM ACT OF 1995

Certain statements contained in our Management's Discussion
and Analysis are forward looking and involve uncertainties that could
significantly impact results. The words "believes,"
"expects," "estimates," "anticipates," "will
be" and similar words or expressions identify forward-looking statements
made on behalf of Caterpillar. Uncertainties include factors that affect
international businesses, as well as matters specific to the Company and the
markets it serves.


World Economic Factors

Our current outlook calls for a significant slowdown in growth in the U.S.
economy in early 2001, but growth is expected to pick up momentum in the second
half of the year through 2002. Should recent interest rate reductions fail to
stimulate the U.S. economy as expected, leading to a more protracted slowdown or
recession in 2001, then sales of machines and engines would decline sharply this
year and could be negatively impacted in 2002 as well. The outlook also projects
that economic growth is expected to continue in Asia Pacific, Europe, Africa
& Middle East and Latin America. If, for any reason, these projected growth
rates falter, sales would likely be lower than anticipated in the affected
region. In general, renewed currency speculation, significant declines in the
stock markets, further oil or energy price increases, political disruptions or
much higher interest rates could result in weaker than anticipated economic
growth and worldwide sales of both machines and engines could be lower than
expected as a result.

Economic recovery could also be delayed or weakened by
growing budget or current account deficits or inappropriate government policies.
In particular, our outlook assumes that the Japanese government remains
committed to stimulating their economy with appropriate monetary and fiscal
policies and that the Brazilian government follows through with promised fiscal
and structural reforms. A reversal by either government could result in economic
uncertainty and a weaker economy. Our outlook also assumes that currency and
stock markets remain relatively stable and that world oil prices move down, on
average, from the relatively elevated levels in the fourth quarter of 2000. If
currency markets were to experience a significant increase in volatility, and/or
stock markets were to decline significantly, interest rates could move higher,
which would probably result in slower economic growth and lower sales. In
addition, an eruption of political violence in the Middle East could lead to oil
supply disruptions and resumed upward pressure on oil prices. In this case,
inflation pressures would move up again and interest rates would be higher than
currently projected, leading to slower world economic growth and potentially to
lower Company sales.

The Russian economy has improved, but political and economic
uncertainty remains high and an unexpected deterioration could impact worldwide
stock or currency markets, which in turn could weaken Company sales.

Commodity Prices

The outlook for our sales also depends on commodity prices. Consistent with
our outlook for moderate worldwide economic growth in 2001, although copper and
aluminum prices are expected to be higher, industrial metals prices as a whole
are expected to be about flat on average in 2001. Oil prices are expected to
decline from an average of about $30 to $32 a barrel in 2000 to an average of
$25 to $30 a barrel in 2001. Agricultural prices are likely to be flat. Based on
this forecast, equipment sales into sectors that are sensitive to crude oil
prices are expected to be up in 2001. Industry sales to the industrial metals
and agriculture equipment markets are expected to be about flat in 2001.

Weaker than anticipated world economic growth could lead to
sharp declines in commodity prices and lower than expected sales into industrial
metals, oil and agriculture.


Monetary and Fiscal Policies

For most companies operating in a global economy, monetary and fiscal
policies implemented in the U.S. and abroad could have a significant impact on
economic growth, and, accordingly, demand for a product. In the United States,
the Federal Reserve is expected to reduce the federal funds rate from current
levels of 6% to a range of 5% to 5.5% in the second half of 2001. If the Federal
Reserve does not lower rates accordingly, and add sufficient liquidity to the
banking system to generate the projected acceleration in growth in the second
half of 2001, then machine and engine industry demand could be lower than
expected, potentially resulting in lower Company sales. Similarly, if the
European Central Bank raises rates in 2001, then machine and engine demand in
Europe could be lower than expected.

In general, high interest rates, reductions in government
spending, higher taxes, significant currency devaluations, and uncertainty over
key policies are some factors likely to lead to slower economic growth and lower
industry demand. The current outlook is for slower U.S. growth in 2001, but not
a recession. If, for whatever reason, the U.S. were to enter a recession, then
demand for Company products could fall in the U.S. and Canada and would also be
lower throughout the rest of the world.

Political Factors

Political factors in the U.S. and abroad have a major impact on global
companies. The Company is one of the largest U.S. exporters as a percentage of
sales. International trade and fiscal policies implemented in the U.S. this year
could impact the Company's ability to expand its business abroad. U.S. foreign
relations with certain countries and any related restrictions imposed could also
have a significant impact on foreign sales. There are a number of significant
expected political developments in Latin America, Asia, and Europe, Africa and
the Middle East which are expected to take place in 2001 that could affect U.S.
trade policies and/or de-stabilize local market conditions leading to lower
Company sales.

Currency Fluctuations

Currency fluctuations are also an unknown for global companies. The Company
has facilities in major sales areas throughout the world and significant costs
and revenues in most major currencies. This diversification greatly reduces the
overall impact of currency movements on results. However, if the U.S. dollar
strengthens against foreign currencies, the conversion of net non-U.S. dollar
proceeds to U.S. dollars would somewhat adversely impact the Company's
results. Further, since the Company's largest manufacturing presence is in the
U.S., a sustained overvalued dollar could have an unfavorable impact on our
global competitiveness.

Dealer Practices

A majority of the Company's sales are made through its independent dealer
distribution network. Dealer practices, such as changes in inventory levels for
both new and rental equipment, are not within the Company's control (primarily
because these practices depend upon the dealer's assessment of anticipated
sales and the appropriate level of inventory) and may have a significant
positive or negative impact on our results. In particular, the outlook assumes
that inventory to sales ratios will be somewhat lower at the end of 2001 than at
the end of 2000. If dealers reduce inventory levels more than anticipated,
Company sales will be adversely impacted.


Other Factors

The rate of infrastructure spending, housing starts, commercial construction
and mining play a significant role in the Company's results. Our products are
an integral component of these activities and as these activities increase or
decrease in the U.S. or abroad, demand for our products may be significantly
impacted. In 1999, the six-year Federal highway bill did not boost U.S. sales as
much as anticipated due to delays in getting major capital projects for highways
underway. In 2000, there was a material increase in the volume of highway
construction contracts, which had a positive impact on sales of certain types of
equipment. If funding for highway construction in 2001 is delayed, or is
concentrated on bridge repair, sales could be negatively impacted.

Projected cost savings or synergies from alliances with new
partners could also be negatively impacted by a variety of factors. These
factors could include, among other things, higher than expected wages, energy
and/or materials costs, and/or higher than expected financing costs due to
unforeseen changes in central bank interest rate policies. Cost savings could
also be negatively impacted by unforeseen changes in tax, trade, environmental,
labor, safety, payroll or pension policies in any of the jurisdictions where the
alliances conduct their operations.

Results may be impacted positively or negatively by changes
in the sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain geographic mix of sales as well
as a product mix of sales.

The Company operates in a highly competitive environment and our outlook depends
on a forecast of the Company's share of industry sales. A reduction in that
share could result from pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors,
unanticipated product or manufacturing difficulties, a failure to price the
product competitively, or an unexpected buildup in competitors' new machine or
dealer owned rental fleets.

The environment also remains very competitive from a pricing
standpoint. Additional price discounting would result in lower than anticipated
price realization.

This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive
but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook.
Obvious factors such as general economic conditions throughout the world do not
warrant further discussion but are noted to further emphasize the myriad of
contingencies that may cause the Company's actual results to differ from those
currently anticipated.

Item
7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

Information required by Item 7a is incorporated by reference
from the following Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Notes 1I and 2
on pages A-8 through A-9 of the Appendix and Notes 16 and 17 on pages A-16
through A-17 of the Appendix and from "Derivative Financial
Instruments" on pages A-27 through A-29 of the Appendix.


Item
8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Information required by Item 8 is incorporated by reference
from the Report of Independent Accountants on page A-3, and the Financial
Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages A-4 through
A-20 of the Appendix.

PART III

Item
10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

Information required by Item 10 relating to identification of
directors is incorporated by reference from "Directors Up For Election This
Year for Terms Expiring in 2004," "Directors Remaining in Office Until
2002," and "Directors Remaining in Office Until 2003" on pages 2
through 4 of the Proxy Statement. Identification of executive officers appears
in Item 1a of this Form 10-K. There are no family relationships between the
officers and directors of the Company. All officers serve at the pleasure of the
Board of Directors and are regularly elected at a meeting of the Board of
Directors in April of each year. Information required by Item 10 relating to
compliance with section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act is incorporated by
reference from "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance" on page 27 of the Proxy Statement.

Item 11. Executive
Compensation.

Information required by Item 11 is incorporated by reference
from "Director Compensation" on

pages 5 and 6, "Performance Graph" on page 9, "Compensation
Committee Report on Executive Officer and Chief Executive Officer
Compensation" on pages 10 through 15, and "Executive Compensation
Tables" on pages 16 through 18 of the Proxy Statement.

Item
12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

Information required by Item 12 is incorporated by reference
from "Caterpillar Stock Owned by Officers and Directors (as of December 31,
2000)" on page 8 of the Proxy Statement and from "Persons Owning More
than Five Percent of Caterpillar Stock (as of December 31, 2000)" on page 9
of the Proxy Statement.

PART IV

Item
14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.

(a)    The following documents are filed as part of this report:

1. Financial Statements (Incorporated by reference from the Appendix):

Report of Independent Accountants (p. A-3)

Statement 1 - Results of Operations (p. A-4)

Statement 2 - Changes in Consolidated Stockholders' Equity
                    (p. A-4)

Statement 3 - Financial Position (p. A-5)


Statement 4 - Statement of Cash Flow (p. A-6)

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (pages A-7 through
                    A-20)

2. Financial Statement Schedule:

All schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or
                    the required information is shown in the financial
                    statements or the notes thereto incorporated by reference.

(b)   There were three reports (one dated
     October 17 and two dated November 22) filed on Form 8-K

pursuant to Item 5 during the
     last quarter of 2000 and three additional reports filed on Form 8-K on

January 18, January 25 and
     January 26, 2001.

No financial statements were
     filed as part of those reports.

(c)    Exhibits:

** Compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed
                    as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of this Form 10-K.



16