
10-K
FORM 10-K


================================================================================
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                  ----------
                                 1996 FORM 10-K

   (Mark One)
      [x]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
           OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
           For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996

                                       OR

      [ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
           OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
           For the transition period from            to
                                          ----------    ------------
                        Commission File Number 1-8962
                                  ----------
                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                  ARIZONA                                86-0512431
        (State or other jurisdiction        (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
     of incorporation or organization)

    400 East Van Buren Street, Suite 700
           Phoenix, Arizona 85004                         (602) 379-2500
  (Address of principal executive offices,       (Registrant's telephone number,
            including zip code)                        including area code)


                                  ----------
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
================================================================================
                                                    Name of each exchange on
      Title of each  class                              which registered
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Common Stock, ...................................   New York Stock Exchange
  No Par Value                                      Pacific Stock Exchange


   Indicate  by check mark  whether  the  registrant  (1) has filed all  reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant  was required to file such  reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
      Yes  X       No
          ---         ---
   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of  delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]
================================================================================
                     Documents Incorporated By Reference

Portions of the registrant's definitive Proxy Statement relating to its
annual meeting of  shareholders  to be held on May 21, 1997 are  incorporated by
reference into Part III hereof.
================================================================================

GLOSSARY .....................................................................

PART I   .....................................................................
         ITEM 1.  BUSINESS....................................................
         ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES................................................. 
         ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.......................................... 
         ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A
                  VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS................................... 
         SUPPLEMENTAL ITEM.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY............... 

PART II  .................................................................... 
         ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON
                  EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS..................... 
         ITEM 6.  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA....................... 
         ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.............. 
         ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
                   .......................................................... 
         ITEM 9.  CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH
                  ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE......... 

PART III .................................................................... 
         ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE
                  OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT................................. 
         ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION..................................... 
         ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF
                  CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT................... 
         ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS............. 

PART IV  .................................................................... 
         ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT
                  SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K......................... 

SIGNATURES................................................................... 
                                        i

                                    GLOSSARY

ACC -- Arizona Corporation Commission

ACC Staff -- Staff of the Arizona Corporation Commission

AFUDC -- Allowance for Funds Used During Construction

Amendments -- Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990

ANPP -- Arizona Nuclear Power Project, also known as Palo Verde

APB Opinion No. 25 -- Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, 
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees"

APS  -- Arizona Public Service Company

CC&N -- Certificate of convenience and necessity

Cholla -- Cholla Power Plant

Cholla 4 -- Unit 4 of the Cholla Power Plant

Company -- Pinnacle West Capital Corporation

CUC -- Citizens Utilities Company

DOE -- United States Department of Energy

El Dorado -- El Dorado Investment Company

EPA -- United States Environmental Protection Agency

Energy Act -- National Energy Policy Act of 1992

FASB -- Financial Accounting Standards Board

FERC -- Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

Four Corners -- Four Corners Power Plant

GAAP  -- Generally accepted accounting principles

ITC -- Investment Tax Credit

kW -- Kilowatt, one thousand watts

kWh -- Kilowatt-hour, one thousand watts per hour

Mortgage -- APS' Mortgage and Deed of Trust, dated as of July 1, 1946, as
supplemented and amended

MWh -- Megawatt hours, one million watts per hour

1935 Act -- Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935

NGS -- Navajo Generating Station

NRC -- Nuclear Regulatory Commission

PacifiCorp -- An Oregon-based utility company

Palo Verde -- Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station

SEC -- Securities and Exchange Commission

SFAS No. 34  -- Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 34,
"Capitalization of Interest Cost"

SFAS No. 71 -- Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71,
"Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation"

SFAS No. 123 -- Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation"

SRP -- Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement and Power District

SunCor  -- SunCor Development Company

USEC -- United States Enrichment Corporation

Waste Act -- Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended

                                     PART I
                                ITEM 1. BUSINESS

The Company

         General

         Pinnacle West Capital  Corporation  was  incorporated in 1985 under the
laws of the State of Arizona and is engaged,  through its  subsidiaries,  in the
generation and distribution of electricity;  in real estate development;  and in
venture capital  investment.  The principal executive offices of the Company are
located  at 400 East  Van  Buren  Street,  Suite  700,  Phoenix,  Arizona  85004
(telephone 602-379-2500).

         At  December  31,  1996,  the  Company  and its  subsidiaries  employed
approximately  7,588  persons.  Of these  employees,  approximately  6,365  were
employees of the Company's  major  subsidiary,  APS, and  employees  assigned to
joint projects of APS where APS serves as a project manager,  and  approximately
1,223 were employees of the Company and its other subsidiaries.

         Other  subsidiaries of the Company,  in addition to APS, include SunCor
and El Dorado. See "Business of SunCor Development  Company" and "Business of El
Dorado Investment Company" in this Item for further information regarding SunCor
and El Dorado.

         This  document may contain  "forward-looking  statements"  that involve
risks and  uncertainties  which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ
materially  from  those  expressed  in  such  forward-looking   statements.  The
following  factors are among the  factors  that could  cause  actual  results to
differ materially from the forward-looking statements:  regulatory developments;
competitive  developments;  regional economic  conditions;  the cost of debt and
equity  capital;   regulatory,  tax  and  environmental   legislation;   weather
variations  affecting  customer  usage;  and  technological  developments in the
electricity  industry.  See  "Business  of  Arizona  Public  Service  Company --
Competition"  in  this  Item  for a  discussion  of  some of  these  factors  as
applicable to APS. Any forward-looking  statements should be considered in light
of these factors.

     Arizona  Corporation  Commission  Affiliated  Interest  Rules. On March 14,
1990, the ACC issued an order adopting certain rules purportedly applicable only
to a certain class of public utilities  regulated by the ACC, including APS. The
rules define the terms "public  utility holding  company" and  "affiliate"  with
respect to public service corporations  regulated by the ACC in such a manner as
to include the Company and all of the Company's  non-public service  corporation
subsidiaries.  By their terms,  the rules,  among other things,  require  public
utilities,  such as APS,  to receive  ACC  approval  prior to (1)  obtaining  an
interest in, or  guaranteeing  or assuming the liabilities of, any affiliate not
regulated by the ACC; (2) lending to any such  affiliate  (except for short-term
loans in an amount less than  $100,000);  or (3) using  utility  funds to form a
subsidiary or divest itself of any established subsidiary.  The rules also would
prevent a  utility  from  transacting  business  with an  affiliate  unless  the
affiliate  agrees to provide  the ACC  "access  to the books and  records of the
affiliate  to  the  degree  required  to  fully  audit,   examine  or  otherwise
investigate  transactions  between  the public  utility and the  affiliate."  In
addition, the rules provide that an "affiliate or holding company may not divest
itself of, or otherwise  relinquish  control of, a public utility without thirty
(30) days prior written  notification to the [ACC]" and would require all public
utilities  subject to them and all public utility holding  companies to annually
"provide the [ACC] with a description of  diversification  plans for the current
calendar  year that have been  approved by the Boards of  Directors."  The order
became effective as to APS on December 1, 1992. The rules have not had, nor does
the Company expect the rules to have, a material  adverse impact on the business
or operations of the Company.

                   BUSINESS OF ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY

     Following is a  discussion  of the  business of APS,  the  Company's  major
subsidiary.

General

     APS was  incorporated  in 1920  under the laws of  Arizona  and is  engaged
principally  in  serving  electricity  in the State of  Arizona.  The  principal
executive offices of APS are located at 400 North Fifth Street, Phoenix, Arizona
85004 (telephone  602-250-1000).  The Company owns all of the outstanding shares
of APS' common stock.

     APS is Arizona's  largest electric  utility,  with 738,000  customers,  and
provides  wholesale  or retail  electric  service to the entire state of Arizona
with the  exception  of Tucson and about  one-half of the Phoenix  area.  During
1996, no single  purchaser or user of energy accounted for more than 3% of total
electric  revenues.  At December 31,  1996,  APS employed  6,365  people,  which
includes employees assigned to joint projects where APS is project manager.

Competition

     Retail

     General. Under current law, APS is not in direct competition with any other
regulated  electric  utility  for  electric  service  in  APS'   retail  service
territory.  Nevertheless,  APS is subject to varying  degrees of  competition in
certain  territories  adjacent  to or within  areas that it serves that are also
currently served by other utilities in its region (such as Tucson Electric Power
Company,  Southwest Gas  Corporation,  and Citizens  Utility Company) as well as
cooperatives,   municipalities,   electrical  districts  and  similar  types  of
governmental organizations (principally SRP).

     APS faces  competitive  challenges  from low-cost  hydroelectric  power and
natural  gas fuel,  as well as the  access  of some  utilities  to  preferential
low-priced  federal  power and other  subsidies.  In addition,  some  customers,
particularly industrial and large commercial,  may own and operate facilities to
generate their own electric energy requirements. Such facilities may be operated
by the customers  themselves or by other entities engaged for such purpose.  The
legislatures and/or the regulatory commissions in most states have considered or
are  considering  "retail  wheeling." This  requirement to transmit  directly to
retail customers could have the result of allowing retail customers to choose to
purchase electric capacity and energy from the electric utility in whose service
area they are located or from other  electric  utilities  or  independent  power
producers or power marketers.

     ACC Rules Regarding Arizona Electric Industry Restructuring.  The ACC Staff
has been  conducting  an ongoing  investigation  into the  restructuring  of the
Arizona electric industry in an open competition  docket involving many parties.
In December  1996,  the ACC adopted Rules for  introduction  of retail  electric
competition in Arizona in phases from 1999 through 2003.  The Rules  establish a
framework for introducing competition; however, with respect to certain matters,
they also contain requirements for further workshops and ACC consideration prior
to implementation. Recommendations to the ACC from the workshops are expected in
late 1997.  The Rules  indicate that the ACC will allow  recovery of unmitigated
stranded  costs,  but do  not  set  forth  the  mechanisms  for  determining  or
recovering such costs.  APS believes that state  legislation  will ultimately be
required before  significant  implementation of retail electric  competition can
lawfully  occur in Arizona  and  intends to continue  vigorously   pursuing  its
interest. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for
further  discussion of these Rules and of the lawsuits filed by APS  challenging
certain provisions of the Rules.

     Wholesale

     General.   APS  competes  with  other  utilities,   power  marketers,   and
independent  power producers in the sale of electric  capacity and energy in the
wholesale  market.  APS expects that  competition  to sell  capacity will remain
vigorous,  and that wholesale prices will remain depressed for at least the next
several years due to increased  competition and surplus  capacity in the western
United States.  APS' rates for wholesale power sales and  transmission  services
are

subject  to  regulation  by the  FERC.  During  1996,  approximately  6% of APS'
electric operating revenues resulted from such sales and charges.

     The  National  Energy  Policy Act of 1992 (the  "Energy  Act") has promoted
increased  competition in the wholesale  electric power markets.  The Energy Act
reformed provisions of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (the "1935
Act") and the Federal Power Act to remove certain  barriers to  competition  for
the supply of electricity. For example, the Energy Act permits the FERC to order
transmission  access  for third  parties  to  transmission  facilities  owned by
another entity so that independent suppliers and other third parties can sell at
wholesale  to  customers  wherever  located.  The Energy Act does not,  however,
permit  the FERC to  issue an order  requiring  transmission  access  to  retail
customers.

     Effective  July 9, 1996, a FERC  decision  requires all electric  utilities
subject to the FERC's  jurisdiction to file  transmission  tariffs which provide
competitors   with  access  to   transmission   facilities   comparable  to  the
transmission   owners'  facilities  for  wholesale   transactions,   establishes
information  requirements and provides recovery for certain  wholesale  stranded
costs.   Retail  stranded  costs  resulting  from  a   state-authorized   retail
direct-access program are the responsibility of the states, unless a state lacks
authority to impose rates to recover such costs in which case FERC will consider
doing so. APS has filed its revised open access tariff in  accordance  with this
decision.  APS does not believe that this decision will have a material  adverse
impact on its results of operations or financial position.

     Federal Regulation

     Several  electric  utility  reform  bills have been  introduced  during the
current legislative session,  which as currently written,  would allow consumers
to choose their electric supplier by 2000 or 2003. These bills, other bills that
are  expected to be  introduced  and ongoing  discussions  at the federal  level
suggest  a wide  range of  opinion  that  will need to be  narrowed  before  any
substantial restructuring of the electric utility industry can occur.

     Regulatory Assets

     APS' major regulatory  assets are rate  synchronization  cost deferrals and
deferred taxes. These items,  combined with miscellaneous  regulatory assets and
liabilities,  amounted to  approximately  $1.1 billion at December 31, 1996.  In
accordance with a 1996 regulatory  agreement  between APS and the ACC Staff, the
ACC accelerated the amortization of substantially  all of APS' regulatory assets
to an eight-year period beginning July 1, 1996. APS' existing  regulatory orders
and current regulatory  environment support its accounting  practices related to
regulatory  assets.  If rate  recovery  of these  assets is no longer  probable,
whether due to competition or regulatory  action, APS would no longer be able to
apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71 to all or some part of its operations  which
could have a material impact on APS' financial statements. See Notes 1, 2, and 9
of Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information.

     Competitive Strategies

     APS  is  pursuing  strategies  to  maintain  and  enhance  its  competitive
position. These strategies include (i) cost management,  with an emphasis on the
reduction of variable costs (fuel, operations,  and maintenance expenses) and on
increased productivity through technological efficiencies;  (ii) a focus on APS'
core  business  through  customer  service,   distribution  system  reliability,
business  segmentation  and the anticipation of market  opportunities;  (iii) an
emphasis on good regulatory relationships; (iv) asset maximization (e.g., higher
capacity factors and lower forced outage rates);  (v) strengthening APS' capital
structure  and financial  condition;  (vi)  leveraging  core  competencies  into
related  areas,  such as energy  management  products  and  services;  and (vii)
building a trading floor and  implementing a risk management  program to provide
for more  stability  of prices  and the  ability  to retain or grow  incremental
margin through more competitive  pricing and risk management.  Underpinning APS'
competitive  strategies  are the strong growth  characteristics  of APS' service
territory.  As competition in the electric utility industry continues to evolve,
APS will continue to pursue strategies to enhance its competitive position.

Generating Fuel and Purchased Power

     Generating Fuel and Purchased Power Costs

     Fuel and purchased power costs were approximately $326 million during 1996,
a 20.7%  increase  over 1995.  See  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of
Financial  Condition and Results of Operations -- Results of Operations" in Item
7 for a discussion of the factors contributing to this increase.

     1996 Energy Mix

     APS' sources of energy  during 1996 were:  purchased  power - 17.1;  coal -
43.9; nuclear - 35.4; and other - 3.6%.

     Generating Fuel Mix

     Coal,  nuclear,  gas and other  contributions  to total net  generation  of
electricity by APS in 1996,  1995 and 1994, and the average cost to APS of those
fuels (in dollars per MWh), were as follows:


     Other includes oil and hydro generation.

     Coal Supply

     APS  believes  that  Cholla has  sufficient  reserves  of low  sulfur  coal
committed to that plant for the next four years,  the term of the existing  coal
contract.  Sufficient  reserves  of low sulfur  coal are  available  to continue
operating  Cholla for its useful life.  APS also  believes that Four Corners and
NGS have  sufficient  reserves  of low sulfur  coal  available  for use by those
plants to continue  operating  them for their useful lives.  The current  sulfur
content  of coal  being used at Four  Corners,  NGS and Cholla is  approximately
0.73%,  0.60% and 0.44%,  respectively.  In 1996,  average  prices paid for coal
supplied from reserves  dedicated  under the existing  contracts  increased as a
result of power market  conditions  that  changed the mix of coal.  In addition,
major  price  adjustments  can occur  from time to time as a result of  contract
renegotiation.

     NGS and Four Corners are located on the Navajo  Reservation  and held under
easements  granted by the federal  government  as well as leases from the Navajo
Nation. See "Properties -- Plant Sites Leased from Navajo Nation" in Item 2. APS
purchases  all of the coal which fuels Four Corners from a coal  supplier with a
long-term  lease of coal reserves  owned by the Navajo Nation and for NGS from a
coal supplier with a long-term  lease with the Navajo Nation and the Hopi Tribe.
APS  purchases all of the coal which fuels Cholla from a coal supplier who mines
all of the coal under a  long-term  lease of coal  reserves  owned by the Navajo
Nation, the federal government, and private landholders. See Note 11 of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in Item 8 for  information  regarding  APS'
obligation for coal mine reclamation.

     Natural Gas Supply

     APS is a party to contracts  with forty natural gas operators and marketers
which allow APS to purchase  natural gas in the method it  determines to be most
economic. During 1996, the principal sources of APS' natural gas generating fuel
were twenty of these companies.  APS is currently purchasing the majority of its
natural gas requirements  from fifteen companies  pursuant to contracts.  During
1996 the price of natural gas increased primarily due to a significant  increase
in the  transportation  costs as well as  increased  natural  gas  prices.  APS'
natural  gas supply is  transported  pursuant to a firm  transportation  service
contract  between APS and El Paso Natural Gas Company.  APS continues to analyze
the  market to  determine  the source and  method of  meeting  its  natural  gas
requirements.

     Nuclear Fuel Supply

     The fuel cycle for Palo Verde is comprised of the following stages: (1) the
mining and  milling of uranium  ore to  produce  uranium  concentrates,  (2) the
conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium  hexafluoride,  (3) the enrichment
of  uranium  hexafluoride,  (4)  the  fabrication  of fuel  assemblies,  (5) the
utilization of fuel assemblies in reactors and (6) the storage of spent fuel and
the disposal thereof. The Palo Verde participants have made arrangements through
contract flexibilities to obtain quantities of uranium concentrates  anticipated
to be  sufficient  to  meet  operational  requirements  through  2000.  Existing
contracts  and  options  could  be  utilized  to  meet   approximately   80%  of
requirements  in 2001 and 2002 and 50% of  requirements  from 2003 through 2007.
Spot  purchases in the uranium market will be made, as  appropriate,  in lieu of
any uranium that might be obtained through contract  flexibilities  and options.
The Palo Verde participants have contracted for all conversion services required
through  2000  and with  options  for up to 70%  through  2002.  The Palo  Verde
participants,  including  APS,  have an enrichment  services  contract with USEC
which obligates USEC to furnish  enrichment  services required for the operation
of the three Palo Verde  units over a term  expiring  in  September  2002,  with
options to continue through September 2007. In addition, existing contracts will
provide fuel  assembly  fabrication  services  until at least 2003 for each Palo
Verde unit, and through contract options, approximately fifteen additional years
are available.

     Spent Nuclear Fuel and Waste Disposal. Pursuant to the Nuclear Waste Policy
Act of 1982,  as amended in 1987 (the "Waste  Act"),  DOE is obligated to accept
and dispose of all spent nuclear fuel and other  high-level  radioactive  wastes
generated by all domestic power  reactors.  The NRC,  pursuant to the Waste Act,
requires  operators of nuclear power  reactors to enter into spent fuel disposal
contracts  with DOE,  and APS, on its own behalf and on behalf of the other Palo
Verde  participants,  has done so.  Under the Waste Act,  DOE was to develop the
facilities  necessary  for the storage and disposal of spent nuclear fuel and to
have the first such  facility in  operation by 1998.  That  facility was to be a
permanent repository, but DOE has announced that such a repository now cannot be
completed  before 2010. In July 1996, the United States Court of Appeals for the
District  of  Columbia  Circuit  ruled that the DOE has an  obligation  to start
disposing of spent nuclear fuel no later than January 31, 1998. By way of letter
dated December 17, 1996, DOE informed contract holders,  including APS, that DOE
anticipates that it will be unable to begin acceptance of spent nuclear fuel for
disposal in a  repository  or interim  storage  facility  by January  31,  1998.
Several bills have been introduced in Congress contemplating the construction of
a central interim  storage  facility which could be available in the latter part
of the current decade; however, there is resistance to certain features of these
bills both in Congress and the Administration.

     Facility funding is a further complication. While all nuclear utilities pay
into a so-called  nuclear  waste fund an amount  calculated  on the basis of the
output of their respective plants, the annual  Congressional  appropriations for
the permanent  repository  have been for amounts less than the amounts paid into
the waste  fund (the  balance of which is being  used for other  purposes)  and,
according  to DOE  spokespersons,  may now be at a level  less  than  needed  to
achieve a 2010 operational date for a permanent  repository.  No funding will be
available for a central interim facility until one is authorized by Congress.

     APS has  storage  capacity  in existing  fuel  storage  pools at Palo Verde
which,  with certain  modifications,  could  accommodate all fuel expected to be
discharged from normal  operation of Palo Verde through about 2002, and believes
it could augment that wet storage with new facilities for on-site dry storage of
spent fuel for an indeterminate period of

operation beyond 2002, subject to obtaining any required governmental approvals.
One way or another,  APS currently  believes that spent fuel storage or disposal
methods will be available for use by Palo Verde to allow its continued operation
beyond 2002.

     A new low-level  waste facility was built in 1995 on-site which could store
an amount of waste  equivalent  to ten years of normal  operation at Palo Verde.
Although some low-level waste has been stored on-site, APS is currently shipping
low-level  waste to off-site  facilities.  APS  currently  believes that interim
low-level  waste storage  methods are or will be available for use by Palo Verde
to allow its  continued  operation and to safely store  low-level  waste until a
permanent disposal facility is available.

     While  believing  that  scientific  and financial  aspects of the issues of
spent  fuel  and   low-level   waste   storage  and  disposal  can  be  resolved
satisfactorily,  APS  acknowledges  that their  ultimate  resolution in a timely
fashion  will  require  political  resolve and action on national  and  regional
scales which it is less able to predict.

Purchased Power Agreements

     In  addition  to that  available  from  its own  generating  capacity  (see
"Properties"  in Item 2), APS purchases  electricity  from other utilities under
various arrangements. One of the most important of these is a long-term contract
with SRP which may be canceled by SRP on three years' notice and which  requires
SRP to make available,  and APS to pay for,  certain amounts of electricity that
are based in large part on customer  demand  within  certain areas now served by
APS  pursuant  to a  related  territorial  agreement.  The  generating  capacity
available to APS pursuant to the contract was 305 MW through May 1996,  at which
time the  capacity  decreased  to 297 MW. In 1996,  APS  received  approximately
557,998 MWh of energy under the contract and paid  approximately $35 million for
capacity availability and energy received.

     In September  1990,  APS and  PacifiCorp  entered  into certain  agreements
relating  principally  to sales and  purchases  of electric  power and  electric
utility assets, and in July 1991 APS sold Cholla 4 to PacifiCorp. As part of the
transaction,  PacifiCorp  agreed to make a firm  system  sale to APS for  thirty
years  during APS' summer  peak  season in the amount of 175  megawatts  for the
first five years, increasing thereafter,  at APS' option, up to a maximum amount
equal to the rated capacity of Cholla 4 (380 megawatts). APS also had the option
to convert these firm system sales to one-for-one  seasonal  capacity  exchanges
with  PacifiCorp.  APS'  agreements with  PacifiCorp  currently  provide for the
following Company purchases and one-for-one  seasonal capacity  exchanges during
the indicated years: 1997 (175 megawatt firm capacity purchase; and 100 megawatt
capacity  exchange  effective  May 15,  1997);  1998 (175 megawatt firm capacity
purchase,  converting  to  capacity  exchange  in the  summer  of 1998;  and 100
megawatt capacity  exchange);  1999 and beyond (275 megawatt capacity  exchange;
and 205 megawatt  capacity  exchange  beginning in the summer of 1999). In 1996,
the  generating  capacity  available  to APS  from  PacifiCorp  was 175 MW.  APS
received  approximately  404,000  MWh of  energy  and paid  approximately  $18.5
million for capacity availability and the energy received.

     During 1996, APS entered into an agreement with Citizens  Utilities Company
to build, own, operate and maintain a combustion  turbine in northwest  Arizona.
Pursuant to a twenty-year purchase power agreement, APS will recover the cost of
the turbine and CUC will pay for the output  requested by CUC. APS has the right
to  secondary  use of the output for cost of fuel and  variable  operations  and
maintenance.  APS expects that the combustion  turbine will be in service during
the first quarter of 1999.

Construction Program

     During the years 1994 through 1996, APS incurred approximately $824 million
in capitalized expenditures. Utility capitalized expenditures for the years 1997
through  1999 are  expected  to be  primarily  for  expanding  transmission  and
distribution   capabilities  to  meet  customer   growth,   upgrading   existing
facilities, and for environmental purposes. Capitalized expenditures,  including
expenditures for environmental  control  facilities,  for the years 1997 through
1999 have been estimated as follows:

                              (Millions of Dollars)
By Year                                               By Major Facilities
- - ---------------------------------------   --------------------------------------
                                                                                
1997                               $296   Electric generation               $267
1998                                283   Electric transmission               64
1999                                262   Electric distribution              412
                                   $841   General facilities                  98
                                   ====                                     ----
                                                                            $841
                                                                            ====
                               
     The amounts for 1997 through 1999 exclude  capitalized  interest  costs and
include  capitalized  property taxes and about $30 million each year for nuclear
fuel. APS conducts a continuing review of its construction program.

Mortgage Replacement Fund Requirements

     So  long  as any of APS'  first  mortgage  bonds  are  outstanding,  APS is
required for each  calendar year to deposit with the trustee under its Mortgage,
cash in a formularized amount related to net additions to APS' mortgaged utility
plant;  however,  APS may  satisfy  all or any part of this  "replacement  fund"
requirement by utilizing redeemed or retired bonds, net property  additions,  or
property  retirements.  For 1996, the replacement fund  requirement  amounted to
approximately  $129  million.  All of the bonds issued by APS under the Mortgage
which are  callable  prior to maturity  are  redeemable  at their par value plus
accrued interest with cash deposited by APS in the replacement fund,  subject in
many cases to a period of time after the  original  issuance of the bonds during
which  they may not be so  redeemed  and/or  to other  restrictions  on any such
redemption.

Environmental Matters

     EPA Environmental Regulation

     Clean  Air  Act.  Pursuant  to the  Clean  Air  Act,  the EPA  has  adopted
regulations that address  visibility  impairment in certain  federally-protected
areas which can be reasonably attributed to specific sources. In September 1991,
the EPA issued a final rule that would limit  sulfur  dioxide  emissions at NGS.
Compliance with the emission  limitation  becomes  applicable to NGS Units 3, 2,
and 1 in 1997, 1998 and 1999,  respectively.  SRP, the NGS operating  agent, has
estimated a capital cost of $470 million, most of which will be incurred through
1998, and annual  operations and maintenance  costs of approximately $14 million
for all three units, for NGS to meet these requirements. APS is required to fund
14% of these expenditures.

     The Clean Air Act  Amendments  of 1990 (the  "Amendments")  address,  among
other things,  "acid rain,"  visibility in certain  specified  areas,  toxic air
pollutants and the nonattainment of national ambient air quality standards. With
respect to "acid  rain," the  Amendments  establish  a system of sulfur  dioxide
emissions  "allowances."  Each existing utility unit is granted a certain number
of "allowances." On March 5, 1993, the EPA promulgated  rules listing  allowance
allocations  applicable to APS-owned plants, which allocations will begin in the
year 2000. Based on those  allocations,  APS will have sufficient  allowances to
permit  continued  operation of its plants at current levels without  installing
additional  equipment.  In  addition,  the  Amendments  require  the  EPA to set
nitrogen  oxides  emissions  limitations  which would require  certain plants to
install additional pollution control equipment. In December 1996, the EPA issued
rules for  nitrogen  oxides  emissions  limitations,  which may  require  APS to
install  additional  pollution  control  equipment at Four Corners by January 1,
2000. Based on its initial evaluation,  APS currently estimates its capital cost
of complying  with the rules may be  approximately  $4 million.  On February 14,
1997,  APS filed a Petition for Review in the United States Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia  challenging the  classification of Four Corners Unit 4
in these rules.  Arizona Public Service  Company v. United States  Environmental
Protection Agency, No. 97-1091.

     With respect to protection of visibility in certain  specified  areas,  the
Amendments require the EPA to conduct a study concerning  visibility  impairment
in those areas and  identification  of sources  contributing to such impairment.
Interim  findings of this study have  indicated  that any  beneficial  effect on
visibility as a result of the Amendments would

be offset by expected  population and industry growth. The EPA has established a
"Grand Canyon Visibility Transport Commission" to complete a study on visibility
impairment  in the "Golden  Circle of National  Parks" in the Colorado  Plateau.
NGS,  Cholla and Four  Corners are located  near the "Golden  Circle of National
Parks." The  Commission  completed its study and on June 10, 1996  submitted its
final recommendations to the EPA. The Commission  recommended that, beginning in
2000 and every 5 years  thereafter,  if actual sulfur dioxide emissions from all
stationary  sources in an eight-state  region  (including  Arizona,  New Mexico,
Utah, Nevada and California) exceed the projected emissions, which are projected
to decline under the current  regulatory  scheme,  the projected total emissions
will be changed to a "regional  emissions cap" and an emissions  trading program
would be implemented to limit total sulfur dioxide emissions in the region.  The
EPA will consider these  recommendations  before promulgating final requirements
on a  regional  haze  regulatory  program  which is under EPA  review  (see "Air
Quality Standards" below), which is expected by December 1997. If such a program
were  implemented,  industry,  including  APS' coal plants,  could be subject to
further   emissions   limits.   APS  cannot   currently   estimate  the  capital
expenditures,  if any,  which may be required as a result of the EPA studies and
the Commission's recommendations.

     With respect to hazardous air pollutants  emitted by electric utility steam
generating units, the Amendments  require two studies.  The results of the first
study  indicated  an impact from  mercury  emissions  from such units in certain
unspecified areas;  however, the EPA has not yet stated whether or not emissions
limitations will be imposed. Next, the EPA will complete a general study by 1999
concerning the necessity of regulating such units under the  Amendments.  Due to
the lack of historical data, and because APS cannot speculate as to the ultimate
requirements by the EPA, APS cannot currently estimate the capital expenditures,
if any, which may be required as a result of these studies.

     Certain aspects of the Amendments may require related  expenditures by APS,
such as permit fees,  none of which APS expects to have a material impact on its
financial position or results of operations.

     Superfund.  The Comprehensive  Environmental  Response,  Compensation,  and
Liability Act ("Superfund")  establishes  liability for the cleanup of hazardous
substances  found  contaminating  the soil,  water or air.  Those who generated,
transported or disposed of hazardous substances at a contaminated site are among
those  who  are  potentially  responsible  parties  ("PRP's")  and  may be  each
strictly, and often jointly and severally,  liable for the cost of any necessary
remediation of the substances.  The EPA had previously  advised APS that the EPA
considers APS to be a PRP in the Indian Bend Wash  Superfund  Site,  South Area,
where APS'  Ocotillo Power Plant is located. APS is in the process of conducting
a voluntary  investigation to determine the extent and scope of contamination at
the plant  site.  Based on the  information  to date,  APS does not expect  this
matter to have a  material  impact  on its  financial  position  or  results  of
operations.

     Air Quality Standards.  In December 1996, the EPA proposed revised National
Ambient Air Quality Standards  ("NAAQS") for ozone and particulate  matter,  and
related  implementing  regulations.  The comment  period for the proposed  NAAQS
rules ended on March 12,  1997,  and the final rules are  expected by July 1997.
The EPA is also  expected to propose  rules to deal with  regional  haze by June
1997, and final rules are expected by December 1997. Due to these  standards APS
could be required to install  additional  pollution control equipment at certain
of its plants. APS cannot currently estimate the capital  expenditures,  if any,
which may be required as a result of the final rules.

     MGP Sites. APS currently is investigating  properties,  either presently or
previously  owned by APS,  which were at one time sites of, or sites  associated
with, manufactured gas plants. The purpose of this investigation is to determine
if waste materials are present, if such materials constitute an environmental or
health  risk,  and if APS has any  responsibility  for  remedial  action.  Where
appropriate,  APS has begun  remediation of certain of these sites. APS does not
expect these matters to have a material adverse effect on its financial position
or results of operations.

     Purported Navajo Environmental Regulation

     Four  Corners  and NGS are located on the Navajo  Reservation  and are held
under  easements  granted by the federal  government  as well as leases from the
Navajo Nation.  APS is the Four Corners operating agent and owns a 100% interest
in Four Corners Units 1, 2 and 3, and a 15% interest in Four Corners Units 4 and
5. APS owns a 14% interest

in NGS Units 1, 2 and 3. In July 1995,  the  Navajo  Nation  enacted  the Navajo
Nation Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, the Navajo Nation Safe Drinking
Water Act, and the Navajo Nation Pesticide Act (collectively, the "Acts").

     Pursuant to the Acts, the Navajo Nation Environmental  Protection Agency is
authorized to promulgate  regulations  covering air quality,  drinking water and
pesticide  activities,  including  those that occur at Four  Corners and NGS. By
separate  letters  dated  October 12 and  October  13,  1995,  the Four  Corners
participants and the NGS  participants  requested the United States Secretary of
the Interior to resolve their dispute with the Navajo Nation  regarding  whether
or not the Acts apply to  operations  of Four  Corners  and NGS.  On October 17,
1995,  the Four  Corners  participants  and the NGS  participants  each  filed a
lawsuit  in the  District  Court of the Navajo  Nation,  Window  Rock  District,
seeking,  among other things,  a declaratory  judgment that (i) their respective
leases  and  federal  easements  preclude  the  application  of the  Acts to the
operations  of Four Corners and NGS, and (ii) the Navajo Nation and its agencies
and courts lack adjudicatory jurisdiction to determine the enforceability of the
Acts as applied to Four Corners and NGS. On October 18, 1995,  the Navajo Nation
and the Four  Corners  and NGS  participants  agreed  to  indefinitely  stay the
proceedings  referenced  in the  preceding two sentences so that the parties may
attempt to resolve the dispute  without  litigation,  and the  Secretary and the
Court have stayed these  proceedings  pursuant to a request by the parties.  APS
cannot currently predict the outcome of this matter.

Water Supply

     Assured  supplies of water are  important  both to APS (for its  generating
plants) and to its customers and, at the present time, APS has adequate water to
meet its needs.  However,  conflicting claims to limited amounts of water in the
southwestern  United  States have  resulted in numerous  court actions in recent
years.

     Both  groundwater  and surface water in areas  important to APS' operations
have been the  subject of  inquiries,  claims and legal  proceedings  which will
require a number of years to  resolve.  APS is one of a number of  parties  in a
proceeding  before a state court in New Mexico to adjudicate  rights to a stream
system from which water for Four  Corners is derived.  (State of New Mexico,  in
the relation of S.E. Reynolds, State Engineer vs. United States of America, City
of Farmington,  Utah  International,  Inc., et al., San Juan County, New Mexico,
District Court No. 75-184). An agreement reached with the Navajo Nation in 1985,
however,  provides  that if Four  Corners  loses a portion  of its rights in the
adjudication,  the Navajo  Nation will  provide,  for a  then-agreed  upon cost,
sufficient water from its allocation to offset the loss.

     A summons  served on APS in early 1986 required all water  claimants in the
Lower Gila River Watershed in Arizona to assert any claims to water on or before
January 20, 1987, in an action pending in Maricopa County Superior Court. (In re
The General Adjudication of All Rights to Use Water in the Gila River System and
Source,  Supreme Court Nos. WC-79-0001 through WC 79-0004  (Consolidated) [WC-1,
WC-2, WC-3 and WC-4 (Consolidated)],  Maricopa County Nos. W-1, W-2, W-3 and W-4
(Consolidated)). Palo Verde is located within the geographic area subject to the
summons,  and the rights of the Palo Verde  participants,  including APS, to the
use of  groundwater  and effluent at Palo Verde is  potentially at issue in this
action.  APS, as project  manager of Palo Verde,  filed  claims that dispute the
court's  jurisdiction over the Palo Verde  participants'  groundwater rights and
their contractual rights to effluent relating to Palo Verde and,  alternatively,
seek confirmation of such rights.  Three of APS' less-utilized  power plants are
also located  within the  geographic  area  subject to the summons.  APS' claims
dispute the court's  jurisdiction  over APS' groundwater  rights with respect to
these plants and,  alternatively,  seek confirmation of such rights. On December
10, 1992,  the Arizona  Supreme Court heard oral  argument on certain  issues in
this matter which are pending on interlocutory  appeal. Issues important to APS'
claims were  remanded to the trial court for further  action and the trial court
certified its decision for interlocutory appeal to the Arizona Supreme Court. On
September 28, 1994, the Arizona  Supreme Court granted review of the trial court
decision.  No trial date  concerning the water rights claims of APS has been set
in this matter.

     APS has also filed claims to water in the Little  Colorado River  Watershed
in Arizona in an action pending in the Apache County Superior Court.  (In re The
General  Adjudication  of All Rights to Use Water in the Little  Colorado  River
System and Source,  Supreme Court No.  WC-79-0006 WC-6, Apache County No. 6417).
APS'  groundwater  resource  utilized  at Cholla is within the  geographic  area
subject to the adjudication and is therefore potentially at issue in the case.

APS' claims dispute the court's  jurisdiction over APS' groundwater  rights and,
alternatively,  seek confirmation of such rights. The parties are in the process
of settlement negotiations with respect to this matter. No trial date concerning
the water rights claims of APS has been set in this matter.

     Although the foregoing  matters remain subject to further  evaluation,  APS
expects that the described litigation will not have a material adverse impact on
its financial position or results of operations.


                     BUSINESS OF SUNCOR DEVELOPMENT COMPANY

     SunCor was  incorporated in 1965 under the laws of the State of Arizona and
is engaged  primarily  in the owning,  development,  and sale of real  property,
including homebuilding. The principal executive offices of SunCor are located at
3838 North Central, Suite 1500, Phoenix, Arizona 85012 (telephone 602-285-6800).
SunCor and its  subsidiaries,  excluding SunCor Resort & Golf  Management,  Inc.
("Resort  Management"),  employ  approximately 150 persons.  Resort  Management,
which manages the Wigwam Resort and Country Club (the  "Wigwam")  golf and other
operations,  employs between 525 and 760 persons at the Wigwam, depending on the
Wigwam's  operating  season.  Resort  Management  also  operates  golf and other
operations which employ approximately 315 persons.

     Effective January 1, 1996, SunCor's homebuilding subsidiary,  SunCor Homes,
Inc., purchased the assets of Golden Heritage Homes.  Subsequent to December 31,
1996,  SunCor  Homes,  Inc.  changed  its name to Golden  Heritage  Homes,  Inc.
Beginning in 1996, the financial statements of SunCor reflect the acquisition of
Golden Heritage Homes.

     SunCor's projects consist primarily of land and improvements and other real
estate investments.  SunCor acquired  approximately 11,000 acres west of Phoenix
in the area of  Goodyear/Litchfield  Park, Arizona ("Palm Valley"),  including a
private  water and sewer  company  to  provide  those  utility  services  to the
property.  A substantial portion of the undeveloped  property is currently being
used for  agricultural  purposes.  SunCor  has  completed  the  master-plan  for
developing  Palm Valley,  and the  commercial  and  residential  development  of
approximately  640  acres is well  underway.  The  initial  phase  included  the
development of an 18-hole  championship  golf course that was completed in 1993.
In  addition,  within the Palm Valley  project,  SunCor has  entered  into joint
ventures to develop 2,200 acres as a retirement community, known as PebbleCreek,
350 acres as a planned area development,  known as Litchfield Greens, and a 130-
unit apartment complex known as the Palm Valley Apartments.

     SunCor's  projects under  development  also include  acquisition of a 1,400
acre master-planned  community north of Phoenix called Tatum Ranch, a 1,400 acre
master-planned  community northeast of Phoenix called Scottsdale Mountain, a 140
acre master-planned  project for business use northwest of Phoenix called Talavi
and a 420 acre  master-planned  project for business use east of Phoenix  called
MarketPlace.  Two  recent  projects  --  SunRidge  Canyon,  a 950 acre  golf and
residential  master-planned  community  northeast  of  Phoenix,  and Sedona Golf
Resort,  a 300 acre golf and residential  master-planned  community near Sedona,
Arizona -- are also being  developed  jointly with other  venture  partners.  In
1996,  SunCor  acquired  an  option  to  develop  a 21,000  acre  master-planned
community as a joint venture in Santa Fe, New Mexico  called  Rancho Viejo.  The
initial 2,500 acres are under development.

     For the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994,  SunCor's  operating
revenues were  approximately  $99.5 million,  $54.8 million,  and $59.3 million,
respectively,  and its income was approximately $4.2 million,  $4.1 million, and
$0.5 million, respectively.  SunCor's capital needs consist primarily of capital
expenditures  and home  construction,  which, on the basis of projects now under
development,  are  expected to  approximate  $61 million,  $43 million,  and $55
million for 1997, 1998, and 1999, respectively.

     At  December  31,  1996,  SunCor  had total  assets of  approximately  $441
million. See Note 5 of Notes to the Consolidated  Financial Statements in Item 8
for information  regarding  SunCor's  long-term debt. SunCor intends to continue
its focus on real estate  development  in  homebuilding  and the  development of
residential, commercial, and industrial projects.

                    BUSINESS OF EL DORADO INVESTMENT COMPANY

     El Dorado was  incorporated  in 1983 under the laws of the State of Arizona
and is engaged principally in the business of making equity investments in other
companies.  El Dorado's offices are located at 400 East Van Buren Street,  Suite
750, Phoenix, Arizona 85004 (telephone 602-252-3441).

     El  Dorado  had  investments  in  venture  capital  partnerships   totaling
approximately $7.5 million at December 31, 1996. El Dorado has remaining funding
commitments in the aggregate  amount of  approximately  $2.5 million in 1997. In
addition to the  foregoing  investments,  at December  31,  1996,  El Dorado had
direct  investments of  approximately  $19.8 million in other private and public
companies and partnerships.

     For the years ended December 31, 1996,  1995, and 1994, El Dorado's  income
(losses) were  approximately  $0.4 million,  $8.5 million,  and ($4.0  million),
respectively.  At December 31, 1996, El Dorado had total assets of approximately
$38.8 million.

                               ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

Accredited Capacity

     APS' present generating  facilities have an accredited capacity aggregating
4,026,700 kW, comprised as follows:

- - ---------------

     (1) West Phoenix steam units (108,300 kW) are currently mothballed.

- - -----------------------------------------------------

Reserve Margin

     APS' peak one-hour  demand on its electric  system was recorded on July 31,
1996 at 4,574,700 kW, compared to the 1995 peak of 4,420,400 kW recorded on July
28. Taking into account additional  capacity then available to it under purchase
power  contracts as well as its own  generating  capacity,  APS'  capability  of
meeting  system demand on July 31, 1996,  computed in  accordance  with accepted
industry practices, amounted to 4,680,300 kW, for an installed reserve margin of
2.7%. The power  actually  available to APS from its resources  fluctuates  from
time to time due in part to

planned  outages,  technical  problems and short-term  purchases.  The available
capacity from sources actually operable at the time of the 1996 peak amounted to
4,909,300 kW, for a margin of 8.5%.  Firm purchases from  neighboring  utilities
totaling  650,000 kW were in place at the time of the peak  ensuring the ability
to meet the load requirement.

Plant Sites Leased from Navajo Nation

     NGS and Four  Corners  are  located on land held under  easements  from the
federal  government and also under leases from the Navajo Nation.  The risk with
respect to enforcement of these  easements and leases is not deemed by APS to be
material.  The  lease  for Four  Corners  contains  a waiver  until  2001 of the
requirement that APS pay certain taxes to the Navajo Nation.  APS and the Navajo
Nation are currently  negotiating  an agreement that would settle certain issues
regarding this waiver and other matters,  including the computation of royalties
due on the sales of coal and possessory interest taxes paid by the fuel supplier
to Four Corners.  If this  settlement is  consummated,  the fuel  supplier,  the
Navajo Nation and the Four Corners  participants  would agree as a part of their
settlement to restructure  their  relationships in an effort to permit the power
and energy  generated  at Four  Corners to be priced  competitively.  APS cannot
currently predict the outcome of these settlement negotiations.  Certain of APS'
transmission  lines and  almost  all of its  contracted  coal  sources  are also
located on Indian reservations.  See "Business of Arizona Public Service Company
- - -- Generating Fuel and Purchased Power -- Coal Supply" in Item 1.

Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station

     Palo Verde Leases

     On August 18, 1986 and December 19, 1986, APS entered into a total of three
sale  and   leaseback   transactions   under  which  it  sold  and  leased  back
approximately  42% of its 29.1%  ownership  interest  in Palo  Verde Unit 2. The
leases under each of the sale and  leaseback  transactions  have  initial  lease
terms  expiring  on  December  31,  2015.  Each of the leases also allows APS to
extend the term of the lease  and/or to  repurchase  the leased  Unit 2 interest
under certain  circumstances  at fair market value.  The leases in the aggregate
require annual payments of approximately $40 million through 1999, approximately
$46 million in 2000 and  approximately  $49 million  through 2015 (see Note 9 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8).

     Regulatory

     Operation  of each of the three  Palo Verde  units  requires  an  operating
license from the NRC.  Full power  operating  licenses for Units 1, 2 and 3 were
issued by the NRC in June 1985, April 1986 and November 1987, respectively.  The
full  power  operating  licenses,  each valid for a period of  approximately  40
years,  authorize APS, as operating  agent for Palo Verde,  to operate the three
Palo Verde units at full power.

     Nuclear Decommissioning Costs

     See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements in Item 8 for a
discussion of APS' nuclear decommissioning costs.

     Steam Generators

     See  "Palo  Verde  Nuclear  Generating  Station"  in  Note 11 of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of issues relating
to the Palo Verde steam generators.

     Palo Verde Liability and Insurance Matters

     See  "Palo  Verde  Nuclear  Generating  Station"  in  Note 11 of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in Item 8 for a discussion of the insurance
maintained by the Palo Verde participants, including APS, for Palo Verde.

Other Information Regarding APS' Properties

     See "Business of Arizona Public Service Company --  Environmental  Matters"
and " -- Water Supply" in Item 1 with respect to matters having  possible impact
on the operation of certain of APS' power plants.

     See "Business of Arizona Public Service Company -- Construction Program" in
Item 1 and  "Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Financial  Condition  and
Results of Operations -- Capital Needs and Resources" in Item 7 for a discussion
of APS' construction plans.

     See Notes 5, 9 and 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item
8 with  respect to property of APS not held in fee or held  subject to any major
encumbrance.

     See  "Business of SunCor  Development  Company" and  "Business of El Dorado
Investment Company" in Item 1 for a description of properties held by SunCor and
El Dorado, respectively.



                                   [MAP PAGE]



     In accordance  with Item 304 of Regulation S-T of the  Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934, APS' Service  Territory map contained in this Form 10-K is a map of
the State of Arizona  showing APS' service area, the location of its major power
plants and principal  transmission lines, and the location of transmission lines
operated by APS' for others.  The major power  plants  shown on such map are the
Navajo Generating Station located in Coconino County,  Arizona; the Four Corners
Power Plant located near Farmington, New Mexico; the Cholla Power Plant, located
in Navajo County,  Arizona;  the Yucca Power Plant,  located near Yuma, Arizona;
and the Palo Verde Nuclear  Generating  Station,  located about 55 miles west of
Phoenix, Arizona (each of which plants is reflected on such map as being jointly
owned  with  other  utilities),  as well as the  Ocotillo  Power  Plant and West
Phoenix Power Plant, each located near Phoenix,  Arizona,  and the Saguaro Power
Plant, located near Tucson, Arizona. APS' major transmission lines shown on such
map are  reflected  as running  between the power plants named above and certain
major cities in the State of Arizona. The transmission lines operated for others
shown on such map are reflected as running from the Four Corners Plant through a
portion of northern Arizona to the California border.

                            ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

APS

Property Taxes

     On June  29,  1990,  a new  Arizona  state  property  tax law was  enacted,
effective as of December 31, 1989, which adversely impacted APS' earnings before
income  taxes  in  tax  years  1990  through  1995  by an  aggregate  amount  of
approximately  $21  million  per year.  On  December  20,  1990,  the Palo Verde
participants,  including  APS,  filed a lawsuit  in the  Arizona  Tax  Court,  a
division of the Maricopa County Superior Court,  against the Arizona  Department
of Revenue, the Treasurer of the State of Arizona, and various Arizona counties,
claiming,   among  other   things,   that  portions  of  the  new  tax  law  are
unconstitutional.  (Arizona Public Service Company,  et al. v. Apache County, et
al., No. TX 90-01686  (Consol.),  Maricopa County Superior Court).  On April 23,
1996, the parties  reached an agreement to settle the litigation and on July 18,
1996,  the  Governor  signed a new  Arizona  property  tax law that  reduced the
aggregate property tax of APS by approximately $18 million (before income taxes)
in 1996, with slightly lower amounts expected in future years. Under the formula
for potential  future rate reduction  pursuant to the 1996 regulatory  agreement
(see "1996 Regulatory  Agreement" in Note 2 of Notes to Financial  Statements in
Item 8 of this report),  the property tax reduction is expected to reduce future
retail rates.  The parties to the litigation have reached a settlement  pursuant
to which APS will relinquish its claims for  retrospective  relief provided that
the  prospective  relief  provided by the new law is not changed  (other than by
changes in law affecting taxpayers generally) for a period of three years.

     See "Business of Arizona Public Service Company --  Environmental  Matters"
and "-- Water  Supply" in Item 1 in regard to pending or  threatened  litigation
and other  disputes.  See  "Regulatory  Matters" in Note 2 of Notes to Financial
Statements in Item 8 for information regarding lawsuits filed by APS challenging
certain provisions of rules adopted by the ACC for the phased-in introduction of
retail  electric  competition in Arizona  (Arizona Public Service Company v. The
Arizona Corporation Commission, in the Superior Court of the State of Arizona in
and for the County of  Maricopa,  No.  CV97-03753,  and Arizona  Public  Service
Company v. The Arizona Corporation Commission, in the Court of Appeals, State of
Arizona, Division One, No. 1 CA-CC-97-0002, ACC Docket No. R-0000-94-165).

Pinnacle West

     On April 22, 1991 a lawsuit was filed in the United States  District  Court
for the  District of Arizona by the  Resolution  Trust  Corporation  (the "RTC")
against  certain  former  officers and  directors of MeraBank.  The suit sought,
among other things,  damages in excess of $270 million,  and alleged negligence,
gross negligence, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of duty of loyalty and breach
of contract  with  respect to the  management  and  operation of MeraBank by the
defendants beginning in the early 1980s. On December 30, 1993, and as the result
of a negotiated settlement, the United States District Court for the District of
Arizona entered orders and final judgments that, among other matters,  partially
dismissed the RTC litigation  described above. Two non-settling  individuals who
pursued  independent  claims  against  the RTC were not  dismissed  from the RTC
litigation.

     The non-settling individuals have filed a third-party complaint against the
Company in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona alleging
claims for  contractual  and statutory  indemnification  in the event that these
individuals  are found liable on the RTC's claims against them. The  third-party
complaint,  which was  served on the  Company  on or about  November  13,  1995,
further  alleges  that the  Company  acted in bad  faith and  wrongfully  denied
indemnification to these individuals and seeks compensatory and punitive damages
in an unspecified amount as well as costs and attorneys' fees. In addition,  one
of  these  individuals  seeks a  judicial  determination  that  the  Company  is
obligated to pay him pension benefits in an unspecified amount in the event that
the RTC does not fully pay these  benefits.  The  December  30, 1993  settlement
order barred the non-settling individuals from asserting claims for contribution
and certain claims for noncontractual  indemnification  against the Company.  On
February 3, 1997, the

Arizona  district  court  granted  summary  judgment in favor of the Company and
ordered the dismissal of this third-party complaint with prejudice.  On February
18,  1997,  the  Company  filed a motion  with the court  requesting  entry of a
judgment and order of dismissal with prejudice and requesting  certification  of
the judgment as final.  It is not presently  known whether the  plaintiffs  will
seek  to  appeal  the  court's  ruling.  The  Company  believes  that  it has no
obligation with respect to any costs or damages with respect to this matter.

     On January  18,  1991,  a lawsuit was filed in the United  States  District
Court,  Southern  District  of Ohio,  Western  Division,  against,  among  other
parties,  the Company and certain of its officers and  directors,  the Office of
Thrift  Supervision   ("OTS"),   the  RTC  and  the  Federal  Deposit  Insurance
Corporation  ("FDIC").  The amended  complaint in this lawsuit  alleges that the
plaintiff  purchased MeraBank  subordinated  debentures with a face amount of $1
million in 1987 in reliance upon a capital maintenance  stipulation  executed by
the  Company as a  condition  to the  Company's  acquisition  of  MeraBank.  The
plaintiff further alleges that the value of such debentures was impaired because
of the Company's  release from its purported  obligations  under the stipulation
and the  actions of the OTS in placing  MeraBank  in  receivership.  The amended
complaint  alleges  claims  under  the  federal  securities  laws,  the  federal
racketeering  statutes,  and state  consumer fraud statutes and seeks damages in
the approximate amount of $4.8 million, plus interest. On June 8, 1993, the Ohio
court  ordered  this case to be  transferred  to the  District of  Arizona.  The
individual  director  defendants were  subsequently  dismissed without prejudice
pursuant to the  stipulation  of the parties.  On November 10, 1994, the Company
filed a motion for summary  judgment on all counts,  which on September 20, 1995
was  granted  in part and denied in part.  The order  rejected  the  plaintiff's
claims as to one of the two  purchases  of  MeraBank  debentures  at issue,  and
accordingly,  reduced the amount in  controversy  to  one-half  of the  original
claimed  amount.  On October 4, 1996, the plaintiff  filed a motion to amend its
complaint  to  broaden  the  factual  basis for its  claims  under  theories  of
securities  fraud,  racketeering  and  consumer  fraud.  That  motion  is  under
consideration.  On January  15,  1997,  the  Company  filed a motion for summary
judgment on the consumer fraud claim.  That motion is also under  consideration.
The Company intends to vigorously defend itself in this action.

     On August 17, 1993, the Company was served with a separate  complaint filed
by the same  plaintiff in the United States  District  Court for the District of
Arizona  alleging  claims  under the  Arizona  Racketeering  Act and the Arizona
Consumer  Fraud Act seeking  compensatory  damages in the amount of $1.2 million
plus interest,  punitive damages, treble damages, interest,  attorneys' fees and
costs.  On September 24, 1993, the plaintiff  voluntarily  dismissed the Arizona
Consumer  Fraud Act claims.  On March 6, 1995,  the court  dismissed the Arizona
Racketeering Act claims. The plaintiff filed a motion for reconsideration  which
was denied.  The plaintiff has appealed the dismissal to the Ninth Circuit Court
of Appeals.  That appeal  remains under  consideration.  The Company  intends to
vigorously defend itself in this action.

     On May 1, 1991, a lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for
the  District of Arizona  against the Company by another  purchaser  of the same
issue of MeraBank subordinated debentures referred to above. This plaintiff also
claims to have  purchased the  debentures,  with a face amount of  approximately
$12.4 million,  in reliance upon the stipulation.  The suit further alleges that
the Company  induced the plaintiff to retain its investment in the debentures by
representing  to the plaintiff that the Company would keep MeraBank  capitalized
in accordance with federal regulatory requirements.  The suit alleges violations
of  federal  and  state  securities  laws,  fraud,   negligent   representation,
promissory estoppel,  racketeering and intentional interference with contractual
relations.  On October 7, 1994,  the court  dismissed  the  plaintiff's  federal
securities law claims.  On May 4, 1995,  the court granted the Company's  motion
for reconsideration and also dismissed  plaintiff's state securities law claims.
The plaintiff sought unspecified compensatory and punitive damages and requested
that the compensatory  damages be trebled under the Arizona Racketeering Act. On
December  10,  1996,  the parties  executed a  settlement  agreement  and mutual
release in full and final settlement of this litigation.  Settlement funds in an
amount not material to the Company have been paid to plaintiff. The parties have
filed a joint stipulation for dismissal with prejudice of the lawsuit.  A formal
order dismissing the lawsuit has not yet been issued by the court.

     On December  22,  1993,  the  Company was served with a complaint  filed by
other  purchasers  of  MeraBank  subordinated  debentures  with a face amount of
approximately $1.5 million alleging claims  substantially  similar to the claims
described in the  preceding  paragraph.  The  complaint,  which was filed in the
United States District Court for the

District of Arizona,  seeks  compensatory and punitive damages in an unspecified
amount plus  attorneys'  fees and costs. On October 6, 1995, the Company filed a
motion for summary judgment seeking  dismissal of the suit based on, among other
things,  a claim that the  applicable  statute of  limitations  had expired.  On
November 13, 1995,  the  plaintiffs  filed a  cross-motion  for partial  summary
judgment with respect to certain of the Company's alleged misrepresentations and
omissions  and on a  fraudulent  concealment  defense to the  expiration  of the
applicable  statutes of  limitations.  On April 12, 1996,  the court granted the
Company's  motion for summary  judgment and  dismissed  plaintiffs'  claims with
prejudice.  On May 13,  1996,  plaintiffs  filed a notice of appeal to the Ninth
Circuit  Court of Appeals.  The appeal has been fully  briefed and the court has
scheduled  oral  argument  for May 5, 1997.  The Company  intends to  vigorously
defend itself in this action.

                       ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A
                            VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matter was  submitted  to a vote of security  holders  during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report,  through the  solicitation of
proxies or otherwise.

              SUPPLEMENTAL ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

     The Company's executive officers are as follows:




         The  executive  officers  of the Company are elected no less often than
annually  and may be removed by the Board of  Directors  at any time.  The terms
served  by the named  officers  in their  current  positions  and the  principal
occupations  (in addition to those stated in the table) of such officers for the
past five years have been as follows:

         Mr. Ash was elected  Corporate Counsel of the Company in February 1991.
He  previously  held the position of Legal  Counsel to the Company from December
1986 to February 1991.

         Mr.  Larson  was  elected  Vice  President,   Corporate   Planning  and
Development in July 1986.

         Ms. Felker was elected  Treasurer in June 1990 and as a Vice  President
in February 1994. Ms. Felker also serves as Treasurer of APS, a position she was
elected  to in June 1993  after  serving  as  Assistant  Treasurer  of APS since
December 1992.

         Mr. Post was elected  President  of the Company  effective  February 5,
1997 after having served as its Executive Vice President since June 1995. He has
also been the President and Chief Executive  Officer of APS since February 1997.
He had been APS' Chief  Operating  Officer  since  September  1994, as well as a
Senior Vice  President  since June 1993.  Prior to the time,  he had served as a
Vice President of APS since 1982. Mr. Post is also a director of APS.

         Mr.  Schreiber was elected to the positions of Executive Vice President
and Chief  Financial  Officer of both the Company and APS effective  February 3,
1997. From 1990 to January 1997, he was Managing  Director at PaineWebber,  Inc.
He is also a director of APS.

         Mr. Snell has been Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of
the Company and Chairman of the Board of APS since February 1990. Until February
1997,  he was also  President  of the  Company.  Mr. Snell is also a director of
Aztar Corporation, Banc One Arizona Corporation and Central Newspapers, Inc.

         Ms.  Widenmann  was elected  Secretary  of the Company in 1985 and Vice
President of Corporate Relations and Administration in November 1986.

                                     PART II

                     ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON
                     EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

         The  Company's  common stock is publicly  held and is traded on the New
York and Pacific  Stock  Exchanges.  At the close of business on March 12, 1997,
the  Company's  common  stock  was  held  of  record  by  approximately   50,000
shareholders.

         The  chart  below  sets  forth the  common  stock  price  ranges on the
composite  tape, as reported in the Wall Street  Journal for 1996 and 1995.  The
chart also sets forth the  dividends  declared and paid per share during each of
the four quarters for 1996 and 1995.

                     Common Stock Price Ranges and Dividends


- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Dividend
             1996          High               Low                Per Share(a)
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 1st Quarter               30 1/4             26 1/4             .25
 2nd Quarter               30 3/8             26 1/4             .50
 3rd Quarter               30                 28                 .275
 4th Quarter               32 1/4             29 1/2              0
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 1st Quarter               21 1/2             19 5/8             .225
 2nd Quarter               24 3/4             20 7/8             .225
 3rd Quarter               26 1/2             23 3/8             .225
 4th Quarter               28 7/8             26 1/8             .25
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                  (a) Dividends  for the third quarter were declared in June and
                      dividends   for  the  fourth   quarter  were  declared  in
                      September.

                  ITEM 6. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA



(a)  Includes  after-tax  Palo Verde Unit 3 accretion  income in 1994,  1993 and
     1992 of  approximately  $20.3  million,  $45.3  million and $40.7  million,
     respectively.
(b)  Includes  an  after-tax  charge of $18.9  million  ($0.22  per share) for a
     voluntary severance program and approximately $12 million ($0.13 per share)
     of income tax benefits related to capital loss carryforwards.
(c)  Includes a  non-recurring  income tax benefit of $26.8  million  ($0.31 per
     share) related to a change in tax law.
(d)  In 1996  settlement of a legal matter; and in 1992, tax benefits associated
     with MeraBank, a Federal Savings Bank.
(e)  Charges  associated  with  the  repayment  or  refinancing  of  the  parent
     company's high-coupon debt.
(f)  Results of the adoption of the liability  method of  accounting  for income
     taxes.
(g)  In October 1993,  the Board of Directors  declared a quarterly  dividend on
     common stock, which was previously suspended in October 1989.

                 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following  discussion  relates to Pinnacle West and its  subsidiaries:  APS,
SunCor and El Dorado. The discussion also relates to the discontinued operations
of MeraBank, A Federal Savings Bank.

Capital Needs and Resources

Parent Company

The parent company reduced its debt by approximately  $60 million,  $120 million
and $134  million in 1996,  1995 and 1994,  respectively.  An  existing  line of
credit  and the  remaining  11.61%  debentures  were  replaced  in 1996 with $50
million of senior notes and a $225 million line of credit under which borrowings
of $200 million were outstanding at December 31, 1996.  Extraordinary charges of
$20.3 million after income taxes were incurred in the repayment and  refinancing
of  parent  company  debt in 1996.  The  parent  company  does not have any debt
repayment obligations until 2001.

         During the past three years,  the parent  company's  primary cash needs
were for common stock  dividends,  interest  payments and optional and mandatory
repayment  of  principal  on  its  long-term  debt  (see  Note  5  of  Notes  to
Consolidated Financial Statements). As provided in the 1996 regulatory agreement
(see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial  Statements),  the parent company
invested $50 million in APS in 1996 and will invest similar amounts  annually in
1997 through 1999. In March 1997, the Board of Directors  approved a program for
the repurchase of up to $80 million of the Company's common stock in 1997.

         Dividends  from APS have been Pinnacle  West's  primary source of cash.
SunCor  provided cash in 1996, as did SunCor and El Dorado in 1995, and both are
expected to contribute  to Pinnacle  West's cash flow in 1997.  Tax  allocations
within the consolidated group have been additional sources of cash.

APS

During 1996,  APS  redeemed  approximately  $223  million of long-term  debt and
preferred  stock.  Required and  optional  redemptions  of  preferred  stock and
repayments of long-term debt,  including  premiums  thereon,  and payments for a
capitalized lease obligation are expected to total  approximately  $222 million,
$114 million and $114 million for the years 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively.

         APS' capital requirements consist primarily of capital expenditures and
optional and mandatory  repayments of long-term  debt and preferred  stock.  The
resources  available  to meet  these  requirements  include  funds  provided  by
operations,  external financings and the annual equity infusions from the parent
company of $50 million from 1997 through 1999.

         Present  construction  plans  through  the year 2006 do not include any
major baseload generating plants. In general,  most of the capital  expenditures
are for expanding  transmission and  distribution  capabilities to meet customer
growth,  for  upgrading  existing  facilities  and for  environmental  purposes.
Capital  expenditures  are anticipated to be  approximately  $296 million,  $283
million and $262 million for 1997,  1998 and 1999,  respectively.  These amounts
include about $30 million each year for nuclear fuel.

         During  the  period  1994   through   1996,   APS  funded  all  capital
expenditures with funds from operations.  APS expects to have adequate resources
to meet its capital requirements for the period 1997 through 1999.

         Although  provisions in APS' bond indenture,  articles of incorporation
and Arizona  Corporation  Commission (ACC) financing  orders  establish  maximum
amounts of additional  first  mortgage  bonds and  preferred  stock that APS may
issue,  management does not expect any of these provisions to limit APS' ability
to meet its capital requirements.

         As of December 31, 1996, APS had credit  commitments from various banks
totaling  approximately $400 million, which were available either to support the
issuance of  commercial  paper or to be used as bank  borrowings.  At the end of
1996,  there were $16.9  million of  commercial  paper and $100  million of bank
borrowings outstanding.

Non-Utility Subsidiaries

During the past three years,  SunCor and El Dorado  together funded all of their
operations through cash flow from operations and their own financings.

        SunCor's  capital needs consist  primarily of capital  expenditures  and
home construction,  which, on the basis of projects now under  development,  are
expected to approximate $61 million,  $43 million and $55 million for 1997, 1998
and 1999,  respectively.  Capital resources available to meet these requirements
include funds provided by operations and SunCor's own external financings.

        During 1996,  SunCor  refinanced  existing  lines of credit and mortgage
bonds with a new $100 million bank  financing,  consisting of a $55 million line
of credit under which $42 million was  outstanding  at December 31, 1996,  and a
$45 million term loan. SunCor has debt obligations of $3 million, $5 million and
$29 million due in 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively.

Results of Operations

1996 Compared with 1995

Pinnacle West reported net income of $181.2 million in 1996 compared with $188.0
million in 1995. The following table summarizes the comparisons:

         (Thousands of Dollars)                  1996            1995
                                                 ----            ----

         Income from continuing
                 operations                $    211,059    $    199,608
         Loss from discontinued
                 operations -
                 net of income tax               (9,539)            --
         Extraordinary charge for early
                 retirement of debt - net of
                 income tax                     (20,340)        (11,571)
                                           ------------    ------------
         Net income                        $    181,180    $    188,037
                                           ============    ============

         The 1996 loss on  discontinued  operations  related to the  remnants of
MeraBank legal  matters.  Earnings  improvement  from  continuing  operations is
primarily  due to increased  earnings at APS and lower  interest  expense at the
parent company resulting from debt reduction and lower interest rates.

         APS earnings in 1996 were $226.4  million  compared with $220.4 million
in 1995. Earnings increased primarily due to increased operating revenues, lower
property taxes, the recognition of $12 million of income tax benefits associated
with capital loss  carryforwards and lower interest  expense.  The comparison of
1996 to 1995 was also  positively  impacted by asset  write-downs of $21 million
before  income taxes in 1995.  Operating  revenues  were higher due to increased
sales resulting from customer  growth,  warmer weather in 1996 and higher usage,
particularly by residential customers. Property taxes decreased primarily due to
a change in tax law.  Interest  expense was lower due to lower average  interest
rates and lower amounts of debt outstanding.

        Partially  offsetting  these positive factors at APS were $60 million of
accelerated regulatory asset amortization, higher fuel expenses, a pretax charge
of $31.7 million for a voluntary  severance program and a retail rate reduction.
Also  negatively  affecting  the  comparison of 1996 with 1995 was a gain on the
sale  of  a  small   subsidiary  in  1995.  The  accelerated   regulatory  asset
amortization  and the rate reduction were part of a regulatory  agreement  which
became  effective  July 1, 1996 (see Note 2 of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements).  Fuel expenses  were up primarily due to higher  natural gas costs,
increased  retail  sales  and  higher  coal  prices.  APS  does  not have a fuel
adjustment  clause as part of its retail rate structure;  therefore,  changes in
fuel and purchased power expenses are reflected currently in earnings.

         SunCor  reported net income of $4.2 million in 1996  compared with $4.1
million in 1995.  Increased real estate revenues and operating expenses were the
result of the  acquisition of Golden  Heritage Homes in 1996. 

         El Dorado  reported net income of $0.4 million in 1996 compared to $8.5
million in 1995. The decrease reflects investment sales in 1995.

1995 Compared with 1994

The Company  reported net income of $188.0  million in 1995 compared with $200.6
million in 1994.  However,  both years  included  significant  extraordinary  or
non-recurring items. In 1995, an extraordinary charge of $11.6 million 

after income taxes was recorded for a debt  prepayment  penalty.  Net income for
1994 included a non-recurring income tax benefit of $26.8 million. Excluding the
effects of the extraordinary and non-recurring  items, the Company earned $199.6
million in 1995 compared with $173.8 million in 1994.  The earnings  improvement
reflected  earnings at the subsidiaries and lower interest expense at the parent
company due to continued debt reduction.

         APS earnings in 1995 were $220.4  million  compared with $218.2 million
in 1994.  Earnings  increased  primarily  due to  customer  growth,  lower  fuel
expenses,  accelerated  amortization of investment tax credits, lower operations
and maintenance expenses,  lower preferred stock dividends and a gain recognized
on the sale of a small  subsidiary.  Fuel  expenses  decreased due to lower fuel
prices and a more favorable mix resulting from increased nuclear generation. The
accelerated  amortization  of investment  tax credits  (ITC's) was a result of a
1994 rate settlement (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements)
and is reflected as an $18 million decrease in consolidated  income tax expense.
Operations and maintenance  expense  decreased as a result of lower fossil plant
overhaul  costs,  improved  nuclear  operations and severance  costs incurred in
1994.   Preferred  stock  dividends   decreased  due  to  less  preferred  stock
outstanding.

         Substantially  offsetting  these  positive  factors were the absence of
non-cash income related to a 1991 rate settlement,  milder weather, the reversal
in 1994 of certain  previously  recorded  depreciation,  a retail rate reduction
which became effective June 1, 1994, and in 1995 a $13 million pretax write-down
of an office building and an $8 million pretax write-down of certain inventory.

         SunCor  reported net income of $4.1 million in 1995  compared with $0.5
million in 1994. The improvement  reflects  increased  commercial land sales and
the  termination of a  sale-leaseback  arrangement  related to the Wigwam Resort
which was replaced with a management agreement.

         El Dorado  reported net income of $8.5 million in 1995  compared with a
$4.0 million loss in 1994. The improvement reflects sales in 1995 of investments
and an investment write-down in 1994.

Electric Operating Revenues

Operating  revenues  reflect  changes in both the volume of units sold and price
per kilowatt-hour of electric sales. An analysis of the increases (decreases) in
1996 and 1995 electric operating revenues compared with the prior year follows:

               (Millions of Dollars)          1996         1995

               Volume variance:
                  Customer growth
                    and usage              $   75.1      $  57.9
                  Weather                      40.1        (42.0)
                  Other                          --         (1.7)
               Rate reductions                (29.7)       (11.4)
               Interchange sales                8.5         (7.2)
               Other                            9.3         (6.8)
                                           --------      ------- 
               Total change                $  103.3      $ (11.2)
                                           ========      ======= 

Income Tax Issues

         See Note 3 of  Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  regarding
accelerated  amortization of investment tax credits and the recognition of $26.8
million of income tax benefits in 1994.

Other Income

         Net income reflects accounting  practices required for regulated public
utilities  and  represents  a composite of cash and  non-cash  items,  including
allowance for funds used during  construction  (AFUDC) and  accretion  income on
Palo Verde Unit 3 (see Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and Note 1 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial  Statements).  The after-tax accretion income recorded
in 1994 was $20.3 million.  Also in 1994 was a one-time depreciation reversal of
$15  million,  after income  taxes,  which was  included in  "Other-net"  in the
Consolidated Statements of Income (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements).

ACCOUNTING MATTERS

See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of a
proposed  standard on accounting for certain  liabilities  related to closure or
removal of long-lived assets.

CURRENT ISSUES

The Company's ability to maintain and improve its current level of earnings will
depend on several factors.  As the electric  industry becomes more  competitive,
APS'  ability to reduce costs and increase  productivity  and asset  utilization
will be an  important  factor  in  maintaining  a price  structure  that is both
attractive to customers and profitable to the Company.  Other important  factors
that could affect the Company's  future earnings levels and any  forward-looking
statements contained in this "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition  and  Results  of   Operations"   include   regulatory   developments;
competitive  developments;  regional economic  conditions;  the cost of debt and
equity  capital;   regulatory,  tax  and  environmental   legislation;   weather
variations  affecting  customer  usage;  and  technological  developments in the
electricity industry.

Competition

Competition  continues to evolve in the electric utility  industry.  In December
1996, the ACC adopted rules for the introduction of retail electric  competition
in Arizona in phases from 1999 through 2003. The Rules establish a framework for
introducing  competition;  however,  with respect to certain matters,  they also
contain  requirements  for  further  workshops  and ACC  consideration  prior to
implementation.  Recommendations  to the ACC from the  workshops are expected in
late 1997.  The Rules  indicate that the ACC will allow  recovery of unmitigated
stranded  costs,  but do  not  set  forth  the  mechanisms  for  determining  or
recovering such costs.  Separately,  the Arizona legislature established a joint
legislative  committee to study retail electric competition and to report to the
legislature by the end of 1997. The Company believes that state legislation will
ultimately be required  before  significant  implementation  of retail  electric
competition can lawfully occur in Arizona. Additionally,  legislation related to
electric competition has been proposed in the U.S. Congress. See Note 2 of Notes
to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for further  discussion of  competitive
developments.  Until it has been determined how competition  will be implemented
in Arizona,  the  Company  cannot  accurately  predict the impact of full retail
electric competition on its financial position or results of operations.

         APS prepares its financial statements in accordance with the provisions
of Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards (SFAS) No. 71,  "Accounting for
the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation."  SFAS No. 71 requires a cost-based,
rate-regulated  enterprise to reflect the impact of regulatory  decisions in its
financial  statements.  APS' existing  regulatory orders and current  regulatory
environment support its accounting practices related to regulatory assets, which
amounted to approximately $1.1 billion at December 31, 1996. If rate recovery of
these assets is no longer  probable,  whether due to  competition  or regulatory
action,  APS would no longer be able to apply the  provisions  of SFAS No. 71 to
all or some part of its  operations  which  could have a material  impact on the
Company's financial  statements.  See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated  Financial
Statements for additional information on regulatory accounting.

Rate Matters

Pursuant to the price reduction  formula in the 1996  regulatory  agreement (see
Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements),  in March 1997, APS filed
with the ACC its calculation of an annual retail rate reduction of approximately
$18 million ($11 million after income taxes),  or 1.2%, to become effective July
1, 1997.  The amount and timing of the rate  decrease is subject to ACC approval
and,  if the ACC orders  hearings  on the matter,  the  effective  date could be
delayed.

               ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                 INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE


                              REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

         The primary responsibility for the integrity of the Company's financial
information rests with management, which has prepared the accompanying financial
statements and related information.  Such information was prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles  appropriate in the circumstances,
based on management's  best estimates and judgments and giving due consideration
to  materiality.  These  financial  statements  have been audited by independent
auditors and their report is included.

         Management  maintains  and relies upon  systems of internal  accounting
controls.  A limiting  factor in all systems of internal  accounting  control is
that the cost of the  system  should  not exceed  the  benefits  to be  derived.
Management  believes that the Company's system provides the appropriate  balance
between such costs and benefits.

         Periodically the internal accounting control system is reviewed by both
the  Company's  internal  auditors  and its  independent  auditors  to test  for
compliance.  Reports issued by the internal auditors are released to management,
and such reports or summaries  thereof are transmitted to the Audit Committee of
the Board of Directors and the independent auditors on a timely basis.

         The Audit  Committee,  composed  solely  of  outside  directors,  meets
periodically  with the internal  auditors and  independent  auditors (as well as
management)  to review the work of each. The internal  auditors and  independent
auditors have free access to the Audit Committee, without management present, to
discuss the results of their audit work.

         Management believes that the Company's systems, policies and procedures
provide  reasonable  assurance that  operations are conducted in conformity with
the law and with management's commitment to a high standard of business conduct.



                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

         We  have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets  of
Pinnacle West Capital  Corporation and its  subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996
and 1995 and the related  consolidated  statements of income,  retained earnings
and cash flows for each of the three  years in the  period  ended  December  31,
1996. Our audits also included the financial  statement  schedule  listed in the
Index  at  Item 8.  These  financial  statements  and  the  financial  statement
schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility
is to  express  an  opinion  on these  financial  statements  and the  financial
statement schedule based on our audits.

         We conducted our audits in accordance with generally  accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

         In our opinion, such consolidated  financial statements present fairly,
in all  material  respects,  the  financial  position of Pinnacle  West  Capital
Corporation  and its  subsidiaries at December 31, 1996 and 1995 and the results
of their  operations  and their  cash  flows for each of the three  years in the
period ended December 31, 1996 in conformity with generally accepted  accounting
principles.  Also,  in our opinion,  such  financial  statement  schedule,  when
considered  in  relation  to the basic  financial  statements  taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.




Deloitte & Touche LLP
Phoenix, Arizona
March 5, 1997

                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
                        Consolidated Statements of Income
                            Year ended December 31,
                (Dollars in Thousands, Except Per Share Amounts)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets
                             (Dollars in Thousands)

                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets
                             (Dollars in Thousands)

                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                            Year Ended December 31,
                             (Thousands of Dollars)


See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
                  Consolidated Statements of Retained Earnings
                            Year Ended December 31,
                             (Thousands of Dollars)


                                             1996         1995         1994
                                             ----         ----         ----

 Retained Earnings at Beginning of Year   $ 242,403    $ 135,221    $   6,717

 Net Income                                 181,180      188,037      200,619

 Common Stock Dividends                     (89,614)     (80,855)     (72,115)
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------

 Retained Earnings at End of Year         $ 333,969    $ 242,403    $ 135,221
                                          =========    =========    =========

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

1.      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Consolidation and Nature of Operations

The consolidated  financial statements include the accounts of Pinnacle West and
its subsidiaries: APS, SunCor and El Dorado.

         APS, the Company's  major  subsidiary  and Arizona's  largest  electric
utility,  with 738,000 customers,  provides wholesale or retail electric service
to the entire  state with the  exception  of Tucson  and about  one-half  of the
Phoenix area.  SunCor is a developer of  residential,  commercial and industrial
projects on some 14,000 acres  predominantly in the  metropolitan  Phoenix area,
and El Dorado is a venture capital firm with a diversified portfolio.

Accounting Records

The  accounting  records are maintained in accordance  with  generally  accepted
accounting  principles  (GAAP).  The  preparation  of  financial  statements  in
accordance with GAAP requires the use of estimates by management. Actual results
could differ from those estimates.

Regulatory Accounting

APS prepares its  financial  statements  in  accordance  with the  provisions of
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards (SFAS) No. 71, "Accounting for the
Effects of Certain  Types of  Regulation."  SFAS No. 71  requires a  cost-based,
rate-regulated  enterprise to reflect the impact of regulatory  decisions in its
financial statements.

         APS' major regulatory  assets are rate  synchronization  cost deferrals
(see "Rate Synchronization Cost Deferrals" in this note) and deferred taxes (see
Note  3).  These  items,  combined  with  miscellaneous  regulatory  assets  and
liabilities, amounted to approximately $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion at December
31, 1996 and 1995, respectively, most of which are included in "Deferred Debits"
on the  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets.  In accordance  with the 1996  regulatory
agreement (see Note 2), the ACC  accelerated the  amortization of  substantially
all of APS' regulatory  assets to an eight-year  period  beginning July 1, 1996.
The accelerated portion of the regulatory asset amortization,  approximately $60
million pretax in 1996, is included in depreciation and amortization  expense on
the Consolidated Statements of Income.

         APS'  existing  regulatory  orders and current  regulatory  environment
support its accounting  practices related to regulatory assets. If rate recovery
of these assets is no longer probable,  whether due to competition or regulatory
action,  APS would no longer be able to apply the  provisions  of SFAS No. 71 to
all or some part of its  operations  which  could have a material  impact on the
Company's financial statements.

Utility Plant and Depreciation

         Utility plant represents the buildings,  equipment and other facilities
used to provide  electric  service.  The cost of utility plant  includes  labor,
materials,  contract  services,  other  related items and an allowance for funds
used during  construction.  The cost of retired  depreciable utility plant, plus
removal costs less salvage realized, is charged to accumulated depreciation. See
Note  12  for  information  on a  proposed  accounting  standard  which  impacts
accounting for removal costs.

         Depreciation on utility property is recorded on a straight-line  basis.
The  applicable  rates for 1994  through  1996 ranged  from 1.51% to 20%,  which
resulted  in an  annual  composite  rate of 3.32%  for  1996.  Depreciation  and
amortization  of  non-utility  property  and  equipment  are  provided  over the
estimated useful lives of the related assets, ranging from 3 to 50 years.

Allowance for Funds Used During  Construction  

AFUDC represents the cost of debt and equity funds used to finance  construction
of utility plant.  Plant construction  costs,  including AFUDC, are recovered in
authorized rates through  depreciation  when completed  projects are placed into
commercial operation. AFUDC does not represent current cash earnings.

         AFUDC  has been  calculated  using  composite  rates of 7.75% for 1996;
8.52% for 1995; and 7.70% for 1994. APS compounds AFUDC  semiannually and ceases
to accrue AFUDC when  construction  is  completed  and the property is placed in
service.  Effective in 1997, APS will no longer accrue AFUDC. In place of AFUDC,
APS will capitalize interest in accordance with SFAS No. 34,  "Capitalization of
Interest Cost."

Revenues

Electric  operating  revenues are  recognized  on the accrual  basis and include
estimated  amounts  for  service  rendered  but  unbilled  at the  end  of  each
accounting period.

Palo Verde Accretion Income

In 1991,  the carrying  value of Palo Verde Unit 3 was discounted to reflect the
present value of lost cash flows resulting from a 1991 rate settlement agreement
deeming a portion of the unit to temporarily be excess  capacity.  In accordance
with generally  accepted  accounting  principles,  accretion income was recorded
over a  thirty-month  period  ended  May  1994 in the  aggregate  amount  of the
original  discount.  The after-tax  accretion  income recorded in 1994 was $20.3
million.

Rate Synchronization Cost Deferrals

As authorized by the ACC,  operating costs  (excluding fuel) and financing costs
of Palo Verde Units 2 and 3 were deferred  from the  commercial  operation  date
(September  1986 and January 1988,  respectively)  until the date the units were
included in a rate order (April 1988 and December 1991, respectively). Beginning
July 1, 1996,  the deferrals are being  amortized  over an eight-year  period in
accordance with the 1996 regulatory agreement (see Note 2). Prior to July 1, the
deferrals were  amortized over  thirty-five  year periods.  Amortization  of the
deferrals  is  included  in  depreciation  and   amortization   expense  on  the
Consolidated Statements of Income.

Nuclear Fuel

Nuclear  fuel is charged to fuel  expense  using the  unit-of-production  method
under which the number of units of thermal energy produced in the current period
is related to the total thermal units expected to be produced over the remaining
life of the fuel.

         Under  federal law,  the United  States  Department  of Energy (DOE) is
responsible  for the  permanent  disposal of spent  nuclear  fuel,  and assesses
$0.001 per kWh of nuclear  generation.  This  amount is charged to nuclear  fuel
expense.  See Note 11 for  information  on spent fuel  disposal  and Note 12 for
information on nuclear decommissioning costs.

Income Taxes

The Company files a consolidated  U.S. income tax return.  In accordance with an
intercompany tax allocation  agreement,  provisions for income taxes are made by
each subsidiary as if separate income tax returns were filed. The difference, if
any, between these  provisions and consolidated  income tax expense is allocated
to the parent company.

Reacquired Debt Costs

APS amortizes gains and losses on reacquired debt over the remaining life of the
original  debt,  consistent  with  ratemaking.   In  accordance  with  the  1996
regulatory  agreement (see Note 2), the ACC accelerated APS' amortization of the
regulatory  asset for reacquired  debt costs to an eight-year  period  beginning
July 1, 1996. The accelerated  portion of the regulatory  asset  amortization is
included in depreciation and amortization expense on the Consolidated Statements
of Income.

Statements of Cash Flows

Temporary cash  investments and marketable  securities are considered to be cash
equivalents for purposes of the  Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows.  During
1996, 1995 and 1994, the Company paid interest,  net of amounts capitalized,  of
$185.9 million,  $216.8 million and $231.6 million,  respectively.  Income taxes
paid were $121.0  million,  $77.4 million and $56.5 million,  respectively;  and
dividends paid on preferred  stock of APS were $17.4 million,  $19.1 million and
$26.2 million, respectively.

Reclassifications

Certain  prior  year  balances  have  been  restated  to  conform  to  the  1996
presentation.

2. REGULATORY MATTERS

Electric Industry Restructuring

State

The ACC has been conducting an ongoing  investigation  into the restructuring of
the Arizona  electric  industry in an open  competition  docket  involving  many
parties.  In December  1996,  the ACC adopted rules that provide a framework for
the  introduction  of retail  electric  competition.  The ACC has  ordered  that
reliability,   stranded  cost  recovery,  the  phase-in  process,  and  bundled,
unbundled  and  metering  services,  as  well  as  legal  issues,  will  require
additional  consideration  and will be addressed  through  workshops and working
groups  which  will issue  recommendations  to the ACC  during  1997.  The Rules
include the following major provisions:

     o The Rules are intended to apply to virtually all of the Arizona  electric
utilities regulated by the ACC, including APS.

     o Each  affected  utility  would be required to make  available at least 20
percent of its 1995 system retail peak demand for competitive  generation supply
to all customer  classes not later than January 1, 1999; at least 50 percent not
later than January 1, 2001;  and all of its retail demand not later than January
1, 2003. 

     o Electric  service  providers that obtain a Certificate of Convenience and
Necessity  (CC&N) from the ACC would be allowed to supply,  market and/or broker
specified  electric  services at retail.  These services would include  electric
generation, but exclude electric transmission and distribution.

     o On or before December 31, 1997, each affected utility is required to file
with the ACC proposed tariffs for bundled service and unbundled service. Bundled
service  means  electric  service  elements  (i.e.,  generation,   transmission,
distribution and ancillary  services)  provided as a package to customers within
an affected  utility's  current service area.  Unbundled  service means electric
service elements  provided and priced  separately.  Affected  utilities would be
required  to  provide  bundled  service,  as  well  as  unbundled  transmission,
distribution and miscellaneous other services, at regulated cost-based rates.

     o The  Rules  indicate  that the ACC will  allow  recovery  of  unmitigated
stranded  costs.  Each  affected  utility would be required to file with the ACC
estimates of unmitigated  stranded costs.  The ACC would then, after hearing and
consideration of various  factors,  determine the magnitude of stranded cost and
appropriate stranded cost recovery mechanisms and charges.

         APS  continues  to focus on working  with the ACC to bring  competitive
benefits  to Arizona  but  believes  that  certain  provisions  of the Rules are
deficient.  In February  1997,  APS filed  lawsuits to protect its legal  rights
regarding the Rules.

         A joint  legislative  committee  has been  appointed to study  electric
utility industry  restructuring issues and report back to the legislature by the
end of 1997. APS believes that  legislation  will  ultimately be required before
significant implementation of the Rules can lawfully occur.

         Until  it  has  been  further   determined  how  competition   will  be
implemented in Arizona,  APS cannot accurately predict the impact of full retail
competition on its financial position or results of operations.

Federal

The  Energy  Policy  Act of 1992 and recent  rulemakings  by FERC have  promoted
increased  competition in the wholesale electric power markets. The Company does
not expect these rules to have a material impact on its financial statements.

         Several electric  utility reform bills have been introduced  during the
current legislative session,  which as currently written,  would allow consumers
to choose their electric supplier by 2000 or 2003. These bills, other bills that
are expected to be  introduced,  and ongoing  discussions  at the federal  level
suggest  a wide  range of  opinion  that  will need to be  narrowed  before  any
substantial restructuring of the electric utility industry can occur.

1996 Regulatory Agreement

In April 1996, the ACC approved a regulatory  agreement  between APS and the ACC
Staff. The major provisions of this agreement are:

     o An annual rate  reduction  of  approximately  $48.5  million ($29 million
after  income  taxes),  or 3.4% on  average  for all  customers  except  certain
contract customers, effective July 1, 1996.

     o Recovery of substantially  all of APS' present  regulatory assets through
accelerated  amortization  over an  eight-year  period  beginning  July 1, 1996,
increasing annual  amortization by approximately $120 million ($72 million after
income taxes). See Note 1.

     o  A  formula  for  sharing  future  cost  savings  between  customers  and
shareholders  (price  reduction  formula)  referencing  a return on  equity  (as
defined) of 11.25%.

     o A moratorium on filing for permanent  rate changes prior to July 2, 1999,
except  under the  price  reduction  formula  and under  certain  other  limited
circumstances.

     o Infusion of $200 million of common equity into APS by the parent company,
in annual payments of $50 million starting in 1996.

         Pursuant to the price reduction formula,  in March 1997, APS filed with
the ACC its calculation of an annual retail rate reduction of approximately  $18
million ($11 million after income taxes),  or 1.2%, to become  effective July 1,
1997. The amount and timing of the rate decrease is subject to ACC approval.

1994 Settlement Agreement

In May 1994, the ACC approved a retail rate settlement  agreement which provided
for a net annual retail rate reduction of 2.2% on average,  or approximately $32
million ($19 million after income taxes), effective June 1, 1994. As part of the
settlement,  in 1994 APS reversed approximately $20 million of depreciation ($15
million  after income  taxes)  related to a 1991 Palo Verde  write-off.  It also
provided   for  the  accelerated  amortization  of  substantially  all  deferred
investment tax credits over a five-year period beginning in 1995.

3.      INCOME TAXES

Investment Tax Credit

Beginning in 1995,  substantially  all ITCs are being amortized over a five-year
period in accordance  with the 1994 rate  settlement  agreement.  Prior to 1995,
ITCs were deferred and amortized to other income over the estimated lives of the
related assets as directed by the ACC.

Non-recurring Income Tax Benefit

The  recognition of $26.8 million of  non-recurring  income tax benefits in 1994
relates to a change in tax law.

Income Taxes

The Company  follows the liability  method of accounting  for income taxes which
requires  that deferred  income taxes be recorded for all temporary  differences
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities  and the amounts  recognized for
financial  reporting.  Deferred taxes are recorded using  currently  enacted tax
rates. In accordance  with SFAS No. 71, APS  established a regulatory  asset for
certain temporary differences, primarily AFUDC equity, to reflect the ratemaking
treatment.  This regulatory asset is being amortized as the related  differences
reverse. In accordance with the 1996 regulatory  agreement (see Note 2), the ACC
accelerated  APS'  amortization  of the regulatory  asset for income taxes to an
eight-year  period  beginning  July 1,  1996.  The  accelerated  portion  of the
regulatory  asset  amortization  is included in  depreciation  and  amortization
expense on the Consolidated Statements of Income.

The components of income tax expense from continuing operations are as follows:


      Year Ended December 31,            1996         1995         1994
      (Thousands of Dollars)             ----         ----         ----

      Current
              Federal                 $ 105,312    $  77,869    $  49,112
              State                      35,052        1,081          922
                                      ---------    ---------    ---------
      Total current                     140,364       78,950       50,034

      Deferred                           23,752       21,339      (10,012)
      NOL and ITC
           carryforward utilized           --         58,019      115,623
      Change in
           valuation allowance          (12,142)      (6,814)        --
      Change in tax law                    --           --        (26,770)
      ITC amortization                  (23,518)     (23,529)      (5,905)
                                      ---------    ---------    ---------
      Total expense                   $ 128,456    $ 127,965    $ 122,970
                                      =========    =========    =========

Income tax expense differed from the amount computed by multiplying  income from
continuing  operations  before income taxes by the statutory  federal income tax
rate due to the following:


 Year Ended December 31,                    1996        1995         1994
 (Thousands of Dollars)                     ----        ----         ----

Federal income tax
     expense at statutory
     rate, 35%                          $  118,830   $ 114,651    $ 113,256  
Increases (reductions)                                                       
     in tax expense                                                          
     resulting from:                                                         
             Tax under book                                                  
                  depreciation              19,229      18,186       17,236  
             Preferred stock                                                 
                  dividends of APS           5,982       6,697        8,846  
             ITC amortization              (23,518)    (23,529)      (5,905) 
             State income tax                                                
                  net of federal                                             
                  income tax                                                 
                  benefit                   19,565      19,245       (5,983) 
             Change in                                                       
                  valuation                                                  
                  allowance                (10,525)     (5,908)        --    
             Other                          (1,107)     (1,377)      (4,480) 
                                        ----------   ---------    ---------  
Income tax expense                      $  128,456   $ 127,965    $ 122,970  
                                        ==========   =========    =========  

The  components of the net deferred  income tax liability at December 31 were as
follows:


(Thousands of Dollars)                              1996           1995
                                                    ----           ----
Deferred tax assets
    Alternative minimum tax (can be
        carried forward indefinitely)          $   125,735    $   140,708
    Deferred gain on Palo Verde
        Unit 2 sale/leaseback                       35,105         36,945
    Other                                           97,060        109,612
    Valuation allowance                             (7,964)       (25,552)
                                               -----------    -----------
              Total deferred tax assets            249,936        261,713
                                               -----------    -----------
Deferred tax liabilities
    Plant-related                                1,104,902      1,081,290
    Regulatory asset for
        income taxes                               208,647        221,418
    Rate synchronization deferrals                 167,202        181,384
    Other                                           58,809         59,147
                                               -----------    -----------
              Total deferred tax liabilities     1,539,560      1,543,239
                                               -----------    -----------
Accumulated deferred
    income taxes - net                         $ 1,289,624    $ 1,281,526
                                               ===========    ===========


4. Lines of Credit

APS had committed lines of credit with various banks of $400 million at December
31, 1996 and $300 million at December 31, 1995,  which were available  either to
support the issuance of commercial paper or to be used for bank borrowings.  The
commitment  fees at December 31, 1996 and 1995 for these lines of credit  ranged
from 0.10% to 0.15% per annum. APS had long-term bank borrowings of $100 million
outstanding at December 31, 1996 and commercial paper borrowings  outstanding of
$16.9  million and $177.8  million at December 31, 1996 and 1995,  respectively,
under these lines of credit.  The weighted  average  interest rate on commercial
paper   borrowings   was  6.40%  and  6.06%  on  December  31,  1996  and  1995,
respectively. By Arizona statute, APS' short-term borrowings cannot exceed 7% of
its total capitalization without the consent of the ACC.

         The parent  company had a revolving  line of credit of $225  million at
December 31, 1996 and $100 million at December 31, 1995. The commitment  fees on
these  lines  were  0.125%  in 1996,  and  ranged  from  0.13% to 0.18% in 1995.
Outstanding  amounts under these lines at December 31, 1996 and 1995,  were $200
million and $100 million, respectively.

         SunCor had revolving lines of credit  totalling $55 million at December
31, 1996 and $40 million at December  31,  1995.  The  commitment  fees on these
lines were 0.125% in 1996,  and ranged  from 0.125% to 0.2% in 1995.  SunCor had
$42.4  million and $40.0 million  outstanding  under these lines at December 31,
1996 and 1995, respectively.

5. Long-Term Debt

Borrowings  under the APS mortgage bond  indenture are secured by  substantially
all utility plant;  SunCor's debt is  collaterized  by interests in certain real
property;  and Pinnacle  West's debt is unsecured.  The following table presents
consolidated long-term debt outstanding:



(a)  The  weighted-average  rate at  December  31,  1996 and 1995 was  7.66% and
     7.79%, respectively. The weighted-average years to maturity at December 31,
     1996 and 1995 was 18 years and 19 years, respectively.

(b)  The  weighted-average  rates for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995
     were 3.40% and 4.31%,  respectively.  Changes in short-term  interest rates
     would affect the costs associated with this debt.

(c)  The  weighted-average  rate for the year ended December 31, 1996 was 5.76%.
     Changes in short-term interest rates would affect the costs associated with
     this debt.

(d)  Represents  the present value of future lease  payments  (discounted  at an
     interest rate of 7.48%) on a combined cycle plant sold and leased back from
     the independent owner-trustee formed to own the facility (see Note 9).

(e)  The weighted-average  interest rate at December 31, 1996 and 1995 was 8.52%
     and 8.43%,  respectively.  Interest  for 1996 was based on LIBOR plus 2% or
     prime  plus  0.5%,  and for 1995 was  based on LIBOR  plus 2.5% or 2.75% or
     prime plus 0.5%.

(f)  The weighted-average interest rate at December 31, 1996 was 7.62%. Interest
     is based on LIBOR plus 2% or prime plus 0.5%.

(g)  Multiple notes  primarily with variable  interest rates based mostly on the
     lenders' prime.

(h)  The weighted-average  interest rate at December 31, 1996 and 1995 was 5.85%
     and 6.21%, respectively. Interest for 1996 was based on LIBOR plus 0.4% and
     for 1995 was LIBOR plus 0.3%.

(i)  Includes  two  series  of notes:  $25  million  at 6.62% due 2001,  and $25
     million at 6.87% due 2003.

         During 1996,  Pinnacle West prepaid at a premium the  remaining  11.61%
debentures due December 2000, using a short-term  borrowing,  which was replaced
with a new line of credit (see Note 4) and senior notes. The early retirement of
debt resulted in a charge of $20.3  million  after income taxes,  which has been
reflected as an extraordinary charge in the Consolidated Statements of Income.

         Aggregate annual principal payments due on total long-term debt and for
sinking fund  requirements  through 2001 are as follows:  1997,  $156.3 million;
1998,  $108.9 million;  1999, $133.7 million;  2000,  $160.1 million;  and 2001,
$327.6  million.  See Note 6 for  redemption  and sinking fund  requirements  of
redeemable preferred stock of APS.

6. Preferred Stock of APS

Non-redeemable  preferred  stock is not redeemable  except at the option of APS.
Redeemable  preferred stock is redeemable  through sinking fund obligations.  In
addition,  Series V  redeemable  preferred  stock is callable by APS.  Preferred
stock balances of APS are shown below:

(a)  In each case plus accrued dividends.

(b)  This authorization also covers all outstanding redeemable preferred stock.

(c)  Dividend rate adjusted  quarterly to 2% below that of certain United States
     Treasury  securities,  but in no event less than 6% or greater than 12% per
     annum. Reedemable at par.

(d)  Redeemable at par after December 1, 1998.

(e)  Redeemable at $104.73  through May 31, 1997, and thereafter  declining by a
     predetermined amount each year to par after May 31, 2002.

If there were to be any arrearage in dividends on any of its preferred  stock or
in the sinking fund requirements  applicable to any of its redeemable  preferred
stock,  APS could not pay  dividends  on its common  stock or acquire any shares
thereof for consideration.  The redemption requirements for the above issues for
the next five years are:  $10.0  million in each of the years 1997 through 2000,
and $1.0 million in 2001.

         Redeemable preferred stock transactions of APS during each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1996 are as follows:

                                             Number of     Par Value
         (Dollars in Thousands)               Shares         Amount
                                              ------         ------


         Balance, December 31, 1993         1,976,100    $  197,610

         Retirements
                 $8.80 Series K              (142,100)      (14,210)
                 $11.50 Series R             (284,000)      (28,400)
                 $8.48 Series S              (300,000)      (30,000)
                 $8.50 Series T              (500,000)      (50,000)
                                            ---------    ----------
         Balance, December 31, 1994           750,000        75,000
         Retirements                             --            --
                                            ---------    ----------
         Balance, December 31, 1995           750,000        75,000
         Retirements
                 $10.00 Series U              (90,000)       (9,000)
                 $7.875 Series V             (130,000)      (13,000)
                                            ---------    ----------
         Balance, December 31, 1996           530,000    $   53,000
                                            =========    ==========

7. Common Stock

The  Company's  common stock issued during each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1996 is as follows:


                                           Number of
         (Dollars in Thousands)              Shares      Amount (a)
                                           ----------    ----------

            Balance, December 31, 1993     87,423,817   $ 1,642,783
                    Common stock issued         5,825        (1,587)
                                           ----------   -----------
            Balance, December 31, 1994     87,429,642     1,641,196
                    Common stock issued        86,205        (2,512)
                                           ----------   -----------
            Balance, December 31, 1995     87,515,847     1,638,684
                    Common stock issued          --          (2,330)
                                           ----------   -----------
            Balance, December 31, 1996     87,515,847   $ 1,636,354
                                           ==========   ===========

(a)  Including premiums and expenses of preferred stock issues of APS.

         The Company has incentive plans under which it may grant  non-qualified
stock options  (NQSOs),  incentive  stock options  (ISOs) and  restricted  stock
awards  to  officers  and key  employees.  The FASB  issued a new  statement  on
"Accounting  for  Stock-Based  Compensation"  which was effective for 1996.  The
statement encourages,  but does not require, companies to recognize compensation
expense  based on the fair value  method.  The Company  continues  to  recognize
expense based on Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No. 25. The effects on net
income of applying the fair value method would not be material.

         The plans  provide  for the  granting of new options or awards of up to
3.5 million  shares at a price per option not less than fair market value on the
date the option is  granted.  The plans also  provide  for the  granting  of any
combination of stock  appreciation  rights or dividend  equivalents.  The awards
outstanding under the various incentive plans at December 31, 1996,  approximate
1,809,576 NQSOs,  259,825 restricted shares,  18,749 dividend  equivalent shares
and no ISOs or stock appreciation rights.

8. Retirement Plans and Other Benefits

Voluntary Severance Plan

APS  sponsored a  voluntary  severance  plan in 1996 which  resulted in a before
income tax charge of $31.7 million (including pension and postretirement benefit
expense)  recorded  primarily as operations and maintenance  expense.  Employees
participating  in the plan  were  credited  with an  additional  year of age and
service for purposes of calculating  pension and  postretirement  benefits.  The
total additional  pension and  postretirement  benefit expense recorded for this
program was $2.3 million and $5.4 million, respectively.

Pension Plans

The Company  sponsors defined benefit pension plans covering  substantially  all
employees.  Benefits are based on years of service and compensation  utilizing a
final average pay benefit  formula.  Company policy is to fund not less than the
minimum  required  contribution  nor  greater  than the  maximum  tax-deductible
contribution. Plan assets consist primarily of domestic and international common
stocks and bonds and real estate. Pension expense,  including administrative and
severance costs, for 1996, 1995 and 1994 was approximately $15.5 million,  $10.0
million and $12.3 million, respectively.

         The components of net periodic  pension costs before  consideration  of
amounts  capitalized or billed to others and excluding  severance  costs of $2.9
million in 1996 and $1.4 million in 1994 are as follows:



       (Thousands of Dollars)            1996        1995       1994
                                         ----        ----       ----
       Service cost - benefits
               earned during
               the period              $ 23,397    $ 16,390    $ 20,728
       Interest cost on
               projected benefit
               obligation                45,124      39,762      39,748
       Return on plan assets            (63,136)    (83,031)      6,053
       Net amortization
               and deferral              19,969      46,469     (44,283)
                                       --------    --------    --------
       Net consolidated
               periodic pension cost   $ 25,354    $ 19,590    $ 22,246
                                       ========    ========    ========

        A  reconciliation  of the  funded  status  of the  plan  to the  amounts
recognized in the balance sheets is presented below:

(Thousands of Dollars)                           1996         1995
                                                 ----         ----

Plan assets at fair value                     $ 539,179    $ 474,583
                                              ---------    ---------
Less:
Accumulated benefit
        obligation, including vested
        benefits of $418,052 and
        $399,962 in 1996 and
        1995, respectively                      472,864      432,772
Effect of projected future
        compensation increases                  135,811      151,897
                                              ---------    ---------
Total projected benefit obligation              608,675      584,669
                                              ---------    ---------
Plan assets less than projected
        benefit obligation                      (69,496)    (110,086)
Plus:
        Unrecognized net loss
                from past experience
                different from that assumed       3,314       45,227
        Unrecognized prior service cost          20,563       23,892
        Unrecognized net transition
                asset                           (29,690)     (32,917)
                                              ---------    ---------
Accrued pension liability                     $ (75,309)   $ (73,884)
                                              =========    ========= 

Principal actuarial assumptions used were:


                                                   1996    1995
                                                   ----    ----

                  Discount rate                    7.75%   7.25%
                  Rate of increase in
                          compensation levels      4.50%   4.50%
                  Expected long-term rate
                          of return on assets      9.00%   9.00%

In addition to the defined  benefit  pension  plans,  the Company also  sponsors
qualified  defined   contribution   plans.   Collectively,   these  plans  cover
substantially  all employees.  The plans provide for employee  contributions and
partial employer matching  contributions after certain eligibility  requirements
are met.  Expenses  related  to these  plans for  1996,  1995 and 1994 were $3.6
million, $3.2 million and $3.3 million, respectively.

Postretirement Plans

The  Company  provides  medical  and  life  insurance  benefits  to its  retired
employees.  Employees  must  retire to  become  eligible  for  these  retirement
benefits  which are  based on years of  service  and age.  The  retiree  medical
insurance  plans  are  contributory;   the  retiree  life  insurance  plans  are
non-contributory.  In accordance with the governing plan documents,  the Company
retains the right to change or eliminate these benefits.

         Funding is based upon actuarially  determined  contributions  that take
tax consequences into account.  Plan assets consist primarily of domestic stocks
and  bonds.  The  postretirement  benefit  expense  for 1996,  1995 and 1994 was
approximately $16 million, $14 million and $14 million, respectively.

         The  components  of net periodic  postretirement  benefit  costs before
consideration of amounts capitalized or billed to others and excluding severance
costs of $9.6 million in 1996 are as follows:


       (Thousands of Dollars)               1996           1995          1994
                                            ----           ----          ----
Service cost - benefits
        earned during
        the period                       $  8,168       $  6,925       $  9,030
Interest cost on
        accumulated benefit
        obligation                         13,525         13,879         14,152
Return on plan assets                     (12,550)       (15,133)        (6,459)
Net amortization
        and deferral                       12,778         17,179         11,680
                                         --------       --------       --------
Net consolidated
        periodic postretire-
        ment benefit cost                $ 21,921       $ 22,850       $ 28,403
                                         ========       ========       ========

A reconciliation  of the funded status of the plan to the amounts  recognized in
the balance sheets is presented below:

(Thousands of Dollars)                                     1996         1995
                                                           ----         ----

Plan assets at fair value                              $ 109,763    $  81,309 
Less accumulated postretirement benefit obligation:                           
                Retirees                                  87,146       90,616 
                Fully eligible plan participants           3,720       15,659 
                Other active plan participants            90,539      108,235 
                                                       ---------    ---------
Total accumulated postretirement        
        benefit obligation                               181,405      214,510 
                                                       ---------    --------- 
Plan assets less than accumulated                                             
        benefit obligation                               (71,642)    (133,201)
Plus:                                                                         
        Unrecognized transition                                               
                obligation                               123,239      156,599 
        Unrecognized net gain from past                                       
                experience different from                                     
                that assumed                             (62,759)     (24,621)
                                                       ---------    --------- 
Accrued postretirement liability                       $ (11,162)   $  (1,223)
                                                       =========    ========= 
                                                       

Principal actuarial assumptions used were:
                                                        1996            1995
                                                        ----            ----

Discount rate                                           7.75%           7.25%
Annual salary increases for life
        insurance obligation                            4.50%           4.50%
Expected long-term rate of return
        on assets - after tax                           7.75%           7.64%
Initial health care cost trend
        rate - under age 65                             9.00%           9.50%
Initial health care cost trend
        rate - age 65 and over                          8.00%           8.50%
Ultimate health care cost trend
        rate (reached in the year 2002)                 5.50%           5.50%

        Assuming a one percent  increase in the health care cost trend rate, the
1996 cost of  postretirement  benefits  other than  pensions  would  increase by
approximately $5 million and the accumulated  benefit  obligation as of December
31, 1996 would increase by approximately $31 million.

9. Leases

In 1986,  APS entered into sale and leaseback  transactions  under which it sold
approximately  42% of  its  share  of  Palo  Verde  Unit  2 and  certain  common
facilities.  The gain of  approximately  $140.2 million has been deferred and is
being  amortized to operations  expense over the original lease term. The leases
are being  accounted for as operating  leases.  The amounts to be paid each year
approximate $40.1 million through 1999, $46.3 million in 2000, and $49.0 million
through  2015.  Options to renew for two  additional  years and to purchase  the
property at fair market  value at the end of the lease terms are also  included.
Consistent  with the ratemaking  treatment,  an amount equal to the annual lease
payments is included in rent expense.  A regulatory  asset is recognized for the
difference between lease payments and rent expense calculated on a straight-line
basis. In accordance  with the 1996  regulatory  agreement (see Note 2), the ACC
accelerated  APS'  amortization  of  the  regulatory  asset  for  leases  to  an
eight-year  period  beginning  July 1, 1996.  The  accelerated  amortization  is
included in depreciation and amortization expense on the Consolidated Statements
of Income.  The balance of this regulatory  asset at December 31, 1996 was $57.3
million.  Lease expense for 1996, 1995 and 1994 was $41.8 million, $41.7 million
and $42.2 million, respectively.

         APS has a capital  lease on a combined  cycle  plant  which it sold and
leased back. The lease requires semiannual payments of $2.6 million through June
2001, and includes renewal and purchase options based on fair market value. This
plant is included  in plant in service at its  original  cost of $54.4  million;
accumulated amortization at December 31, 1996 was $44.6 million.

         In addition, the Company leases certain land, buildings,  equipment and
miscellaneous  other items  through  operating  rental  agreements  with varying
terms, provisions and expiration dates. Rent expense for 1996, 1995 and 1994 was
approximately  $12.8  million,  $15.4 million and $21.3  million,  respectively.
Annual future minimum rental commitments,  excluding the Palo Verde and combined
cycle leases,  through 2001 are as follows:  1997,  $14.9 million;  1998,  $14.9
million; 1999, $14.8 million; 2000, $14.8 million and 2001, $15.5 million. Total
rental commitments after the year 2001 are estimated at $171.2 million.

10. Jointly-Owned Facilities

At  December  31,  1996,  APS owned  interests  in the  following  jointly-owned
electric generating and transmission facilities. APS' share of related operating
and maintenance expenses is included in utility operations and maintenance.


(a)  The construction  costs at Navajo are primarily related to the installation
     of scrubbers required by recent environmental legislation.

(b)  APS is the operating agent for Cholla Unit 4, which is owned by PacifiCorp.
     The common facilities at the Cholla Plant are jointly-owned.

(c)  Weighted average of interests.

- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

11. Commitments and Contingencies

Litigation

The Company is party to various claims,  legal actions and complaints arising in
the ordinary  course of  business.  In the opinion of  management,  the ultimate
resolution  of these  matters  will not have a  material  adverse  effect on the
Company's financial statements.

Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station

APS has encountered  tube cracking in steam  generators and has taken,  and will
continue to take, remedial actions that it believes have slowed the rate of tube
degradation.  The projected  service life of the steam  generators is reassessed
periodically and these analyses indicate that it will be economically  desirable
for APS to  replace  the Unit 2 steam  generators  between  2003 and  2008.  APS
estimates that its share of the replacement costs (in 1996 dollars and including
installation  and replacement  power costs) will be  approximately  $50 million,
most of which  will be  incurred  after  the  year  2000.  Based  on the  latest
available data, APS estimates that the Unit 1 and Unit 3 steam generators should
operate for the license  periods (until 2025 and 2027,  respectively),  although
APS will continue its normal periodic assessment of these steam generators.

         Under the Nuclear  Waste Policy Act, DOE was to develop the  facilities
necessary  for the storage and disposal of spent fuel and to have the first such
facility in operation by 1998.  That facility was to be a permanent  repository,
but DOE has  announced  that such a repository  now cannot be  completed  before
2010.  The Company has  capacity in existing  fuel  storage  pools at Palo Verde
which,  with certain  modifications,  could  accommodate all fuel expected to be
discharged from normal  operation of Palo Verde through about 2002, and believes
it could augment that wet storage with new facilities for on-site dry storage of
spent fuel for an  indeterminate  period of operation  beyond  2002,  subject to
obtaining any required  governmental  approvals.  The Company currently believes
that spent fuel storage or disposal  methods  will be available  for use by Palo
Verde to allow its continued operation beyond 2002.

        The  Palo  Verde   participants  have  insurance  for  public  liability
resulting  from  nuclear  energy  hazards to the full limit of  liability  under
federal law. This potential  liability is covered by primary liability insurance
provided by commercial  insurance carriers in the amount of $200 million and the
balance by an industry-wide  retrospective  assessment program. If losses at any
nuclear power plant covered by the programs  exceed the accumulated  funds,  APS
could be assessed retrospective premium adjustments.  The maximum assessment per
reactor  under the  program  for each  nuclear  incident  is  approximately  $79
million, subject to an annual limit of $10 million per incident. Based upon APS'
29.1% interest in the three Palo Verde units, APS' maximum potential  assessment
per incident for all three units is  approximately  $69 million,  with an annual
payment limitation of approximately $9 million.

        The Palo  Verde  participants  maintain  "all risk"  (including  nuclear
hazards) insurance for property damage to, and  decontamination  of, property at
Palo Verde in the aggregate  amount of $2.75 billion,  a substantial  portion of
which must first be applied to stabilization and  decontamination.  APS has also
secured  insurance  against  portions of any  increased  cost of  generation  or
purchased power and business interruption resulting from a sudden and unforeseen
outage of any of the three units. The insurance  coverage  discussed in this and
the previous paragraph is subject to certain policy conditions and exclusions.

Fuel and Purchased Power Commitments  

         APS is a party to various fuel and purchased power contracts with terms
expiring from 1997 through 2020 that include required purchase  provisions.  APS
estimates  its 1997  contract  requirements  to be  approximately  $120 million.
However,  this amount may vary  significantly  pursuant to certain provisions in
such contracts which permit APS to decrease its required purchases under certain
circumstances.

         APS is contractually  obligated to reimburse certain coal providers for
amounts incurred for coal mine  reclamation.  APS' share of the total obligation
is  estimated  at  $114  million.  The  portion  of the  coal  mine  reclamation
obligation  related  to coal  already  burned is  approximately  $68  million at
December  31,  1996  and  is  included  in  "Deferred   Credits-Other"   in  the
Consolidated  Balance Sheet. A regulatory asset has been established for amounts
not yet  recovered  from  ratepayers.  In  accordance  with the 1996  regulatory
agreement  (see  Note  2),  the  ACC  began  accelerated  amortization  of  APS'
regulatory  asset for coal mine  reclamation  costs  over an  eight-year  period
beginning  July  1,  1996.   Amortization  is  included  in   depreciation   and
amortization  expense on the Consolidated  Statements of Income.  The balance of
the regulatory asset at December 31, 1996 was approximately $69 million.

Construction Program

Total capital expenditures in 1997 are estimated at $357 million.

12. Nuclear Decommissioning Costs

In 1996, APS recorded $11.4 million for decommissioning  expense.  APS estimates
it will cost approximately  $2.0 billion ($440 million in 1996 dollars),  over a
fourteen year period  beginning in 2024, to  decommission  its 29.1% interest in
the three Palo Verde  units.  Decommissioning  costs are charged to expense over
the respective unit's operating license term and are included in the accumulated
depreciation balance until each unit is retired.  Nuclear  decommissioning costs
are currently recovered in rates.

         APS is utilizing a 1995  site-specific  study for Palo Verde,  prepared
for   APS   by   an   independent   consultant,    that   assumes   the   prompt
removal/dismantlement  method of decommissioning.  APS is required to update the
study every three years.

         As required by regulation,  APS has established external trust accounts
into which quarterly deposits are made for  decommissioning.  As of December 31,
1996,  APS had  deposited  a total of $68.1  million.  The  trust  accounts  are
included in "Investments and Other Assets" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at
a market  value of $95.5  million on  December  31,  1996.  The trust  funds are
invested  primarily  in  fixed-income  securities  and  domestic  stock  and are
classified as available for sale.  Realized and unrealized  gains and losses are
reflected in accumulated depreciation.

        In February  1996,  the FASB issued an exposure  draft  "Accounting  for
Certain  Liabilities  Related to Closure or Removal of Long-Lived  Assets" which
would require the estimated  present  value of the cost of  decommissioning  and
certain  other  removal  costs to be  recorded  as a  liability,  along  with an
offsetting plant asset when a  decommissioning   or other removal  obligation is
incurred.  The FASB  has  indicated  that a  revised  exposure  draft or a final
statement will be issued in the second quarter of 1997.

13. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

Consolidated quarterly financial information for 1996 and 1995 is as follows:



(a)  APS' operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations  primarily as a result
     of weather  conditions.  The results of operations for interim  periods are
     not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year.

(b)  Net income for the quarter  ended  December  31, 1996  includes a charge of
     $18.9 million for a voluntary severance program.

(c)  Dividends  for the quarters  ended  September 30 and December 31, 1996 were
     declared in June and September, respectively.

14. Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The Company  estimates  that the carrying  amounts of its cash  equivalents  and
commercial  paper are reasonable  estimates of their fair values at December 31,
1996 and 1995 due to their short maturities.

        Investments  in debt and equity  securities  are held for purposes other
than  trading.  The December 31, 1996 and 1995 fair values of such  investments,
determined by using quoted market values or by  discounting  cash flows at rates
equal to the Company's cost of capital,  approximate their carrying amounts.  It
was not  practical  to estimate the fair value of several  investments  in joint
ventures  and  untraded  equity  securities  because  costs  to do so  would  be
excessive.  The carrying  value of these  investments  totaled $20.0 million and
$22.8 million at year-end 1996 and 1995, respectively.

        The carrying  value of long-term  debt  (excluding a  capitalized  lease
obligation)  on December 31, 1996 and 1995 was $2.51 billion and $2.50  billion,
respectively,  and the estimated fair value was $2.47 billion and $2.52 billion,
respectively.  The fair value estimates are based on quoted market prices of the
same or similar issues.

                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS


(a) Represents pro-rata allocations for sale of land.

                     ITEM 9. CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH
               ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         None.

                                    PART III

                        ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE
                           OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         Reference is hereby made to "Election of Directors"  and "Section 16(a)
Beneficial  Ownership  Reporting  Compliance"in  the Company's  Proxy  Statement
relating to the annual meeting of  shareholders  to be held on May 21, 1997 (the
"1997 Proxy Statement") and to the Supplemental Item -- "Executive Officers of
the Company" in Part I of this report.

                         ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         Reference is hereby made to the fourth and fifth  paragraphs  under the
heading  "The  Board  and its  Committees,"  and to "Human  Resources  Committee
Report," "Compensation  Committee Interlocks and Insider  Participation," "Stock
Performance Comparisons," "Executive Compensation" and "Executive Benefit Plans"
in the 1997 Proxy Statement.

                         ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF
                    CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         Reference is hereby made to "Certain Securities  Ownership" in the 1997
Proxy Statement.

             ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         Reference  is hereby made to  "Compensation  Committee  Interlocks  and
Insider Participation" in the 1997 Proxy Statement.

                                     PART IV

          ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT
                       SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules

         See the  Index  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  Financial
Statement Schedule in Part II, Item 8.

Exhibits Filed



         In  addition  to  those  Exhibits  shown  above,   the  Company  hereby
incorporates  the  following  Exhibits  pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 12b-32 and
Regulation ss. 229.l0(d) by reference to the filings set forth below:






































           (a) Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement  required
to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K

           (b) Reports filed under File Nos. 1-4473 and 1-8962 were filed in the
office of the Securities and Exchange Commission located in Washington, D.C.

           (c) An additional document,  substantially  identical in all material
respects to this  Exhibit,  has been  entered  into,  relating to an  additional
Equity  Participant.  Although  such  additional  document  may  differ in other
respects (such as dollar amounts,  percentages, tax indemnity matters, and dates
of execution), there are no material details in which such document differs from
this Exhibit.

           (d) Additional  agreements,  substantially  identical in all material
respects  to this  Exhibit  have  been  entered  into with  additional  persons.
Although such additional  documents may differ in other respects (such as dollar
amounts and dates of  execution),  there are no  material  details in which such
agreements differ from this Exhibit.

Reports on Form 8-K

         During the quarter ended  December 31, 1996, and the period ended March
28, 1997, the Company did not file any Report on Form 8-K.

                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                       PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
                                                  (Registrant)

Date:  March 28, 1997                      Richard Snell
                                       -----------------------------------------
                                       (Richard Snell, Chairman of the Board of 
                                         Directors and Chief Executive Officer)

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
this  report has been  signed  below by the  following  persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


                                                 COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-8962
================================================================================

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                  ----------

                                 EXHIBITS TO


                                1996 FORM 10-K

               ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                     THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996
                                  ----------
                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
              (Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)

================================================================================

                              INDEX TO EXHIBITS



