
10-K
ANNUAL REPORT


============================================================================

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                --------------
                                1993 FORM 10-K
     (Mark One)
       [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
            OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
            FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993

                                      OR

       [ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
            OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
            FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM ----- TO -----

                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-8962
                                --------------
                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                ARIZONA                                86-0512431
      (State or other jurisdiction        (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
   of incorporation or organization)
  400 East Van Buren Street, Suite 700
         Phoenix, Arizona 85004                      (602) 379-2500
(Address of principal executive offices,     (Registrant's telephone number,
          including zip code)                     including area code)
                                --------------

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                      NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON
         TITLE OF EACH CLASS                              WHICH REGISTERED
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Common Stock,                                        New York Stock Exchange
    No Par Value.....................................  Pacific Stock Exchange
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                        AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE
                                                          OF SHARES HELD BY
      TITLE OF EACH CLASS       SHARES OUTSTANDING       NON-AFFILIATES AS OF
        OF VOTING STOCK        AS OF MARCH 23, 1994         MARCH 23, 1994
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Common Stock, No Par Value...      87,416,576            $ 1,818,209,400 (a)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(A) COMPUTED  BY REFERENCE TO THE CLOSING PRICE ON THE COMPOSITE TAPE ON MARCH
    23, 1994, AS REPORTED BY THE WALL STREET JOURNAL.
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Indicate  by  check  mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required  to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12  months  (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                Yes---------------------- X ----------------------
                 No----------------------   ----------------------

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405  of  Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the  best  of  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in  Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [  ]
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the registrant's definitive Proxy Statement relating to its annual
meeting  of  shareholders  to  be  held  on  May 19, 1994  are incorporated by
reference into Part III hereof.
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                    PART I

                               ITEM 1. BUSINESS

THE COMPANY

    Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (the "Company") was incorporated in 1985
under  the  laws of the State of Arizona and is engaged in the acquisition and
holding  of  securities of corporations for investment purposes. The principal
executive  offices  of  the  Company are located at 400 East Van Buren Street,
Phoenix, Arizona 85004 (telephone 602-379-2500).

    The  Company  and  its subsidiaries employ approximately 7,915 persons. Of
these  employees, approximately 7,050 are employees of the Company's principal
subsidiary,  Arizona Public Service Company ("APS"), and employees assigned to
joint projects of APS where APS serves as a project manager, and approximately
865 are employees of the Company and its other subsidiaries.

    Other  subsidiaries  of  the  Company,  in addition to APS, include SunCor
Development Company ("SunCor") and El Dorado Investment Company ("El Dorado").
SunCor  is  engaged  primarily  in the owning, holding and development of real
property.  El  Dorado is involved in the business of making equity investments
in  other  companies.  See "Business of Non-Utility Subsidiaries" in this Item
for further information regarding SunCor and El Dorado.

    Effective  December  16,  1986,  the  Company acquired MeraBank, A Federal
Savings  Bank  ("MeraBank").  On  January  31,  1990,  MeraBank  was placed in
receivership,  and  is  therefore  considered  a discontinued operation of the
Company  for  financial  reporting  purposes.  See  Note 2 of the Notes to the
Consolidated  Financial Statements  in Item  8  for information  regarding the
Company's $450  million cash  infusion into  MeraBank in  settlement of claims
made by certain federal agencies with respect to MeraBank.

    CAPITAL  REQUIREMENTS.  During the past three years, the Company's primary
cash needs were for the repayment of principal and interest on its outstanding
debt.  Additional  cash  needs  in  1993  were  related  to the fourth quarter
restoration of common stock dividends.

    As  a  result  of  a restructuring of substantially all of its outstanding
debt  in  1990,  and the prepayment of approximately $112 million, $96 million
and  $152  million of its long-term debt in 1991, 1992 and 1993, respectively,
the  Company  has  reduced required principal debt payments for the next three
years.  The  Company's principal and interest payment obligations during 1994,
1995  and  1996 are expected to total approximately $129 million, $129 million
and  $83  million,  respectively (based upon certain anticipated prepayments).
See  Note 6 of the Notes to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements in
Item 8 for additional information regarding the Company's and APS' outstanding
long-term debt.

    The   Company's  ability  to  satisfy  its  debt  service  obligations  is
substantially  dependent  upon the receipt of common stock dividends from APS.
The Company  has in  place a  $40  million  liquidity  facility to  assist the
Company in meeting its  debt service  requirements in the event that cash flow
is less than anticipated. The facility is available for principal and interest
payments on the Company's outstanding debt, with a maximum of  $20 million for
principal payments.

    The  terms and provisions of certain of the Company's financing agreements
place  severe  restrictions on the Company's ability to incur additional debt,
to make capital infusions into its subsidiaries (excluding APS), to make other
new  investments  and to pay cash dividends to its shareholders unless certain
conditions  are  met.  While the debt under these financing agreements remains
outstanding,  the  Company  has agreed not to incur new debt, except generally
(and  with  certain  restrictions)  for (1) borrowings to reduce, refinance or
prepay existing debt and (2) borrowings under the liquidity facility discussed
in  the  immediately  preceding  paragraph.  The Company's ability to pay cash
dividends  or  to  make  other  corporate  distributions is dependent upon the
satisfaction of certain  financial covenants.  The Company restored a dividend
on its common stock in the fourth quarter of 1993.

    In the event of a sale of all or substantially all of the assets or shares
of  common stock of El Dorado or SunCor, the net cash proceeds must be applied
by the Company to reduce its outstanding debt. Until the Company's lenders are
fully  repaid,  (1) any  new  investments  by  the Company in its subsidiaries
(excluding  APS)  are generally restricted to $15 million in the aggregate and
(2) any  other  new investments by the Company are generally restricted to $20
million  in  the  aggregate. As of December 31, 1993, the Company had not made
any such investments.

    As  part  of  the  Company's  1990 debt restructuring, the Company granted
substantially all of its lenders a security interest in the outstanding common
stock of APS pursuant to a Pledge Agreement, dated as of January 31, 1990 (the
"Pledge  Agreement").  At  December  31,  1993,  the  APS common stock secured
approximately  $564  million of the Company's outstanding debt. Any borrowings
under  the  Company's  liquidity facility (see above) would also be secured by
the  APS  common  stock  owned  by  the  Company.  Until  the  Company and the
collateral  agent  under the Pledge Agreement (the "Collateral Agent") receive
notice  of  the occurrence and continuation of an Event of Default (as defined
in  the Pledge Agreement), the Company is entitled to exercise or refrain from
exercising  any  and  all voting  and  other  consensual rights  pertaining to
the  APS common stock. As to matters other than the election of directors, the
Company  agreed not to exercise or refrain from exercising any such rights if,
in  the Collateral Agent's judgment, such action would have a material adverse
effect  on  the  value  of  the  APS common stock. After notice of an Event of
Default,  the  Collateral  Agent  would  have the right to vote the APS common
stock.

REGULATION

PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANY

    The  Company  currently  conducts no significant business activities other
than  investing  in its subsidiaries and owns no significant assets other than
the  common  stock  of  its subsidiaries. The Company and its subsidiaries are
currently  exempt  from  registration under the Public Utility Holding Company
Act  of  1935  (the  "Holding  Company Act"); however, there are limits on the
extent to which the Company can diversify beyond energy-related fields without
affecting  its  exempt  status.  In February 1989, the Securities and Exchange
Commission  (the  "SEC") released for public comment a proposed rule under the
Holding  Company Act relating to holding companies, like the Company, that are
exempt under Section 3(a)(1) of the Holding Company Act. The proposed rule, if
finally  adopted by the SEC in its present form, could require the divestiture
of  a  portion  of  the Company's interests in non-utility businesses within a
three-year  period  after  the  rule's  adoption  in  order for the Company to
maintain its Section 3(a)(1) exemption. If the Company failed to maintain this
exemption, the proposed rule would require the Company to divest itself of all
of  its interests in non-utility businesses within the same three-year period.
At  this time, the Company is unable to predict whether the proposed rule will
be adopted by the SEC and, if so, in what form it will be adopted.

    On  May  1,  1990,  the ACC approved the filing of a petition with the SEC
requesting  the  SEC  to  revoke  or  modify the Company's exemption under the
Holding  Company  Act.  The  SEC  has  the  power  to  terminate the Company's
exemption  upon  thirty  days  notice  to  the Company if it determines that a
question  exists  as to whether the exemption may be detrimental to the public
interest  or  the  interests  of  investors  or consumers. In the event of the
exercise  of such power by the SEC, if the Company were to file an application
with  the SEC during such thirty-day period requesting an exemption order, the
Company's  exemption  would  remain  in  place  until  the  SEC  ruled on such
application.  If  the  Company ultimately were to have its exemption modified,
conditioned or revoked, APS could be subject to SEC regulation in many aspects
of   its   business,   including   those  relating  to  securities  issuances,
diversification and transactions among affiliates. In a series of responses to
the  ACC's  petition  and  subsequent  ACC letters to the SEC, the Company has
asked  the  SEC to refuse to take the action requested by the ACC. The Company
cannot  predict  what action, if any, the SEC may take with respect to the ACC
petition.

ARIZONA CORPORATION COMMISSION REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

    On  April 29, 1985, the ACC issued an order subjecting the Company and APS
to  certain  reporting  requirements  in  connection  with  certain  of  their
activities.  The  order requires the Company to report to the ACC on a monthly
basis concerning the Company's diversification activities and plans, financing
arrangements  and  changes  in  management.  The  order  also requires monthly
reports describing transactions between APS and the Company or its affiliates.

ARIZONA CORPORATION COMMISSION AFFILIATED INTEREST RULES

    On  March  14,  1990  the  ACC  issued  an  order  adopting  certain rules
purportedly  applicable  only to a certain class of public utilities regulated
by  the ACC, including APS. The rules define the terms "public utility holding
company" and "affiliate" with respect to public service corporations regulated
by the ACC in such a manner as to include the Company and all of the Company's
non-public  service corporation subsidiaries. By their terms, the rules, among
other  things,  require public utilities, such as APS, to receive ACC approval
prior  to  (1) obtaining  an  interest  in,  or  guaranteeing  or assuming the
liabilities  of,  any  affiliate  not regulated by the ACC; (2) lending to any
such  affiliate (except for short-term loans in an amount less than $100,000);
or  (3) using  utility  funds  to  form  a  subsidiary or divest itself of any
established   subsidiary.   The  rules  also  would  prevent  a  utility  from
transacting  business with an affiliate unless the affiliate agrees to provide
the  ACC  "access  to  the  books  and  records of the affiliate to the degree
required to fully audit, examine or otherwise investigate transactions between
the  public utility and the affiliate." In addition, the rules provide that an
"affiliate  or  holding  company  may  not  divest  itself  of,  or  otherwise
relinquish control of, a public utility without thirty (30) days prior written
notification  to  the [ACC]" and would require all public utilities subject to
them  and  all public utility holding companies to annually "provide the [ACC]
with a description of diversification plans for the current calendar year that
have  been approved by the Boards of Directors." The order became effective as
to  APS  on  December  1,  1992.  The rules have not had, nor does the Company
expect  the  rules  to  have,  a  material  adverse  impact on the business or
operations of the Company.

                  BUSINESS OF ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY

    Following  is a discussion of the business of APS, the Company's principal
subsidiary.

GENERAL

    APS  was  incorporated  in  1920  under the laws of Arizona and is engaged
principally  in  serving  electricity  in  the State of Arizona. The principal
executive  offices  of  APS  are  located  at 400 North Fifth Street, Phoenix,
Arizona  85004  (telephone  602-250-1000). APS currently employs approximately
7,050  persons,  which includes employees assigned to joint projects where APS
is project manager.

    APS serves approximately 654,000 customers in an area that includes all or
part  of 11 of Arizona's 15 counties. During 1993, no single purchaser or user
of energy accounted for more than 3% of total electric revenues.

INDUSTRY AND COMPANY ISSUES

    The  utility  industry  continues  to  experience  a number of challenges.
Depending  on  the  circumstances  of  a particular utility, these may include
(i) competition in general from numerous sources; (ii) effects of the National
Energy  Policy  Act  of 1992 (the "Energy Act"); (iii) difficulties in meeting
government  imposed  environmental  requirements;  (iv) the  necessity to make
substantial  capital  outlays  for  transmission  and distribution facilities;
(v) uncertainty     regarding     projected    electrical    demand    growth;
(vi) controversies  over  electromagnetic fields; (vii) controversies over the
safety  and  use of nuclear power; (viii) issues related to spent fuel and low
level  waste (see "Generating Fuel" below); and (ix) increasing costs of wages
and materials.

    The  impact on APS of other utility industry problems is discussed in this
Item  under "Environmental Matters." Also see "Water Supply" in this Item with
respect to certain problems specific to APS and other utilities.

COMPETITION

    Certain  territory  adjacent to or within areas served by APS is served by
other  investor-owned utilities (notably Tucson Electric Power Company serving
electricity  in  the  Tucson  area,  Southwest  Gas  Corporation  serving  gas
throughout  the  state, and Citizens Utilities Company serving electricity and
gas  in  various locations throughout the state) and a number of cooperatives,
municipalities,  electrical  districts,  and  similar  types  of  governmental
organizations (principally the Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement and
Power  District  ("SRP")  serving  electricity  in various areas in and around
Phoenix).

    APS  expects  increased  competition in the future, mostly with respect to
large  customers,  from  entities  offering  alternative sources of energy. In
recent  years,  changing  laws and governmental regulations, interest in self-
generation,  competition  from  nonregulated  energy suppliers, and aggressive
marketing  from  the  gas  industry, are providing some utility customers with
alternative  sources to satisfy their energy needs. This may be increased as a
result of the Energy Act which, among other things, removes certain previously
existing  barriers  to  entry  into  electric  generation. The Energy Act also
permits certain other parties to compete for resale customers currently served
by  a  particular utility and to use that utility's transmission facilities in
order  to do so. The requirements with respect to implementation of the Energy
Act  have  not yet been completely determined, so APS cannot currently predict
its impact on APS' business and operations.

    In  order  to  remain  competitive  in  this changing environment, APS has
determined  that  it  must  be  a  cost-effective  supplier, provide excellent
service   and  be  knowledgeable  about  its  customers'  businesses.  APS  is
concentrating  on several areas which are key to the success of this strategy,
including   effectively  managing  its  operating  and  maintenance  expenses;
reinforcing  the importance of customer needs among APS employees; and working
with customers to evaluate, recommend and provide services which will optimize
their efficiency.

CAPITAL STRUCTURE

    The capital structure of APS (which, for this purpose, includes short-term
borrowings  and  current maturities of long-term debt) as of December 31, 1993
is tabulated below.

                                                          Amount    Percentage
                                                        ----------  ----------
                                                        (Thousands
                                                            of
                                                         Dollars)
Long-Term Debt Less Current Maturities:
  First mortgage bonds................................  $1,729,070
  Other...............................................     395,584
                                                        ----------
    Total long-term debt less current maturities......   2,124,654       50.7%
                                                        ----------
Non-Redeemable Preferred Stock........................     193,561        4.6
                                                        ----------
Redeemable Preferred Stock............................     197,610        4.7
                                                        ----------
Common Stock Equity:
  Common stock, $2.50 par value, 100,000,000 shares
    authorized; 71,264,947 shares outstanding.........     178,162
  Premiums and expenses...............................   1,037,681
  Retained earnings...................................     307,098
                                                        ----------
    Total common stock equity.........................   1,522,941       36.4
                                                        ----------
      Total capitalization............................   4,038,766
Current Maturities of Long-Term Debt..................       3,179         .1
Short-Term Borrowings.................................     148,000        3.5
                                                        ----------    --------

      Total...........................................  $4,189,945      100.0%
                                                        ==========    ========

See  Notes  6, 7, and 8 of  Notes to the  Consolidated Financial Statements in
Item 8.

    On  March  1, 1994 APS redeemed all of the outstanding shares of its $8.80
Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K ($100 par value), in the amount of $14.21
million.  On  March  2,  1994,  APS  issued $100 million of its First Mortgage
Bonds, 6 5/8% Series due 2004 and applied the net proceeds to the repayment of
short-term  debt  that had been incurred for the redemption of preferred stock
and for general corporate purposes.

    So  long  as  any  of  APS'  first  mortgage bonds are outstanding, APS is
required for each calendar year to deposit with the trustee under its mortgage
cash  in  a  formularized  amount  related  to net additions to APS' mortgaged
utility  plant;  however, APS may satisfy all or any part of this "replacement
fund"  requirement  by  utilizing  redeemed  or  retired  bonds,  net property
additions, or property retirements. For 1993, the replacement fund requirement
amounted  to  approximately  $122  million. Many, though not all, of the bonds
issued  by  APS  under  its  mortgage  are  redeemable at their par value plus
accrued  interest  with cash deposited by APS in the replacement fund, subject
in  many  cases  to  a period of time after the original issuance of the bonds
during  which  they may not be so redeemed and/or to other restrictions on any
such  redemption.  The  cash  deposited  with  the  trustee  by APS in partial
satisfaction  of its 1993 replacement fund requirements will be used to redeem
$60.264  million  in  aggregate principal amount of APS' First Mortgage Bonds,
10 3/4% Series  due  2019, at their principal amount plus accrued interest, on
April 4, 1994.

RATES

    STATE.  The  ACC  has regulatory authority over APS in matters relating to
retail  electric  rates  and  the   issuance  of  securities.  See "Rate  Case
Settlement" in Note 3 of the Notes to  the  Consolidated  Financial Statements
in Item 8 for a discussion of the December 1991 settlement of APS' most recent
retail rate case before the ACC.

    FEDERAL.  APS'  rates  for wholesale power sales and transmission services
are  subject  to  regulation  by  the  Federal  Energy  Regulatory  Commission
("FERC").  During  1993,  approximately 8% of APS' electric operating revenues
resulted  from  such  sales  and  charges.  For  most  wholesale  transactions
regulated by the FERC, a fuel adjustment clause results in monthly adjustments
for  changes  in  the  actual  cost  of  fuel  for  generation and in the fuel
component of purchased power expense.

CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM

    Although its plans are subject to change, APS does not presently intend to
construct  any  new  major baseload generating units for at least the next ten
years.  Utility  construction expenditures for the years 1994 through 1996 are
therefore expected to be primarily for expanding transmission and distribution
capabilities  to  meet customer growth, upgrading existing facilities, and for
environmental  purposes. Construction expenditures, including expenditures for
environmental  control  facilities,  for the years 1994 through 1996 have been
estimated as follows:

                            (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)
BY YEAR                                         BY MAJOR FACILITIES
- ------------------------------      ------------------------------------------
 1994                     $279      Electric generation                   $271
 1995                      302      Electric transmission                   92
 1996                      293      Electric distribution                  390
                          ----      General facilities                     121
                          $874                                            ----
                          ====                                            $874
                                                                          ====

    The  amounts  for  1994 through 1996 include expenditures for nuclear fuel
but  exclude  capitalized  interest  costs and capitalized property taxes. APS
conducts a continuing review of its construction program. This program and the
above  estimates  are  subject  to  periodic  revisions  based upon changes in
assumptions  as to system reliability, system load growth, rates of inflation,
the  availability  and timing of environmental and other regulatory approvals,
the  availability  and  costs  of  outside  sources of capital, and changes in
project  construction  schedules.  During  the  years  1991  through 1993, APS
incurred   approximately   $641   million  in  construction  expenditures  and
approximately $31 million in additional capitalized items.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

    Pursuant  to the Clean Air Act, the United States Environmental Protection
Agency  ("EPA")  has  adopted  regulations,  applicable  to certain federally-
protected  areas,  that  address  visibility impairment that can be reasonably
attributed to specific sources. In September 1991, the EPA issued a final rule
that  would  limit  sulfur  dioxide emissions at the Navajo Generating Station
("NGS").  Compliance  with  the  emission limitation becomes applicable to NGS
Units  1,  2,  and  3  in  1997,  1998,  and  1999, respectively. SRP, the NGS
operating  agent,  has estimated a capital cost of $530 million, most of which
will  be  incurred from 1995-1998, and annual operations and maintenance costs
of approximately $10 million per unit, for NGS to meet these requirements. APS
will be required to fund 14% of these expenditures.

    The  Clean  Air Act Amendments of 1990 (the "Amendments") became effective
on November 15, 1990. The Amendments address, among other things, "acid rain,"
visibility   in  certain  specified  areas,  toxic  air  pollutants,  and  the
nonattainment of national ambient air quality standards. With respect to "acid
rain,"   the  Amendments  establish  a  system  of  sulfur  dioxide  emissions
"allowances."  Each  existing  utility  unit  is  granted  a certain number of
"allowances."  On  March  5, 1993, the EPA promulgated rules listing allowance
allocations  applicable  to Company-owned plants, which allocations will begin
in  the  year  2000.  Based  on  those  allocations,  APS will have sufficient
allowances  to  permit  continued  operation  of  its plants at current levels
without  installing  additional equipment. In addition, the Amendments require
the  EPA  to  set  nitrogen  oxides  emissions limitations which would require
certain plants to install additional pollution control equipment. On March 22,
1994, the EPA issued rules for nitrogen oxide emissions limitations which will
require  the  Company to install additional pollution control equipment at the
Four Corners Power Plant ("Four Corners").  In the year 2000 Four Corners must
comply with either  these  or  more  stringent  requirements  which  might  be
promulgated by the  EPA.  The  EPA  has  until  1997  to  set  more  stringent
requirements.  However, if  Four Corners accelerates to  1997 compliance  with
these March 22, 1994 requirements, it can delay until 2008 compliance with any
more stringent requirements which the EPA may set.  APS has not yet determined
how it will proceed;  however, APS  currently  estimates  the capital  cost of
complying by 1997 with  the specified requirements  will be  approximately $16
million.

    With  respect  to protection of visibility in certain specified areas, the
Amendments  require  the  EPA  to complete a study by November 1995 concerning
visibility   impairment   in   those   areas  and  identification  of  sources
contributing to such impairment. Interim findings of this study have indicated
that  any  beneficial effect on visibility as a result of the Amendments would
be  offset  by  expected population and industry growth. EPA has established a
"Grand Canyon Visibility Transport Commission" to complete a study by November
1995  on visibility impairment in the "Golden Circle of National Parks" in the
Colorado Plateau. NGS, the Cholla Power Plant ("Cholla"), and Four Corners are
located   near   the   "Golden   Circle  of  National  Parks."  Based  on  the
recommendations  of  the  Commission, the EPA may require additional emissions
controls  at  various  sources  causing  visibility  impairment in the "Golden
Circle  of  National  Parks"  and  may  limit  economic development in several
western  states.  APS  cannot  currently estimate the capital expenditures, if
any, which may be required as a result of the EPA studies and the Commission's
recommendations.

    With respect to hazardous air pollutants emitted by electric utility steam
generating  units,  the Amendments require two studies. First, there will be a
study  to  be  completed  by  November  1994  of  potential impacts of mercury
emissions  from  such  units and various other sources on public health and on
the  environment,  including  available  control technologies. Second, the EPA
will  complete  a  general  study by November 1995 concerning the necessity of
regulating  such  units  under  the  Amendments. Due to the lack of historical
data,  and because APS cannot speculate as to the ultimate requirements by the
EPA, APS cannot currently estimate the capital expenditures, if any, which may
be required as a result of these studies.

    Certain aspects of the Amendments may require related expenditures by APS,
such  as  permit  fees, none of which APS expects to have a material impact on
its financial position.

GENERATING FUEL

    Coal,  nuclear,  gas,  and  other contributions to total net generation of
electricity  by  APS  in  1993, 1992, and 1991, and the average cost to APS of
those fuels (in dollars per MWh), were as follows:



    Other includes oil and hydro generation.

    APS  believes  that  Cholla  has  sufficient  reserves  of low sulfur coal
committed  to that plant for the next six years, the term of the existing coal
contract,  and  sufficient  reserves  of  low sulfur coal available for use to
continue operating it for its useful life. APS also believes that Four Corners
and NGS have sufficient reserves of low sulfur coal available for use by those
plants  to  continue  operating  them  for  at least thirty years. The current
sulfur  content  of  coal being used at Four Corners, NGS, and Cholla is 0.8%,
0.6%,  and  0.4%, respectively. In 1993, average prices paid for coal supplied
from  reserves  dedicated under the existing contracts were relatively stable,
although   applicable   contract  clauses  permit  escalations  under  certain
conditions.  In  addition, major price adjustments can occur from time to time
as a result of contract renegotiation.

    NGS  and Four Corners are located on the Navajo Reservation and held under
easements  granted by the federal government as well as leases from the Navajo
Tribe.  See  "Properties" in Item 2. APS purchases all of the coal which fuels
Four  Corners  from  a  coal  supplier with a long-term lease of coal reserves
owned  by  the  Navajo Tribe and for NGS from a coal supplier with a long-term
lease  with  the  Navajo  and Hopi Tribes. APS purchases all of the coal which
fuels  Cholla  from  a coal supplier who obtains substantially all of the coal
under a long-term lease of coal reserves owned by the Navajo Tribe and under a
lease with the Bureau of Land Management.

    APS  is  a  party to contracts with twenty-seven natural gas operators and
marketers  which allow APS to purchase natural gas in the method it determines
to  be  most  economic. During 1993, the principal sources of APS' natural gas
generating  fuel  were  twelve of these companies. APS is currently purchasing
the  majority  of  its natural gas requirements from six companies pursuant to
contracts.  APS'  natural  gas  supply  is  transported  pursuant  to  a  firm
transportation  service  contract between APS and El Paso Natural Gas Company.
APS  continues  to  analyze  the  market to determine the source and method of
meeting its natural gas requirements.

    The  fuel  cycle  for  the  Palo  Verde  Nuclear Generating Station ("Palo
Verde")  is  comprised  of the following stages: (1) the mining and milling of
uranium  ore  to  produce  uranium concentrates, (2) the conversion of uranium
concentrates   to   uranium   hexafluoride,   (3) the  enrichment  of  uranium
hexafluoride,  (4) the  fabrication of fuel assemblies, (5) the utilization of
fuel  assemblies  in  reactors,  and  (6) the  storage  of  spent fuel and the
disposal  thereof.  The Palo Verde participants have made arrangements through
contract   flexibilities   to   obtain   quantities  of  uranium  concentrates
anticipated  to  be  sufficient to meet operational requirements through 1996.
Existing  contracts and options could be utilized to meet approximately 75% of
requirements  in  1997  and  50%  of requirements from 1998 through 2000. Spot
purchases  in  the uranium market will be made, as appropriate, in lieu of any
uranium that might be obtained through contract flexibilities and options. The
Palo  Verde  participants have contracted for all conversion services required
through  1994  and for up to 65% of conversion services required through 1998,
with  options  to continue through the year 2000. The Palo Verde participants,
including  APS,  have  an  enrichment  services  contract  with  United States
Enrichment  Corporation  ("USEC")  which  obligates USEC to furnish enrichment
services  required for the operation of the three Palo Verde units over a term
expiring  in  November 2014, with annual options to terminate each year of the
contract  with  ten  years  prior notice. The participants have exercised this
option,  terminating  30%  of  requirements  for 1996 through 1998 and 100% of
requirements  during  the  years  1999  through  2002.  In  addition, existing
contracts  will  provide  fuel  assembly fabrication services for at least ten
years from the date of operation of each Palo Verde unit, and through contract
options,  approximately fifteen additional years are available. The Energy Act
includes   an  assessment  for  decontamination  and  decommissioning  of  the
enrichment  facilities  of the United States Department of Energy ("DOE"). The
total  amount of this assessment has not yet been finalized; however, based on
preliminary indications, APS expects that the annual assessment for Palo Verde
will  be  approximately $3 million, plus escalation for inflation, for fifteen
years. APS will be required to fund 29.1% of this assessment.

    Existing  spent  fuel  storage  facilities  at  Palo Verde have sufficient
capacity  with  certain  modifications  to  store  all  fuel  expected  to  be
discharged  from normal operation of all Palo Verde units through at least the
year  2005.  Pursuant  to  the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended in
1987  (the  "Waste  Act"), DOE is obligated to accept and dispose of all spent
nuclear fuel and other high-level radioactive wastes generated by all domestic
power reactors. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the "NRC"), pursuant to the
Waste  Act,  also  requires  operators of nuclear power reactors to enter into
spent  fuel  disposal contracts with DOE. APS, on its own behalf and on behalf
of  the  other  Palo  Verde  participants,  has executed a spent fuel disposal
contract  with  DOE.  The  Act  also  obligates  DOE to develop the facilities
necessary  for  the  permanent disposal of all spent fuel generated, and to be
generated,  by  domestic power reactors and to have the first such facility in
operation  by 1998 under prescribed procedures. In November 1989, DOE reported
that  such permanent disposal facility will not be in operation until 2010. As
a  result,  under  DOE's current criteria for shipping allocation rights, Palo
Verde's  spent  fuel  shipments  to  the DOE permanent disposal facility would
begin in approximately 2025. In addition, APS believes that on-site storage of
spent  fuel  may be required beyond the life of Palo Verde's generating units.
APS currently believes that alternative interim spent fuel storage methods are
or  will  be  available on-site or off-site for use by Palo Verde to allow its
continued  operation  beyond  2005  and to safely store spent fuel until DOE's
scheduled shipments from Palo Verde begin.

    The  off-site  facilities  for low level waste now being utilized for Palo
Verde  may  soon  be  closed to it. APS is currently exploring means to either
ship the waste to an alternative site or to store it on-site until an off-site
location  becomes  available.  APS  currently  believes that interim low level
waste  storage methods are or will be available for use by Palo Verde to allow
its  continued operation and to safely store low level waste until a permanent
disposal facility is available.

    While  believing  that scientific and financial aspects of the issues with
respect  to  fuel  and  low  level  waste  can be resolved satisfactorily, APS
acknowledges that their ultimate resolution will require political resolve and
action on national and regional scales which it is less able to predict.

PALO VERDE LIABILITY AND INSURANCE MATTERS

    See  "Nuclear  Insurance" in  Note  13  of the  Notes to  the Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of the insurance maintained by
the Palo Verde participants, including APS, for Palo Verde.

PALO VERDE NUCLEAR GENERATING STATION

    By  letter  dated July 7, 1993, the NRC advised APS that, as a result of a
Recommended  Decision  and  Order  by a Department of Labor Administrative Law
Judge  (the  "ALJ")  finding  that APS discriminated against a former contract
employee  at  Palo  Verde  because  he  engaged  in "protected activities" (as
defined   under   federal  regulations),  the  NRC  intended  to  schedule  an
enforcement conference with APS. Following the ALJ's finding, APS investigated
various  elements  of both the substantive allegations and the manner in which
the United States Department of Labor (the "DOL")  proceedings were conducted.
As a result of that investigation,  APS determined  that one of  its employees
had falsely testified during the proceedings,  that there were inconsistencies
in the  testimony  of  another  employee,  and  that  certain  documents  were
requested in,  but  not  provided during,  discovery.  The  two  employees  in
question are no longer with APS. APS provided the results of its investigation
to the ALJ, who  referred matters  relating  to  the  conduct  of  two  former
employees of APS to the  United States Attorney's  office in Phoenix, Arizona.
On December 15, 1993 APS and the former  contract employee who had raised  the
DOL claim entered  into a settlement agreement,  a part of which  was  subject
to  approval by the  Secretary of Labor.  On  March 21, 1994 the  Secretary of
Labor issued a final  order approving  the settlement.  By letter dated August
10, 1993, APS also provided  the results of its investigation  to the NRC, and
advised the NRC that, as a result of  APS' investigation, APS had  changed its
position opposing the finding of discrimination. The NRC is investigating this
matter and APS is fully cooperating with the NRC in this regard.

    See  "Palo  Verde Tube Cracks" in Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial  Statements  in  Item  8  for  a  discussion  of  issues relating to
the Palo Verde steam generators.

WATER SUPPLY

    Assured  supplies  of  water are important both to APS (for its generating
plants)  and  to its customers. However, conflicting claims to limited amounts
of  water  in  the  southwestern United States have resulted in numerous court
actions in recent years.

    Both  groundwater  and surface water in areas important to APS' operations
have  been  the subject of inquiries, claims, and legal proceedings which will
require  a  number of years to resolve. APS is one of a number of parties in a
proceeding before a state court in New Mexico to adjudicate rights to a stream
system  from which water for Four Corners is derived. (State of New Mexico, in
the  relation  of  S.E. Reynolds, State Engineer vs. United States of America,
City  of  Farmington,  Utah  International, Inc., et al., San Juan County, New
Mexico, District Court No. 75-184). An agreement reached with the Navajo Tribe
in  1985, however, provides that if Four Corners loses a portion of its rights
in  the  adjudication,  the  Tribe  will provide, for a then-agreed upon cost,
sufficient water from its allocation to offset the loss.

    A  summons served on APS in early 1986 required all water claimants in the
Lower  Gila  River  Watershed  in  Arizona to assert any claims to water on or
before  January  20,  1987,  in  an action pending in Maricopa County Superior
Court.  (In re The General Adjudication of All Rights to Use Water in the Gila
River  System  and  Source,  Supreme  Court Nos. WC-79-0001 through WC 79-0004
(Consolidated)  [WC-1,  WC-2,  WC-3  and WC-4 (Consolidated)], Maricopa County
Nos.  W-1,  W-2, W-3 and W-4 (Consolidated)). Palo Verde is located within the
geographic  area  subject  to  the  summons,  and the rights of the Palo Verde
participants,  including  APS,  to the use of groundwater and effluent at Palo
Verde  is potentially at issue in this action. APS, as project manager of Palo
Verde,  filed claims that dispute the court's jurisdiction over the Palo Verde
participants'  groundwater  rights  and  their  contractual rights to effluent
relating  to  Palo Verde and, alternatively, seek confirmation of such rights.
Three  of  APS'  less-utilized  power  plants  are  also  located  within  the
geographic  area  subject  to  the  summons.  APS'  claims dispute the court's
jurisdiction  over  APS'  groundwater rights with respect to these plants and,
alternatively,  seek  confirmation  of  such rights. On December 10, 1992, the
Arizona  Supreme  Court  heard  oral argument on certain issues in this matter
which  are  pending on interlocutory appeal, and as a result, issues important
to  APS'  claims  have been remanded to the trial court for further action. No
trial  date  concerning  the  water  rights claims of APS has been set in this
matter.

    APS  has also filed claims to water in the Little Colorado River Watershed
in  Arizona  in  an action pending in the Apache County Superior Court. (In re
The  General  Adjudication  of  All Rights to Use Water in the Little Colorado
River  System and Source, Supreme Court No. WC-79-0006 WC-6, Apache County No.
6417).  APS'  groundwater resource utilized at Cholla is within the geographic
area  subject to the adjudication and is therefore potentially at issue in the
case.  APS'  claims  dispute  the  court's  jurisdiction over APS' groundwater
rights  and,  alternatively, seek confirmation of such rights. The parties are
in  the  process  of  settlement  negotiations with respect to this matter. No
trial  date  concerning  the  water  rights claims of APS has been set in this
matter.

    Although  the  foregoing matters remain subject to further evaluation, APS
expects  that  the  described  litigation  will  not have a materially adverse
impact on its operations or financial position.

                     BUSINESS OF NON-UTILITY SUBSIDIARIES


                          SUNCOR DEVELOPMENT COMPANY

    SunCor was incorporated in 1965 under the laws of the State of Arizona and
is  engaged primarily in the owning, holding and development of real property.
The  principal  executive offices of SunCor are located at 2828 North Central,
Suite  900,  Phoenix,  Arizona  85004 (telephone 602-285-6800). SunCor and its
subsidiaries,  excluding  SunCor  Resort  and  Golf  Management, Inc. ("Resort
Management"),  employ  approximately  60  persons.  Resort  Management,  which
manages the Wigwam Resort and Country Club (the "Wigwam"), employs between 400
and 715 persons, depending on the Wigwam's operating season. Resort Management
also operates other golf operations.

    On  April  4,  1990,  SunCor  sold the Wigwam and certain other associated
property  for $70 million in cash. As noted in the preceding paragraph, Resort
Management,  a  subsidiary  of  SunCor,  manages  the  Wigwam. SunCor has also
entered  into  a  joint  venture  with  the purchaser of the Wigwam to develop
certain property located near the Wigwam.

    SunCor's  assets consist primarily of land and improvements and other real
estate  investments. SunCor's holdings include approximately 11,000 acres west
of  Phoenix  in the area of Goodyear/Litchfield Park, Arizona ("Palm Valley"),
including  a private water and sewer company to provide those utility services
to  the  property.  A  substantial  portion  of  the  undeveloped  property is
currently  being  used  for  agricultural  purposes.  SunCor has completed the
master-plan   for   developing  Palm  Valley  and  has  begun  commercial  and
residential development of approximately 640 acres. The initial phase included
the  development of an 18-hole championship golf course which was completed in
1993.  In addition,  within the  Palm Valley project,  SunCor has entered into
joint  ventures to develop  2,200 acres  as a  retirement community,  known as
PebbleCreek, and 350 acres as a  planned area development, known as Litchfield
Greens.

    SunCor's holdings also include a 1,400 acre master-planned community north
of Phoenix called Tatum Ranch, a 1,400 acre master-planned community northeast
of  Phoenix  called Scottsdale Mountain, a 140 acre master-planned project for
business  use northwest of Phoenix called Talavi and a 420 acre master-planned
project for business use east of Phoenix called MarketPlace.

    For  the  years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991, SunCor's operating
revenues  were  approximately $32.2 million, $20.0 million, and $12.7 million,
respectively,  and  its  pre-tax  losses were approximately $4.0 million, $6.2
million,  and  $9.6  million, respectively. During 1994, SunCor estimates that
its  capital  expenditures  will  total  approximately  $33  million. See "The
Company -- Capital Requirements" in this Item for a discussion of restrictions
on the Company's ability to make new investments in SunCor.

    At  December  31,  1993,  SunCor  had  total  assets of approximately $429
million.  SunCor  intends  to continue its focus on real estate development in
residential, commercial and industrial projects.

                         EL DORADO INVESTMENT COMPANY

    El  Dorado was incorporated in 1983 under the laws of the State of Arizona
and  is  engaged  in  the  business  of  making  equity  investments  in other
companies. El Dorado's offices are located at 400 East Van Buren Street, Suite
650, Phoenix, Arizona 85004 (telephone 602-252-3441).

    El  Dorado  has  investments  in  three major venture capital partnerships
totalling  approximately  $28.5  million.  El  Dorado  has  remaining  funding
commitments  to these partnerships in the aggregate amount of approximately $6
million  through  1995. In addition to the foregoing investments, through 1993
El  Dorado  had directly invested approximately $22.2 million in other private
and public companies and partnerships with perceived high growth potential.

    For  the  years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991 El Dorado's pre-tax
losses  were  approximately  $3.9  million,  $2.6  million  and  $6.7 million,
respectively.   At   December   31,  1993,  El  Dorado  had  total  assets  of
approximately $57.6 million. See "The Company -- Capital Requirements" in this
Item  for  a  discussion  of restrictions on the Company's ability to make new
investments in El Dorado.

                              ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

    APS' present generating facilities have an accredited capacity aggregating
4,022,410 kw, comprised as follows:

                                                               Capacity(kw)
                                                               ------------
Coal:
    Units 1, 2, and 3 at Four Corners, aggregating...........       560,000
    15% owned Units 4 and 5 at Four Corners, representing....       222,000
    Units 1, 2, and 3 at Cholla Plant, aggregating...........       590,000
    14% owned Units 1, 2, and 3 at the Navajo Plant,
      representing...........................................       315,000
                                                                -----------
                                                                  1,687,000
                                                                ===========

Gas or Oil:
    Two steam units at Ocotillo, two steam units at Saguaro,
      and one steam unit at Yucca, aggregating...............       468,400(1)
    Eleven combustion turbine units, aggregating.............       500,600
    Three combined cycle units, aggregating..................       253,500
                                                                -----------
                                                                  1,222,500
                                                                ===========

Nuclear:
    29.1% owned or leased Units 1, 2, and 3 at Palo Verde,
      representing...........................................     1,108,710
                                                                ===========
Other........................................................         4,200
                                                                ===========
- ----------
  (1)          West Phoenix steam units (96,300 kw) are currently mothballed.
                                --------------

    APS' peak one-hour demand on its electric system was recorded on August 2,
1993  at  3,802,300 kw,  compared to the 1992 peak of 3,796,400 kw recorded on
August  17. Taking into account additional capacity then available to it under
purchase  power  contracts  as  well  as  its  own  generating  capacity, APS'
capability  of meeting system demand on August 2, 1993, computed in accordance
with  accepted  industry practices, amounted to 4,505,000 kw, for an installed
reserve  margin  of  16.7%.  The  power  actually  available  to  APS from its
resources  fluctuates  from  time  to  time due in part to planned outages and
technical  problems.  The available capacity from sources actually operable at
the time of the 1993 peak amounted to 4,099,500 kw, for a margin of 13.4%.

    NGS  and  Four  Corners  are located on land held under easements from the
federal  government and also under leases from the Navajo Tribe. The risk with
respect  to  enforcement of these easements and leases is not deemed by APS to
be  material.  APS is dependent, however, in some measure upon the willingness
and  ability  of  the  Navajo  Tribe to honor its commitments. Certain of APS'
transmission  lines  and  almost  all  of its contracted coal sources are also
located on Indian reservations. See "Generating Fuel" in Item 1.

    Operation  of  each  of  the  three Palo Verde units requires an operating
license from the NRC. Full power operating licenses for Units 1, 2, and 3 were
issued  by  the NRC in June 1985, April 1986, and November 1987, respectively.
The full power operating licenses, each valid for a period of approximately 40
years,  authorize APS, as operating agent for Palo Verde, to operate the three
Palo Verde units at full power.

    On  August  18,  1986  and  December 19, 1986, APS entered into a total of
three  sale  and  leaseback  transactions  under which it sold and leased back
approximately  42%  of  its 29.1% ownership interest in Palo Verde Unit 2. The
leases  under  each  of the sale and leaseback transactions have initial lease
terms  expiring  on  December  31, 2015. Each of the leases also allows APS to
extend  the  term of the lease and/or to repurchase the leased Unit 2 interest
under  certain circumstances at fair market value. The leases in the aggregate
require   annual   payments   of   approximately  $40  million  through  1999,
approximately  $46 million in 2000, and approximately $49 million through 2015
(see Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8).

    See  "Water  Supply"  in  Item  1  with respect to matters having possible
impact on the operation of certain of APS' power plants, including Palo Verde.

    APS'  construction plans are susceptible to changes in forecasts of future
demand  on  its electric system and in its ability to finance its construction
program.  Although  its  plans  are  subject to change, APS does not presently
intend  to  construct any new major baseload generating units for at least the
next  ten  years.  Important  factors  affecting  APS'  ability  to  delay the
construction  of  new major generating units are continuing efforts to upgrade
and  improve  the  reliability  of  existing  generating stations, system load
diversity with other utilities, and continuing efforts in customer demand-side
conservation and load management programs.

    In  addition  to  that  available  from  its  own generating capacity, APS
purchases  electricity from other utilities under various arrangements. One of
the  most  important  of  these  is a long-term contract with SRP which may be
canceled  by  SRP  on  three  years'  notice  and  which  requires SRP to make
available,  and  APS to pay for, certain amounts of electricity that are based
in  large  part  on  customer  demand  within  certain areas now served by APS
pursuant  to  a  related  territorial  agreement. APS believes that the prices
payable  by  it  under  the  contract are fair to both parties. The generating
capacity  available  to  APS pursuant to the contract was 302,000 kw until May
1993,  at  which  time  the  capacity  increased  to  304,000 kw. In 1993, APS
received  approximately  840,000 MWh  of  energy  under  the contract and paid
approximately $40 million for capacity availability and energy received.

    In  September  1990,  APS and PacifiCorp, an Oregon-based utility company,
entered into certain agreements relating principally to sales and purchases of
electric power and electric utility assets, and in July 1991, after regulatory
approvals,  APS  sold  Cholla  Unit  4  to  PacifiCorp  for approximately $230
million.  As  part of the transaction, PacifiCorp agreed to make a firm system
sale  to  APS for thirty years during APS' summer peak season in the amount of
175 megawatts for the first five years, increasing thereafter, at APS' option,
up to a maximum amount equal to the rated capacity of Cholla Unit 4. After the
first  five  years,  all or part of the sale may be converted to a one-for-one
seasonal  capacity  exchange. PacifiCorp has the right to purchase from APS up
to  125  average megawatts of energy per year for thirty years. PacifiCorp and
APS also entered into a 100 megawatt one-for-one seasonal capacity exchange to
be  effective  upon the latter of January 1, 1996 or the completion of certain
new  transmission  projects. In addition, PacifiCorp agreed to pay APS (i) $20
million  upon  commercial  operation  of  150  megawatts  of  peaking capacity
constructed by APS and (ii) $19 million in connection with the construction of
transmission  lines  and upgrades that will afford PacifiCorp 150 megawatts of
northbound  transmission  rights.  In  addition, PacifiCorp secured additional
firm  transmission  capacity  of  30  megawatts over APS' system. In 1993, APS
received  401,475  MWh  of energy from PacifiCorp under these transactions and
paid  approximately  $19  million  for  capacity  availability  and the energy
received, and PacifiCorp paid approximately $2.7 million for 144,171 MWh.

    See  "El  Paso Electric Company Bankruptcy" in Note 13 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8  for a discussion of the filing by
El Paso Electric Company ("EPEC") of a  voluntary petition to reorganize under
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy  Code.  EPEC  has a joint ownership interest with
APS and others in Palo Verde and Four Corners Units 4 and 5.

    See  Notes 6  and 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
in  Item 8 with respect to property of APS not held in fee or held subject  to
any major encumbrance.

    See  "SunCor Development Company" and "El Dorado Investment Company" under
the heading "Business of Non-Utility Subsidiaries" in Item 1 for a description
of properties held by the non-utility subsidiaries of the Company.

GRAPHIC
- -------
MAP OF THE STATE  OF ARIZONA SHOWING  APS' SERVICE AREA,  THE  LOCATION OF ITS
MAJOR  POWER PLANTS  AND PRINCIPAL  TRANSMISSION LINES,  AND THE  LOCATION  OF
TRANSMISSION  LINES OPERATED  BY APS FOR  OTHERS.  SEE  APPENDIX FOR  DETAILED
DESCRIPTION.

                          ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

APS

    On June 29, 1990, a new Arizona state tax law was enacted, effective as of
December  31,  1989,  which adversely impacted APS' earnings in tax years 1990
through  1993  by  an  aggregate  amount  of approximately $82 million, before
income  taxes.  On  December  20, 1990, the Palo Verde participants, including
APS,  filed  a  lawsuit  in  the Arizona Tax Court, a division of the Maricopa
County  Superior  Court,  against  the  Arizona  Department  of  Revenue,  the
Treasurer  of  the  State  of Arizona, and various Arizona counties, claiming,
among  other  things,  that  portions of the new tax law are unconstitutional.
(Arizona  Public  Service  Company,  et  al.  v. Apache County, et al., No. TX
90-01686  (Consol.),  Maricopa  County  Superior Court). In December 1992, the
court granted summary judgment to the taxing authorities, holding that the law
is  constitutional.  APS  has  appealed  this decision to the Arizona Court of
Appeals. APS cannot currently predict the ultimate outcome of this matter.

    See "Water Supply" and "Palo Verde  Nuclear Generating Station"  in Item 1
and  "El  Paso  Electric  Company  Bankruptcy"  in Note 13 of the Notes to the
Company's  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in  Item  8 in regard to other
pending or threatened litigation involving APS.

PINNACLE WEST

    A  lawsuit  was filed in the United States District Court for the District
of  Arizona  against  the  Company,  its  inside  directors and certain of its
officers  on  November 7, 1988 and was amended on December 15, 1988 to add the
remaining  directors  and  additional  substantive  claims.  As  amended,  the
complaint   alleges   violations   of  federal  securities  laws  and  Arizona
securities,  consumer  fraud  and  other state laws in connection with certain
actions  of  the  Company  and  statements  made on its behalf relating to the
Company's diversification activities, future business prospects and dividends.
The  Court  certified a  class consisting  of all  purchasers of the Company's
common  stock  between  April  1, 1987 and October 7, 1988 (the alleged "Class
Period").  The complaint sought unspecified compensatory  and punitive damages
as well as fees and costs.

    On  December  20,  1988  a lawsuit was filed in the United States District
Court for the District of Arizona against the Company and certain officers and
directors,   alleging  violations  of  federal  securities  laws  and  Arizona
securities,  consumer  fraud  and  other state laws in connection with certain
actions  of  the  Company  and  statements  made on its behalf relating to the
Company's diversification activities, future business prospects and dividends.
The  lawsuit  is  substantially  similar  to  the  lawsuit  referenced  in the
preceding  paragraph.  The  plaintiffs,  two  individuals  who  claim  to have
purchased the Company's common stock between April 1, 1987 and October 7, 1988
(the alleged "Class  Period"), requested unspecified compensatory and punitive
damages as well as fees and costs.  On October 2, 1989, the cases described in
this and the preceding paragraph were consolidated.

    On  December  15,  1989  a shareholder derivative lawsuit was filed in the
United  States District Court for the District of Arizona naming the Company's
directors  as  defendants  and  the  Company as nominal defendant. The lawsuit
alleges  breach  of  fiduciary  duties by the directors in connection with the
Company's diversification activities, and further alleges violation of federal
securities laws by one director in connection with the sale of MeraBank to the
Company  in  1986.   The   plaintiffs  requested,  on  the  Company's  behalf,
unspecified compensatory and punitive damages.

    On  April 22, 1991 a lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court
for  the  District  of Arizona by the Resolution Trust Corporation (the "RTC")
against  certain  former officers  and directors of MeraBank. The suit sought,
among other things, damages in excess of $270 million, and alleged negligence,
gross  negligence,  breach  of  fiduciary  duty, breach of duty of loyalty and
breach of contract with respect to the management and operation of MeraBank by
the  defendants beginning  in  the early 1980s. Although the Company was not a
defendant,  the  Company  agreed to  advance  reasonable  attorneys'  fees and
expenses,  in  various amounts, to those defendants who served on the MeraBank
Board  of  Directors  at the  request of  the Company.  The  Company  reserved
the  right to alter the  amount of  such advances  or to terminate them as the
case  developed,  and  received undertakings  from the persons  receiving such
advances  to  repay  such  amounts  in  the  event  that  they  are ultimately
determined not to be  entitled to indemnification.  The Company has terminated
future  such   advances  as  to certain of  those defendants.  In addition, in
June and November of 1989 the Company's Board of Directors adopted resolutions
whereby   the Company  agreed to  indemnify  the  non-officer  members of  the
MeraBank Board of Directors against claims brought against such individuals in
their capacity as directors of MeraBank,  for acts occurring on or  after June
and November 1989, the effective dates of the indemnification resolutions.

    On  December 30, 1993, and as  the result  of a negotiated settlement, the
United States District Court  for the District of  Arizona entered  orders and
final judgments (1)  dismissing the consolidated shareholder  class litigation
and  shareholder   derivative   litigation   initiated   in   1988  and  1989,
respectively, and described in the first three  paragraphs under  this heading
and (2) partially dismissing the litigation initiated by the RTC and described
in the immediately preceding paragraph.  Two non-settling individuals who  are
pursuing independent claims  against the RTC were  not dismissed  from the RTC
litigation and have appealed the settlement.  These individuals may attempt to
look to the Company, its insurance carriers and others for indemnification  of
certain costs and  damages.  The Company  believes that  it has no  obligation
with  respect  to any  such  costs or  damages.   The settlement  provides for
for payments  totaling $61.625 million, of which the  Company's share is $5.75
million.  A   litigation  reserve  previously  established  by the  Company is
sufficient to cover the Company's share of the settlement.  The balance of the
settlement  payment  will be funded by the Company's insurers.

    On  January  18,  1991  a  lawsuit was filed in the United States District
Court,  Southern  District  of  Ohio,  Western  Division, against, among other
parties,  the Company and certain of its officers and directors, the Office of
Thrift  Supervision  ("OTS"),  the  RTC  and  the  Federal  Deposit  Insurance
Corporation  ("FDIC").  The amended complaint in this lawsuit alleges that the
plaintiff  purchased MeraBank subordinated debentures with a face amount of $1
million  in 1987 in reliance upon the capital maintenance stipulation executed
by  the  Company  as a condition to the Company's acquisition of MeraBank. The
plaintiff  further  alleges  that  the  value  of such debentures was impaired
because  of  the  Company's  release  from its purported obligations under the
stipulation  and  the  actions of the OTS in placing MeraBank in receivership.
See  Note 2 of the  Notes to the  Consolidated Financial Statements in  Item 8
for additional information regarding the stipulation. The plaintiff is seeking
damages  in the approximate amount of $4.8 million. On August 2, 1991 the Ohio
court  issued an order dismissing the  case with  prejudice as to  the Company
and the officer/director  defendants for  lack of personal  jurisdiction.  The
court also  ordered the case dismissed  with prejudice as to the OTS,  the RTC
and the FDIC.  On October 1, 1991  the plaintiff  appealed the court's  order.
On February 17, 1993, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
affirmed the entry of summary judgment in favor of the RTC, OTS, and FDIC, but
reversed the district court's dismissal in favor of the Company and certain of
its  officers  and  directors.  The  Court of Appeals remanded the case to the
district  court  for  a determination of whether plaintiff had adequately pled
its  claims  so  that the district court could exercise personal jurisdiction.
The  district  court  was  further instructed to consider whether the Southern
District  of Ohio was the proper venue for the suit. On June 8, 1993, the Ohio
court  ordered  this  case  to  be  transferred to the District of Arizona. On
August 17, 1993, the Company was served with a separate complaint filed by the
same  plaintiff  in  the  District  Court for the District of Arizona alleging
claims  under  the Arizona Racketeering Act and the Arizona Consumer Fraud Act
seeking  compensatory  damages  in  the  amount of $1.2 million plus interest,
punitive  damages,  treble  damages,  interest, attorneys' fees and costs. The
plaintiff  has  voluntarily  dismissed  the Arizona Consumer Fraud Act claims;
however,  the  Arizona Racketeering Act claims remain pending. The Company and
the  individual  directors  and  officers  believe that the lawsuit is without
merit and will vigorously defend themselves.

    On  May  1,  1991, a lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court
for  the  District  of Arizona against the Company by another purchaser of the
same  issue of MeraBank subordinated debentures referred to in the immediately
preceding  paragraph.  This  plaintiff  also  claims  to  have  purchased  the
debentures,  with  a  face  amount of approximately $12.4 million, in reliance
upon  the  stipulation.  The suit further alleges that the Company induced the
plaintiff  to  retain  its investment in the debentures by representing to the
plaintiff  that the Company would keep MeraBank capitalized in accordance with
federal  regulatory  requirements.  The suit alleges violations of federal and
state  securities  laws,  fraud,  negligent  representation,  racketeering and
intentional  interference  with  contractual  relations.  The  plaintiff seeks
unspecified  compensatory  and  punitive  damages  and  has requested that the
compensatory  damages  be  trebled under Arizona's civil racketeering statute.
The Company intends to vigorously defend itself in this action.

    On  December  22, 1993, Pinnacle West was served with a complaint filed by
another   purchaser   of  MeraBank  subordinated  debentures  alleging  claims
substantially  similar to the claims described in the preceding paragraph. The
complaint, which  was filed  in the  United  States  District  Court  for  the
District of Arizona, seeks compensation and punitive damages in an unspecified
amount plus  attorneys'  fees  and  costs.  The  Company intends to vigorously
defend itself in this action.

                      ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A
                           VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    No  matter  was  submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report, through the solicitation of
proxies or otherwise.

           SUPPLEMENTAL ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The Company's executive officers are as follows:

                       AGE AT
NAME                MARCH 1, 1994       POSITION(S) AT MARCH 1, 1994
- ----                -------------       ----------------------------
Michael S. Ash           40        Corporate Counsel
Arlyn J. Larson          59        Vice President of Corporate
                                     Planning and Development
Nancy E. Newquist        42        Vice President and Treasurer
Henry B. Sargent         59        Executive Vice President and
                                     Chief Financial Officer(1)
Richard Snell            63        Chairman of the Board of Directors,
                                     President and Chief Executive Officer(1)
Faye Widenmann           45        Vice President of Corporate Relations
                                     and Administration and Secretary

- ----------
  (1)          Member of the Board of Directors.

    The  executive  officers  of  the  Company  are elected no less often than
annually  and  may be removed by the Board of Directors at any time. The terms
served  by  the  named  officers  in their current positions and the principal
occupations  (in  addition  to those stated in the table) of such officers for
the past five years have been as follows:

    Mr.  Ash was elected Corporate Counsel of the Company in February 1991. He
previously  held  the positions of Legal Counsel to the Company (December 1986
to  February  1991)  and  Attorney  in  the  APS  Law Department (July 1983 to
September 1985).

    Mr.  Larson was elected Vice President, Corporate Planning and Development
in July 1986.

    Ms. Newquist was elected Treasurer in June 1990 and as a Vice President in
February  1994.  Ms.  Newquist also serves as Treasurer of APS, a position she
was  elected to in June 1993 after serving as Assistant Treasurer of APS since
October 1992. From May 1987 to June 1990, Ms. Newquist served as the Company's
Director of Finance.

    Mr.  Sargent  was  elected  Executive  Vice  President and Chief Financial
Officer of the Company in April 1985. Mr. Sargent was Executive Vice President
and  Chief Financial Officer of APS from September 1981 until July 1986. He is
also a director of Magma Copper Company, Tucson, Arizona.

    Mr. Snell was elected Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive
Officer  of  the  Company  effective  February  5,  1990.  He was also elected
Chairman  of  the  Board  of  APS  effective the same date. Previously, he was
Chairman  of  the Board (1989-1992) and Chief Executive Officer (1989-1990) of
Aztar  Corporation,  and  Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive
Officer  of  Ramada  Inc.,  Phoenix,  Arizona (1981-1989). Mr. Snell remains a
director  of  Aztar  Corporation  and  is  also a director of Bank One Arizona
Corporation, Phoenix, Arizona.

    Ms.  Widenmann  was  elected  Secretary  of  the  Company in 1985 and Vice
President  of Corporate Relations and Administration in November 1986. She was
Secretary of APS from June 1983 until April 1987.

                                   PART II

                    ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON
                    EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

    The  Company's common stock is publicly held and is traded on the New York
and  Pacific  Stock Exchanges. At the close of business on March 14, 1994, the
Company's   common   stock   was   held  of  record  by  approximately  59,795
shareholders.

    The  chart below sets forth the common stock price ranges on the composite
tape,  as reported in the Wall Street Journal for 1993 and 1992. There were no
dividends  declared  or  paid  on  or in respect of the Company's common stock
during 1992 and the first three quarters of 1993. A dividend of $.20 per share
was  declared and paid on the Company's common stock during the fourth quarter
of 1993.

                          COMMON STOCK PRICE RANGES
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

         1992            HIGH      LOW
- -------------------------------------------
  1st Quarter           18 1/4     16 3/4
  2nd Quarter           18 3/8     16 7/8
  3rd Quarter           20         17 7/8
  4th Quarter           20 1/2     19 1/8
- -------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------
  1st Quarter           21 3/4     19 5/8
  2nd Quarter           23 1/2     20 7/8
  3rd Quarter           25 1/4     23 1/8
  4th Quarter           24 3/8     20 3/8
- -------------------------------------------





          ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
                     CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    The following discussion relates to Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (the
"Company"  or  "Pinnacle  West")  and its subsidiaries: Arizona Public Service
Company   ("APS"),   SunCor  Development  Company  ("SunCor")  and  El  Dorado
Investment   Company  ("El  Dorado").  The  discussion  also  relates  to  the
discontinued operations of MeraBank, A Federal Savings Bank ("MeraBank").

CAPITAL NEEDS AND RESOURCES

Parent Company

    During  the  past three years, Pinnacle West's primary cash needs were for
the payment of interest and prepayment of principal on its long-term debt (see
Note  6  of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Additional cash needs
in  1993  were  related  to  the  fourth  quarter  restoration of common stock
dividends.

    Dividends  from  APS have been Pinnacle West's primary source of cash. Tax
allocations within the consolidated group and net operating loss carryforwards
associated with MeraBank have also been sources of cash.

    The  non-utility  subsidiaries (SunCor and El Dorado) are also expected to
contribute to Pinnacle West's cash flow.

    Pinnacle West prepaid substantial amounts of its parent-level debt in each
of  the  last three years. Management expects Pinnacle West to have sufficient
cash flow available for mandatory and optional debt repayments to allow parent
company  debt  to  be  reduced  from  $564  million  at  the  end  of  1993 to
approximately $300 million by year-end 1995.

    At  the end of 1993, Pinnacle West had a $40 million liquidity facility as
summarized  in  Note  5  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial Statements; no
borrowings were outstanding thereunder.

APS

    APS'  capital  needs  consist  primarily  of construction expenditures and
required  repayments or redemptions of long-term debt and preferred stock. The
capital  resources available to meet these requirements include funds provided
by operations and external financings.

    Present  construction  plans  exclude any major baseload generating plants
for  at  least  the  next  ten  years.  In  general,  most of the construction
expenditures  are  for expanding transmission and distribution capabilities to
meet   customer  growth,  upgrading  existing  facilities,  and  environmental
purposes.  Construction  expenditures are anticipated to be $279 million, $302
million  and $293 million for 1994, 1995 and 1996, respectively. These amounts
include  nuclear fuel expenditures, but exclude capitalized property taxes and
capitalized interest costs.

    In   the  1991  through  1993  period,  APS  funded  all  of  its  capital
expenditures  (construction  expenditures and capitalized property taxes) with
internally  generated  funds,  after  the payment of dividends. For the period
1994  through  1996,  APS estimates that it will fund substantially all of its
capital  expenditures  with  internally  generated funds, after the payment of
dividends.

    During  1993,  APS  redeemed  or repurchased approximately $637 million of
long-term  debt  and  preferred stock, of which approximately $527 million was
optional.  Refunding  obligations  for  preferred  stock,  long-term  debt,  a
capitalized  lease  obligation,  and certain anticipated early redemptions are
expected  to total approximately $187 million, $135 million and $4 million for
the years 1994, 1995 and 1996, respectively.

    APS  currently  expects  to  issue  in  1994 a total of approximately $125
million  of  long-term debt (primarily first mortgage bonds) and approximately
$125  million  of  preferred stock. Of this, APS issued on March 2, 1994, $100
million  of  its First Mortgage Bonds, 6 5/8% series due 2004, and applied the
net  proceeds  to  the repayment of short-term debt that had been incurred for
the  redemption  of  preferred  stock  and for general corporate purposes. APS
expects  that  substantially  all  of  the  net proceeds of the balance of the
securities  to  be  issued  during  1994  will  be  used for the retirement of
outstanding  debt  and  preferred stock. On March 1, 1994, APS redeemed all of
the outstanding shares of its $8.80 Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K ($100
Par  Value)  in the amount of $14.21 million. As of April 4, 1994, APS will be
redeeming all $60.264 million of its outstanding First Mortgage Bonds, 10 3/4%
Series due 2019.

    Provisions  in  APS' mortgage bond indenture and articles of incorporation
require  certain  coverage  ratios  to  be met before APS can issue additional
first  mortgage  bonds  or  preferred  stock.  In  addition, the mortgage bond
indenture  limits  the  amount  of  additional  bonds which may be issued to a
percentage  of  net  property  additions,  to  property  previously pledged as
security  for certain bonds that have been redeemed or retired, and/or to cash
deposited  with  the  mortgage  bond  trustee.  After  giving  effect  to  the
transactions  described  in  the preceding paragraph, as of December 31, 1993,
APS   estimates   that  the  mortgage  bond  indenture  and  the  articles  of
incorporation  would have allowed it to issue up to approximately $1.2 billion
and  $986  million  of  additional  first  mortgage bonds and preferred stock,
respectively.

    The Arizona Corporation Commission (the "ACC") has authority over APS with
respect  to the issuance of long-term debt and equity securities. Existing ACC
orders  allow  APS  to have up to approximately $2.6 billion in long-term debt
and approximately $501 million of preferred stock outstanding at any one time.

    Management does not expect any of the foregoing restrictions to limit APS'
ability to meet its capital requirements.

    As  of  December  31,  1993, APS had credit commitments from various banks
totalling  approximately  $302 million, which were available either to support
the issuance of commercial paper or to be used for bank borrowings. Commercial
paper borrowings totalling $148 million were outstanding at the end of 1993.

Non-Utility Subsidiaries

    During  the  past  three  years,  the  non-utility  subsidiaries generally
financed  all  of  their  operations  through  cash  flow  from operations and
financings that did not involve Pinnacle West.

    SunCor's  capital  needs  consist  primarily of construction expenditures,
which are expected to approximate $33 million, $18 million and $14 million for
1994,  1995  and 1996, respectively. Capital resources available to meet these
requirements include funds provided by operations and external financings.

    On  March  2,  1994,  SunCor issued $25 million of Collateralized Mortgage
Bonds,  due  in  2004.  The  bonds  are  secured  by specified parcels of real
property  and  bear  variable  interest based on London Interbank Offered Rate
(LIBOR). Simultaneously, $6 million of 12% debt due in 1997 was prepaid.

    Management  expects  El  Dorado's  internal cash flows to be sufficient to
fund its operations for the foreseeable future.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

1993 Compared to 1992

    Pinnacle West reported income from continuing operations of $170.0 million
in  1993 compared to $150.4 million in 1992, for an increase of $19.6 million.
The  primary  factor contributing to this increase was lower interest expense.
Interest  costs  in 1993 were $22.5 million lower than 1992 due to refinancing
debt  at  lower rates, lower average debt balances and lower interest rates on
APS'  variable-rate debt. Partially offsetting the lower interest expense were
increased taxes and higher utility operating expenses.

    Electric operating revenues were up $16.6 million in 1993 on sales volumes
of  20.1  million  megawatt-hours  (MWh) compared to 20.6 million MWh in 1992.
Although revenues increased $45.3 million due to growth in the residential and
business  customer classes, these increases were largely offset by milder than
normal weather and reduced interchange sales to other utilities.

    Fuel and purchased power costs increased $15.5 million in 1993 due to Palo
Verde  outages  and  reduced  power  operations  (see  Note  13  of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements).  Partially  offsetting the $15.5 million
were  miscellaneous  items  resulting  in a net increase of $13.3 million over
1992. These increases are reflected currently in earnings because APS does not
have  a  fuel  adjustment clause as part of its retail rate structure. The net
result  of  electric  operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expense
was an increase of $3.3 million comparing 1993 to 1992.

    In  1993,  utility  operations  expense  increased $11.8 million over 1992
levels  primarily  due  to  the implementation of new accounting standards for
postemployment benefits and postretirement benefits other than pensions, which
added  $17  million  to  expense  in 1993 (see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial  Statements).  Partially  offsetting  these factors were lower power
plant  operating  costs,  lower  rent  expense and lower costs for an employee
gainsharing plan.

    Real  estate  operating  revenues  and  operating  expenses  were up $12.3
million  and  $10.9  million,  respectively, in 1993 due to increased sales of
residential lots.

1992 Compared to 1991

    Income from continuing operations in 1992 was $150.4 million compared to a
loss in 1991 of $340.3 million. This was primarily due to the after-tax write-
offs  of  $407  million in 1991 resulting from a rate case settlement with the
ACC  (see  "Rate Case Settlement" in Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements).  Excluding  the effects of the write-offs, income from continuing
operations  increased by $83.7 million in 1992 as a result of several factors,
including  higher  revenues, lower interest costs and lower utility operations
expenses.  Partially  offsetting  these factors were higher fuel and purchased
power costs and higher utility maintenance expenses.

    Electric  operating  revenues  were up $154.4 million during 1992 on sales
volumes  of  20.6 million MWh compared to 20.0 million MWh in 1991. The volume
increase  of  $48.6  million  was  largely  due  to  growth in residential and
business  customer  classes  and increased sales due to more normal weather as
compared to 1991. A price-related increase of $85.9 million was largely due to
an  increase  in  retail  base  rates  effective December 6, 1991 and a higher
average  price  for interchange sales to other utilities. Also contributing to
the  increase  in  1992  was  a  $19.9  million  reversal of a non-cash refund
obligation  recorded  in  December,  1991 (see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements).

    Real estate revenues increased in 1992 primarily due to the sale of a golf
course.

    Interest costs were $47.8 million lower in 1992 as compared to 1991 due to
lower  average  debt balances, lower interest rates on APS' variable-rate debt
and lower interest rates on refinanced debt.

    Fuel  expenses increased in 1992 over 1991 by $13.4 million as a result of
increased  generation  due  to  increased  retail  and  interchange sales, and
increased  gas  prices.  These increases were partially offset by lower prices
for  coal  and  uranium. The increase in the purchased power component of fuel
expenses was due to favorable market prices.

    Utility  operations  costs were $15.3 million lower in 1992 as compared to
1991  primarily due to lower operating costs at Palo Verde, lower fossil plant
overhaul  costs  and other miscellaneous cost reductions. Partially offsetting
these  were an obligation recorded for an employee gainsharing plan and higher
nuclear refueling outage costs.

Non-Cash Income

    Net  income  reflects  accounting  practices required for regulated public
utilities  and  represents  a  composite of cash and non-cash items, including
Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC), accretion income on Palo
Verde Unit 3 and the reversal of a refund obligation related to the Palo Verde
write-off  (see "Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows" and Note 3 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements). APS recorded after-tax accretion income of
$45.3  million,  $40.7  million  and  $3.2  million  in  1993,  1992 and 1991,
respectively.  APS  also  recorded  refund  obligation  reversals  in electric
operating  revenues  of  $12.9 million after tax in each of the years 1993 and
1992  and $0.9 million in 1991. APS will record after-tax accretion income and
refund  obligation  reversals of $20.3 million and $5.6 million, respectively,
through June 5, 1994.

Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station

    As  APS  continues  its investigation and analysis of the Palo Verde steam
generators, certain corrective actions are being taken. These include chemical
cleaning,  operating  the units at reduced temperatures, and for some periods,
operating  the  units  at  approximately 86% power. So long as three units are
involved  in  mid-cycle  outages  and  are operated at the 86% level, APS will
incur  an  average of approximately $2 million per month (before income taxes)
for additional fuel and purchased power costs. See "Palo Verde Tube Cracks" in
Note  13  of  Notes  to  Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed
discussion.

Accounting Issues

    Note  4  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial Statements describes a new
accounting standard for income taxes which required the recognition in 1993 of
$19.3   million   of   state  tax  benefits  related  to  net  operating  loss
carryforwards.

Discontinued Operations

    Income  from discontinued operations of $6.0 million and $153.5 million in
1992 and 1991, respectively, resulted from tax benefits recorded in connection
with the MeraBank settlement.


             ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                      INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
                        FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES



                                                                        Page
                                                                    ----------
Report of Management..............................................       25

Independent Auditors' Report......................................       26

Statements of Income for each of the three years in the period
  ended December 31, 1993.........................................       27

Balance Sheets -- December 31, 1993 and 1992......................     28, 29

Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period
  ended December 31, 1993.........................................       30

Statements of Retained Earnings for each of the three years in the
  period ended December 31, 1993..................................       31

Notes to Financial Statements.....................................       32

Financial Statement Schedules for each of the three years in the
  period ended December 31, 1993

    Schedule V -- Property, Plant and Equipment..................        50

    Schedule VI -- Accumulated Depreciation, Depletion and
      Amortization of Property, Plant and Equipment..............        53

    Schedule VIII -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the
      years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991...............        56

    Schedule IX -- Short-Term Borrowings.........................        57


    See  Note  14  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for the
selected quarterly financial data required to be presented in this Item.

REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

    The  primary  responsibility  for the integrity of the Company's financial
information  rests  with  management,  which  has  prepared  the  accompanying
financial statements and related information. Such information was prepared in
accordance  with  generally  accepted accounting principles appropriate in the
circumstances,  based  on  managements best estimates and judgments and giving
due consideration to materiality. These financial statements have been audited
by independent auditors and their report is included.

    Management  maintains  and  relies  upon  systems  of  internal accounting
controls,  which  are  periodically  reviewed  by  both the Company's internal
auditors  and  its independent auditors to test for compliance. Reports issued
by  the  internal  auditors  are  released to management, and such reports, or
summaries  thereof,  are  transmitted  to  the Audit Committee of the Board of
Directors and the independent auditors on a timely basis.

    The   Audit   Committee,  composed  solely  of  outside  directors,  meets
periodically  with  the internal auditors and independent auditors (as well as
management)  to review the work of each. The internal auditors and independent
auditors  have free access to the Audit Committee, without management present,
to discuss the results of their audit work.

    Management  believes  that  the Company's systems, policies and procedures
provide  reasonable assurance that operations are conducted in conformity with
the  law  and  with  management's  commitment  to  a high standard of business
conduct.

Richard Snell                                        Henry B. Sargent
Chairman & President                                 Executive Vice President
                                                     & Chief Financial Officer


                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

    We  have  audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Pinnacle
West Capital Corporation and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 1993 and 1992
and  the related consolidated statements of income, retained earnings and cash
flows  for  each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1993. Our
audits  also included the financial statement schedules listed in the Index at
Item  8.  These financial statements and financial statement schedules are the
responsibility  of  the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion  on these financial  statements and  financial statement  schedules
based on our audits.

    We  conducted  our  audits  in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those  standards  require  that  we  plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material  misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting  the  amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also  includes  assessing  the  accounting  principles  used  and  significant
estimates  made  by  management,  as  well as evaluating the overall financial
statement  presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

    In  our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in
all  material  respects,  the  financial  position  of  Pinnacle  West Capital
Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 1993 and 1992 and the results
of  their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period   ended  December  31,  1993  in  conformity  with  generally  accepted
accounting   principles.   Also, in  our  opinion,  such  financial  statement
schedules, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken
as  a whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set forth
herein.

    As  discussed in Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the
Company changed its method of accounting for income taxes effective January 1,
1993 to conform with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109.

Deloitte & Touche
Phoenix, Arizona
February 21, 1994


                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
               (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

                                              YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                     -----------------------------------------
                                         1993           1992          1991
                                     -------------  ------------  ------------
Operating Revenues
  Electric.........................  $   1,686,290  $  1,669,679  $  1,515,289
  Provision for rate refund
    (Note 3).......................             --            --       (53,436)
  Real estate......................         32,248        19,959        12,697
                                     -------------  ------------  ------------
      Total........................      1,718,538     1,689,638     1,474,550
                                     -------------  ------------  ------------
Fuel Expenses
  Fuel for electric generation.....        231,434       230,194       223,983
  Purchased power..................         69,112        57,007        49,788
                                     -------------  ------------  ------------
      Total........................        300,546       287,201       273,771
                                     -------------  ------------  ------------
Operating Expenses
  Utility operations and
    maintenance....................        401,216       390,512       401,736
  Real estate operations...........         38,220        27,309        25,482
  Depreciation and amortization....        223,558       220,076       219,010
  Taxes other than income taxes
    (Note 11)......................        222,345       217,063       215,541
  Palo Verde cost deferral
    (Notes 1 and 3)................             --            --       (70,886)
  Disallowed Palo Verde costs
    (Note 3).......................             --            --       577,145
                                     -------------  ------------  ------------
      Total........................        885,339       854,960     1,368,028
                                     -------------  ------------  ------------
Operating Income (Loss)............        532,653       547,477      (167,249)
                                     -------------  ------------  ------------
Other Income (Deductions)
  Allowance for equity funds used
    during construction (Note 1)...          2,326         3,103         3,902
  Palo Verde cost deferral
    (Notes 1 and 3)................             --            --        63,068
  Palo Verde accretion income
    (Note 3).......................         74,880        67,421         5,306
  Interest on long-term debt.......       (245,961)     (272,240)     (316,282)
  Other interest...................        (16,505)      (12,718)      (16,447)
  Allowance for borrowed funds used
    during construction (Note 1)...          4,153         4,492         6,636
  Preferred stock dividend
    requirements of APS............        (30,840)      (32,452)      (33,404)
  Other -- net.....................         (2,282)      (13,045)      (31,463)
                                     -------------  ------------  ------------
      Total........................       (214,229)     (255,439)     (318,684)
                                     -------------  ------------  ------------
Income (Loss) From Continuing
  Operations
  Before Income Taxes..............        318,424       292,038      (485,933)
Income Tax Expense (Benefit)
  (Note 4).........................        148,446       141,598      (145,616)
                                     -------------  ------------  ------------
Income (Loss) From Continuing
  Operations.......................        169,978       150,440      (340,317)

Income From Discontinued Operations
  (Note 2).........................             --         6,000       153,455
Cumulative Effect of Change in
  Accounting for Income Taxes......         19,252            --            --
                                     -------------  ------------  ------------
Net Income (Loss)..................  $     189,230  $    156,440  $   (186,862)
                                     =============  ============  ============
Average Common Shares Outstanding..     87,241,899    87,044,180    86,937,052
Earnings (Loss) Per Average Common
  Share Outstanding
    Continuing operations..........  $        1.95  $       1.73  $      (3.91)
    Discontinued operations........             --          0.07          1.76
    Accounting change..............           0.22            --            --
                                     -------------  ------------  ------------
      Total........................  $        2.17  $       1.80  $      (2.15)
                                     =============  ============  ============

Dividends Declared Per Share.......  $        0.20  $         --  $         --
                                     =============  ============  ============

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                            (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)

                                                             DECEMBER 31,
                                                        ----------------------
                                                           1993        1992
                                                        ----------  ----------
ASSETS
Current Assets
  Cash and cash equivalents...........................  $   52,127  $   87,926
  Customer and other receivables -- net...............     126,343     157,433
  Accrued utility revenues (Note 1)...................      60,356      51,517
  Materials and supplies (at average cost)............      96,174      95,978
  Fossil fuel (at average cost).......................      34,220      36,668
  Other current assets................................      13,782       8,000
  Deferred income taxes (Note 4)......................     100,234     105,348
                                                        ----------  ----------
    Total current assets..............................     483,236     542,870
                                                        ----------  ----------
Investments and Other Assets
  Real estate investments -- net......................     402,873     394,527
  Other assets........................................     136,074     142,309
                                                        ----------  ----------
    Total investments and other assets................     538,947     536,836
                                                        ----------  ----------
Utility Plant (Notes 6, 11 and 12)
  Electric plant in service, including nuclear fuel...   6,462,589   6,335,327
  Construction work in progress.......................     197,556     162,168
                                                        ----------  ----------
    Total utility plant...............................   6,660,145   6,497,495
  Less accumulated depreciation and amortization......   2,058,895   1,973,698
                                                        ----------  ----------
    Net utility plant.................................   4,601,250   4,523,797
                                                        ----------  ----------
Deferred Debits
  Regulatory asset for income taxes (Note 4)..........     585,294          --
  Palo Verde Unit 3 cost deferral (Notes 1 and 3).....     301,748     310,908
  Palo Verde Unit 2 cost deferral (Note 1)............     177,998     184,061
  Other deferred debits...............................     268,326     172,004
                                                        ----------  ----------
    Total deferred debits.............................   1,333,366     666,973
                                                        ----------  ----------
Total Assets..........................................  $6,956,799  $6,270,476
                                                        ==========  ==========

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION

                         CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                            (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)


                                                            DECEMBER 31,
                                                       -----------------------
                                                          1993        1992
                                                       ----------  -----------
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
  Accounts payable...................................  $   97,489  $   105,718
  Accrued taxes......................................      96,303      117,694
  Accrued interest...................................      57,674       58,579
  Short-term borrowings (Note 5).....................     148,000      195,000
  Current maturities of long-term debt (Note 6)......      78,841       94,217
  Other current liabilities..........................      60,845       78,909
                                                       ----------  -----------
    Total current liabilities........................     539,152      650,117
                                                       ----------  -----------
Non-Current Liabilities
  Long-term debt less current maturities (Note 6)....   2,633,620    2,774,305
  Other liabilities..................................       8,246        9,449
                                                       ----------  -----------
    Total non-current liabilities....................   2,641,866    2,783,754
                                                       ----------  -----------
Deferred Credits and Other
  Deferred income taxes (Note 4).....................   1,278,673      578,020
  Deferred investment tax credit.....................     127,331      133,359
  Unamortized gain -- sale of utility plant..........     107,344      116,167
  Other deferred credits.............................     221,762      133,138
                                                       ----------  -----------
    Total deferred credits and other.................   1,735,110      960,684
                                                       ----------  -----------
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 13)

Minority Interests
  Non-redeemable preferred stock of APS (Note 7).....     193,561      168,561
                                                       ----------  -----------
  Redeemable preferred stock of APS (Note 7).........     197,610      225,635
                                                       ----------  -----------
Common Stock Equity (Note 8)
  Common stock, no par value; authorized 150,000,000
    shares; issued and outstanding 87,423,817 in 1993
    and 87,161,872 in 1992...........................   1,642,783    1,646,772
  Retained earnings (deficit)........................       6,717     (165,047)
                                                       ----------  -----------
    Total common stock equity........................   1,649,500    1,481,725
                                                       ----------  -----------
Total Liabilities and Equity.........................  $6,956,799   $6,270,476
                                                       ==========  ===========


                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION

                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                            (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)

                                               YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                        --------------------------------------
                                            1993         1992         1991
                                        ------------  -----------  -----------
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES (Note 1)
Income (loss) from continuing
  operations..........................  $    169,978  $   150,440  $  (340,317)
Items not requiring cash
  Depreciation and amortization.......       258,562      259,637      268,153
  Deferred income taxes -- net........       139,725       84,146     (128,863)
  Palo Verde cost deferral (Notes 1
    and 3)............................            --           --     (133,954)
  Provision for rate refund -- net
    (Note 3)..........................       (21,374)     (21,374)      52,057
  Disallowed Palo Verde costs (Note 3)            --           --      577,145
  Palo Verde accretion income (Note 3)       (74,880)     (67,421)      (5,306)
  Other -- net........................          (168)      (1,829)      (4,235)
Changes in current assets and
  liabilities
  Accounts receivable -- net..........        31,090      (31,715)      18,006
  Accrued utility revenues............        (8,839)      (7,055)       1,004
  Materials, supplies and fossil fuel.         2,252        5,094       (8,490)
  Other current assets................        (5,782)       2,042         (478)
  Accounts payable....................       (27,196)       9,547       18,866
  Accrued taxes.......................       (21,391)      45,962      (18,902)
  Accrued interest....................          (905)     (16,593)      (3,588)
  Other current liabilities...........       (18,408)     (16,549)       3,364
  Additions to real estate............       (29,290)     (12,647)     (18,593)
  Sales of real estate................        21,396       14,622        7,787
  Other -- net........................        34,292        5,973        4,407
                                        ------------  -----------  -----------
Net Cash Flow Provided By Operating
  Activities..........................       449,062      402,280      288,063
                                        ------------  -----------  -----------

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Capital expenditures..................      (234,944)    (224,419)    (182,687)
Allowance for equity funds used during
  construction........................         2,326        3,103        3,902
Sale of property (Note 3).............            89        5,480      233,875
Other -- net..........................         1,609       (6,555)      (2,630)
                                        ------------  -----------  -----------
Net Cash Flow Provided By (Used For)
  Investing Activities................      (230,920)    (222,391)      52,460
                                        ------------  -----------  -----------

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Issuance of long-term debt............       535,893      649,165      485,844
Issuance of preferred stock...........        72,644       24,781       49,375
Short-term borrowings -- net..........       (47,000)     195,000     (159,000)
Dividends paid on common stock........       (17,466)          --           --
Repayment of long-term debt...........      (711,241)  (1,109,181)    (593,252)
Repayment of preferred stock..........       (78,663)     (27,850)     (15,175)
Other -- net..........................        (8,108)       2,407        6,042
                                        ------------  -----------  -----------
Net Cash Flow Used For Financing
  Activities..........................      (253,941)    (265,678)    (226,166)
                                        ------------  -----------  -----------

Net Cash Flow.........................       (35,799)     (85,789)     114,357

Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning
  of Year.............................        87,926      173,715       59,358
                                        ------------  -----------  -----------
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of
  Year................................  $     52,127  $    87,926  $   173,715
                                        ============  ===========  ===========

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS
                            (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)

                                                 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                           -----------------------------------
                                              1993         1992        1991
                                           -----------  ----------  ----------
Retained Earnings (Deficit) at Beginning
  of Year................................  $  (165,047) $ (321,487) $ (134,625)
Net Income (Loss)........................      189,230     156,440    (186,862)
Common Stock Dividends...................      (17,466)         --          --
                                           -----------  ----------  ----------
Retained Earnings (Deficit) at End of
  Year...................................  $     6,717  $ (165,047) $ (321,487)
                                           ===========  ==========  ==========


                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    A. CONSOLIDATION


    The  consolidated  financial  statements  include the accounts of Pinnacle
West Capital Corporation and its subsidiaries: Arizona Public Service Company,
an  electric  utility;  SunCor  Development Company, a real estate development
company;  and  El  Dorado  Investment Company, a venture capital firm. Certain
prior   year   balances   have  been  reclassified  to  conform  to  the  1993
presentation.

    B. UTILITY PLANT AND DEPRECIATION


    Utility  plant  represents  the  buildings, equipment and other facilities
used  to  provide  electric service. The cost of utility plant includes labor,
material, contract services and other related items and an allowance for funds
used  during construction. The cost of retired depreciable utility plant, plus
removal costs less salvage realized, is charged to accumulated depreciation.

    Depreciation on utility property is provided on a straight-line basis. The
applicable  rates  for  1991  through  1993 ranged from 0.84% to 15.00%, which
resulted  in annual composite rates of 3.37%. Depreciation and amortization of
non-utility  property  and  equipment  are  provided over the estimated useful
lives of the related assets, ranging from 3 to 33.3 years.

    C. REVENUES


    Electric  operating  revenues  are  recognized  on  the  accrual basis and
include estimated amounts for service rendered but unbilled at the end of each
accounting period.

    D. ALLOWANCE FOR FUNDS USED DURING CONSTRUCTION


    AFUDC  represents  the  cost  of  debt  and  equity  funds used to finance
construction  of utility plant. Plant construction costs, including AFUDC, are
recovered in authorized rates through depreciation when completed projects are
placed  into  commercial  operation.  AFUDC  does  not  represent current cash
earnings.

    AFUDC  has been calculated using composite rates of 7.20% for 1993, 10.00%
for  1992  and 10.15% for 1991. APS compounds AFUDC semiannually and ceases to
accrue AFUDC when construction work is completed and the property is placed in
service.

    E. INCOME TAXES


    Pinnacle  West  and  its  subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. income tax
return.  Provisions  for income tax are made by each subsidiary as if separate
income  tax  returns  were  filed.  The  difference,  if  any,  between  these
provisions  and consolidated income tax expense is allocated to Pinnacle West.
Investment  tax  credits were deferred and are being amortized to other income
over  the  estimated  lives  of  the related assets as directed by the ACC. In
1993, Pinnacle West adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS)
No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" (see Note 4).

    F. REACQUIRED DEBT COSTS


    APS  amortizes gains and losses on reacquired debt over the remaining life
of the original debt, consistent with ratemaking.

    G. NUCLEAR FUEL AND DECOMMISSIONING COSTS


    Nuclear  fuel  is  charged  to  fuel  expense using the unit-of-production
method  under  which  the  number  of  units of thermal energy produced in the
current  period  is related to the total thermal units expected to be produced
over the remaining life of the fuel.

                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    In  1993,  APS recorded $6.5 million for decommissioning expense. Based on
the  most  recent site-specific study to completely remove all facilities, APS
expects  to  record  $11.4  million  for  decommissioning expense in 1994. APS
estimates  it  will  cost  approximately  $2.1  billion  ($407 million in 1993
dollars),  over  a thirteen-year period beginning in 2023, to decommission its
29.1%  interest  in  Palo  Verde. Decommissioning costs are charged to expense
over  the  respective  units  operating  license  term  and  included  in  the
accumulated depreciation balance until Palo Verde is retired from service.

    As  required  by the ACC, APS has established external trust accounts into
which  quarterly  deposits  are  made  for decommissioning. As of December 31,
1993,  APS  has  deposited  a  total  of $35.0 million. The trust accounts are
included  in "Investments and Other Assets" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets
and  have  accumulated a $44.7 million balance at December 31, 1993, including
investment earnings.

    H. STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS


    Temporary  cash  investments  and  marketable  securities  with an initial
maturity  of  three  months  or less are considered to be cash equivalents for
purposes  of  the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. During 1993, 1992 and
1991,  Pinnacle  West  and  its  subsidiaries  paid  interest,  net of amounts
capitalized,   of   $243.9   million,   $286.4  million  and  $305.4  million,
respectively.  Income  taxes  paid were $45.3 million, $33.8 million and $19.7
million, respectively; and dividends paid on preferred stock of APS were $30.9
million, $32.6 million and $33.1 million, respectively.

    I. PALO VERDE COST DEFERRALS


    As  authorized  by  the ACC, APS deferred operating costs (excluding fuel)
and  financing  costs  of  Palo Verde Units 2 and 3 from each units commercial
operation  date  until  the  date  each unit was included in a rate order. The
deferrals  are  being  amortized  and recovered through rates over thirty-five
year periods.

2. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

    In  1989,  a  settlement was reached which resolved claims made by certain
federal agencies with respect to MeraBank, resulting in a $450 million capital
infusion by Pinnacle West into MeraBank. The settlement released Pinnacle West
from  its  purported  obligations  under  a  capital  maintenance  stipulation
relating to MeraBank. Because of certain unresolved federal income tax issues,
Pinnacle  West  could  not at the time record an income tax benefit related to
the loss incurred as a result of the settlement. In January 1992, the Internal
Revenue  Service  issued  a  ruling which allowed Pinnacle West to deduct, for
federal  income  tax  purposes, its remaining investment in MeraBank including
the  capital  infusion.  As  a  result,  Pinnacle  West  recorded  income from
discontinued operations in 1991 of $153.5 million representing the tax benefit
of a federal net operating loss (NOL) carryforward.

    In  1992,  Pinnacle  West  recorded $6 million of income from discontinued
operations  representing  the  recognition  of  a  portion  of  the  state NOL
carryforward.

3. REGULATORY MATTERS

RATE CASE SETTLEMENT

    In  December 1991, APS and the ACC reached a settlement in the retail rate
case  that  had  been  pending  before  the  ACC  since  January 1990. The ACC
authorized  an  annual net revenue increase of $66.5 million, or approximately
5.2%.  In  turn,  APS  wrote  off $577.1 million of costs associated with Palo

                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Verde  and recorded a refund obligation of $53.4 million. The after-tax impact
of  these adjustments reduced 1991 net income by $407 million. A discussion of
the components of the disallowance follows.

Prudence Audit

    The  ACC  closed  its  prudence audit of Palo Verde and APS wrote off $142
million  ($101.3  million  after  tax)  of construction costs relating to Palo
Verde  Units 1, 2 and 3 and $13.3 million ($8.6 million after tax) of deferred
costs relating to the prudence audit.

Interim or Temporary Revenues

    The  ACC  removed the interim and temporary designation on $385 million of
revenues  collected  by  APS  from  1986 through 1991 that had been previously
authorized  for  Palo Verde Units 1 and 2. APS recorded a refund obligation to
customers of $53.4 million ($32.3 million after tax) related to the Palo Verde
write-off  discussed  above. The refund obligation has been used to reduce the
amount  of  annual rate increase granted rather than require specific customer
refunds  and  is  being  reversed  over thirty months beginning December 1991.
During  1993,  1992 and 1991 after-tax refund obligation reversals recorded by
APS  as  electric operating revenue were $12.9 million, $12.9 million and $0.9
million, respectively. APS will record $5.6 million after tax in 1994.

Excess Capacity Issue

    The  ACC  deemed a portion of Palo Verde Unit 3 to be excess capacity and,
accordingly,  did  not  recognize  the  related  Unit  3  costs for ratemaking
purposes.  This  action  effectively  disallows  for thirty months a return on
approximately  $475  million  of  APS'  investment in Unit 3. APS recognized a
charge  of $181.2 million ($109.5 million after tax), representing the present
value  of  the  lost  cash  flow and to that extent temporarily discounted the
carrying value of Unit 3.

    In  accordance  with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles,  APS is
recording,  over  the  thirty-month  period, accretion income on Unit 3 in the
aggregate  amount  of  the  discount.  During 1993, 1992 and 1991 APS recorded
after-tax  accretion  income of $45.3 million, $40.7 million and $3.2 million,
respectively. APS will record $20.3 million after tax in 1994.

    In December 1991, APS stopped deferring Unit 3 costs and recorded a $240.6
million ($155.3 million after tax) write-off of Unit 3 cost deferrals due to a
portion  of  Unit  3  being  deemed  excess  capacity. At that time, APS began
amortizing  to  expense  and  recovering  in  rates the remaining $320 million
balance  of  the  deferrals  over a thirty-five year period as approved by the
ACC.

Future Retail Rate Increase

    APS agreed not to file a new rate application before December 1993 and the
ACC  agreed  to  expedite the processing of a future rate application. APS and
the  ACC also agreed on an average unit sales price ceiling of 9.585 cents per
kilowatt-hour  in  this  future rate application, if filed prior to January 1,
1995.  APS'  1993  average  unit  sales  price  was  approximately 9 cents per
kilowatt-hour.  This  ceiling  may  be adjusted for the effects of significant
changes  in  laws,  regulatory  requirements  or  APS' cost of equity capital.
Management  believes  that  the  unit  sales  price ceiling will not adversely
impact APS' future earnings and has not yet determined when a rate case may be
filed.

Dividend Payments

    APS  agreed to limit its annual common stock dividends to Pinnacle West to
$170 million through December 1993.

                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

SALE OF CHOLLA 4

    July  1991,  APS  sold  Unit 4 of the Cholla Power Plant to PacifiCorp for
approximately  $230 million. The resulting after-tax gain of approximately $20
million  was  deferred  and  is  being  amortized as a reduction to operations
expense  over  a  four-year  period  in  accordance  with  an  ACC  order. The
transaction  also provides for transmission access and electrical energy sales
and exchanges between APS and PacifiCorp.

4. INCOME TAX EXPENSE

    Effective  January  1,  1993, Pinnacle West adopted the provisions of SFAS
No.  109,  "Accounting  for  Income  Taxes,"  which  requires  the  use of the
liability  method  of  accounting  for  income taxes. The cumulative effect on
prior  years of this change in accounting principle resulted in an increase to
net  income of $19.3 million, due primarily to the recognition of deferred tax
benefits  relating to state NOL carryforwards of Pinnacle West. As a result of
adopting  SFAS  No. 109, APS recorded additional deferred income taxes related
to the equity comoponent of AFUDC; the debt component of AFUDC net-of-tax; and
other  temporary  differences  for  which  deferred  income taxes had not been
provided.  Deferred  tax balances were also adjusted for changes in tax rates.
The  adoption  of  SFAS  No.109  increased  deferred income tax liabilities by
$585.3  million  at December 31, 1993. Historically, the FERC and the ACC have
allowed  revenues sufficient to pay for these deferred tax liabilities and, in
accordance  with  SFAS  No.  109,  a  regulatory  asset  was  established in a
corresponding amount.

    The  components of income tax expense (benefit) from continuing operations
are as follows:





                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    Income  tax  expense  (benefit)  differed  from  the  amount  computed  by
multiplying  income  from  continuing  operations  before  income taxes by the
statutory federal income tax rate due to the following:



    The  components  of  the net deferred income tax liability at December 31,
1993, were as follows:



    At  December  31,  1993,  Pinnacle  West  had federal NOL carryforwards of
approximately  $304  million  which  may  be  used  through 2005 and state NOL
carryforwards of approximately $218 million which expire in 1994 through 1996.
Pinnacle  West  also  had ITC carryforwards of approximately $41 million which
expire in 2000 through 2005.

    See  Note  2  for  tax  benefits  recorded in connection with discontinued
operations.


5. LINES OF CREDIT

                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    APS  had  committed  lines  of  credit  with  various banks totalling $302
million  at  December 31, 1993 and 1992 which were available either to support
the  issuance  of  commercial  paper  or  to  be used for bank borrowings. The
commitment  fees  on these lines were 0.1875% per annum through April 29, 1992
and  0.25%  thereafter  through  December  31,  1993. APS had commercial paper
borrowings  outstanding  of  $148  million  at  December  31,  1993  and  bank
borrowings of $130 million at December 31, 1992.

    In  1992,  APS  also  had  a $70 million letter of credit commercial paper
program.  Under  this  program,  which  expired  in November 1993, APS had $65
million  of  borrowings  outstanding at December 31, 1992. The commitment fees
for this program were 0.30% per year.

    By  Arizona  statute,  APS'  short-term borrowings cannot exceed 7% of its
total capitalization without the consent of the ACC.

    Pinnacle West had a liquidity facility of $40 million at December 31, 1993
and  $50  million at December 31, 1992. The facility is available for payments
of  principal  and interest on Pinnacle West's outstanding debt with a maximum
of  $20  million for principal payments. Any borrowings on this facility would
be  secured  by  the  APS  common  stock owned by Pinnacle West and would bear
interest,  at  Pinnacle  West's option, at rates based on the prime rate or on
LIBOR.  Pinnacle  West  pays a 0.3125% commitment fee on the facility based on
existing  long-term credit ratings. There were no borrowings outstanding under
the liquidity facility at December 31, 1993 or 1992.

6. LONG-TERM DEBT

    In  January 1990, Pinnacle West restructured the majority of its long-term
debt.  Pinnacle  West  granted the affected lenders a security interest in the
outstanding  common  stock  of  APS and agreed not to incur new debt except to
reduce,  refinance  or  prepay  existing  debt.  Pinnacle Wests ability to pay
dividends  is  dependent  upon the satisfaction of specified interest coverage
ratios.  Additionally,  cumulative  dividend  payments for the period April 1,
1990  through  any  dividend declaration date are limited to 50% of cumulative
consolidated  net  income (as defined) for the same period. As of December 31,
1993,  Pinnacle  West  could  have  declared  dividends  of approximately $241
million  based  on  this formula. Pinnacle West's aggregate investments in its
existing  subsidiaries  (excluding  APS)  and  new  investments  are generally
limited  to  $15  million and $20 million, respectively, until the lenders are
repaid.  Pinnacle West must maintain certain interest coverage ratios and meet
certain  funded  debt  tests. Additionally, Pinnacle West would be required to
use  the  net  cash  proceeds  from  the  sale  of  SunCor  or  El  Dorado  or
substantially  all of their assets to repay debt. The following table presents
long-term debt outstanding as of December 31, 1993 and 1992.


                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)



                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    Aggregate  annual  principal  payments due on total long-term debt and for
sinking  fund  requirements  through  1998  are as follows: 1994, $78,841,000;
1995,   $82,625,000;   1996,   $43,858,000;   1997,  $231,543,000;  and  1998,
$110,297,000.  See  Note  7  for  redemption  and sinking fund requirements of
redeemable preferred stock of APS.

    Substantially  all  utility  plant other than nuclear fuel, transportation
equipment  and  the  combined cycle plant, is subject to the lien of the first
mortgage  bonds.  The  first mortgage bond indenture includes provisions which
would  restrict  the  payment  of  dividends on APS common stock under certain
conditions which did not exist at December 31, 1993.

    Pinnacle   West   and   its  subsidiaries  incurred  interest  expense  of
$264,306,000,  $286,347,000  and $333,923,000 in 1993, 1992 and 1991, of which
$1,840,000,   $1,389,000   and   $1,194,000  was  capitalized  in  each  year,
respectively.

    APS  had  approximately  $370  million  of  variable-rate  long-term  debt
outstanding  at  December 31, 1993. Changes in interest rates would affect the
costs associated with this debt.


7. PREFERRED STOCK OF APS

    Non-redeemable  preferred  stock is not redeemable except at the option of
APS. Redeemable preferred stock is redeemable through sinking fund obligations
in  addition  to  being callable by APS. The balances at December 31, 1993 and
1992, of preferred stock of APS are shown below:



                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    If  there  were  to  be any arrearage in dividends on any of its preferred
stock  or in the sinking fund requirements applicable to any of its redeemable
preferred  stock,  APS  could not pay dividends on its common stock or acquire
any  shares  thereof  for  consideration.  The  combined  aggregate  amount of
preferred  stock  redemption  requirements  for the next five years are: 1994,
$65,775,000;  1995,  $13,525,000;  1996,  $13,525,000;  1997, $13,525,000; and
1998, $13,525,000.

    Redeemable  preferred  stock  transactions of APS during each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1993, are as follows:


                                                         NUMBER OF   PAR VALUE
                                                           SHARES     AMOUNT
                                                         ----------  ---------
                                                             (THOUSANDS OF
                                                               DOLLARS)
Balance, December 31, 1990.............................   1,924,532   $192,453
Issuance
  $10.00 Series U......................................     500,000     50,000
Retirements
  $10.00 Series H......................................     (16,000)    (1,600)
  $8.80 Series K.......................................     (40,275)    (4,027)
  $12.90 Series N......................................     (24,975)    (2,498)
  $11.50 Series R......................................     (70,500)    (7,050)
                                                         ----------  ---------
Balance, December 31, 1991.............................   2,272,782    227,278
Issuance
  $7.875 Series V......................................     250,000     25,000
Retirements
  $10.00 Series H......................................      (8,677)      (868)
  $8.80 Series K.......................................      (4,725)      (472)
  $12.90 Series N......................................    (213,280)   (21,328)
  $11.50 Series R......................................     (39,750)    (3,975)
                                                         ----------  ---------
Balance, December 31, 1992.............................   2,256,350    225,635
Retirements
  $8.80 Series K.......................................     (45,000)    (4,500)
  $11.50 Series R......................................     (35,250)    (3,525)
  $8.48 Series S.......................................    (200,000)   (20,000)
                                                         ----------  ---------
Balance, December 31, 1993.............................   1,976,100  $ 197,610
                                                         ==========  =========


8. COMMON STOCK

    Pinnacle  West's common stock issued during each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1993, is as follows:

                                                       NUMBER OF    PAR VALUE
                                                         SHARES      AMOUNT
                                                       ----------  -----------
Balance, December 31, 1990...........................  86,873,174   $1,646,570
  Common stock issued................................     136,800          319
                                                       ----------  -----------
Balance, December 31, 1991...........................  87,009,974    1,646,889
  Common stock issued................................     151,898         (117)
                                                       ----------  -----------
Balance, December 31, 1992...........................  87,161,872    1,646,772
  Common stock issued................................     261,945       (3,989)
                                                       ----------  -----------
Balance, December 31, 1993...........................  87,423,817   $1,642,783
                                                       ==========  ===========

- ----------
  (a)          Including premiums and expenses of preferred stock issues of APS.


                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    The  Pinnacle  West Stock Purchase and Dividend Reinvestment Plan provides
that  any  participant  may  purchase  shares  of  Pinnacle  West common stock
directly from Pinnacle West.

    Both  Pinnacle  West  and  APS  have  employee  savings  plans under which
contributions  by participating employees and contributions by employers could
involve   the   issuance   of  new  shares  of  Pinnacle  West  common  stock.
Contributions  made  by  Pinnacle  West  and  APS to their respective employee
retirement plans may also involve one or more such issuances of common stock.

    However,  Pinnacle  West  plans to continue making market purchases of its
outstanding stock to meet its needs related to the Stock Purchase and Dividend
Reinvestment  Plan,  the  employee  savings  plans and the employee retirement
plans.

    Under  the  Pinnacle  West  Stock Option and Incentive Plan, non-qualified
stock  options  (NQSOs),  incentive  stock options (ISOs) and restricted stock
awards  may  be  granted  to  officers  and key employees of Pinnacle West and
subsidiaries  up  to  an aggregate of 3 million shares of Pinnacle West common
stock.  The  plan also provides for the granting of stock appreciation rights,
performance  shares,  dividend equivalents or any combination thereof. Another
plan  provides  for the granting of NQSOs to Pinnacle Wests directors up to an
aggregate  of  500,000 shares of stock. As of December 31, 1993, approximately
333,000  restricted  shares,  1,789,000 NQSOs, 10,000 ISOs and 30,000 dividend
equivalent shares were outstanding under the plans.

9. PENSION PLANS AND OTHER BENEFITS

Pension plans

    Pinnacle  West  and  its  subsidiaries  have defined benefit pension plans
covering  substantially  all employees. Benefits are based on years of service
and compensation utilizing a final average pay plan benefit formula. The plans
are  funded  on  a  current  basis to the extent deductible under existing tax
regulations.  Plan  assets  consist  primarily  of  domestic and international
common   stocks   and   bonds   and   real  estate.  Pension  cost,  including
administrative  cost,  for  1993, 1992 and 1991 was approximately $14,267,000,
$14,384,000  and $10,913,000, respectively, of which approximately $6,833,000,
$4,279,000 and $5,262,000, respectively, was charged to expense; the remainder
was  either capitalized as a component of construction cost or billed to other
owners of facilities for which APS is operating agent.

    The components of net periodic pension costs are as follows:

                                                   1993       1992      1991
                                                 ---------  --------  --------
                                                    (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
Service cost -- benefits earned during the
  period.......................................    $17,051   $17,227   $14,831
Interest cost on projected benefit obligation..     35,046    33,633    31,216
Return on plan assets..........................    (52,026)  (23,225)  (65,262)
Net amortization and deferral..................     13,547   (15,097)   28,924
                                                 ---------  --------  --------
Net consolidated periodic pension cost.........    $13,618   $12,538  $  9,709
                                                 =========  ========  ========


    The  discount  rate used in determining the actuarial present value of the
projected  benefit obligation was 7.50% in 1993 and 8.25% in 1992. The rate of
increase  in  future  compensation  levels used was 5.0% in 1993 and 1992. The
expected  long-term  rate  of  return  on assets was 9.5% in 1993 and 1992; in
1994, the company will assume a 9% rate of return.

                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    A  reconciliation  of  the  funded  status  of  the  plan  to  the amounts
recognized in the balance sheet is presented below:

                                                            1993       1992
                                                          ---------  ---------
                                                             (THOUSANDS OF
                                                                DOLLARS)
Plan assets at fair value...............................  $ 421,563  $ 391,827
                                                          ---------  ---------
Less actuarial present value of benefit obligation,
  including vested benefits of $350,812 and $288,456 in
  1993 and 1992, respectively...........................    375,800    309,607
Effect of projected future compensation increases.......    128,797    106,218
                                                          ---------  ---------
Total projected benefit obligation......................    504,597    415,825
                                                          ---------  ---------
Plan assets less than projected benefit obligation......    (83,034)   (23,998)
Plus: Unrecognized net loss from past experience
  different from that assumed...........................     51,551      8,097
      Unrecognized prior service cost...................     14,866     15,893
      Unrecognized net transition asset.................    (39,371)   (42,597)
                                                          ---------  ---------
Accrued pension liability...............................  $ (55,988) $ (42,605)
                                                          =========  =========


    In addition to the defined benefit pension plans described above, Pinnacle
West  and  its subsidiaries also sponsor qualified defined contribution plans.
Collectively, these plans cover substantially all employees. The plans provide
for  employee  contributions and partial employer matching contributions after
certain  eligibility  requirements  are met. The cost of these plans for 1993,
1992  and 1991 was $6,391,000, $5,404,000 and $2,756,000, of which $3,114,000,
$2,607,000 and $1,392,000 was charged to expense.

Postretirement Plans

    Pinnacle  West  and  its  subsidiaries  provide medical and life insurance
benefits  to  their retired employees. Employees may become eligible for these
retirement  benefits  based  on  years of service and age. The retiree medical
insurance   plan   is   contributory;  the  retiree  life  insurance  plan  is
noncontributory.   In  accordance  with  the  governing  plan  documents,  the
companies retain the right to change or eliminate these benefits.

    During 1993, Pinnacle West adopted SFAS No. 106, "Employers Accounting for
Postretirement  Benefits Other Than Pensions," which requires that the cost of
postretirement  benefits be accrued during the years that the employees render
service.  Prior  to  1993,  the  costs  of retiree benefits were recognized as
expense  when  claims were paid. This change had the effect of increasing 1993
retiree benefit costs from approximately $6 million to $35 million; the amount
charged  to expense increased from approximately $2 million to $17 million for
an  increase  of $15 million including the amortization (over 20 years) of the
initial  postretirement  benefit obligation estimated at January 1, 1993 to be
$184  million. Funding is based upon actuarially determined contributions that
take tax consequences into account.

    The components of the estimated postretirement benefit costs for 1993 are:

                                                        (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
Service cost -- benefits earned during the period....          $ 9,710
Interest cost on accumulated benefit obligation......           15,755
Net amortization and deferral........................            9,212
                                                               -------
Net consolidated periodic postretirement benefit cost          $34,677
                                                               =======


                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    A  reconciliation  of  the  funded  status  of  the  plan  to  the amounts
recognized in the balance sheet for 1993 is presented below:

  Plan assets at fair value, funded at December 31, 1993..  $   28,154
                                                            ----------
    Less accumulated postretirement benefit obligation:
      Retirees............................................      49,493
      Fully eligible plan participants....................      13,671
      Other active plan participants......................     138,364
                                                            ----------
  Total accumulated postretirement obligation.............     201,528
                                                            ----------
  Plan assets less than accumulated benefit obligation....    (173,374)
  Plus: Unrecognized transition obligation................     175,023
       Unrecognized net gain from past experience
         different from that assumed and from
         from changes in assumptions......................      (2,089)
                                                            ----------
  Accrued postretirement liability included in other
    deferred credits......................................  $     (440)
                                                            ==========
  Principal actuarial assumptions used were:
    Discount rate.........................................        7.50%
    Initial health care cost trend rate under age 65......       12.00%
    Initial health care cost trend rate -- age 65 and over        9.00%
    Ultimate health care cost trend rate
      (reached in the year 2003)..........................        5.50%
    Annual salary increases for life insurance obligation.        5.00%

    Assuming  a  one  percent increase in the health care cost trend rate, the
Company's  1993  cost  of  postretirement  benefits  other than pensions would
increase by $6.9 million and the accumulated benefit obligation as of December
31, 1993 would increase by $40.8 million.

    In  1993,  Pinnacle  West  adopted SFAS No. 112, "Employers Accounting for
Postemployment  Benefits."  The  new  standard  requires  a change from a cash
method  to  an  accrual  method  in accounting for benefits (such as long-term
disability)  provided  to  former  or  inactive employees after employment but
before  retirement.  The adoption of this new standard resulted in an increase
in 1993 postemployment benefit costs of approximately $2 million.

10. SUPPLEMENTAL INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION

    Other  taxes  charged  to operations during each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1993 are as follows:

                                                   1993       1992      1991
                                                 ---------  --------  --------
                                                    (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
Ad valorem.....................................   $124,630  $119,173  $121,936
Sales..........................................     84,901    83,185    80,815
Other..........................................     12,814    14,705    12,790
                                                 ---------  --------  --------
Total other taxes..............................   $222,345  $217,063  $215,541
                                                 =========  ========  ========


11. LEASES

    In  1986,  APS entered into sale and leaseback transactions under which it
sold  approximately  42%  of  its  share  of  Palo  Verde  Unit 2. The gain of
approximately $140,220,000 has been deferred and is being amortized to expense
over  the original lease term. The leases are being accounted for as operating
leases.  The  amounts  paid each year approximate $40,134,000 through December
1999;  $46,285,000  through  December  2000;  and $48,982,000 through December
2015. Options to renew the leases for two additional years and to purchase the
property at fair market value at the end of the lease terms are also included.
Lease  expense  for  1993,  1992  and  1991  was  $41,750,000, $45,838,000 and
$45,633,000, respectively.

    APS has a capital lease on a combined cycle plant which it sold and leased
back.  The lease requires semiannual payments of $2,582,000 through June 2001,
and  includes  renewal  and  purchase options based on fair market value. This
plant  is  included  in  electric  plant  in  service  at its original cost of
$54,405,000; accumulated depreciation at December 31, 1993 was $37,315,000.

    In  addition,  Pinnacle  West  and  its  subsidiaries  lease certain land,
buildings,  equipment  and  miscellaneous other items through operating rental
agreements  with  varying terms, provisions and expiration dates. Rent expense
for  1993,  1992  and  1991  was  approximately  $21,535,000,  $26,104,000 and
$28,185,000, respectively. Annual future minimum rental commitments, excluding
the  Palo  Verde and combined cycle leases, through 1998 are as follows: 1994,
$22,879,000;  1995,  $17,183,000;  1996,  $14,146,000;  1997, $14,120,000; and
1998,  $14,126,000.  Total rental commitments after 1998 are estimated at $198
million.

12. JOINTLY-OWNED FACILITIES

    At  December  31, 1993, APS owned interests in the following jointly-owned
electric  generating  and  transmission  facilities.  APS'  share  of  related
operating  and  maintenance  expenses  is  included  in utility operations and
maintenance.



                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

13. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Litigation

    Pinnacle  West  and  its subsidiaries are parties to various claims, legal
actions  and  complaints arising out of the normal course of business. Various
claims have been asserted against Pinnacle West and against present and former
directors  of  Pinnacle  West  and MeraBank. A settlement agreement that would
resolve  the  preponderance of these claims has been approved by the court. An
appeal  of  the  settlement by two non-settling individuals is pending. In the
opinion of management, the ultimate resolution of these claims will not have a
material  adverse  effect  on the operations or financial position of Pinnacle
West.

Palo Verde Tube Cracks

    Tube  cracking  in  the  Palo  Verde  steam  generators adversely affected
operations in 1993, and will continue to do so in 1994 and probably into 1995,
because  of  the  cost of replacement power and maintenance expense associated
with unit outages and corrective actions required to deal with the issue.

    The  operation of Palo Verde Unit 2 has been particularly affected by this
issue. APS has encountered axial tube cracking in the upper regions of the two
steam  generators  in Unit 2. This form of tube degradation is uncommon in the
industry  and,  in March 1993, led to a tube rupture and an outage of the unit
that extended to September 1993, during which the unit was refueled. Unit 2 is
currently completing a mid-cycle inspection outage which revealed further tube
degradation.  Unit 2  will  have  another mid-cycle inspection outage later in
1994.

    The steam generators of Units 1 and 3 were inspected late in 1993, but did
not show signs of axial cracking in their upper regions. All three units have,
however,  experienced  cracking  in  the bottom of the steam generators of the
types which are common in the industry.

    Although  its  analysis  is not yet completed, APS believes that the axial
cracking  in Unit 2 is due to deposits on the tubes and to the relatively high
temperatures  at  which  all three units are now designed to operate. APS also
believes  that  it can retard further tube degradation to acceptable levels by
remedial   actions  which  include  chemically  cleaning  the  generators  and
performing  analyses  and adjustments that will allow the units to be operated
at   lower   temperatures  without  appreciably  reducing  their  output.  The
temperature  analyses  should  be concluded within the next several months. In
the  meantime,  the lower temperatures will be achieved by operating the units
at less than full power (86%).

    Chemical  cleaning was performed during Unit 2's current mid-cycle outage,
and will be performed in the next refueling outage of Unit 3 (which will begin
shortly)  and of Unit 1 (which is scheduled for March 1995). APS has concluded
that Unit 1 can be safely operated until the 1995 outage and has submitted its
supporting  analysis  to  the  Nuclear  Regulatory Commission, but a mid-cycle
inspection later in 1994 is possible.

    As  a  result  of  these  corrective  actions,  all  three units should be
returned  to  full  power  by  mid-1995, and one or more of the units could be
returned to full power during 1994. So long as the three units are involved in
mid-cycle  outages and are operated at 86%, APS will incur additional fuel and
purchased  power  costs  averaging  approximately $2 million per month (before
income taxes).

    Because  of  schedule  changes  associated  with the tube issues and other
circumstances,  it now appears that all three units will be down for refueling
outages at various times during 1995.

                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    When significant cracks are detected during any outage, the affected tubes
are  taken  out of service by plugging. That has occurred in a number of tubes
in  Unit  2,  which  is by far the most affected by cracking and plugging. APS
expects  that  this  will  slow considerably because of the foregoing remedial
actions and that, while it may ultimately reach some limit on plugging, it can
operate the present steam generators over a number of years.

Construction Program

    Total  construction  expenditures  in  1994 are estimated at $312 million,
excluding capitalized property taxes and capitalized interest.

Fuel and Purchased Power Commitments

    APS  is  a  party to various fuel and purchased power contracts with terms
expiring  from 1994 through 2020. APS estimates its 1994 contract requirements
at  approximately  $136  million.  However, this amount may vary significantly
pursuant  to certain provisions in such contracts which permit APS to decrease
its required purchases under certain circumstances.

Nuclear Insurance

    The  Palo Verde participants have insurance for public liability resulting
from  nuclear energy hazards to the full limit of liability under federal law.
This potential liability is covered by primary liability insurance provided by
commercial  insurance  carriers in the amount of $200 million, and the balance
by  an  industry-wide retrospective assessment program. The maximum assessment
per  reactor  under the retrospective rating program for each nuclear incident
is  approximately  $79  million, subject to an annual limit of $10 million per
incident.  Based  upon APS' 29.1% interest in the three Palo Verde units, APS'
maximum  potential  assessment per incident is approximately $69 million, with
an annual payment limitation of $8.73 million.

    The  Palo  Verde  participants  maintain  "all  risk"  (including  nuclear
hazards) insurance for property damage to, and decontamination of, property at
Palo  Verde in the aggregate amount of $2.75 billion, a substantial portion of
which must first be applied to stabilization and decontamination. APS has also
secured  insurance  against  portions  of  any increased cost of generation or
purchased  power  and  business  interruption  resulting  from  a  sudden  and
unforeseen  outage of any of the three units. The insurance coverage discussed
in this and the previous paragraph is subject to certain policy conditions and
exclusions.

El Paso Electric Company Bankruptcy

    The  other joint owners in the Palo Verde and Four Corners facilities (see
Note  12) include El Paso Electric Company, which currently is operating under
Chapter  11  of  the  Bankruptcy  Code.  A plan whereby El Paso would become a
wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  Central and South West Corporation would resolve
certain  issues  to which APS could be exposed by the bankruptcy, including El
Paso allegations regarding the 1989-1990 Palo Verde outages. The plan has been
confirmed  by  the  bankruptcy  court, but cannot become fully effective until
several  additional  or  related  approvals  are  obtained.  If  they  are not
obtained,  the plan could be withdrawn or terminate, thereby reintroducing the
APS exposures.

                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

14. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

    Consolidated  quarterly  financial  information  for  1993  and 1992 is as
follows:



                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

15. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

    Pinnacle  West estimates that the carrying amounts of its cash equivalents
and commercial paper are reasonable estimates of their fair values at December
31,  1993  and  1992  due to their short maturities. The December 31, 1993 and
1992  fair  values  of debt and equity investments, determined by using quoted
market  values  or  by  discounting cash flows at rates equal to the Company's
costs of capital, approximate their carrying amounts.

    It  was not practicable to estimate the fair values of several investments
in  joint ventures and untraded equity securities because costs to do so would
be  excessive.  The carrying value of these investments totalled $45.6 million
and $63.6 million at year-end 1993 and 1992, respectively.

    On  December  31,  1993, the carrying amount of long-term debt liabilities
(excluding  $30  million  of capital lease obligations) was $2.682 billion and
its  estimated  fair  value  was approximately $2.911 billion. On December 31,
1992,  the carrying amount of long-term debt (excluding $32 million of capital
lease  obligations  was  $2.848  billion  and  its  estimated  fair  value was
approximately  $3.020  billion.  The  fair  value estimates were determined by
independent  sources  using  quoted market rates where available. Where market
prices  were  not  available,  the  fair  values were estimated by discounting
future  cash  flows  using  rates  available  for  debt  of  similar terms and
remaining  maturities. The carrying amounts of long-term debt bearing variable
interest rates approximate their fair values at December 31, 1993 and 1992.
























                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION

                     SCHEDULE IX -- SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS


  Column A     Column B  Column C (b)   Column D    Column E (a)  Column F (b)

                           Weighted                                 Weighted
                           average       Maximum      Average       average
 Category of   Balance     interest      amount        amount       interest
  aggregate     at end       rate      outstanding  outstanding       rate
 short-term       of      at end of    during the    during the    during the
 borrowings     period      period       period        period        period
 ----------    --------  ------------  -----------  ------------  ------------
                                   (Dollars in Thousands)

                         YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993
Bank
  Borrowings   $  --            --  %     $130,000       $63,616         3.97%
Commercial
  Paper         148,000         3.48       148,000        23,049         3.36

                         YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1992
Bank
  Borrowings   $130,000         4.28%     $175,000    $    9,372         5.25%
Commercial
  Paper          65,000          3.73       70,000        12,682         3.75

                         YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1991
Bank
  Borrowings   $   --           --  %     $100,000       $26,973         7.44%
Commercial
  Paper            --           --          70,000        24,077         6.74
- ----------
  (a)         Average daily balance during the period.

  (b)         Total applicable interest in the period divided by average daily
              balance.

     ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
                           AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None.


                                   PART III

                       ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE
                          OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    Reference is hereby made to "Election of Directors" in the Company's Proxy
Statement relating to the annual meeting of shareholders to be held on May 19,
1994  (the  "1994 Proxy Statement") and to the Supplemental Item -- "Executive
Officers of the Company" in Part I of this report.

                       ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    Reference is hereby made to the last two paragraphs under the heading "The
Board and its Committees," and to "Summary Compensation Table," "Option Grants
1993,"  "Option  Exercises and Year-End Values," and "Executive Benefit Plans"
in the 1994 Proxy Statement.

                        ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF
                   CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    Reference  is  hereby  made  to "Certain Securities Ownership" in the 1994
Proxy Statement.

           ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    None.


                                   PART IV

         ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT
                      SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

    See the Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules in
Part II, Item 8.

EXHIBITS FILED

EXHIBIT NO.                     DESCRIPTION
- -----------                     -----------

10.1 --              Summary  of the  Pinnacle  West Capital  Corporation 1994
                     Bonus Plan

22   --              Subsidiaries of the Company

23.1 --              Consent of Deloitte & Touche

    In addition to those Exhibits shown above, the Company hereby incorporates
the following Exhibits  pursuant to  Exchange Act  Rule 12b-32  and Regulation
(S) 201.24 by reference to the filings set forth below:



REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    During the quarter ended December 31, 1993, and the period ended March 30,
1994, the Company filed the following Reports on Form 8-K:

    Report  dated  December 15, 1993,  regarding  (i) inspections of the steam
generators of the Palo Verde units and related issues and (ii) APS' settlement
agreement with a former contract employee.

    Report  dated  January  24, 1994 regarding the settlement and dismissal of
certain  lawsuits  involving  the Company, one of the lawsuits being partially
dismissed.


                                  SIGNATURES

    Pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange  Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                    PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
                                               (Registrant)

Date: March 30, 1994                           RICHARD SNELL
                          ----------------------------------------------------
                          (Richard Snell, Chairman of the Board of Directors,
                                 President and Chief Executive Officer)


    Pursuant  to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by  the  following  persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.





               Signature                         Title               Date
               ---------                         -----               ----

               RICHARD SNELL              Principal Executive   March 30, 1994
- ----------------------------------------  Officer and Director
(Richard Snell, Chairman of the Board of
               Directors,
 President and Chief Executive Officer)

               H. B. SARGENT              Principal Financial   March 30, 1994
- ----------------------------------------  Officer, Principal
(H. B. Sargent, Executive Vice President  Accounting Officer
      and Chief Financial Officer)        and Director

             O. MARK DE MICHELE           Director              March 30, 1994
- ----------------------------------------
          (O. Mark De Michele)

                PAMELA GRANT              Director              March 30, 1994
- ----------------------------------------
             (Pamela Grant)

           ROY A. HERBERGER, JR.          Director              March 30, 1994
- ----------------------------------------
        (Roy A. Herberger, Jr.)

              MARTHA O. HESSE             Director              March 30, 1994
- ----------------------------------------
           (Martha O. Hesse)

          WILLIAM S. JAMIESON, JR.        Director              March 30, 1994
- ----------------------------------------
       (William S. Jamieson, Jr.)

            JOHN R. NORTON, III           Director              March 30, 1994
- ----------------------------------------
         (John R. Norton, III)

            DONALD N. SOLDWEDEL           Director              March 30, 1994
- ----------------------------------------
         (Donald N. Soldwedel)

              DOUGLAS J. WALL             Director              March 30, 1994
- ----------------------------------------
           (Douglas J. Wall)



                                   APPENDIX

    In  accordance  with Item 304 of Regulation S-T of the Securities Exchange
Act  of  1934, APS' Service Territory map contained in this Form 10-K is a map
of  the  state of Arizona showing APS' service area, the location of its major
power   plants   and   principal  transmission  lines,  and  the  location  of
transmission lines operated by APS for others. The major power plants shown on
such  map  are  the  Navajo  Generating  Station  located  in Coconino County,
Arizona; the Four Corners Power Plant located near Farmington, New Mexico; the
Cholla  Power Plant, located in Navajo County, Arizona; the Yucca Power Plant,
located  near  Yuma,  Arizona;  and the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station,
located  about  55  miles  west  of  Phoenix, Arizona (each of which plants is
reflected on such map as being jointly owned with other utilities), as well as
the  Ocotillo  Power  Plant  and  West  Phoenix Power Plant, each located near
Phoenix,  Arizona,  and the Saguaro Power Plant, located near Tucson, Arizona.
APS'  major  transmission  lines  shown  on  such map are reflected as running
between  the power plants named above and certain major cities in the state of
Arizona.  The  transmission  lines  operated  for others shown on such map are
reflected as running from the Four Corners Plant through a portion of northern
Arizona to the California border.


                                                 COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-8962
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                --------------

                                 EXHIBITS TO

                                  FORM 10-K

               ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF

                     THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993
                                --------------

                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION

              (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN CHARTER)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                              INDEX TO EXHIBITS



Exhibit No.  Description
- -----------  -----------
10.1    --   Summary  of the  Pinnacle West Capital  Corporation  1994 Bonus
             Plan

22      --   Subsidiaries of the Company

23.1    --   Consent of Deloitte & Touche




