
10-K405
10-K405


================================================================================
                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                -----------------
                                    FORM 10-K
         (Mark One)
               |X|ANNUAL REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                  SECURITIES  EXCHANGE  ACT OF 1934 For the fiscal year
                  ended December 31, 1997
                                               OR
               |_|TRANSITION  REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                  THE   SECURITIES   EXCHANGE   ACT  OF  1934  For  the
                  transition period from ______ to ______

                          Commission File Number 1-8962

                        Pinnacle West Capital Corporation
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


                ARIZONA                                  86-0512431
     (State or other jurisdiction           (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
   of incorporation or organization)
 400 East Van Buren Street, Suite 700
        Phoenix, Arizona 85004                        (602) 379-2500
    (Address of principal executive           (Registrant's telephone number,
               offices,                             including area code)
          including zip code)               

                                ---------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:


                                

                                        i

                                    GLOSSARY

ACC --- Arizona Corporation Commission

ACC Staff --- Staff of the Arizona Corporation Commission

AFUDC --- Allowance for Funds Used During Construction

Amendments --- Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990

ANPP --- Arizona Nuclear Power Project, also known as Palo Verde

APS --- Arizona Public Service Company

CC&N --- Certificate of convenience and necessity

Cholla --- Cholla Power Plant

Cholla 4 --- Unit 4 of the Cholla Power Plant

Company --- Pinnacle West Capital Corporation

CUC --- Citizens Utilities Company

DOE --- United States Department of Energy

EITF --- Emerging Issues Task Force

EITF 97-4 --- Emerging  Issues Task Force Issue No. 97-4,  "Deregulation  of the
Pricing of Electricity --- Issues Related to the Applications of FASB Statements
No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation,  and No. 101,
Regulated  Enterprises --- Accounting for the  Discontinuation of Application of
FASB Statement No. 71"

El Dorado --- El Dorado Investment Company

Energy Act --- National Energy Policy Act of 1992

EPA --- United States Environmental Protection Agency

FASB --- Financial Accounting Standards Board

FERC --- Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

Four Corners --- Four Corners Power Plant

GAAP --- Generally accepted accounting principles

ITC --- Investment tax credit

kW --- Kilowatt, one thousand watts

kWh --- Kilowatt-hour, one thousand watts per hour

Mortgage  ---  Mortgage  and  Deed  of  Trust,  dated  as of July  1,  1946,  as
supplemented and amended

MWh --- Megawatt hours, one million watts per hour

1935 Act --- Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935

NGS --- Navajo Generating Station

NRC --- Nuclear Regulatory Commission

PacifiCorp --- An Oregon-based utility company

Palo Verde --- Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station

SEC --- Securities and Exchange Commission

SFAS  No.  34  ---   Statement  of  Financial   Accounting   Standards  No.  34,
"Capitalization of Interest Cost"

SFAS No. 71 --- Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards No. 71, "Accounting
for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation"

SFAS  No.  123  ---  Statement  of  Financial   Accounting  Standards  No.  123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation"

SFAS No. 130 --- Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 130, "Reporting
Comprehensive Income"

SFAS  No.  131  ---  Statement  of  Financial   Accounting  Standards  No.  131,
"Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information"

SFAS  No.  132  ---  Statement  of  Financial   Accounting  Standards  No.  132,
"Employers' Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits"

SRP --- Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement and Power District

SunCor --- SunCor Development Company

USEC --- United States Enrichment Corporation

Waste Act --- Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended

                                     PART I

                                ITEM 1. BUSINESS

The Company

         General

         Pinnacle West Capital  Corporation  was  incorporated in 1985 under the
laws of the State of Arizona and is engaged,  through its  subsidiaries,  in the
generation and distribution of electricity;  in real estate development;  and in
venture capital  investment.  The principal executive offices of the Company are
located  at 400 East  Van  Buren  Street,  Suite  700,  Phoenix,  Arizona  85004
(telephone 602-379-2500).

         At  December  31,  1997,  the  Company  and its  subsidiaries  employed
approximately  7,189  persons.  Of these  employees,  approximately  5,981  were
employees of the Company's  major  subsidiary,  APS, and  employees  assigned to
joint projects of APS where APS serves as a project manager,  and  approximately
1,208 were employees of the Company and its other subsidiaries.

         Other  subsidiaries of the Company,  in addition to APS, include SunCor
and El Dorado. See "Business of SunCor Development  Company" and "Business of El
Dorado Investment Company" in this Item for further information regarding SunCor
and El Dorado.

         This document  contains  forward-looking  statements that involve risks
and uncertainties. Words such as "estimates," "expects," "anticipates," "plans,"
"believes,"   "projects,"  and  similar  expressions  identify   forward-looking
statements.  These risks and uncertainties  include, but are not limited to, the
ongoing  restructuring of the electric  industry;  the outcome of the regulatory
proceedings  relating to the  restructuring;  regulatory,  tax and environmental
legislation;  the ability of APS to successfully compete outside its traditional
regulated  markets;  regional economic  conditions,  which could affect customer
growth;  the cost of debt  and  equity  capital;  weather  variations  affecting
customer usage;  technological  developments in the electric  industry;  and the
strength of the real estate  market.  See  "Business of Arizona  Public  Service
Company -- Competition" for a discussion of some of these factors.

         Arizona Corporation  Commission Affiliated Interest Rules. On March 14,
1990, the ACC issued an order adopting certain rules purportedly applicable only
to a certain class of public utilities  regulated by the ACC, including APS. The
rules define the terms "public  utility holding  company" and  "affiliate"  with
respect to public service corporations  regulated by the ACC in such a manner as
to include the Company and all of the Company's  non-public service  corporation
subsidiaries.  By their terms,  the rules,  among other things,  require  public
utilities,  such as APS,  to receive  ACC  approval  prior to (1)  obtaining  an
interest in, or  guaranteeing  or assuming the liabilities of, any affiliate not
regulated by the ACC; (2) lending to any such  affiliate  (except for short-term
loans in an amount less than  $100,000);  or (3) using  utility  funds to form a
subsidiary  or  divest  itself of any  established  subsidiary.  The rules  also
prevent a  utility  from  transacting  business  with an  affiliate  unless  the
affiliate  agrees to provide  the ACC  "access  to the books and  records of the
affiliate  to  the  degree  required  to  fully  audit,   examine  or  otherwise
investigate  transactions  between  the public  utility and the  affiliate."  In
addition, the rules provide that an "affiliate or holding company may not divest
itself of, or otherwise  relinquish  control of, a public utility without thirty
(30) days prior  written  notification  to the [ACC]"  and  requires  all public
utilities  subject to them and all public utility holding  companies to annually
"provide the [ACC] with a description of  diversification  plans for the current
calendar  year that have been  approved by the Boards of  Directors."  The rules
have not had, nor does the Company expect the rules to have, a material  adverse
impact on the business or operations of the Company.

                   BUSINESS OF ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY

     Following is a  discussion  of the  business of APS,  the  Company's  major
subsidiary.

General

         APS was  incorporated  in 1920 under the laws of Arizona and is engaged
principally  in  serving  electricity  in the State of  Arizona.  The  principal
executive offices of APS are located at 400 North Fifth Street, Phoenix, Arizona
85004 (telephone  602-250-1000).  The Company owns all of the outstanding shares
of APS' common stock.

         APS is Arizona's largest electric utility, with 767,000 customers,  and
provides  wholesale  or retail  electric  service to the entire state of Arizona
with the  exception  of Tucson and about  one-half of the Phoenix  area.  During
1997, no single  purchaser or user of energy accounted for more than 2% of total
electric  revenues.  At December 31,  1997,  APS employed  5,981  people,  which
includes employees assigned to joint projects where APS is project manager.

Competition

     Retail

     General. Under current law, APS is not in direct competition with any other
regulated   electric  utility  for  electric  service  in  APS'  retail  service
territory.  Nevertheless,  APS is subject to varying  degrees of  competition in
certain  territories  adjacent  to or within  areas that it serves that are also
currently served by other utilities in its region (such as Tucson Electric Power
Company,  Southwest Gas  Corporation,  and Citizens  Utility Company) as well as
cooperatives,   municipalities,   electrical  districts  and  similar  types  of
governmental organizations (principally SRP).

         APS faces competitive  challenges from low-cost hydroelectric power and
natural  gas fuel,  as well as the  access  of some  utilities  to  preferential
low-priced  federal  power and other  subsidies.  In addition,  some  customers,
particularly industrial and large commercial,  may own and operate facilities to
generate their own electric energy requirements. Such facilities may be operated
by the customers  themselves or by other entities engaged for such purpose.  The
legislatures and/or the regulatory commissions in most states have considered or
are  considering  "retail  wheeling." This  requirement to transmit  directly to
retail customers could have the result of allowing retail customers to choose to
purchase electric capacity and energy from the electric utility in whose service
area they are located or from other  electric  utilities  or  independent  power
producers or power marketers.

         ACC Rules Regarding  Arizona Electric Industry  Restructuring.  The ACC
Staff has been conducting an ongoing investigation into the restructuring of the
Arizona electric industry.  In December 1996, the ACC adopted rules that provide
a framework for the  introduction of retail  electric  competition in Arizona in
phases  from 1999 to 2003.  The ACC  ordered in the rules that  numerous  issues
require additional  consideration prior to the implementation of retail electric
competition in Arizona. During 1997, the ACC held workshops to gather input from
various constituencies with respect to those issues.

         The rules  indicate  that the ACC will allow  recovery  of  unmitigated
stranded  costs,  but do not  set  forth  the  mechanisms  for  determining  and
recovering  such costs.  In February 1998,  the ACC completed a formal,  generic
hearing  on  stranded  cost   determination  and  recovery.   Based  on  various
assumptions,  estimates  and  methodologies,  APS currently  estimates  that its
stranded costs to be recovered  (excluding  regulatory assets which have already
been  addressed  by the ACC) will be less  than $500  million.  The  Company  is
seeking full recovery of stranded costs during a transition  period  proposed to
go through  2006.  Decisions  by the ACC have not yet been made with  respect to
this issue.

     An Arizona joint  legislative  committee  studied electric utility industry
restructuring  issues in 1996 and 1997. In conjunction with that study,  Arizona
legislative  counsel  prepared  memoranda  in late  1997  related  to the  legal
authority of the ACC to deregulate the Arizona  electric utility  industry.  The
memoranda  raise a  question  as to the  degree to which the ACC may,  under the
Arizona  Constitution,  deregulate any portion of the electric  utility industry
and allow rates to be determined by market forces.  In February 1998, a bill was
introduced in the Arizona  legislature  to facilitate  implementation  of retail
electric  competition  in the state.  The bill has  progressed  through  several
stages to date. The bill includes,  among other things,  a proposal that the ACC
adopt provisions for public service corporations  substantially  consistent with
some  of  the  bill's  provisions  for  certain   government-operated   electric
utilities.  APS continues to believe that legislation and perhaps  amendments to
the  Arizona   Constitution  will  ultimately  be  required  before  significant
implementation of retail electric competition can lawfully occur in Arizona.

     See Note 3 of Notes to  Financial  Statements  for  additional  information
regarding  the rules and other  regulatory  and  legal  issues  relating  to the
electric industry restructuring.

     Wholesale

     General.   APS  competes  with  other  utilities,   power  marketers,   and
independent  power producers in the sale of electric  capacity and energy in the
wholesale  market.  APS expects that  competition  to sell  capacity will remain
vigorous,  and that wholesale prices will remain depressed for at least the next
several years due to increased  competition and surplus  capacity in the western
United States.  APS' rates for wholesale power sales and  transmission  services
are subject to regulation by the FERC.  During 1997,  approximately  13% of APS'
electric operating revenues resulted from such sales and charges.

     The  National  Energy  Policy Act of 1992 (the  "Energy  Act") has promoted
increased  competition in the wholesale  electric power markets.  The Energy Act
reformed provisions of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (the "1935
Act") and the Federal Power Act to remove certain  barriers to  competition  for
the supply of electricity. For example, the Energy Act permits the FERC to order
transmission  access  for third  parties  to  transmission  facilities  owned by
another entity so that independent suppliers and other third parties can sell at
wholesale  to  customers  wherever  located.  The Energy Act does not,  however,
permit  the FERC to  issue an order  requiring  transmission  access  to  retail
customers.

     Effective  July 9, 1996, a FERC  decision  requires all electric  utilities
subject to the FERC's  jurisdiction to file  transmission  tariffs which provide
competitors   with  access  to   transmission   facilities   comparable  to  the
transmission owners' access for wholesale transactions,  establishes information
requirements,  and provides for recovery of certain  wholesale  stranded  costs.
Retail stranded costs  resulting from a  state-authorized  retail  direct-access
program are the responsibility of the states,  unless a state lacks authority to
impose rates to recover such costs,  in which case FERC will consider  doing so.
APS has filed its revised open access tariff in accordance  with this  decision.
APS does not believe that this decision will have a material  adverse  impact on
its results of operations or financial position.

     Federal Regulation

     Several  electric  utility reform bills have been introduced  during recent
Congressional  sessions,  which as currently  written,  would allow consumers to
choose their electric  supplier by 2000 or 2003.  These bills,  other bills that
are expected to be  introduced,  and ongoing  discussions  at the federal  level
suggest  a wide  range of  opinion  that  will need to be  narrowed  before  any
substantial restructuring of the electric utility industry can occur.

     Regulatory Assets

     APS'  major   regulatory   assets  are  deferred   income  taxes  and  rate
synchronization  cost  deferrals.   These  items,  combined  with  miscellaneous
regulatory  assets and liabilities,  amounted to  approximately  $1.0 billion at
December 31, 1997.  In  accordance  with a 1996  regulatory  agreement,  the ACC
accelerated the amortization of substantially all of

APS'  regulatory  assets to an eight-year  period  beginning July 1, 1996.  APS'
existing  regulatory  orders and  current  regulatory  environment  support  its
accounting  practices  related to regulatory  assets.  If rate recovery of these
assets is no longer probable,  whether due to competition or regulatory  action,
APS would no longer  be able to apply  the  provisions  of SFAS No. 71 to all or
some part of its operations which could have a material impact on APS' financial
statements.  See Notes 1, 3 and 4 of Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8 for
additional information.

     Competitive Strategies

     APS  is  pursuing  strategies  to  maintain  and  enhance  its  competitive
position. These strategies include (i) cost management,  with an emphasis on the
reduction of variable costs (fuel, operations,  and maintenance expenses) and on
increased productivity through technological efficiencies;  (ii) a focus on APS'
core  business  through  customer  service,   distribution  system  reliability,
business  segmentation  and the anticipation of market  opportunities;  (iii) an
emphasis on good regulatory relationships; (iv) asset maximization (e.g., higher
capacity factors and lower forced outage rates);  (v) strengthening APS' capital
structure  and financial  condition;  (vi)  leveraging  core  competencies  into
related  areas,  such as energy  management  products  and  services;  and (vii)
establishing  a trading  floor and  implementing  a risk  management  program to
provide  for  more  stability  of  prices  and the  ability  to  retain  or grow
incremental  margin  through  more  competitive  pricing  and  risk  management.
Underpinning APS' competitive  strategies are the strong growth  characteristics
of APS' service  territory.  As  competition  in the electric  utility  industry
continues to evolve,  APS will continue to evaluate  strategies and alternatives
that  will  position  APS  to  compete   effectively  in  a  more   competitive,
restructured industry.

Generating Fuel and Purchased Power

     1997 Energy Mix

         APS' sources of energy during 1997 were: coal - 36.5%; nuclear - 28.2%;
other - 3.1%; and purchased power - 32.2%.

     Coal Supply

     APS  believes  that  Cholla has  sufficient  reserves  of low  sulfur  coal
committed  to the plant for the next two years,  the term of the  existing  coal
contract.  In 1997,  the current  supplier  experienced  production and delivery
problems that required Cholla to purchase coal from the spot market. The current
supplier is expected to continue to provide  substantially  all of Cholla's  low
sulfur coal requirements. Contract renegotiation with the current supplier is in
progress.  The  current  supplier  has  sufficient  reserves  of low sulfur coal
available to allow the  continued  operation of Cholla for its useful life.  APS
also believes that Four Corners and NGS have  sufficient  reserves of low sulfur
coal  available  for use by those  plants to continue  operating  them for their
useful lives.

     The  current  sulfur  content of coal being used at Four  Corners,  NGS and
Cholla is approximately 0.78%, 0.55% and 0.44%,  respectively.  In 1997, average
prices paid for coal  supplied  from the reserves  dedicated  under the existing
contracts were comparable to 1996.  Escalation  components of existing long-term
coal contracts impact future coal prices.  In addition,  major price adjustments
can occur from time to time as a result of contract renegotiation.

     NGS and Four Corners are located on the Navajo  Reservation  and held under
easements  granted by the federal  government  as well as leases from the Navajo
Nation.  See "Properties-  Plant Sites Leased from the Navajo Nation" in Item 2.
APS purchases all of the coal which fuels Four Corners from a coal supplier with
a long-term lease of coal reserves owned by the Navajo Nation and for NGS from a
coal supplier with a long-term  lease with the Navajo Nation and the Hopi Tribe.
Coal is supplied to Cholla from a coal  supplier who mines all of the coal under
a  long-term  lease of coal  reserves  owned by the Navajo  Nation,  the federal
government,  and  private  landholders.  See  Note  12  of  Notes  to  Financial
Statements in Item 8 for  information  regarding  APS'  obligation for coal mine
reclamation.

     Natural Gas Supply

     APS is a party to  contracts  with a number of natural  gas  operators  and
marketers which allow APS to purchase natural gas in the method it determines to
be most  economic.  APS is currently  purchasing the majority of its natural gas
requirements  from twelve  companies  pursuant to  contracts.  APS'  natural gas
supply is transported pursuant to a firm transportation service contract between
APS and El Paso  Natural Gas  Company.  APS  continues  to analyze the market to
determine the source and method of meeting its natural gas requirements.

     Nuclear Fuel Supply

     The fuel cycle for Palo Verde is comprised of the following stages: (1) the
mining and  milling of uranium  ore to  produce  uranium  concentrates,  (2) the
conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium  hexafluoride,  (3) the enrichment
of  uranium  hexafluoride,  (4)  the  fabrication  of fuel  assemblies,  (5) the
utilization of fuel assemblies in reactors and (6) the storage of spent fuel and
the disposal thereof. The Palo Verde participants have made arrangements through
contract flexibilities to obtain quantities of uranium concentrates  anticipated
to be  sufficient  to  meet  operational  requirements  through  2000.  Existing
contracts  and  options  could  be  utilized  to  meet   approximately   80%  of
requirements  in 2001 and 2002 and 50% of  requirements  from 2003 through 2007.
Spot  purchases in the uranium market will be made, as  appropriate,  in lieu of
any uranium that might be obtained through contract  flexibilities  and options.
The Palo Verde participants have contracted for all conversion services required
through  1998  and for up to 60%  through  2002.  The Palo  Verde  participants,
including APS, have an enrichment  services  contract with USEC which  obligates
USEC to furnish enrichment services required for the operation of the three Palo
Verde units over a term  expiring in  September  2002,  with options to continue
through  September  2007.  In  addition,  existing  contracts  will provide fuel
assembly  fabrication services until at least 2003 for each Palo Verde unit, and
through contract options, approximately fifteen additional years are available.

     Spent Nuclear Fuel and Waste Disposal. Pursuant to the Nuclear Waste Policy
Act of 1982,  as amended in 1987 (the "Waste  Act"),  DOE is obligated to accept
and dispose of all spent nuclear fuel and other  high-level  radioactive  wastes
generated by all domestic power  reactors.  The NRC,  pursuant to the Waste Act,
requires  operators of nuclear power  reactors to enter into spent fuel disposal
contracts  with DOE,  and APS, on its own behalf and on behalf of the other Palo
Verde  participants,  has done so.  Under the Waste Act,  DOE was to develop the
facilities  necessary  for the storage and disposal of spent nuclear fuel and to
have the first such  facility in  operation by 1998.  That  facility was to be a
permanent repository, but DOE has announced that such a repository now cannot be
completed  before 2010. In July 1996, the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit (D.C. Circuit) ruled that the DOE has an obligation
to start  disposing of spent nuclear fuel no later than January 31, 1998. By way
of letter dated December 17, 1996, DOE informed contract holders, including APS,
that DOE anticipates that it will be unable to begin acceptance of spent nuclear
fuel for disposal in a  repository  or interim  storage  facility by January 31,
1998. In November  1997, the D.C.  Circuit issued a Writ of Mandamus  precluding
DOE from  excusing  its own delay on the grounds that DOE has not yet prepared a
permanent  repository  or  interim  storage  facility.  Several  bills have been
introduced  in Congress  contemplating  the  construction  of a central  interim
storage  facility  which  could be  available  in the latter part of the current
decade;  however, there is resistance to certain features of these bills both in
Congress and the Administration.

     Facility funding is a further complication. While all nuclear utilities pay
into a so-called  nuclear  waste fund an amount  calculated  on the basis of the
output of their respective plants, the annual  Congressional  appropriations for
the permanent  repository  have been for amounts less than the amounts paid into
the waste  fund (the  balance of which is being  used for other  purposes)  and,
according  to DOE  spokespersons,  may now be at a level  less  than  needed  to
achieve a 2010 operational date for a permanent  repository.  No funding will be
available for a central interim facility until one is authorized by Congress.

     APS has  storage  capacity  in existing  fuel  storage  pools at Palo Verde
which,  with certain  modifications,  could  accommodate all fuel expected to be
discharged from normal  operation of Palo Verde through about 2002, and believes
it could augment that wet storage with new facilities for on-site dry storage of
spent fuel for an  indeterminate  period of operation  beyond  2002,  subject to
obtaining any required governmental approvals. One way or another, APS currently
believes  that spent fuel storage or disposal  methods will be available for use
by Palo Verde to allow its continued operation beyond 2002.

     A new low-level  waste facility was built in 1995 on-site which could store
an amount of waste  equivalent  to ten years of normal  operation at Palo Verde.
Although some low-level waste has been stored on-site, APS is currently shipping
low-level  waste to off-site  facilities.  APS  currently  believes that interim
low-level  waste storage  methods are or will be available for use by Palo Verde
to allow its  continued  operation and to safely store  low-level  waste until a
permanent disposal facility is available.

     While  believing  that  scientific  and financial  aspects of the issues of
spent  fuel  and   low-level   waste   storage  and  disposal  can  be  resolved
satisfactorily,  APS  acknowledges  that their  ultimate  resolution in a timely
fashion  will  require  political  resolve and action on national  and  regional
scales which it is less able to predict.

Purchased Power Agreements

     In  addition  to that  available  from  its own  generating  capacity  (see
"Properties"  in Item 2), APS purchases  electricity  from other utilities under
various arrangements. One of the most important of these is a long-term contract
with SRP which may be canceled by SRP on three years' notice and which  requires
SRP to make available,  and APS to pay for,  certain amounts of electricity that
are based in large part on customer  demand  within  certain areas now served by
APS  pursuant  to a  related  territorial  agreement.  The  generating  capacity
available to APS pursuant to the contract was 297 MW through May 1997,  at which
time the  capacity  decreased  to 292 MW. In 1997,  APS  received  approximately
610,400 MWh of energy under the contract and paid  approximately $37 million for
capacity availability and energy received.

     In September  1990,  APS and  PacifiCorp  entered  into certain  agreements
relating  principally  to sales and  purchases  of electric  power and  electric
utility assets, and in July 1991 APS sold Cholla 4 to PacifiCorp. As part of the
transaction,  PacifiCorp  agreed to make a firm  system  sale to APS for  thirty
years  during APS' summer  peak  season in the amount of 175  megawatts  for the
first five years, increasing thereafter,  at APS' option, up to a maximum amount
equal to the rated capacity of Cholla 4 (380 megawatts). APS also had the option
to convert these firm system sales to one-for-one  seasonal  capacity  exchanges
with  PacifiCorp.  APS'  agreements with  PacifiCorp  currently  provide for the
following Company purchases and one-for-one  seasonal capacity  exchanges during
the indicated years:  1998 (175 megawatt firm capacity  purchase,  converting to
capacity  exchange in the summer of 1998; and 100 megawatt  capacity  exchange);
1999 and beyond (275  megawatt  capacity  exchange;  and 205  megawatt  capacity
exchange  beginning in the summer of 1999).  In 1997,  the  generating  capacity
available to APS from PacifiCorp was 175 MW. APS received  approximately 486,000
MWh of energy and paid approximately $17.4 million for capacity availability and
the energy received.

     During 1996, APS entered into an agreement with Citizens  Utilities Company
to build, own, operate and maintain a combustion  turbine in northwest  Arizona.
Pursuant to a twenty-year purchase power agreement, APS will recover the cost of
the turbine and CUC will pay for the output  requested by CUC. APS has the right
to  secondary  use of the output for cost of fuel and  variable  operations  and
maintenance.  APS expects that the combustion  turbine will be in service during
the first quarter of 2001.

Construction Program

     During the years 1995 through 1997, APS incurred approximately $824 million
in capitalized expenditures. Utility capitalized expenditures for the years 1998
through 2000 are expected to be primarily for expanding transmission and

distribution   capabilities  to  meet  customer   growth,   upgrading   existing
facilities, and for environmental purposes. Capitalized expenditures,  including
expenditures for environmental  control  facilities,  for the years 1998 through
2000 have been estimated as follows:

                        (Millions of Dollars)

By Year                                     By Major Facilities
- ------------------------------     --------------------------------------

                                   Production                       $235
1998                      $323     Transmission and Distribution     565
1999                       313     General                           119
2000                       306     Other Projects                     23
                          ----                                       ---
                          $942                                      $942
                          ====                                      ====

     The amounts for 1998 through 2000 exclude  capitalized  interest  costs and
include  capitalized  property  taxes and about  $30-$35  million  each year for
nuclear fuel. APS conducts a continuing review of its construction program.

Mortgage Replacement Fund Requirements

     So  long  as any of APS'  first  mortgage  bonds  are  outstanding,  APS is
required for each  calendar  year to deposit with the trustee under its Mortgage
cash in a formularized amount related to net additions to APS' mortgaged utility
plant;  however,  APS may  satisfy  all or any part of this  "replacement  fund"
requirement by utilizing redeemed or retired bonds, net property  additions,  or
property  retirements.  For 1997, the replacement fund  requirement  amounted to
approximately  $134  million.  All of the bonds issued by APS under the Mortgage
which are  callable  prior to maturity  are  redeemable  at their par value plus
accrued interest with cash deposited by APS in the replacement fund,  subject in
many cases to a period of time after the  original  issuance of the bonds during
which  they may not be so  redeemed  and/or  to other  restrictions  on any such
redemption.



Environmental Matters

     EPA Environmental Regulation

     Clean Air Act.  Pursuant to the 1977  amendments  to the Clean Air Act, the
EPA  adopted   regulations  that  address   visibility   impairment  in  certain
federally-protected  areas  which  can  be  reasonably  attributed  to  specific
sources.  In September 1991, the EPA issued a final rule that would limit sulfur
dioxide  emissions  at NGS.  Compliance  with  the  emission  limitation  became
applicable  to one NGS unit in 1997 and becomes  applicable  to another  unit in
1998 and to the last unit in 1999. SRP, the NGS operating agent, has estimated a
capital  cost of $440 million and annual  operations  and  maintenance  costs of
approximately   $14  million  for  all  three  units,  for  NGS  to  meet  these
requirements.  APS is required to fund 14% of these expenditures.  Approximately
80% of these capital costs have been incurred through 1997.

     The Clean Air Act  Amendments  of 1990 (the  "Amendments")  address,  among
other things,  "acid rain,"  visibility in certain  specified  areas,  toxic air
pollutants and the nonattainment of national ambient air quality standards. With
respect to "acid  rain," the  Amendments  establish  a system of sulfur  dioxide
emissions  "allowances."  Each existing utility unit is granted a certain number
of  "allowances."  For  Phase  II  plants,   which  includes  APS-owned  plants,
allowances will be required beginning in the year 2000 to operate the plants. On
March  5,  1993,  the  EPA  promulgated  rules  listing  allowance   allocations
applicable  to  APS-owned  plants.  Based on those  allocations,  APS will  have
sufficient  allowances  to permit  continued  operation of its plants at current
levels without  installing  additional  equipment.  In addition,  the Amendments
require the EPA to set nitrogen oxides emissions limitations which would require
certain plants to install additional  pollution control  equipment.  In December
1996, the EPA issued rules for nitrogen oxides  emissions  limitations  that may
require APS to install additional pollution control equipment at Four Corners by
January

1, 2000. Based on its initial  evaluation,  APS currently  estimates its capital
cost of complying with the rules may be  approximately  $4 million.  On February
14, 1997,  APS filed a Petition for Review in the United States Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia  alleging that the EPA improperly  classified  Four
Corners Unit 4 in these rules,  thereby  subjecting  Unit 4 to a more  stringent
emission   limitation.   Arizona  Public   Service   Company  v.  United  States
Environmental  Protection  Agency,  No.  97-1091.  In February  1998,  the Court
vacated  the  Unit 4  emission  limitation  and  remanded  the  issue to EPA for
reconsideration. APS cannot currently predict how the EPA will respond.

     With respect to protection of visibility in certain  specified  areas,  the
Amendments require the EPA to conduct a study concerning  visibility  impairment
in those areas and  identification  of sources  contributing to such impairment.
Interim  findings of this study have  indicated  that any  beneficial  effect on
visibility as a result of the Amendments would be offset by expected  population
and  industry  growth.  The EPA  has  established  a  "Grand  Canyon  Visibility
Transport  Commission"  to  complete  a study on  visibility  impairment  in the
"Golden Circle of National Parks" in the Colorado Plateau. NGS, Cholla, and Four
Corners are located near the "Golden  Circle of National  Parks." The Commission
completed its study and on June 10, 1996 submitted its final  recommendations to
the EPA. The Commission  recommended  that,  beginning in 2000 and every 5 years
thereafter, if actual sulfur dioxide emissions from all stationary sources in an
eight-state region (including Arizona, New Mexico, Utah, Nevada, and California)
exceed the projected emissions, which are projected to decline under the current
regulatory  scheme, the projected total emissions will be changed to a "regional
emissions  cap" and an emissions  trading  program would be implemented to limit
total  sulfur  dioxide  emissions  in the region.  The EPA will  consider  these
recommendations  before  promulgating  final  requirements  on a  regional  haze
regulatory program which is under EPA review, which is expected by June 1998. If
such a program were implemented,  industry, including APS' coal plants, could be
subject to further emissions limits.  APS cannot currently  estimate the capital
expenditures,  if any,  which may be required as a result of the EPA studies and
the Commission's recommendations.

     In July 1997,  the EPA proposed  regulations on regional haze. The proposal
would require states to submit plans to meet  "presumptive  reasonable  progress
targets" for achieving  perceptible  improvements  in  visibility  conditions in
Federal  Class I areas (e.g.,  national  parks) every 10-15 years.  The proposal
also calls for states to conduct three year "best available retrofit technology"
("BART") review on point sources which became operational  between 1962 and 1977
and which may normally be anticipated to contribute to regional haze  visibility
impairment. EPA is currently reviewing public comments and final regulations are
expected to be promulgated  by June 1998.  Because the actual level of emissions
controls,  if any, for any unit cannot be determined at this time, APS currently
cannot  estimate the capital  expenditures,  if any, which would result from the
final rules.

     With respect to hazardous air pollutants  emitted by electric utility steam
generating units, the Amendments  require two studies.  The results of the first
study  indicated  an impact from  mercury  emissions  from such units in certain
unspecified areas;  however, the EPA has not yet stated whether or not emissions
limitations will be imposed. Next, the EPA will complete a general study by 1999
concerning the necessity of regulating such units under the  Amendments.  Due to
the lack of historical data, and because APS cannot speculate as to the ultimate
requirements by the EPA, APS cannot currently estimate the capital expenditures,
if any, which may be required as a result of these studies.

     Certain aspects of the Amendments may require related  expenditures by APS,
such as permit fees,  none of which APS expects to have a material impact on its
financial position or results of operations.

     Also, in July 1997,  EPA  promulgated  final  National  Ambient Air Quality
Standards for ozone and  particulate  matter.  Pursuant to the rules,  the ozone
standard is more  stringent and a new ambient  standard for very fine  particles
has been  established.  APS  does not  currently  expect  these  rules to have a
material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations.

     Superfund.  The Comprehensive  Environmental  Response,  Compensation,  and
Liability Act ("Superfund")  establishes  liability for the cleanup of hazardous
substances found contaminating the soil, water or air. Those who

generated,  transported,  or disposed of hazardous  substances at a contaminated
site are among those who are potentially  responsible  parties ("PRP's") and may
be each strictly,  and often jointly and  severally,  liable for the cost of any
necessary remediation of the substances. The EPA had previously advised APS that
the EPA considers APS to be a PRP in the Indian Bend Wash Superfund Site,  South
Area,  where APS'  Ocotillo  Power  Plant is  located.  APS is in the process of
conducting  a  voluntary  investigation  to  determine  the  extent and scope of
contamination  at the plant site. Based on the information to date, APS does not
expect  this  matter to have a  material  impact on its  financial  position  or
results of operations.

     MGP Sites. APS currently is investigating  properties,  either presently or
previously  owned by APS,  which were at one time sites of, or sites  associated
with, manufactured gas plants. The purpose of this investigation is to determine
if waste materials are present, if such materials constitute an environmental or
health  risk,  and if APS has any  responsibility  for  remedial  action.  Where
appropriate,  APS has begun  remediation of certain of these sites. APS does not
expect these matters to have a material adverse effect on its financial position
or results of operations.

     Purported Navajo Environmental Regulation

     Four  Corners  and NGS are located on the Navajo  Reservation  and are held
under  easements  granted by the federal  government  as well as leases from the
Navajo Nation.  APS is the Four Corners operating agent and owns a 100% interest
in Four Corners Units 1, 2 and 3, and a 15% interest in Four Corners Units 4 and
5. APS owns a 14%  interest  in NGS Units 1, 2 and 3. In July  1995,  the Navajo
Nation  enacted the Navajo Nation Air Pollution  Prevention and Control Act, the
Navajo  Nation Safe  Drinking  Water Act, and the Navajo  Nation  Pesticide  Act
(collectively, the "Acts").

     Pursuant to the Acts, the Navajo Nation Environmental  Protection Agency is
authorized to promulgate  regulations  covering air quality,  drinking water and
pesticide  activities,  including  those that occur at Four  Corners and NGS. By
separate  letters  dated  October 12 and  October  13,  1995,  the Four  Corners
participants and the NGS  participants  requested the United States Secretary of
the Interior to resolve their dispute with the Navajo Nation  regarding  whether
or not the Acts apply to  operations  of Four  Corners  and NGS.  On October 17,
1995,  the Four  Corners  participants  and the NGS  participants  each  filed a
lawsuit  in the  District  Court of the Navajo  Nation,  Window  Rock  District,
seeking,  among other things,  a declaratory  judgment that (i) their respective
leases  and  federal  easements  preclude  the  application  of the  Acts to the
operations  of Four Corners and NGS, and (ii) the Navajo Nation and its agencies
and courts lack adjudicatory jurisdiction to determine the enforceability of the
Acts as applied to Four Corners and NGS. On October 18, 1995,  the Navajo Nation
and the Four  Corners  and NGS  participants  agreed  to  indefinitely  stay the
proceedings  referenced  in the  preceding two sentences so that the parties may
attempt to resolve the dispute  without  litigation,  and the  Secretary and the
Court have stayed these  proceedings  pursuant to a request by the parties.  APS
cannot currently predict the outcome of this matter.

     In  February  1998,  the  EPA  promulgated   regulations  specifying  those
provisions  of the  Clean Air Act for which it is  appropriate  to treat  Indian
tribes in the same manner as states. The EPA indicated that it believes that the
Clean Air Act generally would supersede pre-existing binding agreements that may
limit the scope of tribal  authority  over  reservations.  APS is reviewing  the
regulations to determine  what effect they might have on the  application of the
Navajo Nation Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act on Four Corners and NGS.

Water Supply

     Assured  supplies of water are  important  both to APS (for its  generating
plants) and to its customers and, at the present time, APS has adequate water to
meet its needs.  However,  conflicting claims to limited amounts of water in the
southwestern  United  States have  resulted in numerous  court actions in recent
years.

     Both  groundwater  and surface water in areas  important to APS' operations
have been the  subject of  inquiries,  claims and legal  proceedings  which will
require a number of years to  resolve.  APS is one of a number of  parties  in a
proceeding  before a state court in New Mexico to adjudicate  rights to a stream
system from which water for Four  Corners is derived.  (State of New Mexico,  in
the relation of S.E. Reynolds, State Engineer v. United  States of America, City
of Farmington,  Utah  International,  Inc., et al., San Juan County, New Mexico,
District Court No. 75-184). An agreement reached with the Navajo Nation in 1985,
however,  provides  that if Four  Corners  loses a portion  of its rights in the
adjudication,  the Navajo  Nation will  provide,  for a  then-agreed  upon cost,
sufficient water from its allocation to offset the loss.

     A summons  served on APS in early 1986 required all water  claimants in the
Lower Gila River Watershed in Arizona to assert any claims to water on or before
January 20, 1987, in an action pending in Maricopa County Superior Court. (In re
The General Adjudication of All Rights to Use Water in the Gila River System and
Source,  Supreme Court Nos. WC-79-0001 through WC 79-0004  (Consolidated) [WC-1,
WC-2, WC-3 and WC-4 (Consolidated)],  Maricopa County Nos. W-1, W-2, W-3 and W-4
(Consolidated)). Palo Verde is located within the geographic area subject to the
summons,  and the rights of the Palo Verde  participants,  including APS, to the
use of  groundwater  and effluent at Palo Verde is  potentially at issue in this
action.  APS, as project  manager of Palo Verde,  filed  claims that dispute the
court's  jurisdiction over the Palo Verde  participants'  groundwater rights and
their contractual rights to effluent relating to Palo Verde and,  alternatively,
seek confirmation of such rights.  Three of APS' less-utilized  power plants are
also located  within the  geographic  area  subject to the summons.  APS' claims
dispute the court's  jurisdiction  over APS' groundwater  rights with respect to
these plants and,  alternatively,  seek confirmation of such rights. On December
10, 1992,  the Arizona  Supreme Court heard oral  argument on certain  issues in
this matter which are pending on interlocutory  appeal. Issues important to APS'
claims were  remanded to the trial court for further  action and the trial court
certified its decision for interlocutory appeal to the Arizona Supreme Court. On
September 28, 1994, the Arizona  Supreme Court granted review of the trial court
decision.  No trial date  concerning the water rights claims of APS has been set
in this matter.

     APS has also filed claims to water in the Little  Colorado River  Watershed
in Arizona in an action pending in the Apache County Superior Court.  (In re The
General  Adjudication  of All Rights to Use Water in the Little  Colorado  River
System and Source,  Supreme Court No.  WC-79-0006 WC-6, Apache County No. 6417).
APS'  groundwater  resource  utilized  at Cholla is within the  geographic  area
subject to the adjudication  and is therefore  potentially at issue in the case.
APS' claims dispute the court's  jurisdiction over APS' groundwater  rights and,
alternatively,  seek confirmation of such rights. The parties are in the process
of settlement negotiations with respect to this matter. No trial date concerning
the water rights claims of APS has been set in this matter.

     Although the foregoing  matters remain subject to further  evaluation,  APS
expects that the described litigation will not have a material adverse impact on
its financial position or results of operations.

                     BUSINESS OF SUNCOR DEVELOPMENT COMPANY

     SunCor was  incorporated in 1965 under the laws of the State of Arizona and
is engaged  primarily  in the owning,  development,  and sale of real  property,
including homebuilding. The principal executive offices of SunCor are located at
3838 North Central, Suite 1500, Phoenix, Arizona 85012 (telephone 602-285-6800).
SunCor and its  subsidiaries,  excluding SunCor Resort & Golf  Management,  Inc.
("Resort  Management"),  employ  approximately 140 persons.  Resort  Management,
which manages the Wigwam Resort and Country Club (the  "Wigwam")  golf and other
operations,  employs between 620 and 750 persons at the Wigwam, depending on the
Wigwam's  operating  season.  Resort  Management  also  operates  golf and other
operations which employ approximately 300 persons.

     Effective January 1, 1996, SunCor's homebuilding subsidiary,  SunCor Homes,
Inc., purchased the assets of Golden Heritage Homes.  Subsequent to December 31,
1996, SunCor Homes, Inc. changed its name to Golden Heritage Homes, Inc.

     SunCor's projects consist primarily of land and improvements and other real
estate  investments.  SunCor owns approximately  11,000 acres west of Phoenix in
the area of  Goodyear/Litchfield  Park,  Arizona  ("Palm  Valley"),  including a
private  water and sewer  company  to  provide  those  utility  services  to the
property.  A portion of the  undeveloped  property is  currently  being used for
agricultural purposes.  SunCor has completed the master-plan for developing Palm
Valley. The commercial and residential development of approximately 768 acres is
well  underway and includes an 18-hole  championship  golf course.  In addition,
within the Palm  Valley  project,  SunCor has  entered  into joint  ventures  to
develop 2,200 acres as a retirement community,  known as PebbleCreek,  350 acres
as a planned  area  development,  known as  Litchfield  Greens,  and a  130-unit
apartment complex known as the Palm Valley Apartments. Commercial development in
Palm Valley  includes  the Wigwam  Outlet  Stores and Palm  Valley  MarketPlace;
approximately 309,000 square feet of retail space; and the Palm Valley Crossing,
an approximately 99 acre mixed-use commercial center.

     SunCor's  projects under  development  also include  acquisition of a 1,400
acre master-planned  community north of Phoenix called Tatum Ranch, a 1,400 acre
master-planned  community northeast of Phoenix called Scottsdale Mountain, a 140
acre master-planned  project for business use northwest of Phoenix called Talavi
and a 420 acre  master-planned  project for business use east of Phoenix  called
MarketPlace.  SunRidge  Canyon,  a 950 acre golf and residential  master-planned
community  northeast  of Phoenix,  and Sedona Golf  Resort,  a 300 acre golf and
residential  master-planned  community  near  Sedona,  Arizona  are  also  being
developed  jointly with other  venture  partners.  In 1996,  SunCor  acquired an
option to develop a 21,000 acre  master-planned  community as a joint venture in
Santa Fe, New Mexico  called  Rancho  Viejo.  The initial  2,500 acres are under
development.

     For the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996, and 1995,  SunCor's  operating
revenues were approximately  $116.5 million,  $99.5 million,  and $54.8 million,
respectively,  and its income was approximately $5.3 million,  $4.2 million, and
$4.1 million, respectively.  SunCor's capital needs consist primarily of capital
expenditures  and home  construction,  which, on the basis of projects now under
development,  are  expected to  approximate  $45 million,  $58 million,  and $51
million for 1998, 1999, and 2000, respectively.

     At  December  31,  1997,  SunCor  had total  assets of  approximately  $403
million. See Note 6 of Notes to the Consolidated  Financial Statements in Item 8
for information  regarding  SunCor's  long-term debt. SunCor intends to continue
its focus on real estate  development  in  homebuilding  and the  development of
residential, commercial, and industrial projects.

                    BUSINESS OF EL DORADO DEVELOPMENT COMPANY

     El Dorado was  incorporated  in 1983 under the laws of the State of Arizona
and is engaged principally in the business of making equity investments in other
companies.  El  Dorado's  short-term  goal is to  convert  its  venture  capital
portfolio to cash as quickly and as advantageously  as possible.  On a long-term
basis, the Company may use El Dorado,  when  appropriate,  as its subsidiary for
new ventures that are strategically close to the Company's principal business of
generating,  distributing,  and marketing  electricity.  El Dorado's offices are
located  at 400 East  Van  Buren  Street,  Suite  750,  Phoenix,  Arizona  85004
(telephone 602-379-2662).

     El  Dorado  had  investments  in  venture  capital  partnerships   totaling
approximately  $7.4 million at December 31, 1997.  In addition to the  foregoing
investments,  at  December  31,  1997,  El  Dorado  had  direct  investments  of
approximately   $13.8  million  in  other  private  and  public   companies  and
partnerships.  These investments include a 49% interest in NAC International,  a
company  that  specializes  in nuclear  spent fuel  storage  and  transportation
technology,  as well as  nuclear  fuel  cycle and  international  energy  policy
consulting.

     For the years ended  December 31,  1997,  1996,  and 1995,  El Dorado's net
income  was  approximately  $8.2  million,   $0.4  million,  and  $8.5  million,
respectively.  At December 31, 1997, El Dorado had total assets of approximately
$34.5 million.

                               ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

Accredited Capacity

     APS' present generating  facilities have an accredited capacity aggregating
3,986,900 kW, comprised as follows:


- ---------------

     (1) West Phoenix steam units (108,300 kW) are currently mothballed.

              -----------------------------------------------------

Reserve Margin

     APS' peak one-hour demand on its electric system was recorded on August 22,
1997 at 4,608,600 kW, compared to the 1996 peak of 4,574,700 kW recorded on July
31. Taking into account additional  capacity then available to it under purchase
power  contracts as well as its own  generating  capacity,  APS'  capability  of
meeting system demand on August 22, 1997,  computed in accordance  with accepted
industry practices, amounted to 4,544,600 kW, for an installed reserve margin of
(1.5%). The power actually  available to APS from its resources  fluctuates from
time to time  due in  part  to  planned  outages  and  technical  problems.  The
available  capacity from sources actually  operable at the time of the 1997 peak
amounted to 5,877,600 kW, for a margin of 9.1%. Firm purchases from  neighboring
utilities  totaling  1,603,000 kW were in place at the time of the peak ensuring
the ability to meet the load requirement.

Plant Sites Leased from Navajo Nation

     NGS and Four  Corners  are  located on land held under  easements  from the
federal  government and also under leases from the Navajo Nation.  The risk with
respect to enforcement of these  easements and leases is not deemed by APS to be
material.  The  lease  for Four  Corners  contains  a waiver  until  2001 of the
requirement  that APS and its fuel  supplier  pay  certain  taxes to the  Navajo
Nation. In September 1997, a settlement agreement was finalized between APS, the
coal  supplier to Four  Corners,  and the Navajo  Nation which  settled  certain
issues in the Four Corners lease  regarding the  obligation of the fuel supplier
to pay taxes prior to the  expiration  of tax  waivers in 2001.  Pursuant to the
agreement,  APS recognized  approximately $14 million of pretax earnings related
to a partial refund of possessory interest taxes paid by the fuel supplier.  The
parties also agreed to renegotiate their business relationship before 2001 in an
effort to permit

the electricity generated at Four Corners to be priced competitively. APS cannot
currently predict the outcome of this matter. Certain of APS' transmission lines
and  almost  all of its  contracted  coal  sources  are also  located  on Indian
reservations.  See "Generating Fuel and Purchased Power --- Coal Supply" in Item
1.

Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station

     Palo Verde Leases

     On August 18, 1986 and December 19, 1986, APS entered into a total of three
sale  and   leaseback   transactions   under  which  it  sold  and  leased  back
approximately  42% of its 29.1%  ownership  interest  in Palo  Verde Unit 2. The
leases under each of the sale and  leaseback  transactions  have  initial  lease
terms  expiring  on  December  31,  2015.  Each of the leases also allows APS to
extend the term of the lease  and/or to  repurchase  the leased  Unit 2 interest
under certain  circumstances  at fair market value.  The leases in the aggregate
require annual payments of approximately $40 million through 1999, approximately
$46 million in 2000 and  approximately  $49 million through 2015 (see Note 10 of
Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8).

     Regulatory

     Operation  of each of the three  Palo Verde  units  requires  an  operating
license from the NRC.  Full power  operating  licenses for Units 1, 2 and 3 were
issued by the NRC in June 1985, April 1986 and November 1987, respectively.  The
full  power  operating  licenses,  each valid for a period of  approximately  40
years,  authorize APS, as operating  agent for Palo Verde,  to operate the three
Palo Verde units at full power.

     Nuclear Decommissioning Costs

     See Note 13 of Notes to Financial  Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of
APS' nuclear decommissioning costs.

     Steam Generators

     See  "Palo  Verde  Nuclear  Generating  Station"  in  Note 12 of  Notes  to
Financial  Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of issues  relating to the Palo
Verde steam generators.

     Palo Verde Liability and Insurance Matters

     See  "Palo  Verde  Nuclear  Generating  Station"  in  Note 12 of  Notes  to
Financial  Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of the insurance  maintained by
the Palo Verde participants, including APS, for Palo Verde.

Other Information Regarding APS' Properties

     See  "Environmental  Matters" and "Water  Supply" in Item 1 with respect to
matters having possible impact on the operation of certain of APS' power plants.

     See  "Construction  Program"  in Item 1 and  "Financial  Review --- Capital
Needs and Resources" in Item 7 for a discussion of APS' construction plans.

     See  Notes  6, 10 and 11 of Notes to  Financial  Statements  in Item 8 with
respect  to  property  of APS  not  held  in fee or held  subject  to any  major
encumbrance.

Information Regarding SunCor's and El Dorado's Properties

     See  "Business of SunCor  Development  Company" and  "Business of El Dorado
Investment   Company"  for  information   regarding  SunCor's  and  El  Dorado's
properties.

                                   [MAP PAGE]

     In accordance  with Item 304 of Regulation S-T of the  Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934, APS' Service  Territory map contained in this Form 10-K is a map of
the State of Arizona  showing APS' service area, the location of its major power
plants and principal  transmission lines, and the location of transmission lines
operated  by APS for others.  The major power  plants  shown on such map are the
Navajo Generating Station located in Coconino County,  Arizona; the Four Corners
Power Plant located near Farmington, New Mexico; the Cholla Power Plant, located
in Navajo County,  Arizona;  the Yucca Power Plant,  located near Yuma, Arizona;
and the Palo Verde Nuclear  Generating  Station,  located about 55 miles west of
Phoenix, Arizona (each of which plants is reflected on such map as being jointly
owned  with  other  utilities),  as well as the  Ocotillo  Power  Plant and West
Phoenix Power Plant, each located near Phoenix,  Arizona,  and the Saguaro Power
Plant, located near Tucson, Arizona. APS' major transmission lines shown on such
map are  reflected  as running  between the power plants named above and certain
major cities in the State of Arizona. The transmission lines operated for others
shown on such map are reflected as running from the Four Corners Plant through a
portion of northern Arizona to the California border.

                            ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

APS

Property Taxes

     See  "Environmental  Matters"  and  "Water  Supply"  in Item 1 in regard to
pending or threatened litigation and other disputes. See "Regulatory Matters" in
Note  3 of  Notes  to  Financial  Statements  in  Item  8  for a  discussion  of
competition  and  the  Rules  regarding  the  introduction  of  retail  electric
competition  in Arizona.  On February  28,  1997,  a lawsuit was filed by APS to
protect its legal rights  regarding the Rules and in its complaint APS asked the
Court for (i) a judgment vacating the retail electric  competition rules, (ii) a
declaratory  judgment that the rules are unlawful  because,  among other things,
they were entered into without proper legal authorization, and (iii) a permanent
injunction  barring the ACC from  enforcing or  implementing  the rules and from
promulgating  any other  regulations  without lawful  authority  (Arizona Public
Service Company v. The Arizona Corporation Commission,  in the Superior Court of
the State of Arizona  in and for the County of  Maricopa,  No.  CV97-03753,  and
Arizona Public Service  Company v. The Arizona  Corporation  Commission,  in the
Court of Appeals,  State of Arizona,  Division  One,  No. 1  CA-CC-97-0002,  ACC
Docket No. R-0000- 94-165).  That lawsuit is pending but two related cases filed
by other utilities have been decided adversely to the utilities' positions.

Pinnacle West

     On April 22, 1991 a lawsuit was filed in the United States  District  Court
of Arizona by the  Resolution  Trust  Corporation  (the "RTC")  against  certain
former officers and directors of MeraBank.  The suit sought, among other things,
damages in excess of $270  million,  and alleged  claims for  negligence,  gross
negligence,  breach of fiduciary  duty,  breach of duty of loyalty and breach of
contract  with  respect to the  management  and  operation  of  MeraBank  by the
defendants beginning in the early 1980s. On December 30, 1993, and as the result
of a negotiated settlement, the United States District Court for the District of
Arizona (the "Arizona  District Court") entered orders and final judgments that,
among other matters,  partially  dismissed the  litigation  described above. Two
non-settling individuals who pursued independent claims against the RTC were not
dismissed from the RTC litigation.

     The non-settling individuals have filed a third-party complaint against the
Company in the  Arizona  District  Court  alleging  claims for  contractual  and
statutory  indemnification  in the event that these individuals are found liable
on the RTC's claims against them. The third-party complaint, which was served on
the Company on or about  November  13,  1995,  further  alleges that the Company
acted in bad faith and wrongfully  denied  indemnification  to these individuals
and seeks  compensatory and punitive damages in an unspecified amount as well as
costs  and  attorneys'  fees.  In  addition,  one of these  individuals  seeks a
judicial determination that the Company is obligated to pay him pension benefits
in an  unspecified  amount  in the  event  that the RTC does not fully pay these
benefits.  The  December  30,  1993  settlement  order  barred the  non-settling
individuals  from  asserting  claims for  contribution  and  certain  claims for
noncontractual  indemnification  against the Company.  On February 3, 1997,  the
Arizona  District  Court  granted  summary  judgment in favor of the Company and
ordered the dismissal of this third-party complaint with prejudice.  On February
18,  1997,  the  Company  filed a motion  with the court  requesting  entry of a
judgment and order of dismissal with prejudice and requesting  certification  of
the judgment as final. On March 27, 1997, the court granted the Company's motion
and entered a final  judgment and order of dismissal  with prejudice in favor of
the Company.  On April 24, 1997,  the  plaintiffs  filed a notice of appeal with
respect to the court's  ruling.  On February 4, 1998, the Company entered into a
settlement with the  plaintiffs,  and on February 24, 1998, the court entered an
order dismissing the appeal with prejudice.

     On January  18,  1991,  a lawsuit was filed in the United  States  District
Court,  Southern  District  of Ohio,  Western  Division,  against,  among  other
parties,  the Company and certain of its officers and  directors,  the Office of
Thrift  Supervision   ("OTS"),   the  RTC  and  the  Federal  Deposit  Insurance
Corporation  ("FDlC").  The amended  complaint in this lawsuit  alleges that the
plaintiff purchased MeraBank  subordinated  debentures with a face amount of $ 1
million

in 1987 in  reliance  upon a capital  maintenance  stipulation  executed  by the
Company as a condition to the Company's  acquisition of MeraBank.  The plaintiff
further  alleges that the value of such  debentures was impaired  because of the
Company's  release from its purported  obligations under the stipulation and the
actions of the OTS in placing  MeraBank in receivership.  The amended  complaint
alleges  claims  under the federal  securities  laws,  the federal  racketeering
statutes, and state consumer fraud statutes and seeks damages in the approximate
amount of $4.8 million,  plus interest.  On June 8,1993,  the Ohio court ordered
this case to be transferred to the District of Arizona.  The individual director
defendants  were  subsequently  dismissed  without  prejudice  pursuant  to  the
stipulation of the parties. On November 10, 1994, the Company filed a motion for
summary judgment on all counts,  which on September 20, 1995 was granted in part
and denied in part. The order rejected the  plaintiff's  claims as to one of the
two purchases of MeraBank  debentures  at issue,  and  accordingly,  reduced the
amount in controversy to one-half of the original claimed amount.  On October 4,
1996, the plaintiff filed a motion to amend its complaint to broaden the factual
basis for its claims  under  theories  of  securities  fraud,  racketeering  and
consumer  fraud.  On December  12, 1997,  the parties  entered into a settlement
agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement, funds in an amount
not  material  to the  Company  have  been paid to  plaintiff  in full and final
settlement of this  litigation.  On December 16, 1997, the court issued a formal
order dismissing the lawsuit.

     On August 17, 1993, the Company was served with a separate  complaint filed
by the same  plaintiff in the United States  District  Court for the District of
Arizona  alleging  claims  under the  Arizona  Racketeering  Act and the Arizona
Consumer Fraud Act seeking  compensatory  damages in the amount of $ 1.2 million
plus interest,  punitive damages, treble damages, interest,  attorneys' fees and
costs.  On September 24, 1993, the plaintiff  voluntarily  dismissed the Arizona
Consumer  Fraud Act claims.  On March 6, 1995,  the court  dismissed the Arizona
Racketeering Act claims. The plaintiff filed a motion for reconsideration  which
was denied. On April 5, 1995, the plaintiff  appealed the dismissal to the Ninth
Circuit  Court of Appeals.  The appeal was  denied,  and the  plaintiff  filed a
motion  for  reconsideration.  As  part  of the  December  12,  1997  settlement
agreement  described above, the parties filed a joint stipulation for withdrawal
of the motion for  reconsideration.  A formal mandate withdrawing the motion has
not yet been issued by the court.

     On May 1, 1991, a lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for
the  District of Arizona  against the Company by another  purchaser  of the same
issue of MeraBank subordinated debentures referred to above. This plaintiff also
claims to have  purchased the  debentures,  with a face amount of  approximately
$12.4 million,  in reliance upon the stipulation.  The suit further alleges that
the Company  induced the plaintiff to retain its investment in the debentures by
representing  to the plaintiff that the Company would keep MeraBank  capitalized
in accordance with federal regulatory requirements.  The suit alleges violations
of  federal  and  state  securities  laws,  fraud,   negligent   representation,
promissory estoppel,  racketeering and intentional interference with contractual
relations.  On October 7, 1994,  the court  dismissed  the  plaintiff's  federal
securities law claims.  On May 4, 1995,  the court granted the Company's  motion
for reconsideration and also dismissed  plaintiff's state securities law claims.
The plaintiff sought unspecified compensatory and punitive damages and requested
that the compensatory  damages be trebled under the Arizona Racketeering Act. On
December  10,  1996,  the parties  executed a  settlement  agreement  and mutual
release in full and final settlement of this litigation.  Settlement funds in an
amount not material to the Company have been paid to plaintiff. The parties have
filed a joint stipulation for dismissal with prejudice of the lawsuit.  A formal
order dismissing the lawsuit has not yet been issued by the court.

     On December  22,  1993,  the  Company was served with a complaint  filed by
other  purchasers  of  MeraBank  subordinated  debentures  with a face amount of
approximately $ 1.5 million alleging claims substantially  similar to the claims
described in the  preceding  paragraph.  The  complaint,  which was filed in the
Arizona  District  Court,   seeks   compensatory  and  punitive  damages  in  an
unspecified  amount  plus  attorneys'  fees and costs.  On October 6, 1995,  the
Company filed a motion for summary judgment seeking  dismissal of the suit based
on, among other things,  a claim that the applicable  statute of limitations had
expired.  On November 13, 1995, the plaintiffs  filed a cross-motion for partial
summary   judgment   with   respect  to  certain   of  the   Company's   alleged
misrepresentations  and omissions and asserted a fraudulent  concealment defense
to the expiration of the applicable statutes of limitations.  On April 12, 1996,
the court  granted the  Company's  motion for  summary  judgment  and  dismissed
plaintiffs' claims with prejudice. On May 13,

1996, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.
On July 8, 1997,  the Ninth  Circuit  affirmed the grant of summary  judgment in
favor of the Company.  No further appellate  proceedings have been undertaken by
the  plaintiffs,  and the Ninth  Circuit's  affirmance  of the Arizona  District
Court's grant of summary judgment in favor of the Company is final.


                       ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A
                            VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matter was  submitted  to a vote of security  holders  during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report,  through the  solicitation of
proxies or otherwise.


                      SUPPLEMENTAL ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
                                OF THE REGISTRANT

The Company's executive officers are as follows:



     The  executive  officers  of the  Company  are  elected  no less often than
annually  and may be removed by the Board of  Directors  at any time.  The terms
served  by the named  officers  in their  current  positions  and the  principal
occupations  (in addition to those stated in the table) of such officers for the
past five years have been as follows:

     Mr. Ash was elected  Corporate  Counsel of the Company in February 1991. He
previously  held the position of Legal Counsel to the Company from December 1986
to February 1991.

     Mr. Kunkel was elected Vice President of the Company effective December 15,
1997.  Prior to December  1997,  he was a partner in the  Phoenix  office of the
accounting firm of Coopers & Lybrand.

     Mr. Larson was elected Vice President,  Corporate  Planning and Development
in July 1986.

     Mr.  Palmeri was elected to the  position of  Treasurer of both the Company
and APS  effective  July 23,  1997.  From  February  1994 to July  1997,  he was
Assistant  Treasurer of the  Company.  From June 1990 to February  1994,  he was
Manager of Finance of the Company.

     Mr. Post was elected  President of the Company  effective  February 5, 1997
after having served as its Executive Vice President since June 1995. He has also
been the President and Chief Executive Officer of APS since February 1997.

He has been APS' Chief  Operating  Officer  since  September  1994, as well as a
Senior Vice  President  since June 1993.  Prior to that time, he had served as a
Vice President of APS since 1982. Mr. Post is also a director of APS.

     Mr.  Schreiber was elected to the positions of Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of both the Company and APS effective  February 3, 1997.
From 1990 to January 1997, he was Managing  Director at PaineWebber,  Inc. He is
also a director of APS.

     Mr. Snell has been Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the
Company and Chairman of the Board of APS since  February  1990.  Until  February
1997,  he was also  President  of the  Company.  Mr. Snell is also a director of
Aztar Corporation, Banc One Arizona Corporation and Central Newspapers, Inc.

     Ms.  Widenmann  was  elected  Secretary  of the  Company  in 1985  and Vice
President of Corporate Relations and Administration in November 1986.


                                     PART II

                     ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON
                    STOCK AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER MATTERS

     The  Company's  common stock is publicly held and is traded on the New York
and Pacific  Stock  Exchanges.  At the close of business on March 23, 1998,  the
Company's common stock was held of record by approximately 48,000 shareholders.

     The chart below sets forth the common stock price  ranges on the  composite
tape, as reported in the Wall Street  Journal for 1997 and 1996.  The chart also
sets forth the  dividends  declared  and paid per share  during each of the four
quarters for 1997 and 1996.

                     Common Stock Price Ranges and Dividends

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          1997               High             Low        Dividend Per Share(a)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       1st Quarter          32 7/8          30 1/8              $ 0.275
       2nd Quarter          30 3/4          27 5/8              $ 0.550
       3rd Quarter          34 7/8         29 13/16             $ ----
       4th Quarter          42 3/4         33 3/16              $ 0.300
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       1st Quarter          30 1/4          26 1/4              $ 0.250
       2nd Quarter          30 3/8          26 1/4              $ 0.500
       3rd Quarter            30              28                $ 0.275
       4th Quarter          32 1/4          29 1/2               $ ----
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     (a) Dividends  for  the  third  quarter  of 1997  were  declared  in  June.
         Dividends  for the 3rd and 4th  quarters of 1996 were  declared in June
         and September, respectively.

                  ITEM 6. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED DATA




(a)  Includes  an  after-tax  charge of $18.9  million  ($0.22  per share) for a
     voluntary severance program and approximately $12 million ($0.13 per share)
     of income tax benefits related to capital loss carryforwards.
(b)  Includes  after-tax  Palo Verde Unit 3  accretion  income of  approximately
     $20.3  million  and a  non-recurring  income tax  benefit of $26.8  million
     ($0.31 per share) related to a change in tax law.
(c)  Includes  after-tax  Palo Verde Unit 3  accretion  income of  approximately
     $45.3 million.
(d)  Charges  associated  with  the  settlement  of a legal  matter  related  to
     MeraBank, A Federal Savings Bank.
(e)  Charges  associated  with  the  repayment  or  refinancing  of  the  parent
     company's high-coupon debt.
(f)  Results of the adoption of the liability  method of  accounting  for income
     taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109.



See Financial  Review on pages 24-27 for a discussion of certain  information in
the foregoing table.


QUARTERLY STOCK PRICES AND DIVIDENDS

Stock Symbol: PNW


(a) Dividends for the 3rd quarter of 1997 were declared in June.
(b)  Dividends  for the 3rd and 4th  quarters of 1996 were  declared in June and
     September, respectively.

    ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
                              Results of Operation

The following  discussion  relates to Pinnacle West and its  subsidiaries:  APS,
SunCor and El Dorado. The discussion also relates to the discontinued operations
of MeraBank,  A Federal  Savings  Bank.  References to "Notes" refer to Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
1997 Compared with 1996

Pinnacle West reported net income of $235.9 million in 1997 compared with $181.2
million in 1996. The following is a summary:

(Thousands of Dollars)                     1997         1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Income from continuing
  operations                            $ 235,856    $ 211,059
Loss from discontinued
  operations -
  net of income tax                             -       (9,539)
Extraordinary charge for early
  retirement of debt - net of
  income tax                                    -      (20,340)
                                        ---------    ---------

Net income                              $ 235,856    $ 181,180
                                        =========    =========

Earnings from continuing operations increased by $24.8 million (11.7%) primarily
because of increased  earnings at the  subsidiaries and lower financing costs at
the parent company  resulting from debt reduction and lower interest rates.  The
1996 loss from  discontinued  operations  related to remnants of MeraBank  legal
matters.

APS' 1997 earnings  increased $12.3 million (5.4%) over 1996 earnings  primarily
because of customer  growth; a $32 million pretax charge in 1996 for a voluntary
severance  program;  two  fuel-related  settlements;  and lower financing costs.
These  positive  factors  more than offset the  effects of APS' 1996  regulatory
agreement  with the Arizona  Corporation  Commission  (ACC),  which  during 1997
resulted  in   approximately   $60  million  of  additional   regulatory   asset
amortization  and a $35  million  revenue  decrease  caused by two retail  price
reductions. See Note 3 and "Results of Operations - Regulatory Agreements" below
for additional  information  about the 1996 regulatory  agreement.  In 1996, APS
also  recognized $12 million of income tax benefits,  which were not repeated in
1997.

Electric   operating  revenues  increased  $160  million  primarily  because  of
increases in sales for resale ($128 million); customer growth ($58 million); and
weather  effects ($7 million).  As mentioned in the preceding  paragraph,  these
positive  factors were partially offset by a $35 million revenue decrease caused
by retail price reductions.  Sales for resale are wholesale electricity sales to
third parties who resell the  electricity  to their  customers.  The increase in
sales for resale was a result of increased  activity in  competitive  bulk power
markets.  The increase in sales for resale did not significantly affect earnings
because it was substantially offset by higher power purchases.

The two fuel-related settlements increased 1997 pretax earnings by approximately
$21 million.  These  settlements are reflected in the Consolidated  Statement of
Income as  reductions  in fuel expense and as other  income.  Approximately  $16
million of the settlements related to years prior to 1997 and $5 million related
to 1997. For at least the next several years,  the total annual savings from the
settlements  are expected to be about $10 million before income taxes.  APS does
not have a fuel  adjustment  clause as part of its retail rate  structure.  As a
result,  changes in fuel and purchased  power  expenses are reflected in current
earnings.

Operations and maintenance expenses were lower in 1997 because of the charge for
the voluntary  severance  program  recorded in 1996 and related savings in 1997.
These  savings  were  partially  offset by  increased  expenses  for  marketing,
information technology and power plant maintenance.

APS' financing  costs decreased $12 million during 1997 because of lower amounts
of outstanding debt and preferred stock.

SunCor reported net income of $5.3 million in 1997 compared with $4.2 million in
1996.

El Dorado reported net income of $8.2 million in 1997 compared with $0.4 million
in 1996 as a result of investment sales in 1997.

1996 Compared with 1995

The Company  reported net income of $181.2  million in 1996 compared with $188.0
million in 1995. The following is a summary:

(Thousands of Dollars)                       1996           1995
- ------------------------------------------------------------------

Income from continuing
  operations                              $ 211,059      $ 199,608
Loss from discontinued
  operations -
  net of income tax                          (9,539)             -
Extraordinary charge for early
  retirement of debt - net of
  income tax                                (20,340)       (11,571)
                                          ---------      ---------
Net income                                $ 181,180      $ 188,037
                                          =========      =========

Excluding the effects of the discontinued  operations and  extraordinary  items,
the Company's 1996 earnings  increased  $11.5 million (5.7%) over 1995 earnings.
This increase  reflects  increased  earnings at APS and lower financing costs at
the parent company due to continued debt reduction and lower interest rates.

APS' 1996 earnings  increased $5.9 million  (2.7%) over 1995 earnings  primarily
because of customer growth and higher  residential usage;  weather effects;  tax
and interest  savings;  and a $21 million pretax write-down of certain assets in
1995.  These  positive  factors  more  than  offset  the  effects  of APS'  1996
regulatory  agreement with the ACC, which during 1996 resulted in $60 million of
additional regulatory asset amortization and a

$30 million revenue decrease caused by a retail price reduction.  See Note 3 and
"Results of Operations - Regulatory Agreements" below for additional information
about the 1996 regulatory agreement.

Other important factors that made the comparison of APS' 1996 earnings with 1995
earnings  less  favorable  were a $32  million  pretax  charge  for a  voluntary
severance program; the recognition in 1995 of a $5 million after-tax gain on the
sale of a small subsidiary; and increased fuel expenses of $56 million primarily
because of increased  retail and wholesale  sales,  higher natural gas costs and
higher coal prices.

Electric  operating  revenues increased $103 million primarily because of retail
customer growth and higher residential usage ($75 million); weather effects ($40
million); increases in sales for resale ($9 million); and other ($9 million). As
mentioned  above,  these positive factors were partially offset by a $30 million
revenue decrease caused by a retail price reduction.

Taxes other than income  taxes  decreased  $21  million  primarily  because of a
change in  property  tax law.  Income  tax  expense  was lower  because  of APS'
recognition of $12 million of income tax benefits  associated  with capital loss
carryforwards.

APS' financing  costs decreased $12 million during 1996 because of lower average
interest rates and lower amounts of outstanding debt and preferred stock.

SunCor reported net income of $4.2 million in 1996 compared with $4.1 million in
1995.  Increased real estate revenues and operating  expenses were the result of
the acquisition of Golden Heritage Homes in 1996.

El Dorado reported net income of $0.4 million in 1996 compared with $8.5 million
in 1995. The decrease reflects investment sales in 1995.

Regulatory Agreements
APS' results of operations are affected, and will be affected, by the impacts of
existing regulatory agreements between APS and the ACC.

As part of the  1996  regulatory  agreement  with  the  ACC,  APS is  recovering
substantially  all  of  its  present   regulatory  assets  through   accelerated
amortization over an eight-year period that began July 1, 1996. See Note 3. This
accelerated  amortization increases annual amortization expense by approximately
$120 million ($72 million after taxes).

Also as part of the 1996  regulatory  agreement,  APS agreed to decrease  retail
prices  effective  July 1, 1996 by  approximately  $48.5  million  annually ($29
million after income  taxes),  or 3.4%. In addition,  APS agreed to share future
cost  savings  with its  customers  through  potential  additional  retail price
reductions.  Pursuant to the  agreed-upon  price reduction  formula,  on July 1,
1997,  APS reduced its retail prices by  approximately  $17.6  million  annually
($10.5 million after income taxes),  or 1.2%.  Additionally,  in March 1998, APS
filed with the ACC its  calculation  of an additional  retail price  decrease of
approximately  $17 million annually ($10 million after income taxes),  or 1%, to
become  effective  July 1, 1998. The amount and timing of the price decrease are
subject to ACC approval.

The factors that offset the earnings impact of the accelerated  regulatory asset
amortization  and the 1997 and  1996  price  decreases  are  discussed  above in
"Results of Operations."

As part of a 1994  settlement  with the ACC,  APS  accelerated  amortization  of
substantially all deferred investment tax credits (ITCs) over a five-year period
that ends on December  31,  1999.  The  amortization  of ITCs  decreases  annual
consolidated income tax expense by approximately $24 million. See Note 4.

CAPITAL NEEDS AND RESOURCES
Parent Company
The parent company  reduced its debt as follows:  1997,  $45 million;  1996, $60
million;  and 1995, $119 million.  The parent company has a $250 million line of
credit,  under which borrowings of $155 million were outstanding at December 31,
1997.  The parent  company does not have any debt  repayment  obligations  until
2001.

During the past three years,  the parent  company's  primary cash needs were for
common stock dividends,  interest payments and optional and mandatory  repayment
of  principal  on its  long-term  debt.  See  Note 6. As  provided  in the  1996
regulatory  agreement (see Note 3), the parent  company  invested $50 million in
APS in 1997 and 1996 and will invest similar amounts  annually in 1998 and 1999.
During 1997, the Company repurchased $80 million of common stock, resulting in a
reduction of 2.7 million shares outstanding at year-end.

Dividends  from APS have been Pinnacle  West's  primary  source of cash.  SunCor
provided cash to the parent in 1997,  1996 and 1995. El Dorado  provided cash to
the parent in 1997 and 1995.  Both are expected to contribute to Pinnacle West's
cash  flow  in  1998.  Tax  allocation  payments  to  the  parent  company  from
subsidiaries,  in  excess  of  payments  made by the  parent  company  to taxing
authorities,  were an additional  source of cash in 1997, 1996 and 1995, and are
expected to provide additional cash in 1998.

APS
APS' capital requirements consist primarily of capital expenditures and optional
and mandatory  redemptions of long-term debt and preferred  stock. APS funds its
capital  requirements from cash provided by operations,  annual equity infusions
from its parent company of $50 million from 1996 through 1999 (see Note 3), and,
to the extent  necessary,  external  financing.  During the period 1995  through
1997,  APS  funded  all  of its  capital  expenditures  from  cash  provided  by
operations and expects to do so in 1998 through 2000 as well.

During 1997, APS redeemed  approximately  $240 million of long-term debt and $47
million of preferred stock,  including  premiums,  with cash from operations and
long- and short-term debt.

APS' projected  capital  expenditures  for the next three years are: 1998,  $323
million; 1999, $313 million; and 2000, $306 million. These amounts include about
$30 - $35 million each year for nuclear fuel. In general,  most of the projected
capital   expenditures   are  for  expanding   transmission   and   distribution
capabilities to meet customer growth, for upgrading existing  facilities and for
environmental purposes. In addition, APS is considering expanding certain of its
businesses  over  the  next  several  years,   which  may  result  in  increased
expenditures.  APS' construction  plans through the year 2007 do not include any
major baseload generating plants.

APS'  long-term debt and preferred  stock  redemption  requirements  and payment
obligations  on a  capitalized  lease for the next three years are:  1998,  $114
million;  1999, $174 million; and 2000, $114 million.  Based on cash provided by
operations and APS' capital  requirements,  APS may make optional redemptions of
long-term debt and preferred stock from time to time.

As of December 31, 1997, APS had credit  commitments from various banks totaling
approximately $400 million,  which were available either to support the issuance
of commercial paper or to be used as bank borrowings.  At the end of 1997, there
were $130.8  million of  commercial  paper and $150  million of bank  borrowings
outstanding.

During 1997, APS incurred $60 million of long-term debt under credit  agreements
and issued $50  million  of its  senior  notes.  Until APS has repaid all of its
first  mortgage  bonds (other than those that secure senior  notes),  the senior
notes are  secured by first  mortgage  bonds that have the same  interest  rate,
interest payment dates,  maturity and redemption provisions as the senior notes.
See Note 6 for  additional  information  regarding the senior notes.  In January
1998, APS issued $100 million of unsecured debt.

Although  provisions  in  APS'  first  mortgage  bond  indenture,   articles  of
incorporation  and ACC financing orders establish  maximum amounts of additional
first mortgage bonds and preferred stock that APS may issue, management does not
expect  any of  these  provisions  to limit  APS'  ability  to meet its  capital
requirements.

Non-Utility Subsidiaries
During the past three years,  SunCor and El Dorado each funded all of their cash
requirements through cash flow from operations and their own financings.

SunCor's  capital  needs  consist  primarily  of capital  expenditures  for land
development  and home  construction,  which,  on the basis of projects now under
development, are expected to be: 1998, $45 million; 1999, $58 million; and 2000,
$51 million.  Capital  resources  available to meet these  requirements  include
funds provided by operations and SunCor's own external financings.

As of December  31, 1997,  SunCor had a $55 million line of credit,  under which
$40.6 million of borrowing was outstanding. SunCor's debt repayment requirements
as of  December  31, 1997 were as  follows:  1998,  $4.6  million;  1999,  $28.6
million; and 2000, $54.1 million.

COMPETITION AND INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING
The  electric  industry  is  undergoing  significant  change  to a  competitive,
market-based structure from a highly-regulated,  cost-based environment in which
companies  have been  entitled to recover  their costs and earn fair  returns on
their invested capital in exchange for commitments to serve all customers within
designated  service  territories.  In December  1996, the ACC adopted rules that
provide a framework  for the  introduction  of retail  electric  competition  in
Arizona in phases from 1999 to 2003. See Note 3 for additional information about
these rules and other competitive developments.

The  ACC  ordered  in  the  rules  that  numerous   issues  require   additional
consideration  prior to the  implementation  of retail  electric  competition in
Arizona.  During  1997, the  ACC held  workshops  to gather  input from  various
constituencies with respect to those issues.

The rules  indicate  that the ACC will allow  recovery of  unmitigated  stranded
costs,  but do not set forth the mechanisms for  determining and recovering such
costs. In February 1998, the ACC completed a formal, generic hearing on stranded
cost  determination and recovery.  Based on various  assumptions,  estimates and
methodologies,  APS currently  estimates that its stranded costs to be recovered
(excluding  regulatory assets which have already been addressed by the ACC) will
be less than $500 million. APS is seeking full recovery of stranded costs during
a transition  period proposed to go through 2006.  Decisions by the ACC have not
yet been made with respect to this issue.

An Arizona joint legislative  committee  studied electric utility  restructuring
issues in 1996 and 1997. In February  1998, a bill was introduced in the Arizona
legislature to facilitate  implementation of retail electric  competition in the
state.  The bill has progressed  through  several stages to date.  Additionally,
legislation  related to  electric  competition  has been  proposed in the United
States Congress. See Note 3 for a discussion of legislative developments.

The Company believes that further ACC decisions,  legislation at the Arizona and
federal  levels  and  perhaps  amendments  to  the  Arizona   Constitution  will
ultimately be required  before  significant  implementation  of retail  electric
competition  can lawfully  occur in Arizona.  Until it has been  determined  how
competition  will be  implemented  in  Arizona,  including  the  manner in which
stranded  costs will be addressed,  the Company  cannot  accurately  predict the
impact of full  retail  competition  on its  financial  position,  cash flows or
results of  operations.  As competition  in the electric  industry  continues to
evolve,  the Company will continue to evaluate  strategies and alternatives that
will position the Company to compete effectively in a restructured industry.

APS prepares its  financial  statements  in  accordance  with the  provisions of
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards (SFAS) No. 71, "Accounting for the
Effects of Certain  Types of  Regulation."  SFAS No. 71  requires a  cost-based,
rate-regulated  enterprise to reflect the impact of regulatory  decisions in its
financial statements.

APS' existing  regulatory orders and current regulatory  environment support its
accounting   practices   related  to  regulatory   assets,   which  amounted  to
approximately  $1.0 billion at December 31, 1997.  In  accordance  with the 1996
regulatory agreement,  the ACC accelerated the amortization of substantially all
of APS'  regulatory  assets to an eight-year  period that began July 1, 1996. If
APS ceases to be cost-based  regulated,  it would no longer be able to apply the
provisions  of SFAS No. 71 to all or some part of its  operations,  which  could
have a material  impact on the Company's  financial  statements.  See Note 1 for
additional information on regulatory accounting.

YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY ISSUES
The Company has made, and will continue to make,  certain  modifications  to its
computer  hardware  and  software  systems and  applications  to ensure they are
capable of handling dates in the year 2000 and  thereafter.  The Company's major
computer  systems  have been  updated and other  systems are being  analyzed for
potential modifications.  The financial impact on the Company is not anticipated
to be material to its financial  position,  cash flows or results of operations.
The  Company is in the  process of formal  communications  with its  significant
suppliers,  business  partners and large  customers  to determine  the extent to
which it may be affected by these third  parties'  plans to remediate  their own
year 2000 issues in a timely manner.

ACCOUNTING MATTERS
Note 2 describes three new accounting standards related to comprehensive income,
segment  disclosures  and  disclosures  about pensions and other  postretirement
benefits,  which are effective in 1998. These standards are not expected to have
a material effect on the Company's financial position,  cash flows or results of
operations.  Also, see  Note 13 for a  description  of a  proposed  standard  on
accounting for certain  liabilities  related to closure or removal of long-lived
assets.

RISK MANAGEMENT
The Company's  operations  include  managing  market risks related to changes in
interest  rates,   commodity   prices  and  investments   held  by  the  nuclear
decommissioning trust fund.

Interest Rate and Equity Risk
The Company's major financial  market risk exposure is changing  interest rates.
Changing  interest  rates will affect  interest  paid on variable  rate debt and
interest earned by the nuclear  decommissioning trust fund. The Company's policy
is to  manage  interest  rates  through  the use of a  combination  of fixed and
floating rate debt. The nuclear  decommissioning  fund also has risks associated
with changing market values of equity investments. Nuclear decommissioning costs
are recovered in rates.

The table below  presents  contractual  balances of the Company's  long-term and
short-term  debt at the  expected  maturity  dates as well as the fair  value of
those  instruments on December 31, 1997. The weighted average interest rates for
the various debt presented are actual as of December 31, 1997.

Expected Maturity/Principal Repayment

December 31,                                     Variable            Fixed     
(Thousands of Dollars)            Short-Term    Long-Term          Long-Term
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

         Weighted Average
              Rates                   6.27%          5.06%             7.66%

                1998              $ 130,750      $   3,064       $   105,631
                1999                      -         28,598           164,378
                2000                      -         54,133           104,711
                2001                      -        155,079            27,488
                2002                      -        150,088           125,000
                Years thereafter          -        443,178           998,628
                                  -------------------------------------------
                Total             $ 130,750      $ 834,140       $ 1,525,836
                                  ===========================================
           Fair Value             $ 130,750      $ 834,140       $ 1,556,697
                                  ===========================================

Commodity Price Risk
The Company enters into forwards,  futures and other similar  contracts to hedge
the price risks  associated  with a portion of  anticipated  future  electricity
production and gas purchases.  Most of these  agreements are settled in physical
delivery,  with the  balance  settled in cash at or prior to  expiration.  Under
certain of these  agreements,  payments are sometimes  made or received based on
the differential  between a fixed and a variable product price. The Company does
not obtain  collateral  to support the  agreements,  but monitors the  financial
viability of  counterparties  and believes it has  minimized  its credit risk on
these  transactions.  In the  event of  nonperformance  by  counterparties,  the
Company would be exposed to price risk.  The Company may recognize an accounting
gain or loss where  actual  delivery  occurs and the price in the  contract  may
differ  from the  prevailing  price at the  delivery  point  in  completing  the
transaction.  The  Company  defers the impact of changes in the market  value of
contracts that serve as hedges until the related transaction is completed.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
The above discussion contains forward-looking  statements that involve risks and
uncertainties.  Words such as "estimates,"  "expects,"  "anticipates,"  "plans,"
"believes,"   "projects,"  and  similar  expressions  identify   forward-looking
statements.  These risks and uncertainties  include, but are not limited to, the
ongoing  restructuring of the electric  industry;  the outcome of the regulatory
proceedings  relating to the  restructuring;  regulatory,  tax and environmental
legislation;  the ability of APS to successfully compete outside its traditional
regulated  markets;  regional economic  conditions,  which could affect customer
growth;  the cost of debt  and  equity  capital;  weather  variations  affecting
customer usage;  technological  developments in the electric  industry;  and the
strength of the real estate market.

These factors and the other matters  discussed above may cause future results to
differ materially from historical results, or from results or outcomes currently
expected or sought by the Company.

               ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                 INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE


     See Note 14 of Notes to Financial  Statements  for the  selected  quarterly
financial data required to be presented in this Item.

                              REPORT OF MANAGEMENT


The  primary  responsibility  for  the  integrity  of  the  Company's  financial
information rests with management, which has prepared the accompanying financial
statements and related information.  Such information was prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles  appropriate in the circumstances,
based on management's  best estimates and judgments and giving due consideration
to  materiality.  These  financial  statements  have been audited by independent
auditors and their report is included.

Management  maintains and relies upon systems of internal accounting controls. A
limiting factor in all systems of internal  accounting  control is that the cost
of the system should not exceed the benefits to be derived.  Management believes
that the Company's  system provides the  appropriate  balance between such costs
and benefits.

Periodically  the  internal  accounting  control  system is reviewed by both the
Company's internal auditors and its independent auditors to test for compliance.
Reports  issued by the internal  auditors are released to  management,  and such
reports or summaries  thereof are  transmitted to the Audit Review  Committee of
the Board of Directors and the independent auditors on a timely basis.

The  Audit  Review  Committee,  composed  solely  of  outside  directors,  meets
periodically  with the internal  auditors and  independent  auditors (as well as
management)  to review the work of each. The internal  auditors and  independent
auditors  have free access to the Audit  Review  Committee,  without  management
present, to discuss the results of their audit work.

Management believes that the Company's systems,  policies and procedures provide
reasonable  assurance that  operations are conducted in conformity  with the law
and with management's commitment to a high standard of business conduct.






Richard Snell                                    George A. Schreiber, Jr.
Chairman &                                       Executive Vice President &
Chief Executive Officer                          Chief Financial Officer

                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


         We have  audited  the  accompanying  balance  sheets of  Pinnacle  West
Capital  Corporation  and its  subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 and
the related consolidated  statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows
for each of the  three  years in the  period  ended  December  31,  1997.  These
financial statements and the financial statement schedule are the responsibility
of the  Company's  management.  Our  responsibility  is to express an opinion on
these  financial  statements and the financial  statement  schedule based on our
audits.

         We conducted our audits in accordance with generally  accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

         In our opinion, such consolidated  financial statements present fairly,
in all  material  respects,  the  financial  position of Pinnacle  West  Capital
Corporation  and its  subsidiaries at December 31, 1997 and 1996 and the results
of its  operations  and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended  December  31,  1997 in  conformity  with  generally  accepted  accounting
principles.  Also,  in our opinion,  such  financial  statement  schedule,  when
considered  in  relation  to the basic  financial  statements  taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.




Deloitte & Touche LLP
Phoenix, Arizona
March 4, 1998

PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Years ended December 31,
(Dollars in Thousands except Per Share Amount)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS




See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS


See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS




See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Consolidation  and Nature of Operations 
The consolidated  financial statements include the accounts of Pinnacle West and
its subsidiaries: APS, SunCor and El Dorado.

APS, the Company's major subsidiary and Arizona's largest electric utility, with
767,000  customers,  provides wholesale or retail electric service to the entire
state with the  exception  of Tucson and about  one-half  of the  Phoenix  area.
SunCor is a developer of residential, commercial and industrial projects on some
13,400 acres,  predominantly  in the  metropolitan  Phoenix area. El Dorado is a
venture capital firm with a diversified portfolio.

Accounting Records
Accounting   records  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted
accounting  principles  (GAAP).  The  preparation  of  financial  statements  in
accordance with GAAP requires the use of estimates by management. Actual results
could differ from those estimates.

Regulatory Accounting
APS prepares its  financial  statements  in  accordance  with the  provisions of
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards (SFAS) No. 71, "Accounting for the
Effects of Certain  Types of  Regulation."  SFAS No. 71  requires a  cost-based,
rate-regulated  enterprise to reflect the impact of regulatory  decisions in its
financial statements.

APS' major  regulatory  assets are  deferred  income taxes (see Note 4) and rate
synchronization  cost deferrals (see "Rate  Synchronization  Cost  Deferrals" in
this note).  These items,  combined  with  miscellaneous  regulatory  assets and
liabilities, amounted to approximately $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion at December
31, 1997 and 1996, respectively, most of which are included in "Deferred Debits"
on the  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets.  In accordance  with the 1996  regulatory
agreement (see Note 3), the Arizona Corporation Commission (ACC) accelerated the
amortization of  substantially  all of APS'  regulatory  assets to an eight-year
period that began July 1, 1996. The accelerated  portion of the regulatory asset
amortization,  approximately  $120 million pretax in 1997 and $60 million pretax
in  1996,  is  included  in  depreciation  and   amortization   expense  on  the
Consolidated Statements of Income.

During 1997, the Emerging  Issues Task Force (EITF) of the Financial  Accounting
Standards  Board (FASB)  issued EITF 97-4,  which  requires  that SFAS No. 71 be
discontinued no later than when  legislation is passed or a rate order is issued
that  contains  sufficient  detail to determine its effect on the portion of the
business being  deregulated,  which could result in write-downs or write-offs of
physical  and/or  regulatory  assets.  Additionally,  the EITF  determined  that
regulatory  assets should not be written off if they are to be recovered  from a
portion of the entity which continues to apply SFAS No. 71.

Although  the ACC has issued  rules for  transitioning  generation  services  to
competition,  there are many unresolved  issues. APS continues to apply SFAS No.
71 to all of its operations.  If rate recovery of regulatory assets is no longer
probable, whether due to competition or regulatory action, APS would be required
to write off the remaining balance as an extraordinary charge to expense.

Utility Plant and Depreciation
Utility plant  represents the buildings,  equipment and other facilities used to
provide electric service.  The cost of utility plant includes labor,  materials,
contract services,  other related items and capitalized interest or an allowance
for funds used  during  construction.  The cost of retired  depreciable  utility
plant,  plus removal  costs less  salvage  realized,  is charged to  accumulated
depreciation.  See Note 13 for  information  on a proposed  accounting  standard
which impacts accounting for removal costs.

Depreciation  on utility  property  is recorded on a  straight-line  basis.  The
applicable  rates as prescribed by regulators  for 1995 through 1997 ranged from
1.51% to 20%,  which  resulted  in an annual  composite  rate of 3.35% for 1997.
Depreciation and amortization of non-utility property and equipment are provided
over the  estimated  useful  lives of the related  assets,  ranging from 3 to 50
years.

Capitalized Interest
In 1997,  APS began  capitalizing  interest  in  accordance  with  SFAS No.  34,
"Capitalization of Interest Cost." Capitalized  interest  represents the cost of
debt funds used to finance  construction  of utility plant.  Plant  construction
costs, including capitalized interest, are recovered in authorized rates through
depreciation  when  completed  projects  are placed into  commercial  operation.
Capitalized interest does not represent current cash earnings.  The rate used to
calculate capitalized interest for 1997 was 7.25%.

Prior to 1997,  APS  accrued an  allowance  for funds used  during  construction
(AFUDC).  AFUDC  represented  the cost of debt and equity  funds used to finance
construction  of utility  plant,  and did not represent  current cash  earnings.
AFUDC was calculated using composite rates of 7.75% for 1996 and 8.52% for 1995.

Revenues
Electric  operating  revenues are  recognized  on the accrual  basis and include
estimated  amounts  for  service  rendered  but  unbilled  at the  end  of  each
accounting period.

Rate Synchronization Cost Deferrals
As authorized by the ACC,  operating costs  (excluding fuel) and financing costs
of Palo Verde Units 2 and 3 were deferred from the  commercial  operation  dates
(September 1986 and January 1988,  respectively)  until the dates the units were
included in a rate order (April 1988 and December 1991, respectively). Beginning
July 1, 1996,  the deferrals are being  amortized  over an eight-year  period in
accordance  with the 1996  regulatory  agreement  (see Note 3). Prior to July 1,
1996, the deferrals were amortized over thirty-five  year periods.  Amortization
of the deferrals is included in  depreciation  and  amortization  expense on the
Consolidated Statements of Income.

Nuclear Fuel
Nuclear  fuel is charged to fuel  expense  using the  unit-of-production  method
under which the number of units of thermal energy produced in the current period
is related to the total thermal units expected to be produced over the remaining
life of the fuel.

Under federal law, the United States  Department of Energy (DOE) is  responsible
for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel, and assesses $0.001 per kWh of
nuclear generation.  This amount is charged to nuclear fuel expense. See Note 12
for  information  on spent fuel disposal and Note 13 for  information on nuclear
decommissioning costs.

Income Taxes
The Company files a consolidated  U.S. income tax return.  In accordance with an
intercompany tax allocation  agreement,  provisions for income taxes are made by
each subsidiary as if separate income tax returns were filed. The difference, if
any, between these  provisions and consolidated  income tax expense is allocated
to the parent company.

Reacquired Debt Costs
APS amortizes gains and losses on reacquired debt over the remaining life of the
original  debt,  consistent  with  ratemaking.   In  accordance  with  the  1996
regulatory  agreement (see Note 3), the ACC accelerated APS' amortization of the
regulatory  asset for reacquired  debt costs to an eight-year  period that began
July 1, 1996. The accelerated  portion of the regulatory  asset  amortization is
included in depreciation and amortization expense on the Consolidated Statements
of Income.

Statements of Cash Flows
Temporary cash  investments and marketable  securities are considered to be cash
equivalents for purposes of the  Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows.  During
1997, 1996 and 1995, the Company paid interest,  net of amounts capitalized,  of
$163.0 million,  $185.9 million and $216.8 million,  respectively.  Income taxes
paid were $146.2 million,  $121.0 million and $77.4 million,  respectively;  and
dividends paid on preferred  stock of APS were $13.3 million,  $17.4 million and
$19.1 million, respectively.

Reclassifications
Certain   prior  year  amounts  have  been  restated  to  conform  to  the  1997
presentation.

2. ACCOUNTING MATTERS
The Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board has issued  SFAS No. 130  "Reporting
Comprehensive Income," SFAS No. 131 "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise
and Related Information" and SFAS No. 132 "Employers' Disclosures about Pensions
and Other Postretirement Benefits," all of which are effective in 1998.

SFAS No. 130 changes the  reporting of certain items  currently  reported in the
common stock equity  section of the balance  sheet and is not expected to have a
material effect on the Company's financial statements.

SFAS No. 131 requires that public  companies  report certain  information  about
operating segments in their financial  statements.  It also establishes  related
disclosures about products and services,  geographic areas, and major customers.
The Company is currently  evaluating  what impact this standard will have on its
disclosures.

SFAS No. 132  standardizes  the disclosure  requirements  for pensions and other
postretirement   benefits  to  provide  information  that  is  more  comparable,
understandable and concise.  It is not expected to have a material effect on the
Company's financial statement disclosures.

3. REGULATORY MATTERS
Electric Industry Restructuring
State  
The ACC has been conducting an ongoing  investigation  into the restructuring of
the Arizona  electric  industry.  In December  1996,  the ACC adopted rules that
provide a framework for the introduction of retail electric competition. The ACC
framework rules include the following major provisions:

o The rules are  intended  to apply to  virtually  all of the  Arizona  electric
utilities regulated by the ACC, including APS.

o Each affected  utility would be required to make available at least 20% of its
1995 system retail peak demand for competitive generation supply to all customer
classes not later than  January 1, 1999;  at least 50% not later than January 1,
2001; and all of its retail demand not later than January 1, 2003.

o Electric  service  providers  that  obtain  Certificates  of  Convenience  and
Necessity (CC&Ns) from the ACC would be allowed to supply,  market and/or broker
specified  electric  services at retail.  These services would include  electric
generation, but exclude electric transmission and distribution.

o On or before  December 31, 1997,  each  affected  utility was required to file
with the ACC proposed  tariffs for bundled  service,  if different  than current
tariffs, and unbundled service.  Bundled service means electric service elements
(i.e., generation,  transmission,  distribution and ancillary services) provided
as a package to customers  within an affected  utility's  current  service area.
Unbundled   service  means  electric  service   elements   provided  and  priced
separately.

o The rules indicate that the ACC will allow  recovery of  unmitigated  stranded
costs.  Stranded  costs are the costs of  generating  plants,  other  assets and
contract commitments that were prudently incurred to serve power customers that

could go unrecovered  if these  customers are allowed to use open access to move
to another  supplier.  Each affected  utility would be required to file with the
ACC its  estimates of  unmitigated  stranded  costs.  The ACC would then,  after
hearing  and  consideration  of various  factors,  determine  the  magnitude  of
stranded costs and appropriate stranded costs recovery mechanisms and charges.

The ACC  ordered  in the rules  that  numerous  issues  (including  reliability;
stranded cost measurement and recovery; the phase-in process; bundled, unbundled
and metering  services;  legal issues;  and independent system operator and spot
market development) require additional  consideration prior to implementation of
retail electric competition.  During 1997, the ACC conducted workshops to gather
input from various constituencies with respect to those issues.

In February 1998, the ACC completed a formal,  generic  hearing on stranded cost
determination  and  recovery.  Based  on  various  assumptions,   estimates  and
methodologies,  APS currently  estimates that its stranded costs to be recovered
(excluding  regulatory assets which have already been addressed by the ACC) will
be less than $500 million. APS is seeking full recovery of stranded costs during
a transition  period proposed to go through 2006.  Decisions by the ACC have not
yet been made with respect to this issue.

An  Arizona  joint  legislative  committee  studied  electric  utility  industry
restructuring  issues in 1996 and 1997. In conjunction with that study,  Arizona
legislative  counsel  prepared  memoranda  in late  1997  related  to the  legal
authority of the ACC to deregulate the Arizona  electric utility  industry.  The
memoranda  raise a  question  as to the  degree to which the ACC may,  under the
Arizona  Constitution,  deregulate any portion of the electric  utility industry
and allow rates to be determined by market forces.

In  February  1998,  a bill to  facilitate  implementation  of  retail  electric
competition in the state was introduced in the Arizona legislature. The bill has
progressed through several stages to date. The bill includes the following major
provisions:  (a) requirements that large government-operated  electric utilities
(i) enter into  intergovernmental  agreements with the ACC to promote consistent
statewide practices;  (ii) implement retail electric generation  competition for
20% of each  utility's  1995 retail peak demand by December 31, 1998 and for all
customers  by December  31, 1999;  (iii)  decrease  rates by at least 10% over a
ten-year  period  beginning  as early  as  January  1,  1991;  and (iv)  recover
unmitigated stranded costs through a surcharge on distribution prices; and (b) a
proposal  that  the  ACC  adopt  provisions  for  public  service   corporations
(including  investor-owned  utilities such as APS)  consistent  with some of the
bill's  provisions  for  certain   government-operated   electric  utilities  as
described above.

The Company  believes that certain  provisions  of the ACC  framework  rules are
deficient.  In  February  1997,  a lawsuit was filed by APS to protect its legal
rights  regarding  those rules.  That lawsuit is pending,  but two related cases
filed  by  other  utilities  have  been  decided  adversely  to  the  utilities'
positions.

The Company believes that further ACC decisions,  legislation at the Arizona and
federal  levels  and  perhaps  amendments  to the  Arizona  Constitution  (which
amendments  would  require a vote of the  people)  will  ultimately  be required
before  significant  implementation of retail electric  competition can lawfully
occur in Arizona.  Until the manner of implementation of competition,  including
addressing stranded costs, is determined,  the Company cannot accurately predict
the impact of full retail competition on its financial  position,  cash flows or
results of  operation.  As  competition  in the electric  industry  continues to
evolve,  the Company will continue to evaluate  strategies and alternatives that
will position the Company to compete in the new regulatory environment.

Federal
The  Energy  Policy  Act of  1992  and  recent  rulemakings  by  Federal  Energy
Regulatory   Commission  (FERC)  have  promoted  increased  competition  in  the
wholesale  electric  power  markets.  The Company does not expect these rules to
have a material impact on its financial statements.

Several  electric  utility reform bills have been  introduced  during the recent
congressional  sessions,  which as currently  written,  would allow consumers to
choose their electric  supplier by 2000 or 2003.  These bills,  other bills that
are expected to be  introduced,  and ongoing  discussions  at the federal  level
suggest  a wide  range of  opinion  that  will need to be  narrowed  before  any
substantial restructuring of the electric utility industry can occur.

1996 Regulatory Agreement
In April 1996, the ACC approved a regulatory  agreement  between APS and the ACC
Staff. The major provisions of this agreement are:

o An annual rate  reduction of  approximately  $48.5  million ($29 million after
income  taxes),  or 3.4% on average for all customers  except  certain  contract
customers, effective July 1, 1996.

o Recovery  of  substantially  all of APS'  present  regulatory  assets  through
accelerated  amortization  over an  eight-year  period  that began July 1, 1996,
increasing annual  amortization by approximately $120 million ($72 million after
income taxes). See Note 1.

o A formula for sharing future cost savings between  customers and  shareholders
(price reduction formula) referencing a return on equity (as defined) of 11.25%.

o A  moratorium  on filing for  permanent  rate  changes  prior to July 2, 1999,
except  under the  price  reduction  formula  and under  certain  other  limited
circumstances.

o Infusion of $200 million of common equity into APS by the parent  company,  in
annual payments of $50 million starting in 1996.

Pursuant to the price reduction formula,  in May 1997, the ACC approved a retail
price  decrease of  approximately  $17.6  million  ($10.5  million  after income
taxes),  or 1.2%,  effective July 1, 1997. In March 1998, APS filed with the ACC
its calculation of an annual retail price reduction of approximately $17 million
($10 million after income taxes),  or 1%, to become  effective July 1, 1998. The
amount and timing of the price decrease are subject to ACC approval.

4. INCOME TAXES
Investment  Tax Credit  
Beginning in 1995,  substantially all investment tax credits are being amortized
over a five-year period in accordance with a 1994 rate settlement agreement. 

Income Taxes
The Company  follows the liability  method of accounting  for income taxes which
requires  that deferred  income taxes be recorded for all temporary  differences
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities  and the amounts  recognized for
financial  reporting.  Deferred taxes are recorded using  currently  enacted tax
rates.

In accordance with SFAS No. 71, APS  established a regulatory  asset for certain
temporary  differences,  primarily  AFUDC  equity,  to  reflect  the  ratemaking
treatment.  This regulatory asset is being amortized as the related  differences
reverse. In accordance with the 1996 regulatory  agreement (see Note 3), the ACC
accelerated  APS'  amortization  of the regulatory  asset for income taxes to an
eight-year  period  that  began  July 1, 1996.  The  accelerated  portion of the
regulatory  asset  amortization  is included in  depreciation  and  amortization
expense on the Consolidated Statements of Income.

The components of income tax expense from continuing operations are as follows:


Year Ended December 31,
(Thousands of Dollars)       1997        1996         1995
- -------------------------------------------------------------
Current
  Federal                 $ 105,818    $ 105,312    $  77,869
  State                      43,172       35,052        1,081
                          -----------------------------------
Total current               148,990      140,364       78,950
Deferred                     28,729       23,752       21,339
NOL and ITC
  carryforward utilized           -            -       58,019
Change in
  valuation allowance        (3,920)     (12,142)      (6,814)
ITC amortization            (23,518)     (23,518)     (23,529)
                          -----------------------------------
Total expense             $ 150,281    $ 128,456    $ 127,965
                          ===================================


Income tax expense differed from the amount computed by multiplying  income from
continuing  operations  before income taxes by the statutory  federal income tax
rate due to the following:

Year Ended December 31,
(Thousands of Dollars)          1997        1996        1995
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Federal income tax
  expense at statutory
    rate, 35%                 $135,148    $118,830     $114,651
Increases (reductions)
  in tax expense
  resulting from:

    Tax under book
      depreciation              14,694      19,229       18,186
    Preferred stock
      dividends of APS           4,481       5,982        6,697
    ITC amortization           (23,518)    (23,518)     (23,529)
    State income tax
      net of federal
      income tax benefit        24,497      19,565       19,245
    Change in valuation
      allowance                 (3,400)    (10,525)      (5,908)

    Other                       (1,621)     (1,107)      (1,377)
                              ---------------------------------
Income tax expense            $150,281    $128,456     $127,965
                              =================================


The components of the net deferred income tax liability were as follows:

December 31,
(Thousands of Dollars)                          1997          1996
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax assets
  Alternative minimum tax (can be
    carried forward indefinitely)           $   53,601    $  125,735
  Deferred gain on Palo Verde
    Unit 2 sale/leaseback                       33,257        35,105
  Other                                         91,701        97,060
  Valuation allowance                                -        (7,964)
                                            ------------------------
      Total deferred tax assets                178,559       249,936
                                            ------------------------

Deferred tax liabilities
  Plant-related                              1,096,222     1,104,902
  Regulatory asset for
    income taxes                               185,084       208,647
  Rate synchronization deferrals               144,908       167,202
  Other                                         57,919        58,809
                                            ------------------------
      Total deferred tax liabilities         1,484,133     1,539,560
                                            ------------------------
Accumulated deferred
    income taxes - net                      $1,305,574    $1,289,624
                                            ========================

5. LINES OF CREDIT
APS had committed lines of credit with various banks of $400 million at December
31,  1997 and 1996,  which were  available  either to support  the  issuance  of
commercial  paper or to be used  for bank  borrowings.  The  commitment  fees at
December 31, 1997 and 1996 for these lines of credit  ranged from 0.07% to 0.15%
per annum.  APS had long-term  bank  borrowings of $150 million and $100 million
outstanding  at December 31, 1997 and 1996,  respectively,  under these lines of
credit.

APS had  commercial  paper  borrowings  outstanding  of $130.8 million and $16.9
million at  December  31,  1997 and 1996,  respectively.  The  weighted  average
interest rate on commercial paper borrowings was 6.27% and 6.40% on December 31,
1997 and 1996,  respectively.  By Arizona  statute,  APS' short-term  borrowings
cannot exceed 7% of its total capitalization without the consent of the ACC.

The parent  company  had a  revolving  line of credit of $250  million  and $225
million at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The commitment fees on this
line ranged  from 0.10% to 0.125% in 1997 and 1996.  Outstanding  amounts  under
this line at December  31, 1997 and 1996,  were $155  million and $200  million,
respectively.

SunCor had revolving lines of credit  totalling $55 million at December 31, 1997
and 1996.  The  commitment  fees on these  lines  were  0.125% in 1997 and 1996.
SunCor had $40.6  million  and $42.4  million  outstanding  under these lines at
December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

6. LONG-TERM DEBT
Borrowings  under the APS mortgage bond  indenture are secured by  substantially
all utility plant;  SunCor's debt is  collaterized  by interests in certain real
property;  Pinnacle  West's debt is unsecured.  The following table presents the
components of consolidated long-term debt:



(a)  This  schedule does not reflect the timing of  redemptions  which may occur
     prior to maturity.
(b)  The  weighted-average  rate for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996
     was 3.62% and 3.40%,  respectively.  Changes in short-term  interest  rates
     would affect the costs associated with this debt.
(c)  APS has issued $150 million of first  mortgage bonds ("senior note mortgage
     bonds") to the senior note trustee as collateral for the senior notes.  The
     senior note mortgage  bonds have the same interest rate,  interest  payment
     dates,  maturity,  and  redemption  provisions  as the senior  notes.  APS'
     payments of principal, premium, and/or interest on the senior notes satisfy
     the Company's corresponding payment obligations on the senior note mortgage
     bonds.  As long as the senior note mortgage  bonds secure the senior notes,
     the senior notes will  effectively  rank pari passu with the first mortgage
     bonds.  On the date that APS has  repaid all of its first  mortgage  bonds,
     other than those that secure senior notes,  the senior note mortgage  bonds
     will no longer secure the senior notes and will cease to be outstanding.
(d)  The  weighted-average  rate at  December  31,  1997 and 1996 was  6.25% and
     5.76%, respectively.  Changes in short-term interest rates would affect the
     costs associated with this debt.
(e)  Represents  the present value of future lease  payments  (discounted  at an
     interest rate of 7.48%) on a combined cycle plant sold and leased back from
     the independent owner-trustee formed to own the facility (see Note 10).
(f)  The  weighted-average  rate at  December  31,  1997 and 1996 was  8.60% and
     8.52%, respectively.  Interest for 1997 and 1996 was based on LIBOR plus 2%
     or prime plus 0.5%.
(g)  The  weighted-average  rate at  December  31,  1997 and 1996 was  8.44% and
     7.62%, respectively.  Interest for 1997 and 1996 was based on LIBOR plus 2%
     or prime plus 0.5%.
(h)  Multiple notes  primarily with variable  interest rates based mostly on the
     lenders' prime.
(i)  The  weighted-average  rate at  December  31,  1997 and 1996 was  6.25% and
     6.03%,  respectively.  Interest for 1997 was based on LIBOR plus 0.33%-0.4%
     and for 1996 was LIBOR plus 0.4%.
(j)  Includes  two  series  of notes:  $25  million  at 6.62% due 2001,  and $25
     million at 6.87% due 2003.

Aggregate annual principal  payments due on total long-term debt and for sinking
fund  requirements  through 2002 are as follows:  1998,  $108.7  million;  1999,
$193.0 million;  2000, $158.8 million;  2001,  $182.6 million;  and 2002, $275.1
million.  See Note 7 for redemption and sinking fund  requirements of redeemable
preferred stock of APS. 

7. PREFERRED STOCK OF APS 
Non-redeemable  preferred  stock is not redeemable  except at the option of APS.
Redeemable  preferred  stock is  redeemable  through  sinking fund  obligations.
Preferred stock balances of APS are shown below:



(a)  The actual  call price per share is the  indicated  amount plus any accrued
     dividends.
(b)  This authorization also covers all outstanding redeemable preferred stock.
(c)  Dividend rate adjusted  quarterly to 2% below that of certain United States
     Treasury  securities,  but in no event less than 6% or greater than 12% per
     annum. Redeemable at par.
(d)  Redeemable at par after December 1, 1998.

If there were to be any arrearage in dividends on any of its preferred  stock or
in the sinking fund requirements  applicable to any of its redeemable  preferred
stock,  APS could not pay  dividends  on its common  stock or acquire any shares
thereof for consideration.  The redemption requirements for the above issues for
the next three years are: 1998, $10.0 million;  1999,  $10.0 million;  and 2000,
$9.1 million. There are no redemption requirements in 2001 and 2002.

Redeemable preferred stock transactions of APS during each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 1997 are as follows:

                                       Number of      Par Value 
(Dollars in Thousands)                   Shares        Amount
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, December 31, 1994              750,000       $ 75,000
Retirements                                   -              -
                                       ----------------------- 

Balance, December 31, 1995              750,000         75,000
Retirements
  $10.00 Series U                       (90,000)        (9,000)
  $7.875 Series V                      (130,000)       (13,000)
                                       ----------------------- 

Balance, December 31, 1996              530,000         53,000
Retirements
  $10.00 Series U                      (118,902)       (11,890)
  $7.875 Series V                      (120,000)       (12,000)
                                       ----------------------- 

Balance, December 31, 1997              291,098       $ 29,110
                                       ======================= 

8. COMMON STOCK
The  Company's  common stock issued during each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1997 is as follows:

                                       Number of
(Dollars in Thousands)                   Shares          Amount (a)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, December 31, 1994              87,429,642      $1,641,196
  Common stock issued                       86,205          (2,512)
                                        --------------------------
Balance, December 31, 1995              87,515,847       1,638,684
  Common stock issued                            -          (2,330)
                                        --------------------------
Balance, December 31, 1996              87,515,847       1,636,354
  Common stock issued                            -          (2,586)
  Common stock retired                  (2,690,900)        (79,997)
                                        --------------------------

Balance, December 31, 1997              84,824,947      $1,553,771
                                        ==========================

(a)  Including premiums and expenses of preferred stock issues of APS.

9. RETIREMENT PLANS AND OTHER BENEFITS
Voluntary Severance Plan
APS sponsored a voluntary  severance  plan in 1996,  which  resulted in a pretax
charge of $31.7 million (including  pension and postretirement  benefit expense)
recorded   primarily  as   operations   and   maintenance   expense.   Employees
participating  in the plan  were  credited  with an  additional  year of age and
service for purposes of calculating  pension and  postretirement  benefits.  The
total additional pension and postretirement benefit expense recorded in 1996 for
this program was $2.3 million and $5.4 million, respectively.

Pension Plans
The Company  sponsors defined benefit pension plans covering  substantially  all
employees.  Benefits are based on years of service and compensation  utilizing a
final average pay benefit  formula.  Company policy is to fund not less than the
minimum  required  contribution  nor  greater  than the  maximum  tax-deductible
contribution. Plan assets consist primarily of domestic and international common
stocks and bonds and real estate. Pension expense,  including administrative and
severance costs, for 1997, 1996 and 1995 was approximately  $9.3 million,  $15.5
million and $10.0 million, respectively.

The  components of net periodic  pension costs before  consideration  of amounts
capitalized or billed to others and excluding severance costs of $2.9 million in
1996 are as follows:

(Thousands of Dollars)          1997            1996            1995
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
Service cost - benefits
        earned during
        the period            $ 20,435        $ 23,397        $ 16,390
Interest cost on
        projected benefit
        obligation              48,402          45,124          39,762
Return on plan assets          (88,618)        (63,136)        (83,031)
Net amortization
        and deferral            39,511          19,969          46,469
                              ----------------------------------------
Net consolidated
        periodic pension
        benefit cost          $ 19,730        $ 25,354        $ 19,590
                              ========================================

A reconciliation  of the funded status of the plan to the amounts  recognized in
the balance sheets is presented below:

(Thousands of Dollars)                       1997          1996
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

Plan assets at fair value                 $ 619,412     $ 539,179
                                          -----------------------
Less:
Accumulated benefit
  obligation, including vested
  benefits of $499,559 and
  $418,052 in 1997 and 1996,
  respectively                              558,967       472,864
Effect of projected future
  compensation increases                    149,177       135,811
                                          -----------------------
Total projected benefit obligation          708,144       608,675
                                          -----------------------
Plan assets less than projected
  benefit obligation                        (88,732)      (69,496)
Plus:
  Unrecognized net loss
    from past experience
    different from that assumed              16,943         3,314
  Unrecognized prior service cost            24,792        20,563
  Unrecognized net
    transition asset                        (26,462)      (29,690)
                                          -----------------------
Accrued pension liability                 $ (73,459)    $ (75,309)
                                          ======================= 

Principal actuarial assumptions used were:

                                               1997         1996
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
 
Discount rate                                  7.25%        7.75%
Rate of increase in
  compensation levels                          4.50%        4.50%
Expected long-term rate
  of return on assets                          9.00%        9.00%

In addition to the defined  benefit  pension  plans,  the Company also  sponsors
qualified  defined   contribution   plans.   Collectively,   these  plans  cover
substantially  all employees.  The plans provide for employee  contributions and
partial employer matching  contributions after certain eligibility  requirements
are met.  Expenses  related  to these  plans for  1997,  1996 and 1995 were $3.9
million, $3.6 million and $3.2 million, respectively.

Postretirement Plans
The  Company  provides  medical  and  life  insurance  benefits  to its  retired
employees.  Employees  must  retire to  become  eligible  for  these  retirement
benefits,  which are based on years of  service  and age.  The  retiree  medical
insurance  plans  are  contributory;   the  retiree  life  insurance  plans  are
non-contributory.  In accordance with the governing plan documents,  the Company
retains the right to change or eliminate these benefits.

Funding  is  based  upon  actuarially  determined  contributions  that  take tax
consequences into account.  Plan assets consist primarily of domestic stocks and
bonds.  The  postretirement   benefit  expense  for  1997,  1996  and  1995  was
approximately $9.8 million, $16.2 million and $13.7 million, respectively.

The components of net periodic postretirement benefit costs before consideration
of amounts capitalized or billed to others and excluding severance costs of $9.6
million in 1996 are as follows:

(Thousands of Dollars)        1997         1996          1995
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Service cost - benefits
  earned during
  the period                $  7,046     $  8,168      $  6,925
Interest cost on
  accumulated benefit
  obligation                  14,441       13,525        13,879
Return on plan assets        (30,846)     (12,550)      (15,133)
Net amortization
  and deferral                27,153       12,778        17,179
                            -----------------------------------
Net consolidated
  periodic postretire-
  ment benefit cost         $ 17,794     $ 21,921      $ 22,850
                            ===================================

A reconciliation  of the funded status of the plan to the amounts  recognized in
the balance sheets is presented below:

(Thousands of Dollars)                    1997         1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------

Plan assets at fair value              $ 151,146    $ 109,763
                                       ----------------------
Less accumulated postretirement 
  benefit obligation:
    Retirees                              95,309       87,146
    Fully eligible plan participants       6,120        3,720
    Other active plan participants        97,919       90,539
                                       ----------------------
Total accumulated postretirement
  benefit obligation                     199,348      181,405
                                       ----------------------
Plan assets less than accumulated
  benefit obligation                     (48,202)     (71,642)
Plus:
  Unrecognized transition
    obligation                           115,541      123,239
  Unrecognized net gain from past
    experience different from
    that assumed                         (79,013)     (62,759)
                                       ----------------------
Accrued postretirement liability       $ (11,674)   $ (11,162)
                                       ======================


Principal actuarial assumptions used were:

                                           1997          1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Discount rate                              7.25%         7.75%
Annual salary increases for life
        insurance obligation               4.50%         4.50%
Expected long-term rate of return
        on assets - after tax              7.75%         7.75%
Initial health care cost trend
        rate - under age 65                8.00%         9.00%
Initial health care cost trend
        rate - age 65 and over             7.00%         8.00%
Ultimate health care cost trend
        rate (reached in the year 2002)    5.00%         5.50%


Assuming a 1%  increase  in the health  care cost trend  rate,  the 1997 cost of
postretirement  benefits other than pensions would increase by  approximately $6
million and the  accumulated  benefit  obligation  as of December 31, 1997 would
increase by approximately $34 million.

10. LEASES
In 1986,  APS entered into sale and leaseback  transactions  under which it sold
approximately  42% of  its  share  of  Palo  Verde  Unit  2 and  certain  common
facilities.  The gain of  approximately  $140.2 million has been deferred and is
being  amortized to  operations  expense  over the  original  lease term of 29.5
years. The leases are being accounted for as operating leases. The amounts to be
paid each year  approximate  $40.1 million through 1999,  $46.3 million in 2000,
and $49.0 million through 2015. Options to renew for two additional years and to
purchase  the  property at fair  market  value at the end of the lease terms are
also included.  Consistent with the ratemaking treatment, an amount equal to the
annual  lease  payments is  included  in rent  expense.  A  regulatory  asset is
recognized for the difference between lease payments and rent expense calculated
on a straight-line basis.

In  accordance  with  the  1996  regulatory  agreement  (see  Note  3),  the ACC
accelerated  APS'  amortization  of  the  regulatory  asset  for  leases  to  an
eight-year  period  that began July 1, 1996.  The  accelerated  amortization  is
included in depreciation and amortization expense on the Consolidated Statements
of Income.  The balance of this regulatory  asset at December 31, 1997 was $53.2
million.  Lease expense was  approximately $42 million in each of the years 1995
through 1997.

APS has a capital lease on a combined cycle plant which it sold and leased back.
The lease requires  semiannual  payments of $2.6 million  through June 2001, and
includes renewal and purchase options based on fair market value.  This plant is
included in plant in service at its original cost of $54.4 million;  accumulated
amortization at December 31, 1997 was $46.5 million.

In  addition,  the  Company  leases  certain  land,  buildings,   equipment  and
miscellaneous  other items  through  operating  rental  agreements  with varying
terms, provisions and expiration dates. Rent expense for 1997, 1996 and 1995 was
approximately  $11.2  million,  $12.8 million and $15.4  million,  respectively.
Annual future minimum rental commitments,  excluding the Palo Verde and combined
cycle leases,  through 2002 are as follows:  1998,  $16.2 million;  1999,  $16.4
million;  2000,  $16.7 million;  2001,  $17.8 million;  and 2002, $18.2 million.
Total rental commitments after the year 2002 are estimated at $160.4 million

11. JOINTLY-OWNED FACILITIES
At  December  31,  1997,  APS owned  interests  in the  following  jointly-owned
electric generating and transmission facilities. APS' share of related operating
and  maintenance  expenses is included in utility  operations  and  maintenance.




(a)  The construction  costs at Navajo are primarily related to the installation
     of scrubbers required by recent environmental legislation.

(b)  APS is the operating agent for Cholla Unit 4, which is owned by PacifiCorp.
     The common facilities at the Cholla Plant are jointly-owned.

(c)  Weighted average of interests.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

12. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
Litigation 
The Company is party to various claims,  legal actions and complaints arising in
the ordinary  course of  business.  In the opinion of  management,  the ultimate
resolution  of these  matters  will not have a  material  adverse  effect on the
Company's financial statements.

Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station
APS has encountered  tube cracking in steam  generators and has taken,  and will
continue to take, remedial actions that it believes have slowed the rate of tube
degradation.  The projected  service life of the steam  generators is reassessed
periodically and these analyses indicate that it will be economically  desirable
for APS to  replace  the Unit 2 steam  generators  between  2003 and  2008.  APS
estimates that its share of the replacement costs (in 1997 dollars and including
installation  and replacement  power costs) will be  approximately  $50 million,
most of which will be incurred after the year 2000.

During the fourth quarter of 1997, the Palo Verde  participants,  including APS,
entered into a contract for the fabrication of two replacement steam generators.
The cost to APS is estimated at approximately $26 million. These generators will
be used as  replacements if performance of existing  generators  deteriorates to
less than acceptable  levels.  The generators are expected on site in 2002. APS'
share of installation costs is approximately $24 million.

Based on the latest  available  data,  APS estimates  that the Unit 1 and Unit 3
steam  generators  should operate for the license  periods (until 2025 and 2027,
respectively),  although APS will  continue its normal  periodic  assessment  of
these steam generators.

Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, DOE was to develop the facilities  necessary
for the storage and  disposal of spent fuel and to have the first such  facility
in operation by 1998.  That facility was to be a permanent  repository,  but DOE
has  announced  that such a repository  now cannot be completed  before 2010. In
November 1997, the Court of Appeals for the D.C.  Circuit  affirmed its previous
decision  that DOE must begin  accepting  spent fuel by 1998 and issued an order
precluding  DOE from  excusing its own delay on the grounds that DOE has not yet
prepared a permanent repository or interim storage facility.

The Company has  capacity in existing  fuel  storage  pools at Palo Verde which,
with certain modifications, could accommodate all fuel expected to be discharged
from normal  operation of Palo Verde through  about 2002,  and believes it could
augment  that wet storage with new  facilities  for on-site dry storage of spent
fuel for an indeterminate  period of operation beyond 2002, subject to obtaining
any required governmental  approvals.  The Company currently believes that spent
fuel  storage or disposal  methods  will be  available  for use by Palo Verde to
allow its continued operation beyond 2002.

The Palo Verde  participants have insurance for public liability  resulting from
nuclear  energy  hazards to the full limit of liability  under federal law. This
potential  liability  is covered  by primary  liability  insurance  provided  by
commercial  insurance  carriers in the amount of $200 million and the balance by
an  industry-wide  retrospective  assessment  program.  If losses at any nuclear
power plant covered by the programs exceed the accumulated  funds,  APS could be
assessed  retrospective premium adjustments.  The maximum assessment per reactor
under the  program  for each  nuclear  incident is  approximately  $79  million,
subject to an annual  limit of $10 million per  incident.  Based upon APS' 29.1%
interest in the three Palo Verde units,  APS' maximum  potential  assessment per
incident  for all  three  units is  approximately  $69  million,  with an annual
payment limitation of approximately $9 million.

The Palo Verde  participants  maintain "all risk"  (including  nuclear  hazards)
insurance for property damage to, and decontamination of, property at Palo Verde
in the aggregate  amount of $2.75 billion,  a substantial  portion of which must
first be applied to  stabilization  and  decontamination.  APS has also  secured
insurance  against  portions of any  increased  cost of  generation or purchased
power and business interruption resulting from a sudden and unforeseen outage of
any of the  three  units.  The  insurance  coverage  discussed  in this  and the
previous paragraph is subject to certain policy conditions and exclusions.

Fuel and Purchased Power Commitments
APS is a party to various fuel and purchased power contracts with terms expiring
from 1998 through 2020 that include required purchase provisions.  APS estimates
its 1998 contract  requirements to be approximately $136 million.  However, this
amount may vary  significantly  pursuant to certain provisions in such contracts
which permit APS to decrease its required purchases under certain circumstances.

APS is contractually  obligated to reimburse  certain coal providers for amounts
incurred  for coal  mine  reclamation.  APS'  share of the total  obligation  is
estimated at $110 million.  The portion of the coal mine reclamation  obligation
related to coal already burned is approximately $66 million at December 31, 1997
and is included in "Deferred  Credits-Other" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
A  regulatory  asset has been  established  for amounts not yet  recovered  from
ratepayers.  In accordance with the 1996 regulatory  agreement (see Note 3), the
ACC  began  accelerated  amortization  of APS'  regulatory  asset  for coal mine
reclamation costs over an eight-year period beginning July 1, 1996. Amortization
is  included  in  depreciation  and  amortization  expense  on the  Consolidated
Statements of Income.  The balance of the regulatory  asset at December 31, 1997
was approximately $60 million.

Construction Program
Consolidated capital expenditures in 1998 are estimated at $368 million.

13. NUCLEAR DECOMMISSIONING COSTS
APS recorded $11.4 million for decommissioning expense in each of the years 1997
and 1996. APS estimates it will cost approximately $2.0 billion ($460 million in
1997 dollars),  over a 14-year  period  beginning in 2024, to  decommission  its
29.1% interest in the three Palo Verde units.  Decommissioning costs are charged
to expense over the respective unit's operating license term and are included in
the  accumulated  depreciation  balance  until  each  unit is  retired.  Nuclear
decommissioning costs are recovered in rates.

APS is utilizing a 1995 site-specific study for Palo Verde,  prepared for APS by
an independent consultant, that assumes the prompt  removal/dismantlement method
of decommissioning. APS is required to update the study every three years.

As required by  regulation,  APS has  established  external  trust accounts into
which quarterly deposits are made for  decommissioning.  As of December 31, 1997
and  1996,  APS had  deposited  a total  of $79.5  million  and  $68.1  million,
respectively.  The trust accounts are included in "Investments and Other Assets"
on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at a market value of $124.6 million and $95.5
million  on  December  31,  1997 and 1996,  respectively.  The  trust  funds are
invested  primarily  in  fixed-income  securities  and  domestic  stock  and are
classified as available for sale.  Realized and unrealized  gains and losses are
reflected in accumulated depreciation.

In February  1996,  the FASB issued an exposure  draft  "Accounting  for Certain
Liabilities  Related to Closure or Removal of  Long-Lived  Assets"  which  would
require the estimated present value of the cost of  decommissioning  and certain
other  removal  costs to be recorded as a  liability,  along with an  offsetting
plant asset when a decommissioning or other removal obligation is incurred.  The
FASB has not determined when a revised  exposure draft or a final statement will
be issued.

14. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
Consolidated quarterly financial information for 1997 and 1996 is as follows:




(a)  APS operations are subject to seasonal  fluctuations  primarily as a result
     of weather  conditions.  The results of operations for interim  periods are
     not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year.
(b)  Dividends for the quarter ended September 30, 1997 were declared in June.
(c)  Net loss for the quarter ended December 31, 1996 includes a charge of $18.9
     million for a voluntary severance program.
(d)  Dividends  for the quarters  ended  September 30 and December 31, 1996 were
     declared in June and September, respectively.

15. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Company  estimates  that the carrying  amounts of its cash  equivalents  and
commercial  paper are reasonable  estimates of their fair values at December 31,
1997 and 1996 due to their short maturities.

Investments  in debt and  equity  securities  are held for  purposes  other than
trading.  The  December  31,  1997 and 1996  fair  values  of such  investments,
determined by using quoted market values or by  discounting  cash flows at rates
equal to the Company's cost of capital, approximate their carrying amounts.

The carrying value of long-term debt (excluding a capitalized  lease obligation)
on December 31, 1997 and 1996 was $2.34 billion and $2.51 billion, respectively,
and the estimated fair value was $2.38 billion and $2.47 billion,  respectively.
The fair  value  estimates  are  based on  quoted  market  prices of the same or
similar issues.

16. EARNINGS PER SHARE
In 1997 the Company  adopted SFAS No. 128 "Earnings  Per Share." This  statement
requires the  presentation  of both basic and diluted  earnings per share on the
financial  statements.  The following table presents earnings per average common
share outstanding (EPS):


                       1997         1996      1995
- ---------------------------------------------------
Basic EPS:
  Continuing
    operations        $ 2.76      $ 2.41     $ 2.28
  Discontinued
    operations             -       (0.11)         -
  Extraordinary
    charge                 -       (0.23)     (0.13)
                      -----------------------------
  Net income          $ 2.76      $ 2.07     $ 2.15
                      =============================

Diluted EPS:
  Continuing
    operations        $ 2.74      $ 2.40     $ 2.27
  Discontinued
    operations             -       (0.11)         -
  Extraordinary
    charge                 -       (0.23)     (0.13)
                      -----------------------------
  Net income          $ 2.74      $ 2.06     $ 2.14
                      =============================

Dilutive stock options  increased  average common shares  outstanding by 519,800
shares, 580,405 shares, and 464,926 shares in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively,
but had no effect on net income. Total average common shares outstanding for the
purposes of  calculating  diluted  earnings  per share were  86,022,709  shares,
88,021,920 shares and 87,884,226 shares in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

Options  to  purchase  254,450  shares of common  stock at $39.75 per share were
outstanding  since  the  last  quarter  of 1997 but  were  not  included  in the
computation of diluted EPS because the options'  exercise price was greater than
the  average  market  price  of  the  common  shares.  The  options  were  still
outstanding at the end of 1997.

17. STOCK OPTIONS
The Company has  incentive  plans under which it may grant  non-qualified  stock
options  (NQSOs),  incentive stock options (ISOs) and restricted stock awards to
officers and key employees.

The plans provide for the granting of new options or awards of up to 3.5 million
shares at a price per  option  not less than fair  market  value on the date the
option is granted. The plans also provide for the granting of any combination of
stock appreciation rights or dividend equivalents.  The awards outstanding under
the various  incentive plans at December 31, 1997  approximate  1,486,417 NQSOs,
183,190  restricted shares,  and no dividend  equivalent  shares,  ISOs or stock
appreciation rights.

The FASB issued SFAS No. 123 "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" which was
effective for 1996. The statement encourages, but does not require, companies to
recognize  compensation  expense  based on the fair value  method.  The  Company
continues to recognize expense based on Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No.
25. Had the Company determined  compensation  expense based on the fair value of
its stock  options,  the  Company's net income and earnings per share would have
been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:

(Dollars in Thousands,
 Except per Share Amounts)       1997           1996           1995
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income
        As reported            $235,856        $181,180      $188,037
        Pro forma              $235,446        $180,969      $188,010
Net income per share
        As reported            $2.76           $   2.07      $   2.15
        Pro forma              $2.75           $   2.07      $   2.15

The fair  value of each fixed  stock  option is  estimated  on the date of grant
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions:

                              1997            1996            1995
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Risk-free interest rate       5.66%           5.77%           5.43%
Dividend growth               4.50%           4.50%           4.50%
Volatility                   15.63%          17.10%          12.60%
Expected life (months)          60              58              56

The effects of applying SFAS No. 123 for disclosing compensation cost may not be
representative  of the effects on reported net income for future  years  because
pro forma net income  does not  consider  compensation  costs for stock  options
granted prior to January 1, 1995.

                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(a) Represents pro-rata allocations for sale of land.

              ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
                     ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.


                                    PART III

                        ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE
                           OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Reference is hereby made to "Election of Directors" in the Company's  Proxy
Statement  relating to the Annual Meeting of  Shareholders to be held on May 20,
1998 (the "1998 Proxy  Statement") and to the  Supplemental  Item --- "Executive
Officers of the Registrant" in Part I of this report.

                         ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Reference  is hereby  made to the  fourth  and fifth  paragraphs  under the
heading "The Board and its Committees," to "Executive  Compensation,"  to "Human
Resources   Committee  Report,"  to  "Stock  Performance   Comparisons"  and  to
"Executive Benefit Plans" in the 1998 Proxy Statement.

                         ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF
                    CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     Reference  is hereby made to  "Certain  Securities  Ownership"  in the 1998
Proxy Statement.

             ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Reference is hereby made to  "Executive  Benefit Plans ---  Employment  and
Severance Agreements" in the 1998 Proxy Statement.

                                     PART IV

          ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT
                       SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

Financial Statements

     See the Index to Consolidated  Financial Statements and Financial Statement
Schedule in Part II, Item 8.

Exhibits Filed

Exhibit No.                          Description
- -----------                          -----------

10.1a ---     Summary of the Pinnancle West Capital Corporation 1998 Bonus Plan

21    ---     Subsidiaries of the Company

23.1  ---     Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP

27.1  ---     Financial Data Schedule

     In addition to those Exhibits shown above, the Company hereby  incorporates
the  following  Exhibits  pursuant  to Exchange  Act Rule 12b-32 and  Regulation
ss.229.10(d) by reference to the filings set forth below:
















































- ---------------

     (a)Management  contract or compensatory  plan or arrangement to be filed as
an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.

     (b)Reports  filed under File No. 1-4473 and 1-8962 were filed in the office
of the Securities and Exchange Commission located in Washington, D.C.

     (c)An additional document, substantially identical in all material respects
to this  Exhibit,  has been  entered  into,  relating  to an  additional  Equity
Participant.  Although  such  additional  document may differ in other  respects
(such as  dollar  amounts,  percentages,  tax  indemnity  matters,  and dates of
execution),  there are no material  details in which such document  differs from
this Exhibit.

     (d)Additional agreements,  substantially identical in all material respects
to this Exhibit have been entered into with  additional  persons.  Although such
additional  documents may differ in other  respects  (such as dollar amounts and
dates of  execution),  there are no  material  details in which such  agreements
differ from this Exhibit.


Reports on Form 8-K

     During the quarter ended  December 31, 1997, and the period ended March 23,
1998, the Company did not file any Reports on Form 8-K.

                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                           PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
                                                     (Registrant)


Date:  March 31, 1998                    /s/ Richard Snell
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        (Richard Snell, Chairman of the Board of
                                        Directors and Chief Executive Officer)


     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.





