
10-K
FORM 10-K


================================================================================

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                  ----------
                                1995 FORM 10-K

   (Mark One)
      [x]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
           OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
           For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995
                                      OR
      [ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
           OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
           For the transition period from            to
                                          ----------    ------------
                        Commission File Number 1-8962
                                  ----------
                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                  ARIZONA                                86-0512431
        (State or other jurisdiction        (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
     of incorporation or organization)
    400 East Van Buren Street, Suite 700
           Phoenix, Arizona 85004                         (602) 379-2500
  (Address of principal executive offices,       (Registrant's telephone number,
            including zip code)                        including area code)


                                  ----------
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
================================================================================
                                            Name of each exchange on
      Title of each  class                  which registered
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Common Stock, ............................New York Stock Exchange
  No Par Value                            Pacific Stock Exchange


   Indicate  by check mark  whether  the  registrant  (1) has filed all  reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant  was required to file such  reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
      Yes  X       No
          ---         ---
   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of  delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]
================================================================================

                     Documents Incorporated By Reference

Portions of the registrant's definitive Proxy Statement relating to its
annual meeting of  shareholders  to be held on May 22, 1996 are  incorporated by
reference into Part III hereof.
================================================================================

                              


                                i

                                   GLOSSARY

ACC -- Arizona Corporation Commission

ACC Staff -- Staff of the Arizona Corporation Commission

AFUDC -- Allowance for Funds Used During Construction

Amendments -- Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990

ANPP -- Arizona Nuclear Power Project, also known as Palo Verde

APS -- Arizona Public Service Company

Cholla -- Cholla Power Plant

Cholla 4 -- Unit 4 of the Cholla Power Plant

Company -- Pinnacle West Capital Corporation

DOE -- United States Department of Energy

El Dorado -- El Dorado Investment Company

EPA -- United States Environmental Protection Agency

Energy Act -- National Energy Policy Act of 1992

FERC -- Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

Four Corners -- Four Corners Power Plant

ITC -- Investment Tax Credit

kW -- Kilowatt, one thousand watts

kWh -- Kilowatt-hour, one thousand watts per hour

Mortgage  -- APS'  Mortgage  and Deed of  Trust,  dated as of July 1,  1946,  as
supplemented and amended

MWh -- Megawatt hours, one million watts per hour

1935 ACT -- Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935

NGS -- Navajo Generating Station

NRC -- Nuclear Regulatory Commission

PacifiCorp -- An Oregon-based utility company

Palo Verde -- Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station

SEC -- Securities and Exchange Commission

SRP -- Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement and Power District

SunCor -- SunCor Development Company

USEC -- United States Enrichment Corporation


                                    PART I
                               ITEM 1. BUSINESS

THE COMPANY

   GENERAL

   Pinnacle West Capital  Corporation was incorporated in 1985 under the laws of
the State of Arizona and is engaged, through its subsidiaries, in the generation
and  distribution of  electricity;  in real estate  development;  and in venture
capital  investment.  The principal executive offices of the Company are located
at 400 East Van Buren Street, Phoenix, Arizona 85004 (telephone 602-379-2500).

   The Company and its subsidiaries employ approximately 7,335 persons. Of these
employees,  approximately 6,484 are employees of the Company's major subsidiary,
APS,  and  employees  assigned  to joint  projects  of APS where APS serves as a
project  manager,  and  approximately  851 are  employees of the Company and its
other subsidiaries.

   Other subsidiaries of the Company,  in addition to APS, include SunCor and El
Dorado. See "Business of SunCor Development  Company" and "Business of El Dorado
Investment Company" in this Item for further information regarding SunCor and El
Dorado.

   REGULATION

   1935 ACT. The Company  currently  owns no  significant  assets other than the
common stock of its subsidiaries. The Company and its subsidiaries are currently
exempt from registration under the 1935 Act; however,  the SEC has the authority
to revoke or condition an exemption if it appears that any question exists as to
whether the exemption may be detrimental to the public  interest or the interest
of investors  or  consumers.  On June 20,  1995,  the SEC issued a Report on the
Regulation  of Public  Utility  Holding  Companies  in which,  as its  preferred
option, the SEC recommended to the Congress  conditional repeal of the 1935 Act,
with an adequate transition period. The SEC further recommended that legislation
repealing  the 1935 Act should  include  provision for state access to books and
records of all companies in the holding  company  system,  and for federal audit
authority and oversight of affiliate  transactions.  The Company  cannot predict
what  action,  if  any,  the  Congress  may  take  with  respect  to  the  SEC's
recommendation.

   ARIZONA CORPORATION  COMMISSION  AFFILIATED INTEREST RULES. On March 14, 1990
the ACC issued an order adopting certain rules purportedly  applicable only to a
certain class of public utilities regulated by the ACC, including APS. The rules
define the terms "public utility holding  company" and "affiliate"  with respect
to  public  service  corporations  regulated  by the ACC in such a manner  as to
include the  Company and all of the  Company's  non-public  service  corporation
subsidiaries.  By their terms,  the rules,  among other things,  require  public
utilities,  such as APS,  to receive  ACC  approval  prior to (1)  obtaining  an
interest in, or  guaranteeing  or assuming the liabilities of, any affiliate not
regulated by the ACC; (2) lending to any such  affiliate  (except for short-term
loans in an amount less than  $100,000);  or (3) using  utility  funds to form a
subsidiary or divest itself of any established subsidiary.  The rules also would
prevent a  utility  from  transacting  business  with an  affiliate  unless  the
affiliate  agrees to provide  the ACC  "access  to the books and  records of the
affiliate  to  the  degree  required  to  fully  audit,   examine  or  otherwise
investigate  transactions  between  the public  utility and the  affiliate."  In
addition, the rules provide that an "affiliate or holding company may not divest
itself of, or otherwise  relinquish  control of, a public utility without thirty
(30) days prior written  notification to the [ACC]" and would require all public
utilities  subject to them and all public utility holding  companies to annually
"provide the [ACC] with a description of  diversification  plans for the current
calendar  year that have been  approved by the Boards of  Directors."  The order
became effective as to APS on December 1, 1992. The rules have not had, nor does
the Company expect the rules to have, a material  adverse impact on the business
or operations of the Company.


                  BUSINESS OF ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY

   Following  is a  discussion  of the  business  of APS,  the  Company's  major
subsidiary.

GENERAL

   APS was  incorporated  in 1920  under  the  laws of  Arizona  and is  engaged
principally  in  serving  electricity  in the State of  Arizona.  The  principal
executive offices of APS are located at 400 North Fifth Street, Phoenix, Arizona
85004 (telephone 602-250-1000). At December 31, 1995, APS employed 6,484 people,
which  includes  employees  assigned  to joint  projects  where  APS is  project
manager.

   APS serves  approximately  705,000  customers in an area that includes all or
part of 11 of Arizona's 15 counties. During 1995, no single purchaser or user of
energy accounted for more than 3% of total electric revenues.

INDUSTRY AND COMPANY ISSUES

   The  utility  industry  continues  to  experience  a  number  of  challenges.
Depending on the  circumstances of a particular  utility,  these may include (i)
competition in general from numerous  sources (see  "Competition"  below);  (ii)
difficulties in meeting government imposed environmental requirements; (iii) the
necessity to make substantial  capital outlays for transmission and distribution
facilities;  (iv) uncertainty  regarding projected electrical demand growth; (v)
controversies over  electromagnetic  fields;  (vi) controversies over the safety
and use of nuclear power; (vii) issues related to spent fuel and low-level waste
(see  "Generating  Fuel"  below);  and  (viii)  increasing  costs of  wages  and
materials.

COMPETITION

   Although APS currently  serves  electricity  in particular  areas pursuant to
certain retail service  territorial rights, APS is subject to varying degrees of
competition  in certain  territories  adjacent to or within areas that it serves
which are also currently served by other utilities in its region (such as Tucson
Electric Power Company, Southwest Gas Corporation, and Citizens Utility Company)
as well as cooperatives,  municipalities, electrical districts and similar types
of governmental  organizations  (principally SRP). In addition, APS is competing
for large commercial and industrial projects which move into Arizona,  and faces
challenges from low-cost hydroelectric power and natural gas fuel and the access
of some utilities to preferential low-priced federal power and other subsidies.

   Partly as a result of the Energy Act, the electric utility industry is moving
toward a more competitive  environment.  The Energy Act is designed, among other
things,  to promote  competition among utility and non-utility  generators.  The
Energy Act also amends the Federal Power Act to allow the FERC to order electric
utilities to transmit,  or "wheel," wholesale power for others.  Presently,  the
Company's  primary  competitors  are  the  major  utilities  in  its  region  as
competition for wholesale  transactions in electricity is already intense in the
West. As competition in the electric utility industry  continues to evolve,  APS
will continue to pursue strategies to enhance its competitive position.

   The FERC has been encouraging  increased competition in the wholesale market,
and a proposed FERC rule would require each utility that markets wholesale power
to provide  access over its  transmission  system to other  energy  providers at
prices and terms  comparable to those which the utility  applies to itself.  The
FERC has also  encouraged  the  formation  of  regional  transmission  groups to
enhance coordinated  transmission  planning and comparable access, as APS, other
utilities  in the  Southwest  and  several  power  marketers  are doing with the
Southwestern  Regional  Transmission  Association.  All of the  members  of this
association will file  comparability  and market base tariffs with the FERC this
summer.

   In 1995,  APS and the ACC Staff  proposed a regulatory  settlement  agreement
which  APS  believes  lays the  groundwork  for a  responsible  transition  to a
competitive  future.  See  "1995  Regulatory  Agreement"  in Note 3 of  Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.


CAPITAL STRUCTURE

   The capital structure of APS (which,  for this purpose,  includes  short-term
borrowings and current  maturities of long-term debt) as of December 31, 1995 is
tabulated below.

                                                       Amount     Percentage
                                                   ------------ ------------
                                                  (Thousands
                                                  of Dollars)
Long-Term Debt Less Current Maturities:
 First mortgage bonds .............................$1,604,317
 Other ............................................   527,704
                                                   ------------
  Total long-term debt less current maturities  ... 2,132,021         50.7%
                                                   ------------
Non-Redeemable Preferred Stock ....................   193,561          4.6 
                                                   ------------
Redeemable Preferred Stock ........................    75,000          1.8
                                                   ------------
Common Stock Equity:
 Common stock, $2.50 par value, 100,000,000 shares
  authorized; 71,264,947 shares outstanding  ......   178,162
 Premiums and expenses ............................ 1,039,550
 Retained earnings ................................   403,843
                                                   ------------
  Total common stock equity ....................... 1,621,555         38.6
                                                    -----------
   Total capitalization ........................... 4,022,137
Current Maturities of Long-Term Debt ..............     3,512           .1
Short-Term Borrowings .............................   177,800          4.2
                                                   ------------ ------------
   Total ..........................................$4,203,449        100.0%
                                                   ============ ============


See Notes 6, 7, and 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.


   So long as any of APS' first mortgage bonds are outstanding,  APS is required
for each calendar year to deposit with the trustee under its Mortgage, cash in a
formularized  amount related to net additions to APS'  mortgaged  utility plant;
however,  APS may satisfy all or any part of this "replacement fund" requirement
by utilizing  redeemed or retired  bonds,  net property  additions,  or property
retirements.   For  1995,  the   replacement   fund   requirement   amounted  to
approximately  $128  million.  Many,  though not all, of the bonds issued by APS
under the Mortgage are redeemable at their par value plus accrued  interest with
cash deposited by APS in the replacement fund, subject in many cases to a period
of time after the original issuance of the bonds during which they may not be so
redeemed and/or to other restrictions on any such redemption.

RATES

   STATE.  The ACC has  regulatory  authority  over APS in matters  relating  to
retail  electric  rates and the issuance of  securities.  See Note 3 of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in  Item 8 for a  discussion  of  the  1995
regulatory agreement between APS and the ACC Staff.

   FEDERAL.  APS' rates for wholesale power sales and transmission  services are
subject  to  regulation  by the  FERC.  During  1995,  approximately  6% of APS'
electric  operating  revenues  resulted  from such sales and  charges.  For most
wholesale  transactions  regulated by the FERC, a fuel adjustment clause results
in monthly adjustments for changes in the actual cost of fuel for generation and
in the fuel component of purchased power expense.


CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM

   During the years 1993 through 1995, APS incurred  approximately  $807 million
in capitalized expenditures. Utility capitalized expenditures for the years 1996
through  1998 are  expected  to be  primarily  for  expanding  transmission  and
distribution capabilities to meet customer growth, upgrading existing facilities
and for environmental purposes. Capitalized expenditures, including expenditures
for environmental control facilities,  for the years 1996 through 1998 have been
estimated as follows:

                            (Millions of Dollars)

 By Year                                               By Major Facilities   
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1996                     $246              Electric generation         $244 
1997                      242              Electric transmission         29 
1998                      244              Electric distribution        352 
                         -----             General facilities           107 
                         $732                                          ----
                         ====                                          $732  
                                                                       ====  

   The amounts for 1996  through  1998 exclude  capitalized  interest  costs and
include  capitalized  property taxes and about $30 million each year for nuclear
fuel expenditures. APS conducts a continuing review of its construction program.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

   EPA  ENVIRONMENTAL  REGULATION.  Pursuant  to the Clean Air Act,  the EPA has
adopted   regulations   that   address   visibility    impairment   in   certain
federally-protected  areas  which  can  be  reasonably  attributed  to  specific
sources.  In September 1991, the EPA issued a final rule that would limit sulfur
dioxide  emissions  at NGS.  Compliance  with the  emission  limitation  becomes
applicable to NGS Units 3, 2, and 1 in 1997, 1998, and 1999, respectively.  SRP,
the NGS operating agent,  has estimated a capital cost of $500 million,  most of
which will be incurred through 1998, and annual operations and maintenance costs
of  approximately  $14  million  for all  three  units,  for  NGS to meet  these
requirements. APS will be required to fund 14% of these expenditures.

   The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (the "Amendments")  address, among other
things,   "acid  rain,"  visibility  in  certain  specified  areas,   toxic  air
pollutants,  and the  nonattainment of national  ambient air quality  standards.
With respect to "acid rain," the Amendments establish a system of sulfur dioxide
emissions  "allowances."  Each existing utility unit is granted a certain number
of "allowances." On March 5, 1993, the EPA promulgated  rules listing  allowance
allocations  applicable to APS-owned plants, which allocations will begin in the
year 2000. Based on those  allocations,  APS will have sufficient  allowances to
permit  continued  operation of its plants at current levels without  installing
additional  equipment.  In  addition,  the  Amendments  require  the  EPA to set
nitrogen  oxides  emissions  limitations  which would require  certain plants to
install additional  pollution control  equipment.  In March 1995, the EPA issued
revised rules for nitrogen oxides emissions  limitations,  which may require APS
to install additional  pollution control equipment at Four Corners.  In the year
2000,  Four  Corners  must  comply  with  either  these  or  recently   proposed
requirements  which the EPA published in January 1996. The EPA has until 1997 to
finalize  these  proposed  requirements.  Based on its initial  evaluation,  APS
currently  estimates its capital cost of complying with the March 1995 rules may
be  approximately  $20 million,  the  incurrence of which began in 1995 and will
continue through 1999, with the highest expenditures expected during 1998.

   With respect to  protection of visibility  in certain  specified  areas,  the
Amendments  require the EPA to conduct a study which the EPA  estimates  will be
completed  in late 1996  concerning  visibility  impairment  in those  areas and
identification of sources  contributing to such impairment.  Interim findings of
this study have indicated  that any beneficial  effect on visibility as a result
of the Amendments  would be offset by expected  population and industry  growth.
The EPA has  established a "Grand Canyon  Visibility  Transport  Commission"  to
complete a study by May 1996 on visibility  impairment in the "Golden  Circle of
National Parks" in the Colorado Plateau. NGS, Cholla, and


Four Corners are located near the "Golden  Circle of National  Parks."  Based on
the recommendations of the Commission,  the EPA may require additional emissions
controls at various sources causing visibility  impairment in the "Golden Circle
of National Parks" and may limit economic development in several western states.
APS cannot  currently  estimate the capital  expenditures,  if any, which may be
required as a result of the EPA studies and the Commission's recommendations.

   With respect to hazardous air  pollutants  emitted by electric  utility steam
generating units, the Amendments  require two studies.  The results of the first
study  indicated  an impact from  mercury  emissions  from such units in certain
unspecified areas;  however, the EPA has not yet stated whether or not emissions
limitations will be imposed. Next, the EPA will complete a general study in late
1996 concerning the necessity of regulating such units under the Amendments. Due
to the lack of  historical  data,  and  because APS cannot  speculate  as to the
ultimate  requirements  by the EPA,  APS cannot  currently  estimate the capital
expenditures, if any, which may be required as a result of these studies.

   Certain  aspects of the Amendments may require  related  expenditures by APS,
such as permit fees,  none of which APS expects to have a material impact on its
financial position.

   PURPORTED NAVAJO ENVIRONMENTAL  REGULATION.  Four Corners and NGS are located
on the Navajo  Reservation and are held under  easements  granted by the federal
government  as well as leases from the Navajo  Nation.  APS is the Four  Corners
operating agent and owns a 100% interest in Four Corners Units 1, 2 and 3, and a
15% interest in Four Corners Units 4 and 5. APS owns a 14% interest in NGS Units
1, 2 and 3. In July  1995 the  Navajo  Nation  enacted  the  Navajo  Nation  Air
Pollution Prevention and Control Act, the Navajo Nation Safe Drinking Water Act,
and the Navajo Nation Pesticide Act (collectively, the "Acts").

   Pursuant to the Acts, the Navajo Nation  Environmental  Protection  Agency is
authorized to promulgate  regulations  covering air quality,  drinking water and
pesticide  activities,  including  those that occur at Four  Corners and NGS. By
separate  letters  dated  October 12 and  October  13,  1995,  the Four  Corners
participants and the NGS  participants  requested the United States Secretary of
the Interior to resolve their dispute with the Navajo Nation  regarding  whether
or not the Acts apply to  operations  of Four  Corners  and NGS.  On October 17,
1995,  the Four  Corners  participants  and the NGS  participants  each  filed a
lawsuit  in the  District  Court of the Navajo  Nation,  Window  Rock  District,
seeking,  among other things,  a declaratory  judgment that (i) their respective
leases  and  federal  easements  preclude  the  application  of the  Acts to the
operations  of Four Corners and NGS, and (ii) the Navajo Nation and its agencies
and courts lack adjudicatory jurisdiction to determine the enforceability of the
Acts as applied to Four Corners and NGS. On October 18, 1995,  the Navajo Nation
and the Four  Corners  and NGS  participants  agreed  to  indefinitely  stay the
proceedings  referenced  in the  preceding two sentences so that the parties may
attempt to resolve the dispute  without  litigation,  and the  Secretary and the
Court have stayed these  proceedings  pursuant to a request by the parties.  APS
cannot currently predict the outcome of this matter.

GENERATING FUEL

   Coal,  nuclear,  gas,  and other  contributions  to total net  generation  of
electricity by APS in 1995, 1994, and 1993, and the average cost to APS of those
fuels (in dollars per MWh), were as follows:



   Other includes oil and hydro generation.


   APS believes that Cholla has sufficient reserves of low sulfur coal committed
to that plant for the next four years,  the term of the existing coal  contract.
Sufficient  reserves of low sulfur  coal are  available  to  continue  operating
Cholla for its useful  life.  APS also  believes  that Four Corners and NGS have
sufficient  reserves of low sulfur  coal  available  for use by those  plants to
continue  operating  them for their useful lives.  The current sulfur content of
coal being used at Four Corners,  NGS, and Cholla is  approximately  0.8%, 0.6%,
and 0.4%,  respectively.  In 1995,  average  prices paid for coal  supplied from
reserves dedicated under the existing contracts were relatively stable, although
applicable  contract clauses permit  escalations  under certain  conditions.  In
addition,  major  price  adjustments  can occur from time to time as a result of
contract renegotiation.

   NGS and Four  Corners  are located on the Navajo  Reservation  and held under
easements  granted by the federal  government  as well as leases from the Navajo
Nation.  See  "Properties"  in Item 2. APS purchases all of the coal which fuels
Four Corners from a coal supplier with a long-term  lease of coal reserves owned
by the Navajo  Nation and for NGS from a coal  supplier  with a long-term  lease
with the Navajo  Nation and the Hopi Tribe.  APS purchases all of the coal which
fuels  Cholla from a coal  supplier  who mines all of the coal under a long-term
lease of coal reserves owned by the Navajo Nation, the federal  government,  and
private landholders.  See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements
in Item 8 for information  regarding APS' obligation for coal mine  reclamation.

   APS is a party to  contracts  with  twenty-seven  natural gas  operators  and
marketers which allow APS to purchase natural gas in the method it determines to
be most  economic.  During  1995,  the  principal  sources of APS'  natural  gas
generating  fuel were 19 of these  companies.  APS is currently  purchasing  the
majority of its  natural gas  requirements  from  twelve  companies  pursuant to
contracts.   APS'  natural  gas  supply  is  transported   pursuant  to  a  firm
transportation service contract between APS and El Paso Natural Gas Company. APS
continues  to analyze the market to  determine  the source and method of meeting
its natural gas requirements.

   The fuel cycle for Palo Verde is comprised of the following  stages:  (1) the
mining and  milling of uranium  ore to  produce  uranium  concentrates,  (2) the
conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium  hexafluoride,  (3) the enrichment
of  uranium  hexafluoride,  (4)  the  fabrication  of fuel  assemblies,  (5) the
utilization  of fuel  assemblies in reactors,  and (6) the storage of spent fuel
and the disposal  thereof.  The Palo Verde  participants  have made arrangements
through  contract  flexibilities  to obtain  quantities of uranium  concentrates
anticipated  to be sufficient  to meet  operational  requirements  through 2000.
Existing  contracts and options could be utilized to meet  approximately  80% of
requirements  in 2001 and 2002 and 50% of  requirements  from 2003 through 2007.

Spot  purchases in the uranium market will be made, as  appropriate,  in lieu of
any uranium that might be obtained through contract  flexibilities  and options.
The Palo Verde participants have contracted for all conversion services required
through  2000  and with  options  for up to 70%  through  2002.  The Palo  Verde
participants,  including  APS,  have an enrichment  services  contract with USEC
which obligates USEC to furnish  enrichment  services required for the operation
of the three Palo Verde  units over a term  expiring  in  September  2002,  with
options to continue through September 2007. In addition, existing contracts will
provide fuel  assembly  fabrication  services  until at least 2003 for each Palo
Verde unit, and through contract options, approximately fifteen additional years
are available.

   Pursuant to the  Nuclear  Waste  Policy Act of 1982,  as amended in 1987 (the
"Waste  Act"),  DOE is obligated to accept and dispose of all spent nuclear fuel
and  other  high-level  radioactive  wastes  generated  by  all  domestic  power
reactors. The NRC, pursuant to the Waste Act, also requires operators of nuclear
power reactors to enter into spent fuel disposal  contracts with DOE and APS, on
its own behalf and on behalf of the other Palo Verde participants,  has done so.
Under the Waste Act, DOE was to develop the facilities necessary for the storage
and  disposal  of spent  nuclear  fuel and to have the first  such  facility  in
operation by 1998. That facility was to be a permanent  repository,  but DOE has
announced  that such a repository now cannot be completed  before 2010.  Several
bills have been  introduced  in Congress  contemplating  the  construction  of a
central interim storage  facility which could be available in the latter part of
the current decade;  however,  there is resistance to certain  features of these
bills both in Congress and in the Administration.

   Facility funding is a further  complication.  While all nuclear utilities pay
into a so-called  nuclear  waste fund an amount  calculated  on the basis of the
output of their respective plants, the annual  Congressional  appropriations for
the permanent  repository  have been for amounts less than the amounts paid into
the waste  fund (the  balance of which is being  used for other  purposes)  and,
according  to DOE  spokespersons,  may now be at a level  less  than  needed  to
achieve a 2010 operational date for a permanent  repository.  No funding will be
available for a central interim facility until one is authorized by Congress.

   APS has storage  capacity in existing fuel storage pools at Palo Verde which,
with certain modifications, could accommodate all fuel expected to be discharged
from normal  operation of Palo Verde through  about 2005,  and believes it could
augment  that wet storage with new  facilities  for on-site dry storage of spent
fuel for an indeterminate  period of operation beyond 2005, subject to obtaining
any required governmental approvals.


   One way or  another,  APS  currently  believes  that  spent  fuel  storage or
disposal  methods will be available for use by Palo Verde to allow its continued
operation beyond 2005.

   Currently, low-level  waste is being stored  on-site.  A new low-level  waste
facility  was  built  in 1995  on-site  which  could  store an  amount  of waste
equivalent  to up to ten  years  of  normal  operation  at  Palo  Verde.  APS is
currently  evaluating whether to ship low-level waste to off-site  facilities or
to continue to store the waste  on-site.  APS  currently  believes  that interim
low-level  waste storage  methods are or will be available for use by Palo Verde
to allow its  continued  operation and to safely store  low-level  waste until a
permanent disposal facility is available.

   While believing that scientific and financial  aspects of the issues of spent
fuel and low-level  waste  storage and disposal can be resolved  satisfactorily,
APS acknowledges that their ultimate resolution in a timely fashion will require
political  resolve and action on national and  regional  scales which it is less
able to predict.

PALO VERDE NUCLEAR GENERATING STATION

   REGULATORY.  Operation  of each of the three Palo  Verde  units  requires  an
operating  license from the NRC. Full power  operating  licenses for Units 1, 2,
and 3 were  issued by the NRC in June  1985,  April  1986,  and  November  1987,
respectively.  The full  power  operating  licenses,  each valid for a period of
approximately  40 years,  authorize APS, as operating  agent for Palo Verde,  to
operate  the  three  Palo  Verde  units at full  power.  See Note 13 of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in Item 8 for a discussion  of APS' nuclear
decommissioning costs.

   STEAM GENERATORS. See "Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station" in Note 12
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of
issues relating to the Palo Verde steam generators.

   PALO  VERDE  LIABILITY  AND  INSURANCE  MATTERS.   See  "Palo  Verde  Nuclear
Generating Station" in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements in
Item  8 for  a  discussion  of  the  insurance  maintained  by  the  Palo  Verde
participants, including APS, for Palo Verde.

   DEPARTMENT  OF LABOR  MATTER.  On May 10, 1993, a Department of Labor ("DOL")
Administrative  Law Judge issued a  Recommended  Decision and Order finding that
APS  discriminated  against a former contract  employee who worked at Palo Verde
because  he  engaged  in  protected   activities   (as  defined   under  federal
regulations).  APS and the former contract employee who had raised the DOL claim
entered into a settlement agreement which was approved by the Secretary of Labor
in June 1995. By letter dated March 7, 1996,  the NRC sent a Notice of Violation
and Proposed  Imposition of Civil Penalty notifying APS that the NRC proposes to
impose a $100,000  civil  penalty for a "Severity  Level III"  violation  of NRC
requirements relating to the circumstances surrounding this matter. The NRC also
concluded  in its March 7, 1996  letter that APS'  actions  taken and planned to
correct the  violation  have already been  addressed  and  therefore  APS is not
required to respond to the Notice of Violation.  APS plans to pay the associated
penalty within thirty days.


WATER SUPPLY

   Assured  supplies  of water  are  important  both to APS (for its  generating
plants) and to its customers and, at the present time, APS has adequate water to
meet its needs.  However,  conflicting claims to limited amounts of water in the
southwestern  United  States have  resulted in numerous  court actions in recent
years.

   Both groundwater and surface water in areas important to APS' operations have
been the subject of inquiries,  claims, and legal proceedings which will require
a number of years to resolve.  APS is one of a number of parties in a proceeding
before a state court in New Mexico to adjudicate  rights to a stream system from
which water for Four Corners is derived.  (State of New Mexico,  in the relation
of  S.E.  Reynolds,  State  Engineer  vs.  United  States  of  America,  City of
Farmington,  Utah  International,  Inc.,  et al., San Juan  County,  New Mexico,
District Court No. 75-184). An agreement reached with the Navajo Nation in 1985,
however,  provides  that if Four  Corners  loses a portion  of its rights in the
adjudication,  the Navajo  Nation will  provide,  for a  then-agreed  upon cost,
sufficient water from its allocation to offset the loss.

   A summons  served on APS in early 1986  required  all water  claimants in the
Lower Gila River Watershed in Arizona to assert any claims to water on or before
January 20, 1987, in an action pending in Maricopa County Superior Court. (In re
The General Adjudication of All Rights to Use Water in the Gila River System and
Source,  Supreme Court Nos. WC-79-0001 through WC 79-0004  (Consolidated) [WC-1,
WC-2, WC-3 and WC-4 (Consolidated)],  Maricopa County Nos. W-1, W-2, W-3 and W-4
(Consolidated)). Palo Verde is located within the geographic area subject to the
summons,  and the rights of the Palo Verde  participants,  including APS, to the
use of  groundwater  and effluent at Palo Verde is  potentially at issue in this
action.  APS, as project  manager of Palo Verde,  filed  claims that dispute the
court's  jurisdiction over the Palo Verde  participants'  groundwater rights and
their contractual rights to effluent relating to Palo Verde and,  alternatively,
seek confirmation of such rights.  Three of APS' less-utilized  power plants are
also located  within the  geographic  area  subject to the summons.  APS' claims
dispute the court's  jurisdiction  over APS' groundwater  rights with respect to
these plants and,  alternatively,  seek confirmation of such rights. On December
10, 1992,  the Arizona  Supreme Court heard oral  argument on certain  issues in
this matter which are pending on interlocutory  appeal. Issues important to APS'
claims were  remanded to the trial court for further  action and the trial court
certified its decision for interlocutory appeal to the Arizona Supreme Court. On
September 28, 1994, the Arizona  Supreme Court granted review of the trial court
decision.  No trial date  concerning the water rights claims of APS has been set
in this matter.

   APS has also filed claims to water in the Little  Colorado River Watershed in
Arizona in an action  pending in the Apache County  Superior  Court.  (In re The
General  Adjudication  of All Rights to Use Water in the Little  Colorado  River
System and Source,  Supreme Court No.  WC-79-0006 WC-6, Apache County No. 6417).
APS'  groundwater  resource  utilized  at Cholla is within the  geographic  area
subject to the adjudication  and is therefore  potentially at issue in the case.
APS' claims dispute the court's  jurisdiction over APS' groundwater  rights and,
alternatively,  seek confirmation of such rights. The parties are in the process
of settlement negotiations with respect to this matter. No trial date concerning
the water rights claims of APS has been set in this matter.

   Although the foregoing  matters  remain  subject to further  evaluation,  APS
expects that the described  litigation will not have a materially adverse impact
on its operations or financial position.

                    BUSINESS OF SUNCOR DEVELOPMENT COMPANY

   SunCor was incorporated in 1965 under the laws of the State of Arizona and is
engaged  primarily in the owning,  holding,  and  development  of real property,
including homebuilding. The principal executive offices of SunCor are located at
3838  North  Central,  Suite  1500,  Phoenix,   Arizona  85012  (telephone  602-
285-6800).  SunCor  and  its  subsidiaries,   excluding  SunCor  Resort  &  Golf
Management, Inc. ("Resort Management"),  employ approximately 97 persons. Resort
Management,  which  manages the Wigwam  Resort and Country Club (the  "Wigwam"),
employs between 205 and 720 persons, depending on the Wigwam's operating season.
Resort Management also operates other golf operations.


   SunCor's  assets consist  primarily of land and  improvements  and other real
estate investments. SunCor's holdings include approximately 11,000 acres west of
Phoenix  in the  area of  Goodyear/Litchfield  Park,  Arizona  ("Palm  Valley"),
including a private water and sewer company to provide those utility services to
the property.  A substantial  portion of the  undeveloped  property is currently
being used for agricultural  purposes.  SunCor has completed the master-plan for
developing  Palm Valley,  and the  commercial  and  residential  development  of
approximately  640  acres is well  underway.  The  initial  phase  included  the
development of an 18-hole  championship  golf course that was completed in 1993.
In  addition,  within the Palm Valley  project,  SunCor has  entered  into joint
ventures to develop 2,200 acres as a retirement community, known as PebbleCreek,
and 350 acres as a planned area development, known as Litchfield Greens.

    SunCor's holdings also include a 1,400 acre  master-planned  community north
of Phoenix called Tatum Ranch, a 1,400 acre  master-planned  community northeast
of Phoenix called Scottsdale  Mountain,  a 140 acre  master-planned  project for
business use northwest of Phoenix  called  Talavi and a 420 acre  master-planned
project for business use east of Phoenix called MarketPlace. Two recent projects
- - -- SunRidge  Canyon,  a 950 acre golf and residential  master-planned  community
northeast of Phoenix,  and Sedona Golf Resort,  a 300 acre golf and  residential
master-planned  community  near  Sedona,  Arizona  -- are also  being  developed
jointly with other venture partners.

   For the years ended  December 31, 1995,  1994, and 1993,  SunCor's  operating
revenues were  approximately  $54.8 million,  $59.3 million,  and $32.2 million,
respectively,  and its income  (losses) were  approximately  $4.1 million,  $0.5
million,  and ($4.0  million),  respectively.  SunCor's  capital  needs  consist
primarily of capital expenditures and home construction,  which, on the basis of
projects now under  development,  are expected to approximate  $85 million,  $68
million, and $60 million for 1996, 1997, and 1998, respectively.

   At December 31, 1995, SunCor had total assets of approximately  $436 million,
approximately $221 million of which has been pledged to secure certain long-term
debt of SunCor. See Note 6 of Notes to the Consolidated  Financial Statements in
Item 8 for information  regarding  SunCor's  long-term  debt.  SunCor intends to
continue its focus on real estate  development in residential,  commercial,  and
industrial projects.

                   BUSINESS OF EL DORADO INVESTMENT COMPANY

   El Dorado was incorporated in 1983 under the laws of the State of Arizona and
is engaged  principally  in the business of making equity  investments  in other
companies.  El Dorado's offices are located at 400 East Van Buren Street,  Suite
750, Phoenix, Arizona 85004 (telephone 602-252-3441).

   El  Dorado  had  investments  in  venture  capital   partnerships   totalling
approximately $7.3 million at December 31, 1995. El Dorado has remaining funding
commitments in the aggregate amount of approximately  $3.1 million through 1996.
In addition to the  foregoing  investments,  at December 31, 1995, El Dorado had
direct  investments of  approximately  $17.9 million in other private and public
companies and partnerships.

   For the years ended  December 31,  1995,  1994,  and 1993 El Dorado's  income
(losses) were  approximately $8.5 million,  ($4.0 million),  and ($3.9 million),
respectively.  At December 31, 1995, El Dorado had total assets of approximately
$38.4 million.


                              ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

   APS' present generating  facilities have an accredited  capacity  aggregating
4,025,241 kW, comprised as follows:


                                  ----------

   APS' peak  one-hour  demand on its  electric  system was recorded on July 28,
1995 at 4,420,400 kW, compared to the 1994 peak of 4,214,000 kW recorded on June
29. Taking into account additional  capacity then available to it under purchase
power  contracts as well as its own  generating  capacity,  APS'  capability  of
meeting  system demand on July 28, 1995,  computed in  accordance  with accepted
industry practices, amounted to 4,608,941 kW, for an installed reserve margin of
6.4%. The power  actually  available to APS from its resources  fluctuates  from
time to time  due in  part  to  planned  outages  and  technical  problems.  The
available  capacity from sources actually  operable at the time of the 1995 peak
amounted to 4,469,841 kW, for a margin of 1.3%.

   NGS and Four  Corners  are  located  on land held  under  easements  from the
federal  government and also under leases from the Navajo Nation.  The risk with
respect to enforcement of these  easements and leases is not deemed by APS to be
material.  APS is dependent,  however,  in some measure upon the willingness and
ability  of the  Navajo  Nation  to honor  its  commitments.  The lease for Four
Corners  contains a waiver  until 2001 of the  requirement  that APS pay certain
taxes to the Navajo Nation. APS and the Navajo Nation are currently  negotiating
an agreement  regarding taxes to be assessed against APS after the expiration of
the waiver. APS cannot currently predict the outcome of this matter.  Certain of
APS'  transmission  lines and almost all of its contracted coal sources are also
located on Indian reservations. See "Generating Fuel" in Item 1.

   On August 18, 1986 and December  19, 1986,  APS entered into a total of three
sale  and   leaseback   transactions   under  which  it  sold  and  leased  back
approximately  42% of its 29.1%  ownership  interest  in Palo  Verde Unit 2. The
leases under each of the sale and  leaseback  transactions  have  initial  lease
terms  expiring  on  December  31,  2015.  Each of the leases also allows APS to
extend the term of the lease  and/or to  repurchase  the leased  Unit 2 interest
under certain  circumstances  at fair market value.  The leases in the aggregate
require annual payments of approximately $40 million through 1999, approximately
$46 million in 2000, and  approximately $49 million through 2015 (see Note 10 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8).

   See "Water Supply" in Item 1 with respect to matters having  possible  impact
on the operation of certain of APS' power plants, including Palo Verde.


   In addition to that available from its own generating capacity, APS purchases
electricity  from other  utilities under various  arrangements.  One of the most
important of these is a long-term contract with SRP which may be canceled by SRP
on three years' notice and which requires SRP to make available,  and APS to pay
for,  certain  amounts of  electricity  that are based in large part on customer
demand within certain areas now served by APS pursuant to a related  territorial
agreement.  APS  believes  that the prices  payable by it under the contract are
fair to both parties.  The generating  capacity available to APS pursuant to the
contract was 313,000 kW through May 1995,  at which time the capacity  decreased
to 305,000 kW. In 1995, APS received  approximately  657,765 MWh of energy under
the contract and paid  approximately  $30 million for capacity  availability and
energy received.

   In  September  1990,  APS and  PacifiCorp  entered  into  certain  agreements
relating  principally  to sales and  purchases  of electric  power and  electric
utility assets, and in July 1991, after regulatory approvals,  APS sold Cholla 4
to  PacifiCorp  for  approximately  $230  million.  As part of the  transaction,
PacifiCorp agreed to make a firm system sale to APS for thirty years during APS'
summer  peak  season in the amount of 175  megawatts  for the first five  years,
increasing thereafter, at APS' option, up to a maximum amount equal to the rated
capacity of Cholla 4. In April 1995 APS gave PacifiCorp the required  three-year
notice to change the  existing  175 megawatt  purchase to  one-for-one  seasonal
capacity exchange  beginning in the summer of 1998. APS has one option remaining
to  increase  the firm  purchase  to the  rated  capacity  of Cholla 4 (less the
current  exchange  capacity)  and also to convert this  increase to  one-for-one
seasonal  exchange  by a  three-year  written  notice  prior  to  May  1,  1996.
PacifiCorp  has the right to purchase  from APS up to 125 average  megawatts  of
energy per year for thirty  years.  PacifiCorp  and APS also  entered into a 100
megawatt  one-for-one seasonal capacity exchange to be effective upon the latter
of May 15, 1997 or the  completion  of certain  new  transmission  projects.  In
addition, PacifiCorp agreed to pay APS (i) $20 million prior to January 15, 1997
and (ii) $19 million ($9.5  million of which has been paid) in  connection  with
the construction of transmission  lines and upgrades that will afford PacifiCorp
150 megawatts of northbound transmission rights. In addition, PacifiCorp secured
additional firm transmission  capacity of 30 megawatts,  for which approximately
$0.5 million was paid during 1995. In 1995,  APS received  386,350 MWh of energy
from PacifiCorp under these  transactions and paid approximately $18 million for
capacity availability and the energy received.

   See "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of  Operations -- Capital Needs and Resources -- APS" in Item 7 for a discussion
of APS' construction plans.

   See Notes 6 and 10 of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements in Item 8
with  respect to  property  of APS not held in fee or held  subject to any major
encumbrance.

   As part of the  Company's  restructuring  of its  debt in 1990,  the  Company
granted substantially all of its lenders at that time a security interest in the
outstanding  common  stock of APS  pursuant to a Pledge  Agreement,  dated as of
January 31, 1990 (the "Pledge Agreement").  At December 31, 1995, the APS common
stock  secured  approximately  $210 million of the Company's  outstanding  debt.
Until the  Company and the  collateral  agent  under the Pledge  Agreement  (the
"Collateral  Agent")  receive notice of the occurrence  and  continuation  of an
Event of Default (as defined in the Pledge  Agreement),  the Company is entitled
to exercise or refrain from  exercising any and all voting and other  consensual
rights pertaining to the APS common stock. As to matters other than the election
of directors,  the Company agreed not to exercise or refrain from exercising any
such rights if, in the  Collateral  Agent's  judgment,  such action would have a
material adverse effect on the value of the APS common stock. After notice of an
Event of  Default,  the  Collateral  Agent  would have the right to vote the APS
common stock.

   See  "Business  of SunCor  Development  Company"  and  "Business of El Dorado
Investment Company" in Item 1 for a description of properties held by SunCor and
El Dorado, respectively.


                                  [MAP PAGE]


                          ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

APS

   On June 29, 1990, a new Arizona state property tax law was enacted, effective
as of December 31, 1989,  which  adversely  impacted APS' earnings before income
taxes in tax years 1990 through 1995 by an aggregate amount of approximately $21
million per year. On December 20, 1990, the Palo Verde  participants,  including
APS, filed a lawsuit in the Arizona Tax Court, a division of the Maricopa County
Superior Court,  against the Arizona Department of Revenue, the Treasurer of the
State of Arizona,  and various Arizona counties,  claiming,  among other things,
that portions of the new tax law are  unconstitutional.  (Arizona Public Service
Company,  et al. v. Apache County, et al., No. TX 90-01686  (Consol.),  Maricopa
County Superior Court).  In December 1992, the court granted summary judgment to
the taxing  authorities,  holding that the law is  constitutional.  APS appealed
this decision to the Arizona  Court of Appeals.  In November  1995,  the Arizona
Court  of   Appeals   reversed   that   decision,   holding   that  the  law  is
unconstitutional.  The matter has been  returned  to the  Arizona  Tax Court for
determination  of the  appropriate  remedy  consistent with the Arizona Court of
Appeals  decision.  Pursuant to the provisions of APS' 1995 proposed  regulatory
settlement  agreement (see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements
in Item 8), if any overcollected property taxes are refunded to APS by the State
of Arizona as a result of the disposition of this lawsuit,  APS would refund all
of the net  jurisdictional  amount of such refund to its retail  customers.  APS
cannot currently predict the ultimate outcome of this matter.

   See  "Environmental  Matters," "Palo Verde Nuclear  Generating  Station," and
"Water Supply" in Item 1 in regard to pending or threatened litigation and other
disputes involving APS.

PINNACLE WEST

   On November 7, 1988 and December 20, 1988,  two separate  lawsuits were filed
in the United  States  District  Court for the  District of Arizona  against the
Company and certain of its  directors and  officers.  The  lawsuits,  which were
consolidated on October 2, 1989,  alleged  violations of federal securities laws
and Arizona  securities,  consumer fraud and other state laws in connection with
certain actions of the Company and statements made on its behalf relating to the
Company's diversification  activities,  future business prospects and dividends.
The Court certified a class consisting of all purchasers of the Company's common
stock  between  April 1, 1987 and October 7, 1988.  The  consolidated  complaint
sought unspecified compensatory and punitive damages as well as fees and costs.

   On December 15, 1989 a shareholder derivative lawsuit was filed in the United
States District Court for the District of Arizona naming the Company's directors
as defendants and the Company as nominal  defendant.  The lawsuit alleged breach
of  fiduciary   duties  by  the  directors  in  connection  with  the  Company's
diversification  activities, and further alleges violation of federal securities
laws by one director in  connection  with the sale of MeraBank to the Company in
1986.  The  plaintiffs   requested,   on  the  Company's   behalf,   unspecified
compensatory and punitive damages.

   On April 22, 1991 a lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for
the District of Arizona by the Resolution Trust  Corporation (the "RTC") against
certain former officers and directors of MeraBank.  The suit sought, among other
things,  damages  in excess  of $270  million,  and  alleged  negligence,  gross
negligence,  breach of fiduciary  duty,  breach of duty of loyalty and breach of
contract  with  respect to the  management  and  operation  of  MeraBank  by the
defendants  beginning  in the  early  1980s.  



   On December  30,  1993,  and as the result of a  negotiated  settlement,  the
United  States  District  Court for the District of Arizona  entered  orders and
final judgments (1) dismissing the consolidated shareholder class litigation and
shareholder derivative litigation initiated in 1988 and 1989, respectively,  and
described  in the first two  paragraphs  under this  heading  and (2)  partially
dismissing the litigation  initiated by the RTC and described in the immediately
preceding  paragraph.  The  settlement  provides for payments  totaling  $61.625
million,  of which the Company's  share is $5.75 million.  A litigation  reserve
previously established by the Company is sufficient to cover the Company's share
of the settlement.  The balance of the settlement  payment will be funded by the
Company's insurers. Two non-settling  individuals who pursued independent claims
against the RTC were not dismissed from the RTC litigation and have appealed the
settlement.  On March 23, 1995, the appeals court affirmed the judgment  entered
by the District Court which approved the settlement and dismissed the litigation
described above. On August 28, 1995, the same individuals  filed a petition with
the U.S. Supreme Court seeking that court's review of the settlement. On January
16, 1996, the Supreme Court denied the petition and the settlement became final.

   The non-settling  individuals have filed a third-party  complaint against the
Company in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona alleging
claims for  contractual  and statutory  indemnification  in the event that these
individuals  are found liable on the RTC's claims against them. The  third-party
complaint,  which was  served on the  Company  on or about  November  15,  1995,
further  alleges  that the  Company  acted in bad  faith and  wrongfully  denied
indemnification to these individuals and seeks compensatory and punitive damages
in an unspecified amount as well as costs and attorneys' fees. In addition,  one
of  these  individuals  seeks a  judicial  determination  that  the  Company  is
obligated to pay him pension benefits in an unspecified amount in the event that
the RTC does not fully pay these  benefits.  The  December  30, 1993  settlement
order barred the non-settling individuals from asserting claims for contribution
and certain claims for noncontractual  indemnification against the Company. This
order  is  dispositive  of  some  but  not  all of  the  claims  alleged  in the
third-party  complaint.  The Company  believes  that it has no  obligation  with
respect to any such costs or damages.

   On January 18, 1991 a lawsuit was filed in the United States  District Court,
Southern District of Ohio, Western Division,  against,  among other parties, the
Company  and  certain  of its  officers  and  directors,  the  Office  of Thrift
Supervision  ("OTS"),  the RTC and the  Federal  Deposit  Insurance  Corporation
("FDIC").  The amended  complaint  in this lawsuit  alleges  that the  plaintiff
purchased MeraBank  subordinated  debentures with a face amount of $1 million in
1987 in reliance upon a capital maintenance  stipulation executed by the Company
as a condition to the Company's  acquisition of MeraBank.  The plaintiff further
alleges that the value of such debentures was impaired  because of the Company's
release from its purported  obligations under the stipulation and the actions of
the OTS in placing  MeraBank  in  receivership.  The amended  complaint  alleges
claims under the federal securities laws, the federal racketeering statutes, and
state  consumer fraud  statutes and seeks damages in the  approximate  amount of
$4.8 million,  plus interest.  On June 8, 1993, the Ohio court ordered this case
to be transferred to the District of Arizona. The individual director defendants
were subsequently dismissed without prejudice pursuant to the stipulation of the
parties.  On November 10, 1994, the Company filed a motion for summary  judgment
on all  counts,  which on  September  20, 1995 was granted in part and denied in
part. The order rejected the  plaintiff's  claims as to one of the two purchases
of  MeraBank  debentures  at  issue,  and  accordingly,  reduced  the  amount in
controversy  to one-half of the  original  claimed  amount.  The Company and the
individual  directors and officers believe that the lawsuit is without merit and
will vigorously defend themselves.

   On August 17, 1993, the Company was served with a separate complaint filed by
the same  plaintiff  in the United  States  District  Court for the  District of
Arizona  alleging  claims  under the  Arizona  Racketeering  Act and the Arizona
Consumer Fraud Act seeking compensatory damages in


the amount of $1.2 million plus  interest,  punitive  damages,  treble  damages,
interest,  attorneys'  fees and costs.  On  September  24, 1993,  the  plaintiff
voluntarily  dismissed the Arizona Consumer Fraud Act claims.  On March 6, 1995,
the court dismissed the Arizona Racketeering Act claims. The plaintiff has filed
a motion for reconsideration  which remains under advisement.  The plaintiff has
also appealed the  dismissal to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.  That appeal
has  been  stayed   pending  the  trial   court's   ruling  on  the  motion  for
reconsideration.

   On May 1, 1991, a lawsuit was filed in the United States  District  Court for
the  District of Arizona  against the Company by another  purchaser  of the same
issue of MeraBank subordinated debentures referred to above. This plaintiff also
claims to have  purchased the  debentures,  with a face amount of  approximately
$12.4 million,  in reliance upon the stipulation.  The suit further alleges that
the Company  induced the plaintiff to retain its investment in the debentures by
representing  to the plaintiff that the Company would keep MeraBank  capitalized
in accordance with federal regulatory requirements.  The suit alleges violations
of  federal  and  state  securities  laws,  fraud,   negligent   representation,
promissory estoppel,  racketeering and intentional interference with contractual
relations.  On October 7, 1994,  the court  dismissed  the  plaintiff's  federal
securities law claims.  On May 4, 1995,  the Court granted the Company's  motion
for reconsideration  and also dismissed  plantiff's state securities law claims.
The  plaintiff  seeks  unspecified  compensatory  and  punitive  damages and has
requested  that the  compensatory  damages  be  trebled  under  Arizona's  civil
racketeering  statute.  The Company intends to vigorously  defend itself in this
action.

   On December 22, 1993, the Company was served with a complaint  filed by other
purchasers  of  MeraBank   subordinated   debentures   with  a  face  amount  of
approximately $1.5 million alleging claims  substantially  similar to the claims
described in the  preceding  paragraph.  The  complaint,  which was filed in the
United States District Court for the District of Arizona, seeks compensatory and
punitive  damages in an unspecified  amount plus  attorneys'  fees and costs. On
October  6,  1995,  the  Company  filed a motion for  summary  judgment  seeking
dismissal of the suit based on, among other things,  a claim that the applicable
statute of limitations had expired. On November 13, 1995, the plaintiffs filed a
cross-motion  for  partial  summary  judgment  with  respect  to  certain of the
Company's  alleged   misrepresentations   and  omissions  and  on  a  fraudulent
concealment defense to the expiration of the applicable statutes of limitations.
Both motions remain under  consideration  by the court.  The Company  intends to
vigorously defend itself in this action.


                      ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A
                           VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

   No matter  was  submitted  to a vote of  security  holders  during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report,  through the  solicitation of
proxies or otherwise.

           SUPPLEMENTAL ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

   The Company's executive officers are as follows:

                       Age at
Name                March 1, 1996      Position(s) at March 1, 1996
- - ----------------- --------------- -------------------------------------
Michael S. Ash            42      Corporate Counsel
Arlyn J. Larson           61      Vice President of Corporate
                                    Planning and Development
Nancy E. Newquist         44      Vice President and Treasurer
William J. Post           45      Executive Vice President
Richard Snell             65      Chairman of the Board of Directors,
                                    President and Chief Executive Officer
Faye Widenmann            47      Vice President of Corporate Relations
                                    and Administration and Secretary
                  
   The executive officers of the Company are elected no less often than annually
and may be removed by the Board of  Directors  at any time.  The terms served by
the named officers in their current positions and the principal  occupations (in
addition to those stated in the table) of such  officers for the past five years
have been as follows:

   Mr. Ash was elected  Corporate  Counsel of the Company in February  1991.  He
previously  held the position of Legal Counsel to the Company from December 1986
to February 1991.

   Mr. Larson was elected Vice President,  Corporate Planning and Development in
July 1986.

   Ms.  Newquist was elected  Treasurer in June 1990 and as a Vice  President in
February 1994. Ms.  Newquist also serves as Treasurer of APS, a position she was
elected  to in June 1993  after  serving  as  Assistant  Treasurer  of APS since
October 1992.

   Mr. Post was elected  Executive Vice President of the Company  effective June
30, 1995.  Since September 1994 he has also been Senior Vice President and Chief
Operating  Officer of APS.  From June 1993 to September  1994 he was Senior Vice
President, Planning, Information & Financial Services of APS. Prior to June 1993
he was Vice President, Finance and Rates of APS.

   Mr. Snell was elected  Chairman of the Board,  President and Chief  Executive
Officer of the Company effective  February 5, 1990. He was also elected Chairman
of the Board of APS  effective  the same date.  Mr. Snell is a director of Aztar
Corporation and is also a director of Banc One Arizona Corporation and Bank One,
Arizona N.A., Phoenix, Arizona.

   Ms. Widenmann was elected Secretary of the Company in 1985 and Vice President
of Corporate Relations and Administration in November 1986.


                                   PART II
                    ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON
                    EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

   The Company's common stock is publicly held and is traded on the New York and
Pacific  Stock  Exchanges.  At the  close of  business  on March 13,  1996,  the
Company's common stock was held of record by approximately 55,000 shareholders.

   The chart  below sets forth the common  stock price  ranges on the  composite
tape, as reported in the Wall Street  Journal for 1995 and 1994.  The chart also
sets forth the  dividends  declared  and paid per share  during each of the four
quarters for 1995 and 1994.

Common Stock Price Ranges and Dividends

- - ------------------------------------------------------
                                     DIVIDEND
        1995            HIGH   LOW   PER SHARE
- - ------------------------------------------------------
        1st Quarter   21-1/2 19-5/8   .225
        2nd Quarter   24-3/4 20-7/8   .225
        3rd Quarter   26-1/2 23-3/8   .225
        4th Quarter   28-7/8 26-1/8   .25
- - ------------------------------------------------------
- - ------------------------------------------------------
                            
        1st Quarter   22-7/8 19-1/2   .20
        2nd Quarter   21     16       .20
        3rd Quarter   18-3/4 16-1/8   .20
        4th Quarter   20-1/8 17-1/8   .225
- - ------------------------------------------------------


                 ITEM 6. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
               (Dollars In Thousands, Except Per Share Amounts)



          ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
                     CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


    The following discussion relates to Pinnacle West and its subsidiaries: APS,
SunCor and El Dorado.

CAPITAL NEEDS AND RESOURCES
Parent Company 

    During the past three years,  the parent  company's  primary cash needs were
for the payment of common stock  dividends,  interest and optional and mandatory
repayment  of  principal  on  its  long-term  debt  (see  Note  6  of  Notes  to
Consolidated Financial Statements).

    Dividends  from APS have been the parent  company's  primary source of cash.
SunCor  and El  Dorado  provided  cash  in  1995.  Tax  allocations  within  the
consolidated group have been additional sources of cash.

    The  parent  company  prepaid or repaid  approximately  $120  million,  $134
million and $152 million of its debt in 1995,  1994 and 1993,  respectively.  In
1995, the parent  company  refinanced  $100 million of 11.61%  debentures due in
2000 to achieve a lower ongoing  interest rate,  thereby  incurring a prepayment
penalty of $11.6 million after income taxes.

    Management  expects to have  sufficient  cash flow in 1996 to reduce  parent
company debt by approximately $100 million,  of which $30 million was prepaid on
March 1, 1996 at a  prepayment  penalty  of $3.6  million  after  income  taxes.
Additional  prepayments,  and perhaps  refinancing,  could result in substantial
prepayment  penalties  in 1996.  Subject  to  approval  of the  1995  regulatory
agreement  (see  Note 3 of  Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements),  $50
million  annually for the years 1996 through 1999 will be invested in APS by the
parent company.

    In the  refinancing  of $100 million of long-term  debt in 1995,  the parent
company  established a revolving line of credit of $100 million;  as of December
31, 1995, borrowings of $100 million were outstanding thereunder.

APS

    APS' capital  requirements  consist  primarily of capital  expenditures  and
optional and mandatory  repayments of long-term  debt and preferred  stock.  The
resources  available  to meet  these  requirements  include  funds  provided  by
operations and external financings.

    Present  construction  plans  through the year 2005 do not include any major
baseload generating plants. In general, most of the capital expenditures are for
expanding  transmission and  distribution  capabilities to meet customer growth,
upgrading   existing   facilities  and  for  environmental   purposes.   Capital
expenditures are anticipated to be approximately $246 million,  $242 million and
$244 million for 1996, 1997 and 1998, respectively.  These amounts include about
$30 million each year for nuclear fuel expenditures.

    In the period 1993 through 1995,  APS funded all capital  expenditures  with
funds  provided by  operations,  after the payment of dividends.  For the period
1996 through 1998,  APS estimates  that it will fund  substantially  all capital
expenditures in the same manner.

    During 1995,  APS redeemed  $147  million of long-term  debt,  of which $144
million was optional. Refunding obligations for preferred stock, long-term debt,
a capitalized  lease obligation and certain  anticipated  early  redemptions are
expected to approximate $75 million, $164 million and $114 million for the years
1996,  1997  and  1998,  respectively.  As of March 1,  1996,  APS had  redeemed
approximately $46 million of its long-term debt and approximately $15 million of
its preferred stock.

    Although provisions in APS' bond indenture,  articles of incorporation,  and
financing  orders from the Arizona  Corporation  Commission  (ACC)  restrict the
issuance of additional first mortgage bonds and preferred stock, management does
not expect any of these  restrictions  to limit APS' ability to meet its capital
requirements.

    As of December  31, 1995,  APS had credit  commitments  from  various  banks
totaling  approximately $300 million, which were available either to support the
issuance of  commercial  paper or to be used as bank  borrowings.  At the end of
1995,  there were  $177.8  million of  commercial  paper and no bank  borrowings
outstanding.


Non-Utility Subsidiaries

    During the past three years,  SunCor and El Dorado  together,  funded all of
their  operations  through cash flow from  operations and  financings.  SunCor's
capital needs consist  primarily of capital  expenditures and home  construction
which,  on the  basis  of  projects  now  under  development,  are  expected  to
approximate  $85 million,  $68 million and $60 million for 1996,  1997 and 1998,
respectively.  Capital resources  available to meet these  requirements  include
funds provided by SunCor's operations and external financings.

   During 1995,  SunCor increased its existing  revolving lines of credit to $40
million;  at December  31,  1995,  borrowings  of $40 million  were  outstanding
thereunder.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

1995 Compared with 1994


    The Company  reported  net income of $188.0  million in 1995  compared  with
$200.6 million in 1994. However,  both years included significant  extraordinary
or non-recurring  items. In 1995, an extraordinary charge of $11.6 million after
income  taxes was recorded for a debt  prepayment  penalty.  Net income for 1994
included a  non-recurring  income tax benefit of $26.8  million.  Excluding  the
effects of the extraordinary and non-recurring  items, the Company earned $199.6
million in 1995 compared with $173.8 million in 1994.  The earnings  improvement
reflects  earnings at the  subsidiaries and lower interest expense at the parent
company due to continued debt reduction.

    APS earnings in 1995 were $220.4  million  compared  with $218.2  million in
1994. Earnings increased primarily due to customer growth,  lower fuel expenses,
accelerated  amortization of investment tax credits (ITCs), lower operations and
maintenance expenses,  lower preferred stock dividends, and a gain recognized on
the sale of a small subsidiary. Fuel expenses decreased due to lower fuel prices
and a more favorable mix resulting from increased nuclear  generation.  APS does
not  have a fuel  adjustment  clause  as  part  of its  retail  rate  structure;
therefore,  changes in fuel and purchased power expenses are reflected currently
in earnings.  The  accelerated  amortization of ITCs was a result of a 1994 rate
settlement  (see Note 3 of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements) and is
reflected  as an $18  million  decrease  in  consolidated  income  tax  expense.
Operations and maintenance  expense  decreased as a result of lower fossil plant
overhaul  costs,  improved  nuclear  operations and severance  costs incurred in
1994.   Preferred  stock  dividends   decreased  due  to  less  preferred  stock
outstanding.

    Substantially  offsetting  the  positive  factors at APS were the absence of
non-cash income related to a 1991 rate settlement,  milder weather, the reversal
in 1994 of certain  previously  recorded  depreciation,  a retail rate reduction
which became effective June 1, 1994, and in 1995 a $13 million pretax write-down
of an APS  office  building  and an $8  million  pretax  write-down  of  certain
inventory.

    SunCor  reported  net  income of $4.1  million  in 1995  compared  with $0.5
million in 1994. The improvement  reflects increased  commercial land sales, the
expiration of a lease agreement  related to the Wigwam Resort and an increase in
management fees.

    El Dorado  reported  net income of $8.5  million in 1995  compared to a $4.0
million  loss in 1994.  The  improvement  reflects  sales  in 1995 of El  Dorado
investments and an investment write-down in 1994.

1994 Compared with 1993

    The Company  reported net income of $200.6 million in 1994, which included a
non-recurring  income tax  benefit of $26.8  million.  Excluding  that  benefit,
earnings in 1994 were $173.8 million compared with earnings before an accounting
change of $170.0 million in 1993.

    Underlying the small  increase were several  significant  factors.  Electric
operating  revenues  increased  primarily  due to  strong  customer  growth  and
significantly  warmer  weather in 1994,  partially  offset by lower  interchange
sales and the 1994 rate reduction.  Substantially offsetting the earnings effect
of the 1994 rate reduction was a one-time depreciation reversal, also occasioned
by the 1994  rate  settlement  (see  Note 3 of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements).  Interest  expense  declined due  primarily to parent  company debt
repayment and APS' refinancing activity in 1994 and 1993.


    Substantially  offsetting  these positive factors were the completion in May
1994 of the recording of non-cash  income related to a 1991 rate settlement (see
Note  1 of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements);  increased  utility
operations and maintenance  expense due primarily to employee  severance  costs;
and increased nuclear decommissioning costs.

    Higher fuel and purchased power expenses in 1994 over 1993 to meet increased
retail  sales were about  offset by lower  fuel  costs for  reduced  interchange
sales.

    SunCor  reported a small profit in 1994 compared with a $4.0 million loss in
1993.  Real estate  revenues  and  operating  expenses in 1994  increased  $27.0
million  and  $21.6  million,  respectively,  reflecting  increased  volumes  of
residential and commercial property sales.

Electric  Operating Revenues 

    Electric operating revenues reflect changes in both the volume of units sold
and  price  per  kilowatt-hour  (kWh) of  electric  sales.  An  analysis  of the
increases (decreases) in 1995 and 1994 electric operating revenues compared with
the prior year follows (in millions of dollars):

                                                       1995      1994
                                                       ----      ----
            Volume variance:
            Customer growth                         $  48.4   $  56.4
            Weather                                   (42.0)     42.0
            Other                                       7.8     (11.7)
            1994 rate reduction                       (11.4)    (26.5)
            Interchange sales                          (7.2)    (19.5)
            Reversal of refund obligation              (9.3)    (12.1)
            Other operating revenues                    2.5      (4.8)
                                                    -------   ------- 
            Total change                            $ (11.2)  $  23.8
                                                    =======   =======


INCOME TAX ISSUES

    See  Note  4  of  Notes  to  Consolidated   Financial  Statements  regarding
accelerated  amortization of ITCs, recognition of $26.8 million of non-recurring
income tax  benefits in 1994 and an  accounting  standard for income taxes which
required the recognition in 1993 of $19.3 million of tax benefits related to net
operating loss carryforwards.

OTHER INCOME

    Net income  reflects  accounting  practices  required for  regulated  public
utilities  and  represents  a composite of cash and  non-cash  items,  including
Allowance for Funds Used During Construction  (AFUDC),  accretion income on Palo
Verde Unit 3 and the reversal of a refund obligation  arising out of a 1991 rate
settlement  (see  Consolidated  Statements  of Cash Flows and Note 1 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial  Statements).  The accretion income and refund reversals,
net of income  taxes,  totaled $25.9 million and $58.2 million in 1994 and 1993,
respectively.  Also in 1994 was a one-time depreciation reversal of $15 million,
after income  taxes,  which was  included in "Other -- net" in the  Consolidated
Statements of Income (see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

1995 REGULATORY AGREEMENT 

    In  December  1995,  APS and the ACC  Staff  announced  an  agreement  which
includes  an  economic  proposal  to be heard  by the  full  ACC in April  1996.
Principal features include an annual rate reduction of approximately $48 million
($29 million  after  income  taxes) and  recovery of  substantially  all of APS'
present  regulatory assets through  accelerated  amortization over an eight-year
period  beginning July 1, 1996 increasing  annual  amortization by approximately
$120 million ($72 million after income  taxes).  The agreement  also includes an
industry  restructuring  element. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated  Financial
Statements for further discussion of this agreement.


ACCOUNTING MATTERS

    Note 2 of Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  describes  two new
accounting  standards related to asset impairment and stock-based  compensation,
which are effective in 1996. The standards do not have a material  impact on the
Company's  financial  position or results of operations at the time of adoption.
See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of a
proposed  standard on accounting for certain  liabilities  related to closure or
removal of long-lived assets.


             ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
                INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
                         FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE


                                                                              
   See Note 14 of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements for the selected
quarterly financial data required to be presented in this Item.


REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

   The primary  responsibility  for the  integrity  of the  Company's  financial
information rests with management, which has prepared the accompanying financial
statements and related information.  Such information was prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles  appropriate in the circumstances,
based on management's  best estimates and judgments and giving due consideration
to  materiality.  These  financial  statements  have been audited by independent
auditors and their report is included.

   Management maintains and relies upon systems of internal accounting controls.
A limiting factor in all systems of internal accounting control is that the cost
of the system should not exceed the benefits to be derived.  Management believes
that the Company's  system provides the  appropriate  balance between such costs
and benefits.

   Periodically the internal accounting system is reviewed by both the Company's
internal auditors and its independent  auditors to test for compliance.  Reports
issued by the internal auditors are released to management, and such reports, or
summaries  thereof  are  transmitted  to the  Audit  Committee  of the  Board of
Directors and the independent auditors on a timely basis.

   The Audit Committee, composed solely of outside directors, meets periodically
with the internal  auditors and independent  auditors (as well as management) to
review the work of each.  The internal  auditors and  independent  auditors have
free access to the Audit Committee,  without management  present, to discuss the
results of their audit work.

   Management  believes  that the  Company's  systems,  policies and  procedures
provide  reasonable  assurance that  operations are conducted in conformity with
the law and with management's commitment to a high standard of business conduct.

Richard Snell                                     William J. Post
Chairman of the Board of Directors,               Executive Vice President
President and Chief Executive Officer




                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


   We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Pinnacle West
Capital  Corporation  and its  subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 1994 and
the related consolidated  statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended  December  31, 1995.  Our audits
also included the financial  statement  schedules listed in the Index at Item 8.
These   financial   statements  and  financial   statement   schedules  are  the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedules based on
our audits. 

   We  conducted  our audits in  accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.


   In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects,  the financial position of Pinnacle West Capital  Corporation
and its  subsidiaries  at  December  31,  1995 and 1994 and the results of their
operations  and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1995 in conformity with generally accepted  accounting  principles.
Also, in our opinion,  such financial  statement  schedules,  when considered in
relation to the basic financial  statements taken as a whole,  present fairly in
all material respects the information set forth therein.

   As discussed in Note 4 of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements,  the
Company changed its method of accounting for income taxes  effective  January 1,
1993 to conform with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109.



Deloitte & Touche LLP
Phoenix, Arizona
March 1, 1996


                       PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
                        Consolidated Statements of Income
                (Dollars in Thousands, Except Per Share Amounts)


See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets
                             (Thousands of Dollars)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets
                             (Thousands of Dollars)

                                                                December 31,
                                                            ------------------
                                                            1995          1994
                                                            ----          ----
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
     Accounts payable ..............................    $  114,963    $  126,842
     Accrued taxes .................................        95,962        89,144
     Accrued interest ..............................        48,958        56,058
     Short-term borrowings (Note 5) ................       177,800       131,500
     Current maturities of long-term debt (Note 6) .         8,780        78,512
     Other current liabilities .....................        58,030        48,792
                                                        ----------    ----------
          Total current liabilities ................       504,493       530,848
                                                        ----------    ----------
Long-term debt less current maturities (Note 6) ....     2,510,709     2,588,525
                                                        ----------    ----------

Deferred Credits and Other
     Deferred income taxes (Note 4) ................     1,327,881     1,297,298
     Deferred investment tax credit (Note 4) .......        97,897       121,426
     Unamortized gain -- sale of utility plant .....        91,514        98,551
     Other .........................................       314,910       228,126
                                                        ----------    ----------
           Total deferred credits and other ........     1,832,202     1,745,401
                                                        ----------    ----------

Commitments and Contingencies (Note 12)

Minority Interests (Note 7)
     Non-redeemable preferred stock of APS .........       193,561       193,561
                                                        ----------    ----------
     Redeemable preferred stock of APS .............        75,000        75,000
                                                        ----------    ----------

Common Stock Equity (Note 8)
     Common stock,  no par value;  authorized
     150,000,000 shares; issued and outstanding
     87,515,847 in 1995 and  87,429,642 in 1994 ....     1,638,684     1,641,196
     Retained earnings .............................       242,403       135,221
                                                        ----------    ----------
          Total common stock equity ................     1,881,087     1,776,417
                                                        ----------    ----------


Total Liabilities and Equity .......................    $6,997,052    $6,909,752
                                                        ==========    ==========


                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                             (Thousands of Dollars)


See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
                  Consolidated Statements of Retained Earnings
                             (Thousands of Dollars)


See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

1.   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Consolidation and Nature of Operations

    The consolidated  financial statements include the accounts of Pinnacle West
and its subsidiaries: APS, SunCor, and El Dorado.

    APS, the Company's major subsidiary, is the state's largest electric utility
serving  approximately 705,000 customers in an area that includes all or part of
11 of Arizona's 15 counties.  SunCor is a developer of  residential,  commercial
and industrial  projects on some 14,000 acres  predominantly in the metropolitan
Phoenix  area,  and El  Dorado  is a venture  capital  firm  with a  diversified
portfolio.

Accounting Records

    The accounting  records are maintained in accordance with generally accepted
accounting  principles  (GAAP).  The  preparation  of  financial  statements  in
accordance with GAAP requires the use of estimates by management. Actual results
could differ from those estimates.

Regulatory Accounting

    APS prepares its financial  statements in accordance  with the provisions of
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards (SFAS) No. 71, "Accounting for the
Effects of  Certain  Types of  Regulation."  SFAS No. 71  requires a  cost-based
rate-regulated  enterprise to reflect the impact of regulatory  decisions in its
financial statements.

    APS' major regulatory  assets are Palo Verde cost deferrals (see "Palo Verde
Cost  Deferrals"  in this note) and  deferred  taxes (see Note 4).  These items,
combined  with  miscellaneous  regulatory  assets and  liabilities,  amounted to
approximately  $1.2  billion  and $1.1  billion at  December  31, 1995 and 1994,
respectively,   most  of  which  are  included  in  "Deferred   Debits"  on  the
Consolidated Balance Sheets.

    APS'  current  regulatory  orders and  regulatory  environment  support  the
recognition  of  regulatory  assets.  If rate  recovery of these  costs  becomes
unlikely or uncertain,  whether due to competition or regulatory action, APS may
no longer be able to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71 to all or a part of its
operations.

Utility Plant and Depreciation 

    Utility plant represents the buildings,  equipment and other facilities used
to  provide  electric  service.  The  cost  of  utility  plant  includes  labor,
materials,  contract  services,  other  related items and an allowance for funds
used during  construction.  The cost of retired  depreciable utility plant, plus
removal costs less salvage realized, is charged to accumulated depreciation. See
Note  13  for  information  on a  proposed  accounting  standard  which  impacts
accounting for removal costs.

    Depreciation on utility  property is recorded on a straight-line  basis. The
applicable  rates for 1993 through 1995 ranged from 1.77% to 15%, which resulted
in an annual composite rate of 3.44% for 1995.  Depreciation and amortization of
non-utility  property and equipment are provided over the estimated useful lives
of the related assets, ranging from 3 to 33.3 years.

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction

    AFUDC  represents  the  cost of  debt  and  equity  funds  used  to  finance
construction of utility plant.  Plant construction  costs,  including AFUDC, are
recovered in authorized rates through  depreciation when completed  projects are
placed  into  commercial  operation.  AFUDC  does  not  represent  current  cash
earnings.  AFUDC has been  calculated  using  composite rates of 8.52% for 1995;
7.70% for 1994; and 7.20% for 1993. APS compounds AFUDC  semiannually and ceases
to accrue AFUDC when  construction  is  completed  and the property is placed in
service.


                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Revenues

    Electric  operating revenues are recognized on the accrual basis and include
estimated  amounts  for  service  rendered  but  unbilled  at the  end  of  each
accounting period.

    In 1991, a refund  obligation of $53.4 million  ($32.3  million after income
taxes) was recorded as a result of a 1991 rate settlement. The refund obligation
was used to reduce  the  amount  of a 1991 rate  increase  granted  rather  than
require specific  customer refunds and was reversed over the thirty months ended
May 1994.  The  after-tax  refund  obligation  reversals  that were  recorded as
electric  operating  revenues amounted to $5.6 million in 1994 and $12.9 million
in 1993.

Palo Verde Accretion Income

    In 1991,  the carrying  value of Palo Verde Unit 3 was discounted to reflect
the  present  value of lost cash  flows  resulting  from a 1991 rate  settlement
agreement  deeming a portion of the unit to temporarily be excess  capacity.  In
accordance with generally accepted accounting  principles,  accretion income was
recorded over a  thirty-month  period ended May 1994 in the aggregate  amount of
the original discount.  The after-tax accretion income recorded in 1994 and 1993
was $20.3 million and $45.3 million, respectively.

Palo Verde Cost Deferrals

    As authorized by the ACC,  operating  costs  (excluding  fuel) and financing
costs of Palo Verde Units 2 and 3 were  deferred from the  commercial  operation
date  (September 1986 and January 1988,  respectively)  until the date the units
were included in a rate order (April 1988 and December 1991, respectively).  The
deferrals are being amortized and recovered  through rates over thirty-five year
periods.

Nuclear Fuel 

    Nuclear fuel is charged to fuel expense using the unit-of-production  method
under which the number of units of thermal energy produced in the current period
is related to the total thermal units expected to be produced over the remaining
life of the fuel.


    Under federal law, the United States Department of Energy is responsible for
the permanent  disposal of spent nuclear  fuel,  and assesses  $0.001 per kWh of
nuclear generation.  This amount is charged to nuclear fuel expense. See Note 13
for information on nuclear decommissioning costs.

Income Taxes

    The Company files a  consolidated  U.S.  income tax return.  Provisions  for
income taxes are made by each  subsidiary as if separate income tax returns were
filed. The difference,  if any, between these provisions and consolidated income
tax expense is allocated to the parent company.

Reacquired Debt Costs

    APS amortizes gains and losses on reacquired debt over the remaining life of
the  original  debt,  consistent  with  ratemaking.  

Statements  of  Cash  Flows

    Temporary cash  investments  and marketable  securities are considered to be
cash  equivalents  for purposes of the  Consolidated  Statements  of Cash Flows.
During  1995,  1994  and  1993  the  Company  paid  interest,   net  of  amounts
capitalized, of $216.8 million, $231.6 million and $243.9 million, respectively.
Income  taxes  paid  were  $77.4  million,  $56.5  million  and  $45.3  million,
respectively;  and dividends paid on preferred  stock of APS were $19.1 million,
$26.2 million and $30.9 million, respectively.


                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Reclassifications

   Certain  prior  year  balances  have been  restated  to  conform  to the 1995
presentation.

2.    Accounting Matters

    In March 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 121,
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
Be Disposed  Of," which is  effective  in 1996.  This  statement  requires  that
long-lived  assets be  reviewed  for  impairment  whenever  events or changes in
circumstances  indicate  that the  carrying  amount may not be  recoverable.  An
impairment  loss  would  be  recognized  if  the  sum of  the  estimated  future
undiscounted  cash flows to be  generated  by an asset is less than its carrying
value.  The amount of the loss would be based on a  comparison  of book value to
fair value.  The standard  also amends SFAS No. 71 to require the write-off of a
regulatory  asset if it is no longer  probable that future revenues will recover
the cost of the asset. SFAS No. 121 does not have a material impact on financial
position or results of operations upon adoption.

    In October 1995, the Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board issued SFAS No.
123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," which is effective in 1996. This
statement  establishes  a  fair-value  based  method  of  accounting  for  stock
compensation  plans. The statement  encourages but does not require companies to
recognize  compensation  expense based on the new fair value method. The Company
will not apply the  recognition  and  measurement  approach in SFAS No. 123 upon
adoption.

    See Note 13 for a  description  of a proposed  standard  on  accounting  for
liabilities related to closure or removal of long-lived assets.


3. Regulatory Matters

1995 Regulatory Agreement

    In  December  1995,  APS and the ACC  Staff  announced  an  agreement  which
includes an economic  proposal to be heard by the full ACC beginning on April 9,
1996. In recognition of evolving  competition in the electric  utility  industry
and an ongoing investigation by the ACC Staff into industry  restructuring in an
open competition  docket involving many parties,  the agreement also includes an
element setting out a number of issues which APS and the ACC Staff agree the ACC
should be requested to consider in developing  restructuring policies.  

Economic Proposal

     The major provisions of the economic proposal are:

    *   An annual rate reduction of approximately $48 million ($29 million after
        income  taxes),  or 3.25% on average,  effective no earlier than July 1,
        1996.

    *   Recovery of substantially all of APS' present  regulatory assets through
        accelerated  amortization  over an eight-year  period  beginning July 1,
        1996,  increasing annual amortization by approximately $120 million ($72
        million after income taxes). See Note 1.
           
    *   A  formula  for  sharing  future  cost  savings  between  customers  and
        shareholders referencing an APS return on equity (as defined) of 11.25%.

    *   A moratorium  on filing for  permanent  rate  changes,  except under the
        sharing formula and under certain other limited circumstances,  prior to
        July 2, 1999.

    *   Infusion  of $200  million  of  common  equity  into  APS by the  parent
        company, in annual increments of $50 million starting in 1996.


                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Industry Restructuring

    The  issues  listed by APS and the ACC Staff in the  industry  restructuring
element of their agreement include the legal nature of utilities' service rights
and  responsibilities,  including  the  obligation  to serve  in a  restructured
environment;  compensation for  restructuring,  taking into account (among other
matters) stranded investment; ACC jurisdiction over market entrants; reciprocity
of access among electricity  providers;  maintenance of system reliability;  the
utility  tax  structure;  and  clarification  of  federal-state   jurisdictional
uncertainties.

    APS believes that, after a series of hearings on these and related issues in
the  competition  docket,  the  ACC  could  produce  a  set  of  regulatory  and
legislative  reforms for  presentation to the appropriate  bodies in 1997. Bills
for industry  restructuring  or studies  thereof have already been introduced in
Congress and the Arizona  legislature;  the Arizona bill,  which is supported by
APS,  would  establish a committee to study the issues and to report back to the
legislature by the end of 1997.

    Assuming  timely  resolution  of the issues  and  approval  of the  economic
proposal in the agreement, APS therein proposes (independently of the ACC Staff)
a plan whereby it would request the ACC to authorize  access by retail customers
of Arizona public service  corporations to the broad generation  market starting
in the year 2000 for large  customers,  and thereafter in phased steps up to all
customers in about 2004.  Other parties may submit other plans, and the ultimate
outcome is not predictable.

1994 Settlement Agreement 

    In May 1994,  the ACC  approved a retail  rate  settlement  agreement  which
provided  for a net  annual  retail  rate  reduction  of  2.2%  on  average,  or
approximately  $32 million ($19 million after income  taxes),  effective June 1,
1994. As part of the settlement,  in 1994 APS reversed approximately $20 million
of  depreciation  ($15 million after income taxes)  related to a 1991 Palo Verde
write-off.   The  1994  rate   settlement  also  provided  for  the  accelerated
amortization  of  substantially  all  deferred  ITCs  over  a  five-year  period
beginning in 1995.

4. Income Taxes

Investment Tax Credit

    Beginning  in 1995,  substantially  all of the  unamortized  ITCs are  being
amortized over a five-year  period in accordance  with the 1994 rate  settlement
agreement.  Prior to 1995, ITCs were deferred and amortized to other income over
the estimated lives of the related assets as directed by the ACC.

Non-recurring Income Tax Benefit

    The  recognition  of $26.8 million of  non-recurring  income tax benefits in
1994 relates to a change in tax law.

Change in Accounting for Income Taxes

   Effective in 1993, the Company adopted the liability method of accounting for
income  taxes which  requires  that  deferred  income  taxes be recorded for all
temporary  differences  between the tax bases of assets and  liabilities and the
amounts recognized for financial reporting.  The cumulative effect of the change
in  accounting  principle  on prior  years  resulted  in an increase in 1993 net
income of $19.3  million,  due  primarily  to the  recognition  of deferred  tax
benefits relating to state net operating loss (NOL)  carryforwards of the parent
company.  In accordance with SFAS No. 71, APS established a regulatory asset for
certain temporary  differences,  primarily AFUDC equity,  that is flowed through
for regulatory purposes. This regulatory asset is being amortized as the related
differences reverse.


                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


Income Taxes

    The  components  of income  tax  expense  before  extraordinary  charge  and
accounting change are as follows:

                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                                ------------------------------
                                                1995         1994         1993
                                                ----         ----         ----
                                                  (Thousands of Dollars)
Current
     Federal ............................   $  77,869    $  49,112    $  43,065
     State ..............................       1,081          922          816
                                            ---------    ---------    ---------
Total current ...........................      78,950       50,034       43,881
Deferred ................................      21,339      (10,012)      33,954
NOL and ITC carryforward utilized .......      58,019      115,623       81,494
Change in valuation allowance ...........      (6,814)        --           --
Change in federal tax rate ..............        --           --         (4,855)
Change in tax law .......................        --        (26,770)        --
Investment tax credit amortization ......     (23,529)      (5,905)      (6,028)
                                            ---------    ---------    ---------
Total expense ...........................   $ 127,965    $ 122,970    $ 148,446
                                            =========    =========    =========


Income tax  expense  differed  from the amount  computed by  multiplying  income
before  income  taxes  by the  statutory  federal  income  tax  rate  due to the
following:



                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

The components of the net deferred  income tax liability at  December 31 were as
follows:



5. Lines of Credit 

    APS had  committed  lines of credit with  various  banks of $300  million at
December 31, 1995 and 1994,  which were available either to support the issuance
of commercial  paper or to be used for bank  borrowings.  The commitment fees at
December  31, 1995 and 1994 on $200  million of these lines were 0.15% and 0.20%
per annum,  respectively,  and on $100  million  were 0.10% and 0.15% per annum,
respectively.  APS had commercial paper borrowings outstanding of $177.8 million
at December  31, 1995 and $131.5  million at December  31,  1994.  The  weighted
average  interest rate on commercial  paper borrowings was 6.06% on December 31,
1995 and 6.25% on  December  31,  1994.  By  Arizona  statute,  APS'  short-term
borrowings cannot exceed 7% of its total  capitalization  without the consent of
the ACC.

    The  parent  company  had a  revolving  line of  credit of $100  million  at
December 31, 1995 and none at December 31, 1994. Interest is based on the London
Interbank  Offered Rate (LIBOR) and the  commitment  fees on this line are 0.13%
per annum through December 14, 1996 and 0.18% thereafter. There was $100 million
outstanding under this line at December 31, 1995.

    SunCor had revolving  lines of credit  totalling $40 million at December 31,
1995 and $24.5 million at December 31, 1994. Any  borrowings are  collateralized
by certain real property and bear interest  based on the prime rate or on LIBOR.
The  commitment  fees on these lines were 0.5% and 0.2% per annum on $25 million
and  $15  million,  respectively.  SunCor  had $40  million  and  $18.5  million
outstanding under these lines at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

6. Long-Term Debt

    Borrowings   under  the  APS  mortgage   bond   indenture   are  secured  by
substantially  all utility plant;  SunCor's debt is collaterized by certain real
property; and Pinnacle West's debentures are secured by the common stock of APS.
Pinnacle West's bond debenture  agreement includes provisions which restrict the
payment of common stock  dividends (an  additional  $273 million could have been
declared  as of  December  31,  1995).  Aggregate  investments  in its  existing
subsidiaries  (excluding APS) and aggregate new investments are also restricted.
The following table presents consolidated long-term debt outstanding:


                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


- - ----------
(a) The weighted-average rate at December 31, 1995 and 1994 was 7.79% and 8.04%,
    respectively.  The  weighted-average  years to maturity at December 31, 1995
    and 1994 was 19 years.

(b) The  weighted-average  rates for the years ended  December 31, 1995 and 1994
    were 4.31% and 3.91%,  respectively.  Changes in short-term  interest  rates
    would affect the costs associated with this debt.

(c) Junior subordinated  deferrable interest debentures due in 2025,  redeemable
    at the option of APS as a whole or in part on or after  January  31, 2000 at
    par plus accrued interest.

(d) Represents  the present  value of future lease  payments  (discounted  at an
    interest rate of 7.48%) on a combined  cycle plant sold and leased back from
    the independent owner-trustee formed to own the facility (see Note 10).

(e) The bonds have  interest-only  payments  until  March 1, 1996 and  quarterly
    principal  repayments  thereafter.  Interest  rates were LIBOR plus 2.3% and
    LIBOR plus 3% for the years 1995 and 1994,  respectively.  The interest rate
    at December 31, 1995 and 1994 was 8.175% and 9.00%, respectively.

(f) The 1995  balance is at 9.75%  (prime rate plus 1.25%) at December 31, 1995.
    The 1994 amount includes $2.0 million at 10.25%, and the balance varied with
    the lender's prime rate.

(g) The  weighted-average  interest rate at December 31, 1995 and 1994 was 8.43%
    and 8.47%, respectively.

(h) Includes  $210.4  million  and  $310.4  million  of  11.61%  senior  secured
    debentures  at December  31, 1995 and 1994,  respectively,  which are due in
    2000 and are  redeemable  before  then  only at a  premium  determined  by a
    make-whole formula related to U.S. Treasury obligations. The balance in 1994
    represents  senior  debentures  with a  weighted-average  interest  rate  of
    approximately 11.35%.


                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

(i) The weighted average interest rate was 6.21% at December 31, 1995.  Interest
    is based on LIBOR plus 0.30% through  December 15, 1996 and LIBOR plus 0.35%
    thereafter.

(j) The weighted average interest rate was 7.71% at December 31, 1994.

    In December 1995,  the parent  company  prepaid at a premium $100 million of
its 11.61%  debentures due December  2000,  using funds from a revolving line of
credit (see Note 5). The  prepayment  yielded a penalty of $11.6  million  after
income  taxes,  which  has been  reflected  as an  extraordinary  charge  in the
Consolidated Statements of Income.

    Aggregate  annual  principal  payments due on total  long-term  debt and for
sinking fund requirements through 2000 are as follows: 1996, $8.8 million; 1997,
$156.3 million;  1998, $131.8 million;  1999,  $107.3 million;  and 2000, $418.3
million.  See Note 7 for redemption and sinking fund  requirements of redeemable
preferred stock of APS.

7. Preferred Stock of APS

    Non-redeemable  preferred  stock is not  redeemable  except at the option of
APS.  Redeemable  preferred stock is redeemable through sinking fund obligations
in addition to being callable by APS.  Preferred stock balances of APS are shown
below:

- - ----------

(a) In each case plus accrued dividends.

(b) This authorization also covers all outstanding redeemable preferred stock.

(c) Dividend rate adjusted  quarterly to 2% below that of certain  United States
    Treasury  securities,  but in no event less than 6% or greater  than 12% per
    annum. Redeemable at par.


                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

(d) Redeemable at par after December 1, 1998.
(e) Redeemable at $105.51  through May 31, 1996,  and thereafter  declining by a
predetermined amount each year to par after May 31, 2002.

    If there were to be any arrearage in dividends on any of its preferred stock
or in the  sinking  fund  requirements  applicable  to  any  of  its  redeemable
preferred  stock, APS could not pay dividends on its common stock or acquire any
shares  thereof for  consideration.  The redemption  requirements  for the above
issues for the next five years are: $0 in 1996 and $10.0  million in each of the
years 1997 through 2000.

    Redeemable  preferred  stock  transactions  of APS during  each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1995 are as follows:


                                                         Number         Par
                                                           of          Value
                                                         Shares        Amount
                                                         ------        ------
                                                       (Dollars in Thousands)

Balance, December 31, 1992 ........................    2,256,350    $  225,635

Retirements
     $8.80 Series K ...............................      (45,000)       (4,500)
    $11.50 Series R ...............................      (35,250)       (3,525)
     $8.48 Series S ...............................     (200,000)      (20,000)
                                                       ---------    ---------- 
Balance, December 31, 1993 ........................    1,976,100       197,610
Retirements
     $8.80 Series K ...............................     (142,100)      (14,210)
    $11.50 Series R ...............................     (284,000)      (28,400)
     $8.48 Series S ...............................     (300,000)      (30,000)
     $8.50 Series T ...............................     (500,000)      (50,000)
                                                       ---------    ---------- 
Balance, December 31, 1994 ........................      750,000        75,000
Retirements .......................................         --            --
                                                       ---------    ---------- 
Balance, December 31, 1995 ........................      750,000    $   75,000
                                                       =========    ==========


                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

8. Common Stock

    The  Company's  common  stock  issued  during each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1995 is as follows:

                  
                                                     Number
                                                       of
                                                     Shares           Amount(a)
                                                     ------           --------
                                                       (Dollars in Thousands)  

Balance, December 31, 1992 ..............         87,161,872        $ 1,646,772
     Common stock issued ................            261,945             (3,989)
                                                  ----------        -----------
Balance, December 31, 1993 ..............         87,423,817          1,642,783
     Common stock issued ................              5,825             (1,587)
                                                  ----------        -----------
Balance, December 31, 1994 ..............         87,429,642          1,641,196
     Common stock issued ................             86,205             (2,512)
                                                  ----------        -----------
Balance, December 31, 1995 ..............         87,515,847        $ 1,638,684
                                                  ==========        ===========
- - ----------
    (a) Including premiums and expenses of preferred stock issues of APS.

    The Company has incentive plans under which it may grant non-qualified stock
options  (NQSOs),  incentive stock options (ISOs) and restricted stock awards to
officers  and key  employees.  The plans also  provided  for the granting of any
combinations of stock appreciation  rights or dividend  equivalents.  The awards
outstanding  under the various plans at December 31, 1995 approximate  1,944,100
NQSOs,  300 ISOs,  251,433  restricted  shares  and 25,408  dividend  equivalent
shares.  The plans provide for the granting of new options on or awards of up to
3.5 million  shares at a price not less than the fair  market  value on the date
the option is granted.

9. Pension Plans and Other Benefits

Pension Plans 

    The Company  sponsors  defined benefit pension plans covering  substantially
all employees. Benefits are based on years of service and compensation utilizing
a final average pay benefit formula. The funding policy is to contribute the net
periodic cost accrued each year. However, the contribution will not be less than
the minimum required  contribution  nor greater than the maximum  tax-deductible
contribution. Plan assets consist primarily of domestic and international common
stocks and bonds and real estate.  Pension cost, including  administrative cost,
for 1995, 1994 and 1993 was approximately $21.6 million, $25.8 million and $14.3
million,  respectively,  of which approximately $10.0 million, $12.3 million and
$6.8  million,  respectively,  was charged to expense.  The remainder was either
capitalized or billed to others.

    The components of net periodic pension costs (excluding the costs of special
termination benefits of $1.4 million in 1994) are as follows:



                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)



    A reconciliation of the funded status of the plan to the amounts  recognized
in the balance sheets is presented below:



    In addition to the defined benefit pension plans,  the Company also sponsors
qualified  defined   contribution   plans.   Collectively,   these  plans  cover
substantially  all employees.  The plans provide for employee  contributions and
partial employer matching  contributions after certain eligibility  requirements
are met. The cost of these plans for 1995, 1994 and 1993 was $7.0 million,  $7.0
million and $6.4 million,  respectively, of which $3.2 million, $3.3 million and
$3.1 million, respectively, was charged to expense.

Postretirement Plans

    The  Company  provides  medical and life  insurance  benefits to its retired
employees.  Employees may become eligible for these retirement benefits based on
years of service and age. The retiree medical  insurance plans are contributory;
the retiree life insurance  plans are  non-contributory.  In accordance with the
governing plan documents,  the companies retain the right to change or eliminate
these benefits.

   Funding  is based upon  actuarially  determined  contributions  that take tax
consequences into account.  Plan assets consist primarily of domestic stocks and
bonds. The postretirement benefit cost for 1995, 1994 and 1993 was approximately
$23 million, $28 million and $35 million,  respectively,  of which approximately
$14 million,  $14 million and $17 million was charged to expense.  The remainder
was either capitalized or billed to others.


                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


    The components of net periodic postretirement benefit costs are as follows:



A reconciliation  of the funded status of the plan to the amounts  recognized in
the balance sheets is presented below:

                                                                 
    Assuming a one percent increase in the health care cost trend rate, the 1995
cost  of   postretirement   benefits  other  than  pensions  would  increase  by
approximately $4.5 million and the accumulated benefit obligation as of December
31, 1995 would increase by approximately $33.7 million.

10. Leases


    In 1986,  APS entered into sale and  leaseback  transactions  under which it
sold  approximately  42% of its share of Palo  Verde Unit 2 and  certain  common
facilities.  The gain of  approximately  $140.2 million has been deferred and is
being  amortized to operations  expense over the original lease term. The leases
are being accounted for as operat-


                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


ing leases.  The amounts to be paid each year approximate  $40.1 million through
1999,  $46.3 million in 2000, and $49.0 million  through 2015.  Options to renew
for two  additional  years and to purchase  the property at fair market value at
the end of the lease terms are also  included.  Consistent  with the  ratemaking
treatment,  an amount  equal to the annual  lease  payments  is included in rent
expense.  A regulatory asset (totaling  approximately  $56.9 million at December
31, 1995) has been  established  for the  difference  between lease payments and
rent expense  calculated on a straight-line  basis. Lease expense for 1995, 1994
and 1993 was $41.7 million, $42.2 million and $41.8 million, respectively.

    APS has a capital  lease on a combined  cycle plant which it sold and leased
back. The lease requires  semiannual payments of $2.6 million through June 2001,
and includes renewal and purchase options based on fair market value. This plant
is  included  in  plant  in  service  at its  original  cost of  $54.4  million;
accumulated amortization at December 31, 1995 was $42.4 million.

    In addition,  the Company  leases  certain  land,  buildings,  equipment and
miscellaneous  other items  through  operating  rental  agreements  with varying
terms, provisions and expiration dates. Rent expense for 1995, 1994 and 1993 was
approximately  $15.4  million,  $21.3 million and $21.5  million,  respectively.
Annual future minimum rental commitments,  excluding the Palo Verde and combined
cycle leases,  through 2000 are as follows:  1996,  $15.5 million;  1997,  $15.5
million;  1998, $15.5 million; 1999 $15.6 million and 2000, $15.7 million. Total
rental commitments after the year 2000 are estimated at $181 million.

11. Jointly-Owned Facilities

    At December 31, 1995,  APS owned  interests in the  following  jointly-owned
electric generating and transmission facilities. APS' share of related operating
and maintenance expenses is included in utility operations and maintenance.


- - ----------
(a) APS is the operating  agent for Cholla Unit 4, which is owned by PacifiCorp.
    The common facilities at the Cholla Plant are jointly-owned.

(b) Weighted average of interests.


                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


12. Commitments and Contingencies

Litigation

    The Company is party to various claims, legal actions and complaints arising
in the ordinary course of business.  In the opinion of management,  the ultimate
resolution  of these  matters  will not have a  material  adverse  effect on the
operations or financial position of the Company.

Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station

    APS has  encountered  tube cracking in steam  generators and has taken,  and
will continue to take, remedial actions that it believes have slowed the rate of
tube  degradation.  The  projected  service  life  of the  steam  generators  is
reassessed  periodically in conjunction  with  inspections made during scheduled
outages at the Palo Verde units.  APS' ongoing analyses indicate that it will be
economically  desirable  for APS to replace the Unit 2 steam  generators,  which
have been most affected by tube cracking, in five to ten years. APS expects that
the steam generator  replacement can be accomplished within financial parameters
established before  replacement was a consideration,  and APS estimates that its
share of the replacement  costs (in 1995 dollars and including  installation and
replacement  power costs) will be between $30 million and $50  million,  most of
which will be incurred  after the year 2000.  APS expects  that the  replacement
would be performed in  conjunction  with a normal  refueling  outage in order to
limit  incremental  outage time to  approximately  50 days.  Based on the latest
available data, APS estimates that the Unit 1 and Unit 3 steam generators should
operate for the license  periods (until 2025 and 2027,  respectively),  although
APS will continue its normal periodic assessment of these steam generators.

    The Palo Verde  participants  have insurance for public  liability  payments
resulting  from  nuclear  energy  hazards to the full limit of  liability  under
federal law. This potential  liability is covered by primary liability insurance
provided by commercial  insurance carriers in the amount of $200 million and the
balance by an industry-wide  retrospective  assessment program. If losses at any
nuclear power plant  covered by this program  exceed the  accumulated  funds for
this  program,  APS could be assessed  retrospective  premium  adjustments.  The
maximum  assessment  per reactor under the program for each nuclear  incident is
approximately  $79  million,  subject  to an  annual  limit of $10  million  per
incident.  Based upon APS' 29.1%  interest in the three Palo Verde  units,  APS'
maximum  potential  assessment per incident for all three units is approximately
$69 million, with an annual payment limitation of approximately $9 million.

    The Palo Verde participants  maintain "all risk" (including nuclear hazards)
insurance for property damage to, and decontamination of, property at Palo Verde
in the aggregate  amount of $2.75 billion,  a substantial  portion of which must
first be applied to  stabilization  and  decontamination.  APS has also  secured
insurance  against  portions of any  increased  cost of  generation or purchased
power and business interruption resulting from a sudden and unforeseen outage of
any of the  three  units.  The  insurance  coverage  discussed  in this  and the
previous paragraph is subject to certain policy conditions and exclusions.

Construction Program

    APS' total capital expenditures in 1996 are estimated at $246 million.

Fuel and Purchased Power Commitments

    APS is a party to various  fuel and  purchased  power  contracts  with terms
expiring from 1996 through 2020 that include required purchase  provisions.  APS
estimates  its 1996  contract  requirements  to be  approximately  $99  million.
However,  this amount may vary  significantly  pursuant to certain provisions in
such contracts which permit APS to decrease its required purchases under certain
circumstances.

    Additionally,  APS is  contractually  obligated  to  reimburse  certain coal
providers  for amounts  incurred  for coal mine  reclamation.  APS' share of the
total  obligation  is  estimated at $123  million.  The portion of the coal mine
reclamation  obligation which was recorded in 1995 on the  Consolidated  Balance
Sheets as "Deferred Credits -- Other" with a corresponding  regulatory asset for
approximately $74 million relates to coal already burned.


                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

13. Nuclear Decommissioning Costs

    In 1995,  APS  recorded  $11.7  million  for  decommissioning  expense.  APS
estimates  it  will  cost  approximately  $2.0  billion  ($421  million  in 1995
dollars),  over a fourteen year period  beginning in 2024, to  decommission  its
29.1% interest in Palo Verde.  Decommissioning costs are charged to expense over
the respective unit's operating license term and are included in the accumulated
depreciation balance until each unit is retired.  Nuclear  decommissioning costs
are currently recovered in rates.

    APS is utilizing a 1995 site-specific study for Palo Verde, prepared for APS
by an  independent  consultant,  that  assumes the prompt  removal/dismantlement
method of  decommissioning.  APS is  required  to update the study  every  three
years.

    As required by regulation,  APS has established external trust accounts into
which quarterly deposits are made for decommissioning.  As of December 31, 1995,
APS had deposited a total of $56.7  million.  The trust accounts are included in
"Investments  and Other Assets" on the  Consolidated  Balance Sheets at a market
value of $74.5  million on  December  31,  1995.  The trust  funds are  invested
primarily in  fixed-income  securities  and domestic stock and are classified as
available for sale.  Realized and  unrealized  gains and losses are reflected in
accumulated depreciation.

    In 1994,  FASB  added a project  to its  agenda on  accounting  for  nuclear
decommissioning   obligations.   FASB  recently  issued  an  exposure  draft  on
"Accounting for Certain  Liabilities Related to Closure or Removal of Long-lived
Assets"  (formerly  Nuclear  Decommissioning)  which would require the estimated
present value of the cost of  decommissioning  and certain other removal cost to
be  recorded  as a  liability,  along  with an  offsetting  plant  asset  when a
decommissioning  or other  removal  obligation  is incurred.  FASB has requested
comments on its proposed statement.  The expected effective date is 1997. APS is
unable at this time to determine what impact the final statement may have on its
financial position or results of operation.


14. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

    Consolidated  quarterly  financial  information  for  1995  and  1994  is as
follows:


                        PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


- - ----------

(a) APS' operations are subject to seasonal  fluctuations  primarily as a result
    of weather conditions. The results of operations for interim periods are not
    necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year.

(b) Net income for the quarter ended  December 31, 1994  includes  $26.8 million
    ($0.31 per share) of  non-recurring  income tax benefits related to a change
    in income tax law.  

15. Fair Value of Financial Instruments

   The Company  estimates that the carrying  amounts of its cash equivalents and
commercial  paper are reasonable  estimates of their fair values at December 31,
1995 and 1994 due to their short maturities.

    Investments  in debt and equity  securities are held for purposes other than
trading.  The  December  31,  1995 and 1994  fair  values  of such  investments,
determined by using quoted market values or by  discounting  cash flows at rates
equal to the Company's cost of capital,  approximate their carrying amounts.  It
was not  practical  to estimate the fair value of several  investments  in joint
ventures  and  untraded  equity  securities  because  costs  to do so  would  be
excessive.  The carrying  value of these  investments  totaled $22.8 million and
$40.6 million at year-end 1995 and 1994, respectively.

    The  carrying  value  of  long-term  debt  (excluding  a  capitalized  lease
obligation)  on December 31, 1995 and 1994 was $2.50 billion and $2.64  billion,
respectively,  and the estimated fair value was $2.52 billion and $2.49 billion,
respectively.  The fair value estimates are based on quoted market prices of the
same or similar issues.


                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
               SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS


(a) Represents pro-rata allocations for sale of land.

            ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
                                   ACCOUNTING
                            AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

   None.


                                    PART III
                        ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE
                           OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

   Reference  is  hereby  made  to  "Election  of  Directors"  and  "Section  16
Requirements" in the Company's Proxy Statement relating to the annual meeting of
shareholders to be held on May 22, 1996 (the "1996 Proxy  Statement") and to the
Supplemental  Item --  "Executive  Officers  of the  Company"  in Part I of this
report.
                         ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

   Reference is hereby made to the fourth and fifth paragraphs under the heading
"The Board and its  Committees,"  and to  "Executive  Compensation"  in the 1996
Proxy Statement.
                         ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF
                    CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

   Reference is hereby made to "Certain Securities  Ownership" in the 1996 Proxy
Statement.
             ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

   Reference is hereby made to the last  paragraph  under the heading "The Board
and its Committees" in the 1996 Proxy Statement.


                                   PART IV
         ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT
                      SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules

   See the Index to Financial  Statements  and Financial  Statement  Schedule in
Part II, Item 8.

Exhibits Filed

  Exhibit No.                                   Description
- - ---- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
3.1         --  Bylaws, amended as of February 21, 1996
10.1(a)     --  Summary of the Pinnacle West Capital  Corporation  1996 Bonus
                Plan 
10.2(a)     --  First  Amendment to Employment  Agreement,  effective as of
                March 31, 1995, between
                Richard Snell and the Company
22          --  Subsidiaries of the Company
23.1        --  Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP
27.1        --  Financial Data Schedule

   In addition to those  Exhibits shown above,  the Company hereby  incorporates
the  following  Exhibits  pursuant  to Exchange  Act Rule 12b-32 and  Regulation
201.24 by reference to the filings set forth below:





















































REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

   During the quarter  ended  December 31, 1995,  and the period ended March 28,
1996, the Company did not file any Report on Form 8-K.

   Report filed December 14, 1995  regarding APS' Rate Reduction  Agreement with
the ACC Staff dated December 4, 1995.


                                   SIGNATURES

   Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or  15(d)  of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                  PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
                                           (Registrant)
Date: March 29, 1996
                                            RICHARD SNELL
                             ---------------------------------------------------
                            (Richard Snell, Chairman of the Board of Directors,
                                 President and Chief Executive Officer)


   Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,  this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.




                                   APPENDIX


   In accordance with Item 304 of Regulation S-T of the Securities  Exchange Act
of 1934, APS' Service  Territory map contained in this Form 10-K is a map of the
State of Arizona  showing  APS'  service  area,  the location of its major power
plants and principal  transmission lines, and the location of transmission lines
operated by APS for others.  The major  power  plants  shown on such map are the
Navajo Generating Station located in Coconino County,  Arizona; the Four Corners
Power Plant located near Farmington, New Mexico; the Cholla Power Plant, located
in Navajo County,  Arizona;  the Yucca Power Plant,  located near Yuma, Arizona;
and the Palo Verde Nuclear  Generating  Station,  located about 55 miles west of
Phoenix, Arizona (each of which plants is reflected on such map as being jointly
owned  with  other  utilities),  as well as the  Ocotillo  Power  Plant and West
Phoenix Power Plant, each located near Phoenix,  Arizona,  and the Saguaro Power
Plant, located near Tucson, Arizona. APS' major transmission lines shown on such
map are  reflected  as running  between the power plants named above and certain
major cities in the State of Arizona. The transmission lines operated for others
shown on such map are reflected as running from the Four Corners Plant through a
portion of northern Arizona to the California border.


                                                 COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-8962
================================================================================

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                  ----------

                                 EXHIBITS TO


                                1995 FORM 10-K

               ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                     THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995
                                  ----------
                      PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION
              (Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)

================================================================================

                              INDEX TO EXHIBITS



