Item 1.BUSINESS

General

Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation, doing business as Wabtec Corporation, is a Delaware corporation with headquarters at 1001
Air Brake Avenue in Wilmerding, Pennsylvania. Our telephone number is 412-825-1000, and our website is located atwww.wabtec.com. All references to “we”, “our”, “us”, the “Company” and
“Wabtec” refer to Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries. Westinghouse Air Brake Company (“WABCO”) was formed in 1990 when it acquired certain assets and operations from American Standard, Inc., now
known as Trane (“Trane”). In 1999, WABCO merged with MotivePower Industries, Inc. (“MotivePower”) and adopted the name Wabtec.

Today, Wabtec is one of the world’s largest providers of value-added, technology-based equipment and services for the global rail industry. We believe we hold approximately a 50% market share in
North America for our primary braking-related equipment and a leading position in North America for most of our other product lines. Our highly engineered products, which are intended to enhance safety, improve productivity and reduce maintenance
costs for customers, can be found on virtually all U.S. locomotives, freight cars, subway cars and buses. In 2012, the Company had sales of approximately $2.4 billion and net income of about $251.7 million. In 2012 sales of aftermarket parts and
services represented about 54% of total sales, while sales to customers outside of the U.S. accounted for about 50% of total sales.

Industry Overview

The
Company primarily serves the worldwide freight rail and passenger transit industries. As such, our operating results are largely dependent on the level of activity, financial condition and capital spending plans of the global railroad and transit
industries. Many factors influence these industries, including general economic conditions; rail traffic, as measured by freight tonnage and passenger ridership; government spending on public transportation; and investment in new technologies by
freight rail and passenger transit systems.

According to a recent study by UNIFE, the Association of the European Rail
Industry, the accessible global market for railway products and services is more than $100.0 billion, and it is expected to grow at 2%-2.5% annually through 2016. The three largest markets, which represent about 75% of the total market, are Europe,
Asia-Pacific and North America.

In North America, railroads carry about 40% of intercity freight, as measured by ton-miles,
which is more than any other mode of transportation. They are an integral part of the continent’s economy and transportation system, serving nearly every industrial, wholesale and retail sector. Through direct ownership and operating
partnerships, U.S. railroads are part of an integrated network that includes railroads in Canada and Mexico, forming what is regarded as the world’s most-efficient and lowest-cost freight rail service. There are more than 500 railroads
operating in North America, with the largest railroads, referred to as “Class I,” accounting for more than 90% of the industry’s revenues. Although the railroads carry a wide variety of commodities and goods, coal is the
single-largest item, representing about 40% of carloadings in 2012. Intermodal traffic—the movement of trailers or containers by rail in combination with another mode of transportation—has been the railroads’ fastest-growing market
segment in the past 10 years. Railroads operate in a competitive environment, especially with the trucking industry, and are always seeking ways to improve safety, cost and reliability. New technologies offered by Wabtec and others in the industry
can provide some of these benefits.

Demand for our freight related products and services in North America is driven by a
number of factors, including:



•Rail traffic.The Association of American Railroads (“AAR”) compiles statistics that gauge the level of activity in the freight rail
industry. Two important statistics are revenue ton-miles and carloadings,







which are generally referred to as “rail traffic”. In 2012, U.S. revenue ton-miles decreased 2.4%, carloadings decreased 3.1%, and intermodal carloadings increased 3.2%, generally
reflecting a sluggish economy and reduced coal traffic.



•Demand for new locomotives.Currently, the active locomotive fleet for Class I railroads in North America is about 24,000. The average
number of new locomotives delivered in recent years has been about 1,100 annually. In 2012, about 1,300 new, heavy-haul locomotives were delivered, compared to about 1,075 in 2011.



•Demand for new freight cars. Currently, the active freight car fleet in North America is about 1.3 million. The average number of new
freight cars delivered over the past 10 years was about 49,000 annually. In 2012, about 59,000 new freight cars were delivered, compared to about 48,000 cars in 2011.

In the U.S., the passenger transit industry is dependent largely on funding from federal, state and local governments, and from fare box
revenues. With about 40% of the nation’s passenger transit vehicles, the New York City region is the largest passenger transit market in the U.S., but most major cities also offer either rail or bus transit services.

Demand for North American passenger transit products is driven by a number of factors, including:



•Government funding.The U.S. federal government provides money to local transit authorities, primarily to fund the purchase of new equipment and
infrastructure for their transit systems. In 2012, the U.S. Congress passed a new, two-year funding bill, which maintained spending at the same level, about $10.7 billion, as in prior years. The number of new transit cars delivered in 2012 was about
1,000, compared to about 850 in 2011. The number of new buses delivered in 2012 was about 4,500 compared to about 4,700 in 2011. In the past 10 years, the average number of new transit cars delivered annually is about 900, and the average
number of new buses delivered annually is about 4,700.



•Ridership. Ridership provides fare box revenues to transit authorities, which use these funds, along with state and local money, primarily for
equipment and system maintenance. Based on preliminary figures from the American Public Transportation Association, ridership on U.S. transit vehicles increased about 2.5% in 2012, after a 2% increase in 2011.

Outside of North America, many of the rail systems have historically been focused on passenger transit, rather than freight. In recent
years, however, railroads in countries such as Australia, Brazil, India and China have been investing capital to expand and improve both their freight and passenger rail systems. Throughout the world, some government-owned railroads are being sold
to private owners, who often look to improve the efficiency of the rail system by investing in new equipment and new technologies. According to UNIFE, emerging markets are expected to grow at above-average rates as global trade creates increases in
freight volumes and urbanization leads to increased demand for efficient mass-transportation systems. As this growth occurs, Wabtec expects to have additional opportunities to provide products and services in these markets.

In Europe, the majority of the rail system serves the passenger transit market, which is expected to continue growing as high fuel costs
and environmental factors encourage investment in public mass transit. France, Germany, the United Kingdom and Italy are the largest transit markets, representing about two-thirds of passenger traffic in the European Union. In its most recent
financial report, Deutsche Bahn (German national railway) reported an increase in passenger traffic of 4.0% for the first six months of 2012. About 75% of freight traffic in Europe is hauled by truck, while rail accounts for about 20%. The largest
freight markets in Europe are Germany, Poland and the United Kingdom. In the first half of 2012, Deutsche Bahn reported a 2.6% decrease in freight-related revenues compared to the same period in 2011. According to UNIFE, the European rail market
consists of about 33,000 locomotives, about 700,000 freight cars and about 150,000 passenger transit cars. In recent years, the European market purchased on average about 1,300 new locomotives, about 1,000 new freight cars and about 8,500 new
passenger transit cars annually.







The Asia/Pacific market is now the second-largest geographic segment, according to a recent
UNIFE study. This market consists primarily of China, India and Australia. Growth has been driven by the continued urbanization of China and India, and by investment in freight rail infrastructure to serve the mining and natural resources markets in
those countries, as well as in Australia. According to UNIFE, this market consists of about 34,000 locomotives and about 1.0 million freight cars. China is expected to increase spending on rail infrastructure and equipment in 2013. The Indian
government reported that in the first nine months of its fiscal 2012 freight rail traffic increased about 4% and passenger rail traffic increased about 3%. India is expected to increase spending significantly in 2013 as it seeks to modernize its
rail system.

Business Segments and Products

We provide our products and services through two principal business segments, the Freight Segment and the Transit Segment, both of which have different market characteristics and business drivers.

The Freight Segment primarily manufactures and services components for new and existing locomotive and freight cars ,
supplies railway electronics, positive train control equipment, signal design and engineering services, builds switcher locomotives, rebuilds freight locomotives and provides heat exchangers and cooling systems for rail and other industrial markets.
Customers include large, publicly traded railroads, leasing companies, manufacturers of original equipment such as locomotives and freight cars, and utilities. As discussed previously, demand in the freight market is primarily driven by rail
traffic, and deliveries of new locomotives and freight cars. In 2012, the Freight Segment accounted for 63% of our total sales, with about 70% of its sales in North America and the remainder to international customers. In 2012, slightly less than
half of the Freight Segment’s sales were in aftermarket.

The Transit Segment primarily manufactures and services
components for new and existing passenger transit vehicles, typically subway cars and buses, builds new commuter locomotives and refurbishes subway cars. Customers include public transit authorities and municipalities, leasing companies, and
manufacturers of subway cars and buses around the world. As discussed previously, demand in the transit market is primarily driven by government funding at all levels and passenger ridership. In 2012, the Transit Segment accounted for 37% of our
total sales, with about 54% of its sales in North America and the remainder to international customers. About two-thirds of the Transit Segment’s sales are in the aftermarket with the remainder in the original equipment market.

Following is a summary of our leading product lines in both aftermarket and original equipment across both of our business segments:

Specialty Products & Electronics:



•Positive Train Control equipment and electronically controlled pneumatic braking products



•Railway electronics, including event recorders, monitoring equipment and end of train devices



•Signal design and engineering services



•Freight car truck components



•Draft gears, couplers and slack adjusters



•Air compressors and dryers



•Heat exchangers and cooling products for locomotives and power generation equipment



•Track and switch products







Brake Products:



•Railway braking equipment and related components for Freight and Transit applications



•Friction products, including brake shoes and pads

Remanufacturing, Overhaul and Build:



•New commuter and switcher locomotives



•Transit car and locomotive overhaul and refurbishment

Transit Products:



•Door and window assemblies for buses and subway cars



•Accessibility lifts and ramps for buses and subway cars



•Traction motors

We have become a leader in the rail industry by capitalizing on the strength of our existing products, technological capabilities and new product innovation, and by our ability to harden products to
protect them from severe conditions, including extreme temperatures and high-vibration environments. Supported by our technical staff of over 1,120 engineers and specialists, we have extensive experience in a broad range of product lines, which
enables us to provide comprehensive, systems-based solutions for our customers.

Over the past several
years, we introduced a number of significant new products, including electronic braking equipment and train control equipment that encompasses onboard digital data and global positioning communication protocols. In 2007, for example, the Federal
Railroad Administration (FRA) approved the use of our Electronic Train Management System®, which offers safety
benefits to the rail industry. In 2008, the U.S. federal government enacted a rail safety bill that mandates the use of Positive Train Control (“PTC”) technology, which includes on-board locomotive computer and related software, on a
majority of the locomotives and track in the U.S. With our Electronic Train Management System®, we are the
leading supplier of this on-board train control equipment, and we are working with the U.S. Class I railroads, commuter rail authorities and other industry suppliers to implement this technology by the December 31, 2015 deadline set in the rail
safety bill. As part of its new surface transportation funding bill, a House committee has proposed extending this deadline.

In 2012, Wabtec recorded about $215 million of revenue from implementation of PTC projects both foreign and domestic. These multi-year
projects include: A $165 million contract to design and install a train control system for MRS Logistica, the fourth-largest railroad in Brazil; a $63 million contract to provide train control equipment and services for Denver Transit Partners for
three new commuter rail lines; and a $27 million contract to provide train control equipment for Metrolink, a commuter rail agency in Los Angeles.

For additional information on our business segments, see Note 19 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

Competitive Strengths

Our key strengths include:



•Leading market positions in core products. Dating back to 1869 and George Westinghouse’s invention of the air brake, we are an established
leader in the development and manufacture of pneumatic braking equipment for freight and passenger transit vehicles. We have leveraged our leading position by focusing on research and engineering to expand beyond pneumatic braking components to
supplying integrated parts and assemblies for the locomotive through the end of the train. We are a recognized







leader in the development and production of electronic recording, measuring and communications systems, positive train control equipment, highly engineered compressors and heat exchangers for
locomotives, and a leading manufacturer of freight car components, including electronic braking equipment, draft gears, trucks, brake shoes and electronic end-of-train devices. We are also the leading manufacturer of commuter locomotives and a
leading provider of braking equipment, door assemblies, lifts and ramps, and couplers for passenger transit vehicles.



•Breadth of product offering with a stable mix of original equipment market (OEM) and aftermarket business. Our product portfolio is one of the
broadest in the rail industry, as we offer a wide selection of quality parts, components and assemblies across the entire train. We provide our products in both the original equipment market and the aftermarket. Our substantial installed base of
products with end-users such as the railroads and the passenger transit authorities is a significant competitive advantage for providing products and services to the aftermarket because these customers often look to purchase safety- and
performance-related replacement parts from the original equipment components supplier. In addition, as OEMs and Class I railroad operators attempt to modernize fleets with new products designed to improve and maintain safety and efficiency, these
products must be designed to be interoperable with existing equipment. Over the last several years, more than 50% of our total net sales have come from our aftermarket products and services business.



•Leading design and engineering capabilities. We believe a hallmark of our relationship with our customers has been our leading design and
engineering practice, which has, in our opinion, assisted in the improvement and modernization of global railway equipment. We believe both our customers and the government authorities value our technological capabilities and commitment to
innovation, as we seek not only to enhance the efficiency and profitability of our customers, but also to improve the overall safety of the railways through continuous improvement of product performance. The Company has an established record of
product improvements and new product development. We have assembled a wide range of patented products, which we believe provides us with a competitive advantage. Wabtec currently owns over 1,475 active patents worldwide and over 520 U.S. patents.
During the last three years, we have filed for more than 175 patents worldwide in support of our new and evolving product lines.



•Experience with industry regulatory requirements.The U.S. rail industry is governed by the AAR and by the FRA. These groups mandate rigorous
manufacturer certification, new product testing and approval processes that we believe are difficult for new entrants to meet cost-effectively and efficiently without the scale and extensive experience we possess.



•Experienced management team and the Wabtec Performance System. The Company has implemented numerous initiatives that enable us to manage
successfully through cycles in the rail supply market. For example, the Wabtec Performance System (WPS), an ongoing program that focuses on lean manufacturing principles and continuous improvement across all aspects of our business, has been a part
of the Company’s culture for more than 20 years. As a result, our management team has improved our cost structure, operating leverage and financial flexibility, and placed the Company in an excellent position to benefit from growth
opportunities.

Business strategy

Using WPS, we strive to generate sufficient cash to invest in our growth strategies and to build on what we consider to be a leading position as a low-cost producer in the industry while maintaining
world-class product quality, technology and customer responsiveness. Through WPS and employee-directed initiatives such as Kaizen, a Japanese-developed team concept, we continuously strive to improve quality, delivery and productivity, and to reduce
costs. These efforts enable us to streamline processes, improve product reliability and customer satisfaction, reduce product cycle times and respond more rapidly to market developments. Over time,







these lean initiatives have enabled us to increase operating margins, improve cash flow and strengthen our ability to invest in the following growth strategies:



•Expand globally and into new product markets. We believe that international markets represent a significant opportunity for future growth. In
2012, sales to non-U.S. customers were $1.1 billion, including export sales from the Company’s U.S. operations of $579.6 million. We intend to increase our existing international sales through strategic acquisitions, direct sales of products
through our existing subsidiaries and licensees, and joint ventures with railway suppliers which have a strong presence in their local markets. We are specifically targeting markets that operate significant fleets of U.S.-style locomotives and
freight cars, including Australia, Brazil, China, India, Russia, South Africa, and other select areas within Europe and South America. In addition, we have opportunities to sell certain products that we currently manufacture for the rail industry
into other industrial markets, such as mining, off-highway and energy. These products include heat exchangers and friction materials.



•Expand aftermarket sales. Historically, aftermarket sales are less cyclical than OEM sales because a certain level of aftermarket maintenance
and service work must be performed, even during an industry slowdown. In 2012, Wabtec’s aftermarket sales and services represented approximately 54% of the Company’s total sales across both our business segments. Wabtec provides
aftermarket parts and services for its components, and the Company is seeking to expand this business with new customers such as short-line and regional railroads, or with customers who currently perform the work in-house. In this way, we expect to
take advantage of the rail industry trend toward outsourcing, as railroads and transit authorities focus on their core function of transporting goods and people.



•Accelerate new product development. We continue to emphasize research and development funding to create new and improved products. We are
focusing on technological advances, especially in the areas of electronics, braking products and other on-board equipment, as a means of new product growth. We seek to provide customers with incremental technological advances that offer immediate
benefits with cost-effective investments. In 2008, the U.S. federal government enacted a rail safety bill that mandates the use of PTC technology on a majority of the locomotives and track in the U.S. As the leading supplier of on-board train
control equipment, Wabtec is working with the U.S. Class I railroads, commuter rail authorities and other industry suppliers to implement this technology.



•Seek acquisitions, joint ventures and alliances. We are exploring acquisition, joint venture and alliance opportunities using a disciplined,
selective approach and rigorous financial criteria. Such acquisitions will not only be expected to meet these financial criteria but also achieve our growth strategies of global expansion, new products and expanding aftermarket sales. All of these
expansion strategies will help Wabtec to grow profitably, expand geographically, and dampen the impact from potential cycles in the North American rail industry.

Recent Acquisitions and Joint Ventures

Wabtec has completed certain
significant acquisitions in support of its growth strategies mentioned above:



•On January 31, 2013, Wabtec acquired Napier Turbochargers Ltd., a UK-based provider of turbochargers and related parts for the worldwide power
generation and marine markets, for a net purchase price of approximately $112.5 million, net of cash.



•October 2012, Wabtec acquired LH Group, a UK-based provider of maintenance and overhaul services for the passenger transit market, for a net purchase
price of approximately $47.8 million.



•July 2012, Wabtec acquired Winco Equipamentos Ltda., a Brazil-based marketing and sales company and provider of freight car components with
capabilities including value-added engineering and assembly, service, and technical support and logistics, for an initial net purchase price of approximately $3.7 million.



•July 2012, the Company acquired Tec Tran Corp. and its affiliates, the only U.S. owned manufacturer of hydraulic braking systems for transit cars, for
a net purchase price of approximately $8.3 million.







•June 2012, we acquired Mors Smitt Holding, a leading manufacturer of electronic components for rail and industrial markets with operations in the
Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the U.S., France, China, and Hong Kong, for a net purchase price of $90.0 million.



•November 2011, Wabtec acquired Fulmer Company, a leading manufacturer of motor components for rail, power generation and other industrial markets, for
a net purchase price of approximately $13.6 million.



•November 2011, Wabtec acquired Bearward Engineering, a UK-based manufacturer of cooling systems and related equipment for power generation and other
industrial markets, for a net purchase price of approximately $43.6 million.



•June 2011, we acquired an aftermarket transit parts business from GE Transportation, a parts supply business for propulsion and control systems for the
passenger transit car aftermarket in North America, for a net purchase price of $21.1 million.



•February 2011, the Company acquired Brush Traction Group, a UK-based provider of locomotive overhauls, services and aftermarket components, for a net
purchase price of approximately $30.7 million.

Backlog

The Company’s backlog was about $1.66 billion at December 31, 2012. For 2012, about 54% of total sales came from aftermarket
orders, which typically carry lead times of less than 30 days, and are not recorded in backlog for a significant period of time.

The Company’s contracts are subject to standard industry cancellation provisions, including cancellations on short notice or upon completion of designated stages. Substantial scope-of-work
adjustments are common. For these and other reasons, completion of the Company’s backlog may be delayed or cancelled. The railroad industry, in general, has historically been subject to fluctuations due to overall economic conditions and the
level of use of alternative modes of transportation.

The backlog of firm customer orders as of December 31, 2012 and
December 31, 2011, and the expected year of completion are as follows:



In thousandsTotalBacklog12/31/12Expected DeliveryTotalBacklog12/31/11Expected Delivery2013OtherYears2012OtherYearsFreight Segment$491,772$413,839$77,933$712,903$591,405$121,498Transit Segment1,167,731703,039464,692836,482481,721354,761Total$1,659,503$1,116,878$542,625$1,549,385$1,073,126$476,259

Engineering and Development

To execute our strategy to develop new products, we invest in a variety of engineering and development activities. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, we invested about
$41.3 million, $37.2 million and $40.2 million, respectively, on product development and improvement activities. The engineering resources of the Company are allocated between research and development activities and the execution of original
equipment customer contracts.

Our engineering and development program is largely focused upon train control and new braking
technologies, with an emphasis on applying electronics to traditional pneumatic equipment. Electronic braking has been used in the transit industry for years, and freight railroads are conducting pilot programs to test its







reliability and benefits. Freight railroads have generally been slower to accept the technology due to issues over interoperability, connectivity and durability. We are proceeding with efforts to
enhance the major components for existing hard-wired braking equipment and development of new electronic technologies for the freight railroads. Sometimes we conduct specific research projects in conjunction with universities, customers and other
railroad product suppliers.

We use our Product Development System (PDS) to develop and monitor new product programs. The
system requires the product development team to follow consistent steps throughout the development process, from concept to launch, to ensure the product will meet customer expectations and internal profitability targets.

Intellectual Property

We have more than 1,475 active patents worldwide. We also rely on a combination of trade secrets and other intellectual property laws,
nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our intellectual property.

Certain trademarks, among them the name WABCO®, were acquired or
licensed from American Standard Inc., now known as Trane, in 1990 at the time of our acquisition of the North American operations of the Railway Products Group of Trane. Other trademarks have been developed through the normal course of business, or
acquired as a part of our ongoing merger and acquisition program.

We have entered into a variety of license agreements as
licensor and licensee. We do not believe that any single license agreement is of material importance to our business or either of our business segments as a whole.

We have issued licenses to the two sole suppliers of railway air brakes and related products in Japan, Nabtesco and Mitsubishi Electric Company. The licensees pay annual license fees to us and also assist
us by acting as liaisons with key Japanese passenger transit vehicle builders for projects in North America. We believe that our relationships with these licensees have been beneficial to our core transit business and customer relationships in North
America.

Customers

Our customers include railroads and passenger transit authorities throughout North America, as well as in the United Kingdom, Australia, Europe, Asia, South Africa and South America; manufacturers of
transportation equipment, such as locomotives, freight cars, subway vehicles and buses; and lessors of such equipment.

In
2012, about 50% of sales were to customers outside the U.S. and to more than 100 countries throughout the world. About 54% of sales were in the aftermarket, with a majority of our remaining sales to OEMs of locomotives, freight cars, subway vehicles
and buses.

Top customers can change from year to year. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, our top five
customers accounted for 16% of net sales: General Electric Transportation, MRS Logistica S.A., National Steel Car Limited, Trinity Industries, and The Greenbrier Companies. No one customer represents 10% or more of consolidated sales. We believe
that we have strong relationships with all of our key customers.

Competition

We believe that we hold approximately a 50% market share in North America for our primary braking-related equipment and a leading market
position in North America for most of our other product lines. On a global basis, our market shares are smaller. We operate in a highly competitive marketplace. Price competition is strong because we have a relatively small number of customers and
they are very cost-conscious.

In addition to price, competition is based on product performance and technological leadership,
quality, reliability of delivery, and customer service and support.







Our principal competitors vary across product lines. Within North America, New York Air
Brake Company, a subsidiary of the German air brake producer Knorr-Bremse AG (“Knorr”) and Amsted Rail Company, Inc., a subsidiary of Amsted Industries Corporation, are our principal overall OEM competitors. Our competition for locomotive,
freight and passenger transit service and repair is mostly from the railroads’ and passenger transit authorities’ in-house operations, Electro-Motive Diesel, GE Transportation Systems, and New York Air Brake/Knorr. We believe our key
strengths, which include leading market positions in core products, breadth of product offering with a stable mix of OEM and aftermarket business, leading design and engineering capabilities, significant barriers to entry and an experienced
management team, enable us to compete effectively in this marketplace. Outside of North America, no individual company is our principal competitor in all our operating locations. Largest competitors for Brake and Transit products are Faiveley
Transport and Knorr.

Employees

At December 31, 2012, we had 9,253 full-time employees, approximately 27% of whom were unionized. A majority of the employees subject to collective bargaining agreements are within North America and
these agreements are generally effective from 2013 through 2015. Agreements expiring at various times during 2013 cover approximately 16% of the Company’s workforce. We consider our relations with employees and union representatives to be good,
but cannot assure that future contract negotiations will be favorable to us.

Regulation

In the course of our operations, we are subject to various regulations of agencies and other entities. In the United States, these include
principally the FRA and the AAR. The FRA administers and enforces federal laws and regulations relating to railroad safety. These regulations govern equipment and safety standards for freight cars and other rail equipment used in interstate
commerce. The AAR oversees a wide variety of rules and regulations governing safety and design of equipment, relationships among railroads with respect to railcars in interchange and other matters. The AAR also certifies railcar builders and
component manufacturers that provide equipment for use on railroads in the United States. New products generally must undergo AAR testing and approval processes. As a result of these regulations and those stipulated in other countries in which we
derive our revenues, we must maintain certain certifications as a component manufacturer and for products we sell.

Effects of Seasonality

Our business is not typically seasonal, although the third quarter results may be impacted by vacation and scheduled plant
shutdowns at several of our major customers during this period.

Environmental Matters

Information on environmental matters is included in Note 18 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Part IV,
Item 15 of this report.

Available Information

We maintain an Internet site atwww.wabtec.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as the annual report to stockholders and other information, are available free of charge on this site. The Internet site and the information contained therein or
connected thereto are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, the charters of our Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees, our Code of Conduct, which is applicable to all
employees, and our Code of Ethics for Senior Officers, which is applicable to all of our executive officers, are also available free of charge on this site and are available in print to any shareholder who requests them.







