ITEM 1 - BUSINESS



Emerson was incorporated in Missouri in 1890, and has grown from a regional manufacturer of electric motors and fans into a diversified global technology company. Having expanded its product lines through internal growth and acquisitions, Emerson today is designing and supplying products and technology, and delivering engineering services and solutions in a wide range of industrial, commercial and consumer markets around the world.



Emerson is organized into the business segments below, based on the nature of the products and services rendered (more complete descriptions follow):



•Process Management- providing measurement, control and diagnostic capabilities for automated industrial processes producing items such as fuels, chemicals, foods, medicines and power.



•Industrial Automation- bringing integrated manufacturing solutions to diverse industries worldwide.



•Network Power- providing power conditioning and reliability, and environmental control to help keep telecommunication systems, data networks and other critical business applications continuously operating.



•Climate Technologies- enhancing household and commercial comfort as well as food safety and energy efficiency through air conditioning and refrigeration technology.



•Commercial & Residential Solutions- providing tools for professionals and homeowners, home and commercial storage systems, and appliance solutions.



Sales, earnings before interest and income taxes, and total assets attributable to each business segment for the three years ended September 30, 2012, are set forth in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2012 Annual Report, which note is hereby incorporated by reference. Percentage sales by segment in 2012 were Process Management, 31 percent; Industrial Automation, 21 percent; Network Power, 25 percent; Climate Technologies, 15 percent; and Commercial & Residential Solutions, 8 percent. Sales by geographic destination in 2012 were the United States and Canada, 45 percent; Asia, 24 percent; Europe, 20 percent; Latin America, 6 percent; and Middle East/Africa, 5 percent. Information with respect to acquisition and divestiture activities and rationalization of operations is set forth in Notes 3 and 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2012 Annual Report, which notes are hereby incorporated by reference.



PROCESS MANAGEMENT



The Process Management segment offers customers products and technology as well as engineering and project management services for precision measurement, control, monitoring and asset optimization of oil and gas reservoirs and power generating plants, or plants that process or treat such items as oil, natural gas and petrochemicals; food and beverages; pulp and paper; pharmaceuticals; and municipal water supplies. This array of products and services helps customers optimize their plant capabilities in the areas of plant safety and reliability, product quality and output efficiency. In 2012, sales by geographic destination for Process Management were the United States and Canada, 39 percent; Asia, 24 percent; Europe, 20 percent; Latin America, 8 percent; and Middle East/Africa, 9 percent.



Process Management Systems and Software



Process Management systems and software control plant processes by collecting and analyzing information from measurement devices in the plant, and then using that information to adjust valves, pumps, motors, drives and other control hardware for maximum product quality and process efficiency. Software capabilities also include upstream oil and gas reservoir simulation and modeling for production optimization. Emerson’s process control systems can be extended wirelessly to support a mobile workforce with handheld tools/communicators, provide site-wide location tracking of people and assets, and enable video monitoring and communication with wireless field devices, thereby increasing the information available to operators.














Measurement and Analytical Instrumentation



Measurement instrumentation measures the physical properties of liquids or gases in a process stream, such as pressure, temperature, level, rate and amount of flow, and communicates this information to a process control system. Measurement technologies provided by Emerson include Coriolis direct mass flow, magnetic flow, vortex flow, ultrasonic flow, differential pressure, ultralow-flow fluid measurement, temperature sensors, radar-based tank gauging and magnetic level gauging. Emerson measurement products are also often used in custody transfer applications, such as the transfer of gasoline from a storage tank to a tanker truck, where precise metering of the amount of fluid transferred helps ensure accurate asset management. Complementary products include onshore and subsea multi-phase meters, wetgas meters, downhole gauges and corrosion/erosion measuring instruments.



Analytical instrumentation analyzes the chemical composition of process fluids and emissions to enhance quality and efficiency, as well as environmental compliance. Emerson’s analytical technologies include process gas chromatographs, in-situ oxygen analyzers, infrared gas and process fluid analyzers, combustion analyzers and systems, and analyzers that measure pH, conductivity and water quality. Emerson provides sensors to detect combustible and toxic gases, and flames. These devices support the safety of people and process plant assets.



The Company also provides these same technologies with wireless communication capability, allowing customers to monitor processes or equipment that were previously not measurable (remote, moving/rotating) or not economical to measure due to the cost and difficulty of running wires in industrial process plants.



Valves, Actuators and Regulators



Control valves respond to commands from a control system to continuously and precisely modulate the flow of process fluids to provide maximum process efficiency and product quality. Emerson provides sliding stem valves, rotary valves and butterfly valves, and related valve actuators and controllers. The Company also provides a line of industrial and residential regulators, whose function is to reduce the pressure of fluids from high-pressure supply lines moving into lower pressure systems.

®

PlantWeb Digital Plant Architecture



PlantWebdigital plant architecture combines the technologies described above with the advantages of “intelligent” plant devices (valves and measurement instruments with advanced diagnostic capabilities), open communication standards (nonproprietary wired and wireless digital protocols allowing the plant devices and the control system to “talk” with one another) and integrated modular software, not only to better control the process but also to collect and analyze valuable information about plant assets and processes. This capability gives customers the ability to detect or predict changes in equipment and process performance and the associated impact on plant operations. PlantWebarchitecture provides the insight to improve plant availability and safety, and also furnishes a platform to continually improve asset management and standards compliance, and to reduce startup, operating and maintenance costs.



Industry Services and Solutions



Process Management’s array of process automation and asset optimization services can improve automation project implementation time and costs, increase process availability and productivity, and reduce the total cost of ownership. Global Industry Centers offer engineering and project management services to help customers extract maximum performance and reliability from their process equipment and automation assets. These Centers serve industries such as oil and gas, pulp and paper, chemicals, power, food and beverage, and life sciences. They also assist customers in diagnosing equipment problems and plant inefficiencies.



Distribution



The principal worldwide distribution channel for the Process Management segment is a direct sales force, although a network of independent sales representatives, and to a lesser extent, independent distributors purchasing these products for resale are also utilized. Approximately half of sales in the United States are made through a direct sales force with the remainder primarily through independent sales representatives. In Europe and Asia, sales are primarily made through a direct sales force with the remainder split evenly between independent sales representatives and distributors.














Brands



Service/trademarks and trade names within the Process Management segment include Emerson Process Management, AMS Suite, Baumann, Bettis, Bristol, CSI, Damcos, Daniel, DeltaV, EIM, El-O-Matic, Fisher, Go Switch, Guardian, Micro Motion, Net Safety, Ovation, PlantWeb, ROC, Rosemount, Roxar, Smart Process, SureService, Tescom, TopWorx and Valvetop.



INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION



The Industrial Automation segment provides integrated manufacturing solutions to our customers at the source of manufacturing their own products. Products include motors, drives, power generating alternators, power transmission solutions, fluid controls and materials joining equipment. Through these offerings, the Company brings technology and enhanced quality to the customer’s final product. In 2012, sales by geographic destination for this segment were the United States and Canada, 41 percent; Asia, 16 percent; Europe, 36 percent; Latin America, 3 percent; and Middle East/Africa, 4 percent.



Motors and Drives



Industrial Automation provides a broad line of drives and electric motors that are used in a wide variety of manufacturing operations and products, including production assembly lines, escalators in shopping malls and supermarket checkout stations. Products in this category include alternating current (AC) and direct current (DC) electrical variable speed drives, servo motors, pump motors, drive control systems, integral horsepower motors (1 HP and above), fractional horsepower motors (less than 1 HP), hermetic motors and gear drives.



Power Generation



Power generation includes low, medium and high voltage alternators for use in diesel and gas powered generator sets, as well as high frequency alternators, AC motor/generator sets, traction generators, wind power generators, wind turbine pitch control systems and solar photovoltaic converters.



Power Transmission



Power transmission products include belt and chain drives, helical and worm gearing, mounted and unmounted bearings, couplings, modular plastic belts and conveying chains and components. They are used to transmit power mechanically, provide anti-friction support or to enable automated material handling in a wide variety of industrial and commercial applications. Our product designs and application experience enable us to provide both standard and customized automation and power transmission solutions to our customers.



Fluid Power and Fluid Control



Products in this category control and power the flow of fluids (liquids and gases) in manufacturing operations such as automobile assembly, food processing, textile manufacturing and petrochemical processing. They include solenoid and pneumatic valves, valve position indicators, pneumatic cylinders, air preparation equipment, and pressure, vacuum and temperature switches.



Materials Joining and Precision Cleaning



The Company supplies both plastics joining technologies and equipment, and metal welding and joining processes to a diversified manufacturing customer base, including automotive, medical devices and toys. The Company also provides precision cleaning and liquid processing solutions to industrial and commercial manufacturers. Products include ultrasonic joining and cleaning equipment; linear and orbital vibration welding equipment; systems for hot plate welding, spin and laser welding equipment; and aqueous, semi-aqueous and vapor cleaning systems.














Electrical Distribution



Emerson’s majority-owned EGS Electrical Group joint venture with SPX Corporation manufactures a broad line of components for current- and noncurrent-carrying electrical distribution devices. These products include conduit and cable fittings, plugs and receptacles, industrial lighting, enclosures and controls. Products in this category are used in hazardous, industrial, commercial and construction environments, such as oil and gas drilling and production sites, pulp and paper mills and petrochemical plants.



Distribution



On a worldwide basis, the primary distribution channel for the Industrial Automation segment is through direct sales forces, including to original equipment manufacturers. Independent distributors constitute the next significant sales channel, mostly to reach end users. To a lesser extent, independent sales representatives are utilized, particularly for electrical distribution products in the United States.



Brands



Service/trademarks and trade names within the Industrial Automation segment include Emerson Industrial Automation, Appleton, ASCO, ASCO Joucomatic, ASCO Numatics, Branson Ultrasonics, Browning, Control Techniques, Jaure, Kato Engineering, Kop-Flex, Leroy Somer, McGill, Morse, Nutsteel, O-Z/Gedney, Power Transmission Solutions, Rollway, Sealmaster, SSB Wind Systems, System Plast and Trident.



NETWORK POWER



The Network Power segment designs, manufactures, installs and maintains products providing “grid to chip” electric power conditioning, power reliability and environmental control for telecommunications networks, data centers and other critical applications, and also provides comprehensive data center infrastructure management solutions. Products in this segment include inbound power systems, uninterruptible power systems, precision cooling, integrated data centers, control devices, software, monitoring and 24-hour service, embedded power supplies and embedded computing systems. In 2012, sales by geographic destination for this segment were the United States and Canada, 38 percent; Asia, 36 percent; Europe, 17 percent; Latin America, 6 percent; and Middle East/Africa, 3 percent.



Inbound Power Systems



Inbound power technology provides reliable power systems which automatically transfer critical application loads from a utility to emergency backup generators in the event of a blackout or brownout. Products include automatic transfer switches, paralleling and synchronizing gear and related distribution equipment and control systems.



Uninterruptible Power Systems



Emerson supplies uninterruptible AC and DC power systems, which provide reliable, conditioned power to telecommunication networks, data centers and other critical equipment in the event of a blackout or line surges and spikes. Power Systems’ products range from stand-alone units to complete systems incorporating rectifiers, distribution units, surge protection, batteries and system supervision.



Precision Cooling



Precision cooling products provide temperature and humidity control for computers, telecommunications and other sensitive equipment.



Data Center Infrastructure Management



The Company provides comprehensive data center management solutions through server access technologies that enable access, monitoring and control of the information technology infrastructure and provide linkage with data center operations.


















Service and Site Operations



Network Power staffs Energy Operation Centers in more than 30 countries and deploys field service personnel worldwide to assist customers in managing their network support systems. Services include on-site operations management, energy consumption monitoring, preventive maintenance, electrical testing, remote monitoring and management, and 24-hour service capability.



Embedded Computing and Power



Embedded computing designs and develops embedded computer systems for original equipment manufacturers and systems integrators serving telecommunications, defense, aerospace, medical and industrial automation end markets. Products range from communication platforms, blades and modules to enabling software and professional services.



Embedded power supplies are installed by original equipment manufacturers to convert or condition power for microprocessors and peripherals in a wide range of telecommunication, health care, computer and industrial applications using standard or custom AC/DC or DC/DC designs. They are also used in consumer products for chargers and power adaptors.



Connectivity Solutions



Connectivity products serve the needs of the wireless communications, telephone and data network, CATV, defense, security systems and health care industries and other industrial customers with a broad range of radio frequency, microwave and fiber optic interconnect components and assemblies.



Distribution



Network Power segment sales are primarily through worldwide direct sales forces, particularly in Europe and Asia. The remainder of sales is handled by independent sales representatives, particularly in the United States, and independent distributors.



Brands



Service/trademarks and trade names within the Network Power segment include Emerson Network Power, Aperture, Artesyn, ASCO Power Technologies, Astec, Avocent, Chloride, Knürr, Liebert, Liebert Services, NetXtend, Netsure, Semflex, Stratos and Trompeter.



CLIMATE TECHNOLOGIES



The Climate Technologies segment provides products and services for all areas of the climate control industry, including residential heating and cooling, commercial air conditioning, and commercial and industrial refrigeration. The Company's technology enables homeowners and businesses to better manage their heating, air conditioning and refrigeration systems for improved control and lower energy costs. This segment also provides services that digitally control and remotely monitor refrigeration units in grocery stores and other food distribution outlets to enhance freshness and food safety. In 2012, sales by geographic destination for this segment were the United States and Canada, 55 percent; Asia, 23 percent; Europe, 12 percent; Latin America, 6 percent; and Middle East/Africa, 4 percent.














Residential and Commercial Heating and Air Conditioning



The Company provides a full range of heating and air conditioning products that help reduce operational and energy costs and create comfortable environments in all types of buildings. These products include reciprocating and scroll air conditioning compressors, including ultra-efficient residential scroll compressors with two stages of cooling capacity as well as variable speed scroll compressors; standard and programmable thermostats; monitoring equipment and electronic controls for gas and electric heating systems; gas valves for furnaces and water heaters; ignition systems for furnaces; sensors and thermistors for home appliances; and temperature sensors and controls.



Commercial and Industrial Refrigeration



Our technology is incorporated into equipment to refrigerate food and beverages in supermarkets, convenience stores, food service operations, refrigerated trucks and refrigerated marine transport containers. Climate Technologies refrigeration products are also used in a wide variety of industrial applications, including medical applications, food processing and cold storage. Products include reciprocating, scroll and screw compressors; precision flow controls; system diagnostics and controls that provide precise temperature management; and environmental control systems.



Services and Solutions



Services and solutions enable global customers to optimize the performance of facilities including large-scale retailers, supermarkets, convenience stores and food services facilities. By providing expertise in air conditioning, refrigeration and lighting control, Climate Technologies performs as a complete facility manager for its customers. The Company’s expertise allows customers to reduce energy and maintenance costs, thereby improving overall facility uptime. In addition to industry-leading controls, services include facility design and product management, site commissioning, facility monitoring and energy modeling.



Distribution



Climate Technologies segment sales, primarily to original equipment manufacturers and end users, are made predominately through worldwide direct sales force networks. The remaining sales are primarily through independent distributor networks throughout the world.



Brands



Service/trademarks and trade names within the Climate Technologies segment include Emerson Climate Technologies, Clive Samuels & Associates, Computer Process Controls, Copeland, Design Services Network, Dixell, Emerson Climate Technologies Distribution Services, Emerson Climate Technologies Educational Services, Emerson Retail Services, Fusite, Therm-O-Disc, Vilter and White-Rodgers.



COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL SOLUTIONS



Emerson’s Commercial & Residential Solutions (formerly Tools and Storage) segment includes a broad range of tools, storage products and appliance solutions. In 2012, sales by geographic destination for this segment were the United States and Canada, 83 percent; Asia, 4 percent; Europe, 8 percent; Latin America, 3 percent; and Middle East/Africa, 2 percent.



Professional and Do-It-Yourself Tools



Our pipe-working tools are used by plumbing and mechanical professionals to install and repair piping systems. These tools include pipe wrenches, pipe cutters, pipe threading and roll grooving equipment, a time-saving system that joins tubing through mechanical crimping, drain cleaners, tubing tools, and diagnostic systems, including closed-circuit television pipe inspection and locating equipment. Other professional tools include water jetters, wet-dry vacuums, commercial vacuums and bolt cutters. Do-it-yourself tools, available at home improvement retail outlets, include drain cleaning equipment, pipe and tube working tools, and wet-dry vacuums.














Storage Solutions



Emerson provides a wide variety of freestanding, fixed and mobile storage products for residential, commercial, health care and food service applications. Our products for the home include wall-mounted and freestanding shelving systems, cabinet and closet organizers, home office storage, and drawer systems and containers, available in wire, stainless steel and laminate. Our commercial storage solutions help customers utilize space in the most efficient manner, including storage and display shelving, stock-picking and kitting carts, cabinets, totes, bins, workstations, and merchandising and inventory storage racks. Products provided to the health care industry assist in medical response and treatment, including emergency and operating room carts, medication carts, polymer and wire shelving systems, and sterile worktables. Our food service equipment helps meet the storage needs of the food service and hospitality industries, such as restaurants and hotels. This equipment includes polymer and wire storage systems, busing carts, pan and tray racks, transport carts and workstations.



Appliances and Components



Emerson provides a number of appliance solutions, including residential and commercial food waste disposers, ceiling fans, instant hot water dispensers and compact electric water heaters.



Distribution



The principal worldwide distribution channels for the Commercial & Residential Solutions segment are distributors and direct sales forces. Professional tools are sold almost exclusively worldwide through distributors. Independent sales representatives are utilized to a lesser extent, particularly for storage solutions. Appliance solutions are sold through direct sales force networks and distributors.



Brands



Service/trademarks and trade names within the Commercial & Residential Solutions segment include Emerson, Emerson Appliance Solutions, Emerson Professional Tools, Emerson Storage Solutions, ClosetMaid, Flo Healthcare, InSinkErator, Lionville, MedDispense, METRO, ProTeam and RIDGID.



PRODUCTION



Emerson utilizes various production operations and methods. The principal production operations are electronics assembly, metal stamping, forming, casting, machining, welding, plating, heat treating, painting and assembly. In addition, Emerson uses specialized production operations, including automatic and semiautomatic testing, automated material handling and storage, ferrous and nonferrous machining, and special furnaces for heat treating and foundry applications. Management believes the equipment, machinery and tooling used in these processes are of modern design and well maintained.



RAW MATERIALS



Emerson's major requirements for basic raw materials include steel, copper, cast iron, electronics, rare earth metals, aluminum and brass; and to a lesser extent, plastics and other petroleum-based chemicals. Emerson seeks to secure multiple sources of supply for each of its major requirements in order to avoid significant dependence on any one or a few suppliers. However, the supply of materials or other items could be disrupted by natural disasters or other events. Despite market price volatility for certain requirements and materials pricing pressures at some of our businesses, the raw materials and various purchased components needed for the Company’s products have generally been available in sufficient quantities.














PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND LICENSES



The Company maintains an intellectual property portfolio it has developed or acquired over a number of years, including patents, trademarks and licenses. The Company also continues to develop or acquire new intellectual property on an ongoing basis. New patent applications are continuously filed to protect the Company’s ongoing research and development activities. The Company’s trademark registrations may be renewed and their duration is dependent upon national laws and trademark use. While this proprietary intellectual property portfolio is important to the Company in the aggregate, management does not regard any of its segments as being dependent on any single patent, trademark registration or license.



BACKLOG



The Company’s estimated consolidated order backlog was $6,254 million and $6,030 million at September 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The vast majority of the consolidated backlog as of September 30, 2012 is expected to be shipped within one year. Estimated backlog by business segment at September 30, 2012 and 2011 follows (dollars in millions):



20112012Process Management$3,3133,716Industrial Automation629536Network Power1,6501,596Climate Technologies343317Commercial & Residential Solutions9589Total Backlog$6,0306,254



COMPETITION



Emerson's businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive. The Company competes based on product performance, quality, service and/or price across the industries and markets served. A significant element of the Company's competitive strategy is to deliver solutions to our customers by manufacturing high quality products at the best relevant global cost. Although no single company competes directly with Emerson in all of the Company's product lines, various companies compete in one or more product lines and the number of competitors varies by product line. Some competitors have substantially greater sales, assets and financial resources than Emerson and the Company also competes with many smaller companies. Management believes Emerson has a market leadership position in many of its product lines.



RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT



Costs associated with Company-sponsored research and development activities were$547 million,$555 millionand$473 millionin 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.



ENVIRONMENT



The Company's manufacturing locations generate waste, the treatment, storage, transportation and disposal of which are subject to federal, state, foreign and/or local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment. Compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to protection of the environment has not had a material effect upon Emerson's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. The Company does not anticipate having material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities during the next fiscal year.














EMPLOYEES



Emerson and its subsidiaries had an average of approximately134,900employees during 2012. Management believes that the Company's employee relations are favorable. Some of the Company's employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements, but none of these agreements is considered significant. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2012 Annual Report, which note is hereby incorporated by reference, for further information.



DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN OPERATIONS



International sales were$14,376 millionin 2012,$14,322 millionin 2011 and$11,938 millionin 2010, including U.S. exports of$1,579 million,$1,520 millionand$1,317 millionin 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Although there are additional risks attendant to foreign operations, such as possible nationalization of facilities, currency fluctuations and restrictions on the movement of funds, Emerson's financial position has not been materially affected thereby to date. See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2012 Annual Report, which note is hereby incorporated by reference, for further information with respect to foreign operations.



INTERNET ACCESS



Emerson's reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available without charge through the Company’s website on the Internet as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). They may be accessed as follows: www.Emerson.com, Investor Relations, SEC Filings. Information on Emerson’s website does not constitute part of this Form 10-K.



The information set forth under “Item 1A - Risk Factors” is hereby incorporated by reference.



