ITEM 1A.Risk Factors

We are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations.

A significant portion of our revenue is produced by facilities located in Nevada, Texas and California.

Nevada:We own 6 acute care hospitals and 6 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed inItem 2. Properties. On a
combined basis, these facilities contributed 23% in 2010, 24% in 2009 and 24% in 2008 of our consolidated net revenues. On a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 15% in 2010, 14% in
2009 and 18% in 2008 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. On a pro forma basis, assuming we had completed the acquisition of PSI on January 1, 2010, these facilities contributed 18% in 2010 of
our consolidated net revenues and 10% of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest.

Texas:We own 8 acute care hospitals and 14 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed inItem 2. Properties. On a
combined basis, these facilities contributed 19% during 2010 and 20% during each of 2009 and 2008, of our consolidated net revenues. On a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 15% in
2010, 16% in 2009 and 8% in 2008 of our income from operations after net







income attributable to noncontrolling interest. On a pro forma basis, assuming we had completed the acquisition of PSI on January 1, 2010, these facilities contributed 17% in 2010 of our
consolidated net revenues. and 13% of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest.

California:We own 4 acute care hospitals and 15 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed inItem 2. Properties. On
a combined basis, these facilities contributed 10% of our consolidated net revenues during each of 2010, 2009 and 2008. On a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 4% in 2010, 5% in
2009 and 7% in 2008 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. On a pro forma basis, assuming we had completed the acquisition of PSI on January 1, 2010, these facilities contributed 9% in 2010 of
our consolidated net revenues and 6% of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest.

The significant portion of our revenues and earnings derived from these facilities makes us particularly sensitive to legislative,
regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in Nevada, Texas and California. Any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a
disproportionate effect on our overall business results.

Our revenues and results of operations are significantly
affected by payments received from the government and other third party payors.

We derive a significant portion of our
revenue from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Changes in these government programs in recent years have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for healthcare
services. Payments from federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding
restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease program payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. We are unable to predict the effect of recent and future policy
changes on our operations. In addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon federal and state governments as a result of, among other things, the substantial deterioration in general economic conditions, the funding requirements from
the federal government’s stimulus package, the War on Terrorism and the relief efforts related to hurricanes and other disasters, may affect the availability of taxpayer funds for Medicare and Medicaid programs. If the rates paid or the scope
of services covered by government payors are reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.

On a prospective basis (including the projected revenues generated at the facilities acquired from PSI), we expect to receive a large concentration of our Medicaid revenues from Texas and significant
amounts from Pennsylvania, Illinois, Washington, D.C., Nevada and Virginia. These states, as well as most other states in which we operate, have reported significant budget deficits that have resulted in proposed reductions to Medicaid funding for
2011. We can provide no assurance that reductions to Medicaid revenues, particularly in these states, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

In addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with private payors, including
managed care providers, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. Private payors, including managed care providers, increasingly are demanding that we accept lower rates of payment.

We expect continued third-party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. Reductions in reimbursement
amounts received from third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations.







A worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the United States could
materially affect our business and future results of operations.

Our patient volumes, revenues and financial results
depend significantly on the universe of patients with health insurance, which to a large extent is dependent on the employment status of individuals in our markets. A continuation or worsening of economic conditions may result in a continued
increase in the unemployment rate which will likely increase the number of individuals without health insurance. As a result, our facilities may experience a decrease in patient volumes, particularly in less intense, more elective service lines, or
a significant increase in services provided to uninsured patients. These factors could have a material unfavorable impact on our future patient volumes, revenues and operating results.

Our patient revenues and payor mix during the last few years were adversely affected by economic conditions, particularly in certain
markets, such as Nevada, Texas and California, where a significant portion of our revenues are concentrated and unemployment rates remain high. In our acute care business, we experienced net revenue pressures caused primarily by declining commercial
payor utilization and an increase in the number of uninsured and underinsured patients treated at our facilities. We can provide no assurance that these trends will not continue. During 2010, our revenues and payor mix within our acute care
operations have been volatile and are unfavorable compared to the comparable prior year period, making it difficult to predict the results for 2011 or thereafter.

We are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform.

On
March 23, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “PPACA”). The Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the “Reconciliation Act”), which contains a number of
amendments to the PPACA, was signed into law on March 30, 2010. Two primary goals of the PPACA, combined with the Reconciliation Act (collectively referred to as the “Legislation”), are to provide for increased access to coverage for
healthcare and to reduce healthcare-related expenses.

Although it is expected that as a result of the Legislation there may
be a reduction in uninsured patients, which should reduce our expense from uncollectible accounts receivable, the Legislation makes a number of other changes to Medicare and Medicaid which we believe may have an adverse impact on us. The Legislation
revises reimbursement under the Medicare and Medicaid programs to emphasize the efficient delivery of high quality care and contains a number of incentives and penalties under these programs to achieve these goals. The Legislation provides for
decreases in the annual market basket update for federal fiscal years 2010 through 2019, a productivity offset to the market basket update beginning October 1, 2011 for Medicare Part B reimbursable items and services and beginning
October 1, 2012 for Medicare inpatient hospital services. The Legislation will reduce Medicare and Medicaid disproportionate share payments beginning in 2014, which would adversely impact the reimbursement we receive under these programs. The
Legislation implements a value-based purchasing program, which will reward the delivery of efficient care. Conversely, certain facilities will receive reduced reimbursement for failing to meet quality parameters; such hospitals may include those
with excessive readmission or hospital-acquired condition rates.

The various provisions in the Legislation that directly or
indirectly affect reimbursement are scheduled to take effect over a number of years. Legislation provisions are likely to be affected by the incomplete nature of implementing regulations or expected forthcoming interpretive guidance, gradual
implementation, future legislation, and possible judicial nullification of all or certain provisions of the Legislation. Further Legislation provisions, such as those creating the Medicare Shared Savings Program and the Independent Payment Advisory
Board, create certain flexibilities in how healthcare may be reimbursed by federal programs in the future. Thus, we cannot predict the impact of the Legislation on our future reimbursement at this time.

The Legislation also contains provisions aimed at reducing fraud and abuse in healthcare. The Legislation amends several existing laws,
including the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the False Claims Act, making it







easier for government agencies and private plaintiffs to prevail in lawsuits brought against healthcare providers. Congress revised the intent requirement of the Anti-Kickback Statute to provide
that a person is not required to “have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of” the Anti-Kickback Statute in order to be found guilty of violating such law. The Legislation also provides that any claims for items or
services that violate the Anti-Kickback Statute are also considered false claims for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act. The Legislation provides that a healthcare provider that retains an overpayment in excess of 60 days is subject to
the federal civil False Claims Act. The Legislation also expands the Recovery Audit Contractor program to Medicaid. These amendments also make it easier for severe fines and penalties to be imposed on healthcare providers that violate applicable
laws and regulations.

We have partnered with local physicians in the ownership of certain of our facilities. These
investments have been permitted under an exception to the physician self-referral law. The Legislation permits existing physician investments in a hospital to continue under a “grandfather” clause if the arrangement satisfies certain
requirements and restrictions, but physicians are prohibited, effective immediately, from increasing the aggregate percentage of their ownership in the hospital. The Legislation also imposes certain compliance and disclosure requirements upon
existing physician-owned hospitals and restricts the ability of physician-owned hospitals to expand the capacity of their facilities.

The impact of the Legislation on each of our hospitals may vary. Because Legislation provisions are effective at various times over the next several years, we anticipate that many of the provisions in the
Legislation may be subject to further revision or judicial nullification. We cannot predict the impact the Legislation may have on our business, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity, or whether we will be able to
successfully adapt to the changes required by the Legislation.

We are required to treat patients with emergency medical
conditions regardless of ability to pay.

In accordance with our internal policies and procedures, as well as the
Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act, or EMTALA, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is
eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. If it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical
examination and treatment as is required to stabilize the patient’s medical condition, within the facility’s capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the
treating hospital’s written procedures. Our obligations under EMTALA may increase substantially going forward; CMS has recently announced its intent to issue proposed rulemaking concerning the applicability of EMTALA to hospital inpatients and
the responsibilities of hospitals with specialized capabilities, respectively. If the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, or if regulations expanding our obligations to
inpatients under EMTALA is proposed and adopted, our results of operations will be harmed.

An increase in uninsured and
underinsured patients in our acute care facilities or the deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations.

Collection of receivables from third-party payors and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. Our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the
portion of the bill that is the patient’s responsibility, which primarily includes co-payments and deductibles. We estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payor mix, the agings of the receivables and
historical collection experience. We routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our
allowances as warranted. Significant changes in business office operations, payor mix, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental health coverage could affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flow and results of
operations. If we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations will be harmed.







Our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care
providers.

The healthcare industry is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals, and other healthcare
providers for patients and physicians has intensified in recent years. In all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. Some of our competitors
include hospitals that are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sales and income taxes. Such exemptions and support are
not available to us.

In some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and
offer a broader range of services than we. The number of inpatient facilities, as well as outpatient surgical and diagnostic centers, many of which are fully or partially owned by physicians, in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased
significantly. As a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment.

If our competitors are
better able to attract patients, recruit physicians and other healthcare professionals, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume and our business may be harmed.

Our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians.

Typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. As a
result, the success and competitive advantage of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations
with those physicians. Physicians generally are not employees of our hospitals, and, in a number of our markets, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. They may terminate their affiliation with us at
any time. If we are unable to provide high ethical and professional standards, adequate support personnel and technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients
to our facilities and our results of operations may decline.

It may become difficult for us to attract and retain an adequate
number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. Our failure to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to
attract patients to our hospitals and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our performance depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of
operations.

We depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our
nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other healthcare professionals. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel.

The nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other
healthcare providers. This shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. In addition, in some markets like California,
there are requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. To the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may be required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets, which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net
operating revenues.

We cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of
attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. If our general labor and related expenses increase, we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. Our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and
other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations.







If we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer
civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations that could reduce our revenue and profitability.

The healthcare industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: hospital billing practices
and prices for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care and quality of medical equipment and services; ownership of facilities; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality,
maintenance and security issues associated with health-related information and patient medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions; certification, licensure and accreditation of our
facilities; operating policies and procedures, and; construction or expansion of facilities and services.

These
laws and regulations are extremely complex, and, in many cases, we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. In the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could
subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. A determination that we
have violated one or more of these laws (seeItem 3-Legal Proceedings), or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition or results of operations and our business reputation could suffer significantly. In addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or
regulations may take or what their impact on us may be. SeeItem 1 Business—Self-Referral and Anti-Kickback Legislation.

If we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the Stark Law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil
penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. The imposition of such penalties
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We may be subject
to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities.

We are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product
liability lawsuits, class action lawsuits and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. Some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as







significant defense costs. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or the effect that findings in such lawsuits may have on us. All professional and general liability insurance we
purchase is subject to policy limitations. We believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is adequate considering the claims arising from the operations of our hospitals. While we continuously monitor
our coverage, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. If such policy limitations should be partially or fully exhausted in the future, or payments of claims exceed our
estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations.

We may be
subject to governmental investigations, regulatory actions and whistleblower lawsuits

The federal False Claims Act
permits private parties to bring qui tam, or whistleblower, lawsuits against companies. Whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government.
Because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware.

In
2009, we agreed to settle a qui tam lawsuit relating to our South Texas Health System after many years of governmental investigations. Some of our subsidiaries operating small behavioral healthcare facilities in Virginia and California are currently
the subject of governmental investigations and, in two cases, a qui tam action in which the government intervened and is charging violations of the False Claims Act. We cannot predict whether we will be the subject of additional investigations or
whistleblower lawsuits. Any determination that we have violated applicable laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on us.

If any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement
under Medicare or Medicaid.

The construction and operation of healthcare facilities are subject to extensive federal,
state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and environmental protection.
Additionally, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities to assure their continued compliance with these various standards.

All of our hospitals are deemed certified, meaning that they are accredited, properly licensed under the relevant state laws and regulations and certified under the Medicare program. The effect of
maintaining certified facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We believe that all of our healthcare facilities are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local and other relevant
regulations and standards. However, should any of our healthcare facilities lose their deemed certified status and thereby lose certification under the Medicare or Medicaid programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from
either of those programs and our business could be materially adversely effected.

During the third quarter of 2009, Southwest
Healthcare System (“SWHCS”), which operates Rancho Springs Medical Center and Inland Valley Regional Medical Center in Riverside County, California, entered into an agreement with the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services
(“CMS”). The agreement required SWHCS to engage an independent quality monitor to assist SWHCS in meeting all CMS’ conditions of participation. Further, the agreement provided that, during the last 60 days of the agreement, CMS would
conduct a full Medicare certification survey. That survey took place the week of January 11, 2010.

In April, 2010, SWHCS
received notification from CMS that it intended to effectuate the termination of SWHCS’s Medicare provider agreement effective June 1, 2010. In May, 2010, SWHCS entered into an agreement with CMS which abated the termination action
scheduled for June 1, 2010. The agreement is one year in duration and required SWHCS to engage independent experts in various disciplines to analyze and develop implementation plans for SWHCS to meet the Medicare conditions of participation. At
the conclusion of the







agreement, CMS will conduct a full certification survey to determine if SWHCS has achieved substantial compliance with the Medicare conditions of participation. During the term of the agreement,
SWHCS remains eligible to receive reimbursements from Medicare for services rendered to Medicare beneficiaries.

Also in
April, 2010, SWHCS received notification from the California Department of Public Health (“CDPH”) indicating that it planned to initiate a process to revoke SWHCS’s hospital license. In May, 2010, SWHCS received the formal document
related to the revocation action. In September, 2010, SWHCS entered into an agreement with CDPH relating to the license revocation. The terms of the CDPH agreement are substantially similar to those contained in the agreement with CMS. As a result
of the agreement, SWHCS’s hospital license remains in effect pending the outcome of the CMS full certification survey which will occur at the end of the agreement. Pursuant to the results of the CMS full certification survey, which we
anticipate occurring in mid-year, 2011, should SWHCS be deemed to have achieved substantial compliance with the Medicare conditions of participation, CDPH shall deem SWHCS’s license to be in good standing. Failure of SWHCS to achieve
substantial compliance with the Medicare conditions of participation, pursuant to CMS’s full certification survey, will likely have a material adverse impact on SWHCS’s ability to continue to operate the facilities.

As a result of the matters discussed above, we were not previously permitted to open newly constructed capacity at Rancho Springs Medical
Center and Inland Valley Medical Center. However, in February, 2011, we received permission from CDPH to begin accessing the new capacity. Unrelated to these developments, we expect a competitor to open a newly constructed acute care hospital during
the first quarter of 2011. We are unable to predict the net impact of these developments on SWHCS’s results of operations in 2011 and beyond.

Rancho Springs Medical Center and Inland Valley Medical Center remain fully committed to providing high-quality healthcare to their patients and the communities they serve. We therefore intend to work
expeditiously and collaboratively with both CMS and CDPH in an effort to resolve these matters, although there can be no assurance we will be able to do so. Failure to resolve these matters could have a material adverse effect on us. For the years
ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, SWHCS generated approximately 1.1% and 4.3%, respectively, of our income from operations after income attributable to noncontrolling interest.

We may not be able to successfully integrate our acquisition of PSI or realize the potential benefits of the
acquisition, which could cause an adverse effect on us.

We may not be able to combine successfully the operations of
PSI with our operations, and, even if such integration is accomplished, we may never realize the potential benefits of the acquisition. The integration of PSI with our operations requires significant attention from management and may impose
substantial demands on our operations or other projects. The integration of PSI also involves a significant capital commitment, and the return that we achieve on any capital invested may be less than the return that we would achieve on our other
projects or investments. Any of these factors could cause delays or increased costs of combining PSI with us and could adversely affect our operations, financial results and liquidity.

Our level of indebtedness that we incurred in connection with the acquisition of PSI could adversely affect our ability to raise
additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the agreements relating to our indebtedness.

Our level of indebtedness that we incurred in connection with the acquisition of PSI could adversely affect our ability to raise
additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and could potentially prevent us from meeting our obligations under the agreements relating to our indebtedness.







In connection with the consummation of our acquisition of PSI, in addition to undertaking a
$250 million offering of notes in September, 2010, we obtained a debt financing commitment of $3.45 billion under a senior credit facility consisting of an $800 million revolving credit facility, a $1.05 billion term loan A facility and a $1.6
billion term loan B facility. The senior credit facility became effective upon closing of the acquisition of PSI, which occurred in November, 2010. We also obtained an amended $240 million accounts receivable securitization facility during 2010
(increased from $200 million).

As of December 31, 2010, after giving effect to the use of proceeds from the various debt
financing sources mentioned above, our total debt was $3.92 billion and we had $577 million of unused borrowing capacity under our senior credit and accounts receivable securitization facilities, after taking into account $71 million of outstanding
letters of credit and $3 million of outstanding borrowings pursuant to our short-term, on-demand note.

Subject to the limits
contained in the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility, the indenture that governs the notes and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital
expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. Our leverage could result in unfavorable impact on us, including the following:



•it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements,
acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes;



•a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be
available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;



•some of our borrowings, including borrowings under the credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased
interest rates;



•it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less
debt, and;



•we may be vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, or we may be unable to carry out capital spending that is
important to our operations.

Our growth strategy depends, in part, on acquisitions, and we may not be
able to continue to acquire hospitals that meet our target criteria. We may also have difficulties acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities due to regulatory scrutiny.

Acquisitions of hospitals in select markets are a key element of our growth strategy. We face competition for acquisition candidates
primarily from other for-profit healthcare companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. Also, suitable acquisitions may not be accomplished due to unfavorable terms.

In addition, many states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals
to for-profit entities. These laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. In addition, attorneys general in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise
discretionary authority over such transactions. Although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a
not-for-profit entity sells a healthcare facility to a for-profit entity. The adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential
purchasers could make it more difficult for us to acquire additional hospitals, increase our acquisition costs or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target acquisition criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth
strategy and results of operations.







Further, the cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of
operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired hospital’s results of operations, allocation of the purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limits on rate increases.

We may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of operations and
adversely affect our growth strategy.

We may be unable to timely and effectively integrate the hospitals that we
acquire with our ongoing operations. We may experience delays in implementing operating procedures and systems in newly acquired hospitals. Integrating a new hospital could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business,
negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. In addition, acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, operations and, usually, information systems that are used by acquired hospitals. In
addition, some of the hospitals we acquire had significantly lower operating margins than the hospitals we operate prior to the time of our acquisition. If we fail to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals
profitably or effectively integrate the operations of acquired hospitals, our results of operations could be harmed.

If
we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations.

Hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply
with applicable laws and regulations. Although we typically attempt to exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such hospitals for these matters, we could experience difficulty
enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of hospitals we acquire. Such liabilities and related legal or other costs and/or resulting damage to a facility’s reputation could harm our business.

Our subsidiary, PSI, and its subsidiaries, are subject to pending legal actions, governmental investigations and
regulatory actions.

Our subsidiary, PSI, and its subsidiaries, are subject to pending legal actions, governmental
investigations and regulatory actions (seeItem 3-Legal Proceedings).

State efforts to regulate the
construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand.

Many of the states in which we
operate hospitals have enacted Certificates of Need, or CON, laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. Our failure to obtain necessary state approval could
result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the Medicare or Medicaid programs, result in the revocation of a facility’s license or
impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business.

In addition, significant CON reforms have
been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. In the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements,
but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations.

Controls designed to reduce inpatient services
may reduce our revenues.

Controls imposed by third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay,
commonly referred to as “utilization review,” have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. Utilization







review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively
affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are
expected to continue. Although we cannot predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial position and results of operations.

Fluctuations in our operating results, quarter to quarter earnings and
other factors may result in decreases in the price of our common stock.

The stock markets have experienced volatility
that has often been unrelated to operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. If we
are unable to operate our hospitals as profitably as we have in the past or as our stockholders expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock will likely decline as stockholders could sell shares of our common stock when it
becomes apparent that the market expectations may not be realized.

In addition to our operating results, many economic and
seasonal factors outside of our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and increase fluctuations in our quarterly earnings. These factors include certain of the risks discussed herein, demographic changes, operating
results of other hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, adverse weather
conditions, the level of seasonal illnesses, managed care contract negotiations and terminations, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry.

We are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could
subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price.

Different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial
condition.

Generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied
interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the SEC. Such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. Differences in interpretation of generally accepted
accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.







We continue to see rising costs in construction materials and labor. Such increased
costs could have an adverse effect on the cash flow return on investment relating to our capital projects.

The cost of
construction materials and labor has significantly increased. As we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and operating room expansions, the construction of medical office buildings for physician expansion and reconfiguring the
flow of patient care, we spend large amounts of money generated from our operating cash flow or borrowed funds. In addition, we have a commitment with an unrelated third party to build a newly constructed facility with a specified minimum number of
beds and services. Although we evaluate the financial feasibility of such projects by determining whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital, such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction
continues to rise significantly or the expected patient volumes are not attained.

The deterioration of credit and
capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding and we cannot be certain of the availability and terms of capital to fund the growth of our business when needed.

We require substantial capital resources to fund our acquisition growth strategy and our ongoing capital expenditure programs for
renovation, expansion, construction and addition of medical equipment and technology. We believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. We cannot predict, however, whether financing for
our growth plans and capital expenditure programs will be available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, which could harm our business.

To fund all or a portion of our future financing needs, we rely on borrowings from various sources including fixed rate, long-term debt as well as borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit facility and
accounts receivable securitization program. If any of the lenders were unable to fulfill their future commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could have a material unfavorable impact our results of operations and financial condition.

In addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other
sources of funding. In the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. Our inability to obtain
financing on terms acceptable to us could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

We depend heavily on key management personnel and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business.

The expertise and efforts of our senior executives and key members of our local hospital management personnel are
critical to the success of our business. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or of a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability
to provide efficient, quality healthcare services at our facilities, which could harm our business.

The number of
outstanding shares of our Class B Common Stock is subject to potential increases or decreases.

At December 31,
2010, 23,588,743 shares of Class B Common Stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of shares of Class A, C and D Common Stock outstanding, for issuance upon exercise of options to purchase Class B Common Stock and for issuance of stock
under other incentive plans. Class A, C and D Common Stock are convertible on a share for share basis into Class B Common Stock. To the extent that these shares were converted into or exercised for shares of Class B Common Stock, the number of
shares of Class B Common Stock available for trading in the public market place would increase substantially and the holders of Class B Common Stock would own a smaller percentage of that class.







In addition, from time-to-time our Board of Directors approve stock repurchase programs
authorizing us to purchase shares of our Class B Common Stock on the open market at prevailing market prices or in negotiated transactions off the market. Such repurchases decrease the number of outstanding shares of our Class B Common Stock.
Conversely, as a potential means of generating additional funds to operate and expand our business, we may from time-to-time issue equity through the sale of stock which would increase the number of outstanding shares of our Class B Common Stock.
Based upon factors such as, but not limited to, the market price of our stock, interest rate on borrowings and uses or potential uses for cash, repurchase or issuance of our stock could have a dilutive effect on our future basic and diluted earnings
per share.

The right to elect the majority of our Board of Directors and the majority of the general shareholder voting
power resides with the holders of Class A and C Common Stock, the majority of which is owned by Alan B. Miller, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors.

Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that, with respect to the election of directors, holders of Class A Common Stock
vote as a class with the holders of Class C Common Stock, and holders of Class B Common Stock vote as a class with holders of Class D Common Stock, with holders of all classes of our Common Stock entitled to one vote per share.

As of March 31, 2010, the shares of Class A and Class C Common Stock constituted 7.5% of the aggregate outstanding shares of
our Common Stock, had the right to elect six members of the Board of Directors and constituted 87.3% of our general voting power. As of March 31, 2010, the shares of Class B and Class D Common Stock (excluding shares issuable upon exercise of
options) constituted 92.5% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock, had the right to elect two members of the Board of Directors and constituted 12.7% of our general voting power.

As to matters other than the election of directors, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that holders of Class A,
Class B, Class C and Class D Common Stock all vote together as a single class, except as otherwise provided by law.

Each
share of Class A Common Stock entitles the holder thereof to one vote; each share of Class B Common Stock entitles the holder thereof to one-tenth of a vote; each share of Class C Common Stock entitles the holder thereof to 100 votes (provided
the holder of Class C Common Stock holds a number of shares of Class A Common Stock equal to ten times the number of shares of Class C Common Stock that holder holds); and each share of Class D Common Stock entitles the holder thereof to ten
votes (provided the holder of Class D Common Stock holds a number of shares of Class B Common Stock equal to ten times the number of shares of Class D Common Stock that holder holds).

In the event a holder of Class C or Class D Common Stock holds a number of shares of Class A or Class B Common Stock, respectively,
less than ten times the number of shares of Class C or Class D Common Stock that holder holds, then that holder will be entitled to only one vote for every share of Class C Common Stock, or one-tenth of a vote for every share of Class D Common
Stock, which that holder holds in excess of one-tenth the number of shares of Class A or Class B Common Stock, respectively, held by that holder. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, may require beneficial owners to provide satisfactory
evidence that such owner holds ten times as many shares of Class A or Class B Common Stock as Class C or Class D Common Stock, respectively, if such facts are not apparent from our stock records.

Since a substantial majority of the Class A shares and Class C shares are controlled by Mr. Alan B. Miller and members of
his family who are also directors and officers of our company, and they can elect a majority of our company’s directors and effect or reject most actions requiring approval by stockholders without the vote of any other stockholders, there are
potential conflicts of interest in overseeing the management of our company.

In addition, because this concentrated control
could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses, our business and prospects and the trading price of our securities could be adversely
affected.







