10-K


d10k.htm

FORM 10-K

Form 10-K


Index to Financial Statements

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, DC 20549

FORM 10-K

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010

or

¨

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission File Number 1-12298 (Regency
Centers Corporation)

Commission File Number 0-24763 (Regency Centers, L.P.)

REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

REGENCY CENTERS, L.P.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Regency Centers Corporation

Regency Centers, L.P.

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered

None

N/A

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Regency Centers Corporation: None

Regency Centers, L.P.: Class B Units of Partnership Interest

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.


Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation    YES

x

NO

¨

Regency Centers,
L.P.    YES

x

NO

¨

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act

Regency Centers
Corporation    YES

¨

NO

x

Regency Centers, L.P.    YES

¨

NO

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Regency Centers
Corporation    YES

x

NO

¨

Regency Centers, L.P.    YES

x

NO

¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files).

Regency Centers
Corporation    YES

x

NO

¨

Regency Centers, L.P.    YES

x

NO

¨

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant
to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment
to this Form 10-K.

Regency Centers
Corporation

¨

Regency Centers, L.P.

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Regency Centers Corporation:

Regency Centers, L.P.:

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company.

Regency
Centers
Corporation    YES

¨

NO

x

Regency Centers, L.P.    YES

¨

NO

x

State the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting
common equity held by non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average bid and asked price of such common equity, as of the last business day of the registrants’ most recently completed
second fiscal quarter.

Regency Centers Corporation:

$ 2,752,880,606

Regency Centers, L.P.:

N/A

The number of shares outstanding of the Regency Centers Corporation’s voting common stock was 81,888,361 as of February 23,
2011.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions of Regency Centers Corporation’s proxy statement in connection with its 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference in Part III.


Index to Financial Statements

EXPLANATORY NOTE

This report combines the annual reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 of Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P. Unless stated otherwise or the context
otherwise requires, references to “Regency Centers Corporation” or the “Parent Company” mean Regency Centers Corporation and its controlled subsidiaries; and references to “Regency Centers, L.P.” or the “Operating
Partnership” mean Regency Centers, L.P. and its controlled subsidiaries. The term “the Company” or “Regency” means the Parent Company and the Operating Partnership, collectively.

The Parent Company is a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) and the general partner of the Operating Partnership. The Operating
Partnership’s capital includes general and limited common Partnership Units (“Units”). As of December 31, 2010, the Parent Company owned approximately 99.8% of the Units in the Operating Partnership and the remaining limited
Units are owned by investors. The Parent Company owns all of the Series 3, 4 and 5 Preferred Units of the Operating Partnership. As the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership, the Parent Company has exclusive control of the Operating
Partnership’s day-to-day management.

The Company believes combining the annual reports on Form 10-K of the Parent Company and the
Operating Partnership into this single report provides the following benefits:

•

enhances investors’ understanding of the Parent Company and the Operating Partnership by enabling investors to view the business as a whole in the
same manner as management views and operates the business;

•

eliminates duplicative disclosure and provides a more streamlined and readable presentation since a substantial portion of the Company’s
disclosure applies to both the Parent Company and the Operating Partnership; and

•

creates time and cost efficiencies through the preparation of one combined report instead of two separate reports.

Management operates the Parent Company and the Operating Partnership as one business. The management of the Parent Company consists of the same members
as the management of the Operating Partnership. These members are officers of the Parent Company and employees of the Operating Partnership.

The Company believes it is important to understand the few differences between the Parent Company and the Operating Partnership in the context of how the
Parent Company and the Operating Partnership operate as a consolidated company. The Parent Company is a REIT, whose only material asset is its ownership of partnership interests of the Operating Partnership. As a result, the Parent Company does not
conduct business itself, other than acting as the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership, issuing public equity from time to time and guaranteeing certain debt of the Operating Partnership. The Parent Company does not hold any
indebtedness, but guarantees all of the unsecured public debt and less than 9% of the secured debt of the Operating Partnership. The Operating Partnership holds all the assets of the Company and retains the ownership interests in the Company’s
joint ventures. Except for net proceeds from public equity issuances by the Parent Company, which are contributed to the Operating Partnership in exchange for partnership units, the Operating Partnership generates all remaining capital required by
the Company’s business. These sources include the Operating Partnership’s operations, its direct or indirect incurrence of indebtedness, and the issuance of partnership units.

Stockholders’ equity, partners’ capital, and noncontrolling interests are the main areas of difference between the consolidated financial statements of the Parent Company and those of the
Operating Partnership. The Operating Partnership’s capital includes general and limited common Partnership Units, Series 3, 4, and 5 Preferred Units owned by the Parent Company, and Series D Preferred Units owned by institutional investors. The
Series D preferred units and limited partners’ units in the Operating Partnership owned by third parties are accounted for in partners’ capital in the Operating Partnership’s financial statements and outside of stockholders’
equity in noncontrolling interests in the Parent Company’s financial statements. The Series 3, 4, and 5 Preferred Units owned by the Parent Company are eliminated in consolidation in the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the
Parent Company and are classified as preferred units of general partner in the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Operating Partnership.


Index to Financial Statements

In order to highlight the differences between the Parent Company and the Operating Partnership, there are
sections in this report that separately discuss the Parent Company and the Operating Partnership, including separate financial statements, controls and procedures sections, and separate Exhibit 31 and 32 certifications. In the sections that combine
disclosure for the Parent Company and the Operating Partnership, this report refers to actions or holdings as being actions or holdings of the Company.

As general partner with control of the Operating Partnership, the Parent Company consolidates the Operating Partnership for financial reporting purposes, and the Parent Company does not have assets other
than its investment in the Operating Partnership. Therefore, while stockholders’ equity and partners’ capital differ as discussed above, the assets and liabilities of the Parent Company and the Operating Partnership are the same on their
respective financial statements.


Index to Financial Statements


Form 10-K


Index to Financial Statements

Forward-Looking Statements

In addition to historical information, the following information contains forward-looking statements as defined under federal securities
laws. These forward-looking statements include statements about anticipated changes in our revenues, the size of our development program, earnings per share and unit, returns and portfolio value, and expectations about our liquidity. These
statements are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about the industry and markets in which Regency Centers Corporation (the “Parent Company”) and Regency Centers, L.P. (the “Operating Partnership”),
collectively “Regency” or “the Company”, operate, and management’s beliefs and assumptions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain known and unknown risks and uncertainties
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, changes in national and local economic conditions; financial difficulties of
tenants; competitive market conditions, including timing and pricing of acquisitions and sales of properties and out-parcels; changes in leasing activity and market rents; timing of development starts; meeting development schedules; our inability to
exercise voting control over the co-investment partnerships through which we own or develop many of our properties; consequences of any armed conflict or terrorist attack against the United States; and the ability to obtain governmental approvals.
For additional information, see “Risk Factors” elsewhere herein. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto of Regency Centers Corporation and Regency
Centers, L.P. appearing elsewhere herein.

PART I

Item 1.

Business

Regency Centers
Corporation began its operations as a Real Estate Investment Trust (“REIT”) in 1993 and is the managing general partner in Regency Centers, L.P. The term “the Company” or “Regency” means the Parent Company and the
Operating Partnership, collectively. Our key strategic goals are focused on producing superior results for our shareholders by achieving total shareholder returns in excess of REIT shopping center averages, and sustaining growth in our net asset
value and our earnings over an extended period of time. We will achieve these goals by investing in and operating a high-quality portfolio of primarily grocery-anchored shopping centers that are tenanted by market-dominant grocers, category-leading
anchors, specialty retailers, and restaurants located in areas with above average household incomes and population densities.

At December 31, 2010, we directly owned 215 shopping centers located in 23 states representing 23.3 million square feet of
gross leasable area (“GLA”). Through co-investment partnerships, we own partial ownership interests in 181 shopping centers located in 25 states and the District of Columbia representing 21.8 million square feet of GLA. The shopping
center portfolio that we manage, on a “Combined Basis” (total of consolidated and unconsolidated properties), represents 396 shopping centers located in 28 states and the District of Columbia and contains 45.1 million square feet of
GLA.

We earn revenues and generate cash flow by leasing space in our shopping centers to grocery stores, major retail
anchors, side-shop retailers, and restaurants, including ground leasing or selling building pads (out-parcels) to these same types of tenants. Historically, we have experienced growth in revenues by increasing occupancy and rental rates in our
shopping centers. Although both of these important operating metrics declined during 2009 and 2010 as a result of the recession, the economy appears to be recovering and we are intensely focused on returning these metrics to historic levels. Our
shopping centers generate substantial daily traffic by conveniently offering necessities and services. This high traffic should generate increased sales to our tenants, and attract new tenants to our shopping centers, thereby driving higher
occupancy levels and rental-rate growth.

We seek a range of strong national, regional and local specialty retailers, for the
same reason that we choose to anchor our centers with leading grocers and major retailers who provide a mix of goods and services that meet consumer needs. We have created a formal partnering process, the Premier Customer Initiative
(“PCI”), to promote mutually beneficial relationships with our side-shop retailers. The objective of PCI is for us to build a



Index to Financial Statements

base of non-anchor tenants who represent the “best-in-class” operators in their respective merchandising categories. Such retailers reinforce the consumer appeal and other strengths of
a center’s anchor, help grow and stabilize a center’s occupancy, reduce re-leasing downtime, reduce tenant turnover, and yield higher sustainable rents.

We grow our shopping center portfolio through acquisitions of operating centers and shopping center development. We will continue to use our unique combination of development capabilities, market
presence, and anchor relationships to invest in value-added opportunities sourced from land owners and joint venture partners, the redevelopment of existing centers, developing land that we already own, and other opportunities. Development is
customer driven and serves the growth needs of our anchors and specialty retailers, resulting in new modern shopping centers with long-term anchor leases that produce attractive returns on our invested capital.

Maintaining a high quality portfolio also involves identifying and selling assets that are at risk of not achieving our long-term
investment goals. Proceeds from these sales are targeted for reinvestment into higher quality new development, redevelopment of existing centers, or acquisitions that will generate sustainable revenue growth and higher returns.

We also invest in real estate partnerships. These co-investment partnerships provide us with a reliable capital source for shopping
center acquisitions, as well as the opportunity to earn fees for asset management, property management, and other investing and financing services. As asset manager, we are engaged by our partners to apply similar operating, investment and
capital strategies to the portfolios owned by the co-investment partnerships as those applied to the portfolio that we wholly-own. Co-investment partnerships also grow their shopping center investments through acquisitions from third parties or
direct purchases from us.

We have implemented a greengenuity program envisioned to improve our environmental sustainability.
To date we have received LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certifications by the U.S. Green Building Council on three shopping centers and we are targeting five additional shopping centers for certification. We also continue to
install network lighting controls and smart irrigation controllers that will reduce our power and water consumption in addition to other sustainability initiatives. It is our intent to be one of the leaders in the design, construction and operation
of environmentally efficient shopping centers that will contribute to our key strategic goals.

Competition

We are among the largest owners of shopping centers in the nation based on revenues, number of properties, gross leasable area, and market
capitalization. There are numerous companies and private individuals engaged in the ownership, development, acquisition, and operation of shopping centers which compete with us in our targeted markets, including grocery store chains that also anchor
some of our shopping centers. This results in competition for attracting anchor tenants, as well as the acquisition of existing shopping centers and new development sites. We believe that the principal competitive factors in attracting tenants in
our market areas are competitive in-fill locations, above average trade area demographics, rental costs, tenant mix, property age, and property maintenance. We believe that our competitive advantages are driven by our locations within our market
areas, the design and high quality of our shopping centers, the strong demographics surrounding our shopping centers, our relationships with our anchor tenants and our side-shop and out-parcel retailers, our PCI program that allows us to efficiently
provide retailers with multiple locations, our practice of maintaining and renovating our shopping centers, and our ability to source and develop new shopping centers.

Changes in Policies

Our Board of Directors establishes the policies that
govern our investment and operating strategies including, among others, development and acquisition of shopping centers, tenant and market focus, debt and equity financing policies, quarterly distributions to stock and unit holders, and REIT tax
status. The Board of Directors may amend these policies at any time without a vote of our stockholders.



Index to Financial Statements

Employees

Our headquarters are located at One Independent Drive, Suite 114, Jacksonville, Florida. We presently maintain 17 market offices nationwide where we conduct management, leasing, construction, and
investment activities. At December 31, 2010, we had 392 employees and we believe that our relations with our employees are good.

Compliance with Governmental Regulations

Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate certain hazardous or toxic substances at our shopping centers. These laws
often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of required remediation and the owner’s liability for remediation could exceed the value of
the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or borrow using the property as collateral.
We have a number of properties that could require or are currently undergoing varying levels of environmental remediation. Environmental remediation is not currently expected to have a material financial impact on us due to reserves for remediation,
insurance programs designed to mitigate the cost of remediation, and various state-regulated programs that shift the responsibility and cost to the state.

Executive Officers

The executive officers of the Company are appointed
each year by the Board of Directors. Each of the executive officers has been employed by the Company in the position indicated in the list or positions indicated in the pertinent notes below. Each of the executive officers has been employed by the
Company for more than five years.

Name

Age

Title

Executive Officer in

Position Shown 
Since

Martin E. Stein, Jr.


Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Brian M.
Smith


President and Chief Operating Officer


(1)

Bruce M. Johnson


Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


(1)

In February 2009, Brian M. Smith, Managing Director and Chief Investment Officer of the Company since 2005, was appointed to the position of President. Prior to serving
as our Managing Director and Chief Investment Officer, from March 1999 to September 2005, Mr. Smith served as Managing Director of Investments for our Pacific, Mid-Atlantic, and Northeast divisions.

Company Website Access and SEC Filings

The Company’s website may be accessed at

www.regencycenters.com

. All of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) can be accessed through our website promptly
after filing; however, in the event that the website is inaccessible, we will provide paper copies of our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, the most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q, current reports filed or furnished on Form 8-K, and all
related amendments, excluding exhibits, free of charge upon request. These filings are also accessible on the SEC’s website at

www.sec.gov

.

General Information

The Company’s registrar and stock transfer agent
is Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (“Wells Fargo Shareowner Services”), South St. Paul, MN. The Company offers a dividend reinvestment plan (“DRIP”) that enables its stockholders to reinvest dividends automatically, as well as to make
voluntary cash payments toward the purchase of additional shares. For more information, contact Wells Fargo toll free at (800) 468-9716 or the Company’s Shareholder Relations Department.



Index to Financial Statements

The Company’s Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm is KPMG LLP, Jacksonville,
Florida. The Company’s legal counsel is Foley & Lardner LLP, Jacksonville, Florida.

Annual Meeting

The Company’s annual meeting will be held at The River Club, One Independent Drive, 35

th

Floor, Jacksonville, Florida, at 11:00 a.m. on Tuesday, May 3,
2011.

Item 1A.

Risk Factors

Risk Factors Related
to Our Industry and Real Estate Investments

Our revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected by poor market conditions where
our properties are geographically concentrated.

The economic conditions in markets in which our properties are
concentrated greatly influence our financial performance. During the year ended December 31, 2010, our properties in California, Florida, and Texas accounted for 32.6%, 14.3%, and 13.4%, respectively, of our consolidated net operating income.
Our revenues and cash available for distribution to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions, such as supply of retail space or demand for shopping centers, deteriorate in California,
Florida, and Texas relative to other geographic areas.

Loss of revenues from major tenants could reduce distributions to stock and unit
holders.

We derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as Kroger, Publix and Safeway which are our three largest
anchor tenants and accounted for 4.4%, 4.4%, and 3.8%, respectively, of our annualized base rent on a pro-rata basis for the year ended December 31, 2010. Distributions to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected by the loss of
revenues in the event a major tenant:

•

becomes bankrupt or insolvent;

•

experiences a downturn in its business;

•

materially defaults on its leases;

•

does not renew its leases as they expire; or

•

renews at lower rental rates.

Vacated anchor space, including space owned by the anchor, can reduce rental revenues generated by the shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant’s customer drawing power. Most
anchors have the right to vacate and prevent re-tenanting by paying rent for the balance of the lease term. If major tenants vacate a property, then other tenants may be entitled to terminate their leases at the property.

Our net income depends on the success and continued presence of our tenants.

Our net income could be adversely affected if we fail to lease significant portions of our new developments or in the event of bankruptcy
or insolvency of any anchors or of a significant number of our non-anchor tenants within a shopping center. The adverse impact on our net income may be greater than the loss of rent from the resulting unoccupied space because co-tenancy clauses may
allow other tenants to modify or terminate their rent or lease obligations. Co-tenancy clauses have several variants: they may allow a tenant to postpone a store opening if certain other tenants fail to open their stores; they may allow a tenant the
opportunity to close its store prior to lease expiration if another tenant closes its store prior to lease expiration; or more commonly, they may allow a tenant to pay reduced levels of rent until a certain number of tenants open their stores within
the same shopping center.



Index to Financial Statements

We may be unable to collect balances due from tenants in bankruptcy.

At any point in time, we generally have one or more tenants in bankruptcy. A tenant that files for bankruptcy protection may not continue
to pay us rent. A bankruptcy filing by or relating to one of our tenants or a lease guarantor would bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from the tenant or the lease guarantor, or its property, unless the bankruptcy court permits us
to do so. A tenant or lease guarantor bankruptcy could delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have
only a general unsecured claim for damages. As a result, it is likely that we would recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims it holds, if at all.

Downturns in the retail industry likely will have a direct adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow.

Our properties consist primarily of grocery-anchored shopping centers. Our performance therefore is generally linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space. The market for retail space has
been or could be adversely affected by any of the following:

•

weakness in the national, regional and local economies, which could adversely impact consumer spending and retail sales and in turn tenant demand for
space and increased store closings;

•

consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the United States;

•

adverse financial conditions for large retail companies;

•

the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector;

•

the excess amount of retail space in a number of markets;

•

reduction in the demand by tenants to occupy our shopping centers as a result of reduced consumer demand for certain retail formats such as video
rental stores;

•

the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals;

•

changes in taxation and zoning laws;

•

adverse government regulation;

•

a shift in retail shopping from brick and mortar stores to Internet retailers and catalogs;

•

the growth of super-centers, such as those operated by Wal-Mart, and their adverse effect on major grocery chains; and

•

the impact of increased energy costs on consumers and its consequential effect on the number of shopping visits to our centers.

To the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to impact market rents for retail space,
occupancy in the operating portfolios, our ability to recycle capital, and our cash available for distributions to stock and unit holders.

Our real estate assets may be subject to impairment charges.

Our long-lived assets, primarily real estate held for investment, are carried at cost unless circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. We review long-lived
assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate such an evaluation is warranted. In addition, we perform an annual review, generally during the fourth quarter, to re-evaluate market-based capitalization rates and estimated
holding periods. If we determine that the carrying amount of a property is not recoverable, we write down the asset to fair value. If as a result of a change in our strategy for a specific property which we own directly or through our
co-investment partnerships, a property previously classified as held and used is changed to held for sale, or if its estimated holding period changes, such change could cause us to determine that the



Index to Financial Statements

property is impaired and a provision for impairment in relation to that property would be recorded by us either directly or through a reduction of our equity in income of real estate
partnerships. A property’s value is impaired only if our estimate of the aggregate future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) to be generated by the property are less than the carrying value of the property. If the aggregate
future cash flows are less than the carrying value of property, we write down the property to its fair value. In our estimate of cash flows, we consider factors such as expected future operating income, trends and prospects, the effects of demand,
competition and other factors. These subjective assessments have a direct impact on our net income because recording an impairment charge results in an immediate negative adjustment to net income. There can be no assurance that we will not take
additional charges in the future related to the impairment of our assets. Any future impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the charge is taken.

Adverse global market and economic conditions may adversely affect us and could cause us to recognize additional impairment charges or otherwise harm
our performance.

We are unable to predict the timing, severity, and length of adverse market and economic conditions. The
return of adverse market and economic conditions may impede our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay expenses, maintain properties, pay distributions to our stock and unit holders, and refinance debt. During these adverse
periods, there may be significant uncertainty in the valuation our properties and investments that could result in a substantial decrease in the value thereof. No assurance can be given that we would be able to recover the current carrying amount of
all of our properties and investments in the future. Our failure to do so would require us to recognize additional impairment charges for the period in which we reached that conclusion, which could materially and adversely affect us and the market
price of our common stock.

Unsuccessful development activities or a slowdown in development activities will have a direct impact on our
revenues and our revenue growth.

We actively pursue development activities as opportunities arise. Development activities
require various government and other approvals for entitlements which can significantly delay the development process. We may not recover our investment in development projects for which approvals are not received. We incur other risks associated
with development activities, including:

•

the ability to lease up developments to full occupancy on a timely basis;

•

the risk that anchor tenants will not open and operate in accordance with their lease agreement;

•

the risk that occupancy rates and rents of a completed project will not be sufficient to make the project profitable and available for contribution to
our co-investment partnerships or sale to third parties;

•

the risk that the current size in our development pipeline will strain the organization’s capacity to complete the developments within the
targeted timelines and at the expected returns on invested capital;

•

the risk that we may abandon development opportunities and lose our investment in these developments;

•

the risk that development costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project unprofitable;

•

delays in the development and construction process;

•

the lack of cash flow during the construction period; and

•

the lack of development activity could reduce the capitalization of direct costs incurred for the purpose of development resulting in higher general
and administrative costs.

If our developments are unsuccessful or we experience a slowdown in development
activities, our revenue growth may be adversely impacted.



Index to Financial Statements

We may experience difficulty or delay in renewing leases or re-leasing space.

We derive most of our revenue directly or indirectly from rent received from our tenants. We are subject to the risks that, upon
expiration or termination of leases, whether by their terms, as a result of a tenant bankruptcy or otherwise, leases for space in our properties may not be renewed, space may not be re-leased, or the terms of renewal or re-lease, including the cost
of required renovations or concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than current lease terms. As a result, our results of operations and our net income could be reduced.

Many real estate costs are fixed, even if income from our properties decreases.

Our financial results depend primarily on leasing space in our properties to tenants on terms favorable to us. Costs associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes, insurance and
maintenance costs, generally are not reduced even when a property is not fully occupied, rental rates decrease, or other circumstances cause a reduction in income from the property. As a result, cash flow from the operations of our properties may be
reduced if a tenant does not pay its rent or we are unable to lease our properties on favorable terms. Under those circumstances, we might not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs.
Additionally, new properties that we may acquire or develop may not produce any significant revenue immediately, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with such new
properties until they are fully leased.

We may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are illiquid.

Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. We may not be able to alter our portfolio promptly in response
to changes in economic or other conditions including being unable to sell a property at a return we believe is appropriate due to the current economic environment. Our inability to respond quickly to adverse changes in the performance of our
investments could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders.

Changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.

The SEC may decide in 2011 that issuers in the United States should be required to prepare financial statements in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) instead of U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”). IFRS is a comprehensive set of accounting standards promulgated by the International Accounting Standards
Board (“IASB”), which are rapidly gaining worldwide acceptance. If the SEC decides to require IFRS, U.S. issuers may report under the new standards beginning as early as 2015. Changes in U.S. GAAP and changes in current
interpretations are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial results and condition. In certain cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised rule retroactively or apply existing rules
differently which may adversely impact our results of operations or result in our recasting prior period financial statements for material amounts. Additionally, significant changes to U.S. GAAP may require costly technology changes, additional
training and personnel, and other expenses that will negatively impact our results of operations.

The adoption of new lease accounting
rules may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.

The Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) has proposed new accounting rules which could result in significant changes in the way leases are reported in our financial statements under GAAP. The proposal, if adopted, could have a significant effect on our balance sheet.
FASB may issue final rules on this topic in 2011. At this time, we are unable to determine what effect, if any, the adoption of this proposal will have on our financial condition, our results of operations and our financial ratios required by our
debt covenants.



Index to Financial Statements

An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the insurance policies on our properties could subject us to
loss of capital or revenue on those properties.

We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage, rental
loss, and environmental insurance for our properties with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. We believe that the insurance carried on our properties is adequate and in accordance with industry
standards. There are, however, some types of losses, such as from hurricanes, terrorism, wars or earthquakes, which may be uninsurable, or the cost of insuring against such losses may not be economically justifiable. In addition, tenants generally
are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons or damage to personal or real property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted by tenants or their agents on the properties (including
without limitation any environmental contamination), and at the tenant’s expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. However, our tenants may not properly maintain
their insurance policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles associated with such policies. Should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss
that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating
results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders.

Loss of our key personnel could
adversely affect the value of our performance and our Parent Company’s stock price.

We depend on the efforts of our
key executive personnel. Although we believe qualified replacements could be found for our key executives, the loss of their services could adversely affect performance and our Parent Company’s stock price.

We face competition from numerous sources.

The ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented, with less than 10% owned by REIT’s. We face competition from other REIT’s as well as from numerous small owners in the acquisition,
ownership, and leasing of shopping centers. We compete to develop shopping centers with other real estate investment trusts engaged in development activities as well as with local, regional, and national real estate developers.

We compete for the acquisition of properties through proprietary research that identifies opportunities in markets with high barriers to
entry and higher-than-average population growth and household income. We seek to maximize rents per square foot by (i) establishing relationships with supermarket chains that are first or second in their markets or other category-leading
anchors and (ii) leasing non-anchor space in multiple centers to national or regional tenants. We compete to develop properties by applying our proprietary research methods to identify development and leasing opportunities and by pre-leasing a
significant portion of a center before beginning construction.

There can be no assurance, however, that other real estate
owners or developers will not utilize similar research methods and target the same markets and anchor tenants. These entities may successfully control these markets and tenants to our exclusion. If we cannot successfully compete in our targeted
markets, our cash flow, and therefore distributions to stock and unit holders, may be adversely affected.

Costs of environmental
remediation could reduce our cash flow available for distribution to stock and unit holders.

Under various federal, state
and local laws, an owner or manager of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on the property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was
responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of any required remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner or the responsible party.



Index to Financial Statements

We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations as they apply to our shopping
centers pertaining to chemicals used by the dry cleaning industry, the existence of asbestos in older shopping centers, and underground petroleum storage tanks (UST’s). The presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, hazardous or toxic
substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease a contaminated property or to borrow using the property as collateral. Any of these developments could reduce cash flow and distributions to stock and unit holders.

Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that
adversely affect our cash flows.

All of our properties are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act
(“ADA”). The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the
ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers, and noncompliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. While the tenants to whom we lease properties are obligated
by law to comply with the ADA provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more
accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected. As a result, we could be required to expend funds to comply with the provisions of the ADA, which could adversely affect the results of
operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stock and unit holders. In addition, we are required to operate the properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use
regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental entities and become applicable to the properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements, and these expenditures could have a material adverse
effect on our ability to meet our financial obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders.

Risk Factors Related to
Our Co-investment Partnerships and Acquisition Structure

We do not have voting control over our joint venture investments, so we
are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued.

We have invested as a co-venturer in the acquisition or
development of properties. These investments involve risks not present in a wholly-owned project. We do not have voting control over the ventures. The other co-venturer might (i) have interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests
or goals or (ii) otherwise impede our objectives. The other co-venturer also might become insolvent or bankrupt.

Our co-investment
partnerships are an important part of our growth strategy. The termination of our co-investment partnerships could adversely affect distributions to stock and unit holders.

Our management fee income has increased significantly as our participation in co-investment partnerships has increased. If co-investment partnerships owning a significant number of properties were
dissolved for any reason, we would lose the asset and property management fees from these co-investment partnerships, which could adversely affect our cash available for distribution to stock and unit holders.

In addition, termination of the co-investment partnerships without replacing them with new co-investment partnerships could adversely
affect our growth strategy. Property sales to the co-investment partnerships provide us with an important source of funding for additional developments and acquisitions. Without this source of capital, our ability to recycle capital, fund
developments and acquisitions, and increase distributions to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected.

Our
co-investment partnerships have $2.1 billion of debt as of December 31, 2010, of which 35.0% will mature through 2012, which is subject to significant refinancing risks. We anticipate that as real estate values decline, the refinancing of
maturing loans, including those maturing in our joint ventures, will require us and our



Index to Financial Statements

joint venture partners to contribute our respective pro-rata shares of capital in order to reduce refinancing requirements to acceptable loan to value levels required for new financings. The
long-term impact of the current economic crisis on our ability to access capital, including access by our joint venture partners, or to obtain future financing to fund maturing debt is unclear.

Our partnership structure may limit our flexibility to manage our assets.

We invest in retail shopping centers through the Operating Partnership in which the Parent Company currently owns approximately 99.8% of the outstanding common partnership units. From time to time, we
have acquired properties through the Operating Partnership in exchange for limited partnership interests. This acquisition structure may permit limited partners who contribute properties to us to defer some, if not all, of the income tax liability
that they would incur if they sold the property for cash.

Properties contributed to the Operating Partnership may have
unrealized gains attributable to the difference between the fair market value and adjusted tax basis in the properties prior to contribution. As a result, our sale of these properties could cause adverse tax consequences to the limited partners who
contributed them.

Generally, the Operating Partnership has no obligation to consider the tax consequences of its actions to
any limited partner. However, the Operating Partnership may acquire properties in the future subject to material restrictions on refinancing or resale designed to minimize the adverse tax consequences to the limited partners who contribute those
properties. These restrictions could significantly reduce our flexibility to manage our assets by preventing us from reducing mortgage debt or selling a property when such a transaction might be in our best interest in order to reduce interest costs
or dispose of an under-performing property.

Risk Factors Related to Our Capital Recycling and Capital Structure

Higher market capitalization rates for our properties could adversely impact our ability to recycle capital and fund developments and acquisitions, and
could dilute earnings.

As part of our capital recycling program, we sell operating properties that no longer meet our
investment standards. We also develop certain retail centers because of their attractive margins with the intent of selling them to co-investment partnerships or other third parties for a profit. These sales proceeds are used to fund the
construction of new developments. An increase in market capitalization rates could cause a reduction in the value of centers identified for sale, which would have an adverse impact on our capital recycling program by reducing the amount of cash
generated and profits realized. In order to meet the cash requirements of our development program, we may be required to sell more properties than initially planned, which would have a negative impact on our earnings.

Our debt financing may reduce distributions to stock and unit holders.

We do not expect to generate sufficient funds from operations to make balloon principal payments on our debt when due. If we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we might be forced
(i) to dispose of properties, which might result in losses, or (ii) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms. Either could reduce the cash flow available for distributions to stock and unit holders.

In addition, if we cannot make required mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property securing the mortgage, causing
the loss of cash flow from that property. Furthermore, substantially all of our debt is cross-defaulted, which means that a default under one loan could trigger defaults under other loans.

Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that may be incurred. The degree to which we are leveraged could have
important consequences, including the following:

•

leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to repay indebtedness or for working capital, capital expenditures,
acquisitions, development, or other general corporate purposes;



Index to Financial Statements

•

leverage could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and

•

as a result, our leverage could lead to reduced distributions to stock and unit holders.

Covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition.

Our unsecured notes, unsecured line of credit, and revolving credit facility contain customary covenants, including compliance with
financial ratios, such as ratios of total debt to gross asset value and coverage ratios. Coverage ratio is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) divided by the sum of the gross interest and
scheduled mortgage principal paid to our lenders plus dividends paid to our preferred stockholders. Our line of credit also restricts our ability to enter into a transaction that would result in a change of control. These covenants may limit our
operational flexibility and our acquisition activities. Moreover, if we breach any of the covenants in our debt agreements, including the covenants above, and did not cure the breach within any applicable cure period, our lenders could require us to
repay the debt immediately, even in the absence of a payment default. Many of our debt arrangements, including our unsecured notes, unsecured line of credit, and our revolving credit facility, are cross-defaulted, which means that the lenders under
those debt arrangements can put us in default and require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a default under certain of our other debt obligations. As a result, any default under our debt covenants could have an adverse
effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations, and the market value of our stock.

We
depend on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future.

To qualify as a REIT, the Parent Company
must, among other things, distribute to its stockholders each year at least 90% of its REIT taxable income (excluding any net capital gains). Because of these distribution requirements, we likely will not be able to fund all future capital needs,
including capital for acquisitions or developments, with income from operations. We therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources of
capital depends on a number of things, including the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. In addition, our line of credit imposes covenants that limit our flexibility in obtaining other
financing, such as a prohibition on negative pledge agreements.

Additional equity offerings may result in substantial
dilution of stockholders’ interests and additional debt financing may substantially increase our degree of leverage.

Settlement
provisions contained in forward sale agreements subject us to certain risks.

On December 9, 2009, we entered into two
forward sale agreements (the “Agreements”) with J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC (collectively, the “Forward Purchasers”). At the date of the Agreements, the Forward Purchasers borrowed 8 million shares
from unrelated parties and sold those shares into the open market. In March 2011, we expect to settle the Agreements by issuing 8 million shares of Regency Centers Corporation common stock to the Forward Purchasers, unless we elect to settle in
cash, or we agree to extend the Agreements with the Forward Purchasers. Settling the Agreements by issuing shares to the Forward Purchasers will result in dilution to our earnings per share and unit, and our return on equity.

If we elect to settle all or a portion of the 8 million shares of common stock included in the Agreements in cash, then we would expect
the Forward Purchasers to repurchase our common stock in the open market to cover their obligation to return the shares of common stock that they borrowed in connection with the Agreements. If the market value of our common stock at the time of
their repurchase is above the forward price, we would pay the Forward Purchasers an amount in cash equal to the difference. Thus, we would potentially be responsible for a substantial cash payment if our stock price were to rise substantially above
the forward sale price on the date



Index to Financial Statements

we elect to settle in cash. In addition, the repurchase of our common stock by the Forward Purchasers to unwind any hedge positions could cause the price of our common stock to increase, thereby
increasing the amount of cash we would owe to the Forward Purchasers upon a cash settlement of the Agreements.

The Agreements
provide the Forward Purchasers the right to require us to settle in common shares by a specific date upon the occurrence of certain events, irrespective of our interests, including our need for capital. In such a case, we would be required to issue
and deliver our common stock under the terms of the physical settlement provisions of the Agreements, which would result in dilution to our earnings per share and unit, and our return on equity. In addition, upon certain events of bankruptcy,
insolvency, or reorganization relating to us, the Agreements would terminate without further liability of either party, and we would not issue any shares, nor would we receive any proceeds pursuant to the Agreements.

Risk Factors Related to Interest Rates and the Market for Our Stock

We may be forced to deleverage our business with our operating cash flows, which could result in the reduction of distributions to our stock and unit holders, a reduction in investments into our
business or additional equity offerings that dilute our stock and unit holders’ interests.

We depend on external
financing, principally debt financing, to fund the growth of our business and to ensure that we can meet ongoing maturities of our outstanding debt. Our access to financing depends on our credit rating, the willingness of creditors to lend to us and
conditions in the capital markets. Without access to external financing, we would be required to pay outstanding debt with our operating cash flows and our operating cash flows may not be sufficient to pay our outstanding debt as it comes due. If we
are required to deleverage our business with operating cash flows, we may be forced to reduce the amount of, or eliminate altogether, our distributions to stock and unit holders or refrain from making investments in our business.

We and our joint ventures have a significant amount of debt maturing in 2011 and 2012. During this time period, we have $402.0 million
maturing and our joint ventures have $741.5 million maturing (our pro-rata share is $284.6 million). In addition to finding creditors willing to lend to us, we are dependent upon our joint venture partners to contribute their share of any amount
needed to repay or refinance existing debt when lenders reduce the amount of debt our joint ventures are refinancing.

Increased market
interest rates could reduce the Parent Company’s stock price.

The annual dividend rate on our common stock as a
percentage of its market price may influence the trading price of our stock. An increase in market interest rates may lead purchasers to demand a higher annual dividend rate, which could adversely affect the market price of our stock. A decrease in
the market price of our common stock could reduce our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets. Selling common stock at a decreased market price would have a dilutive impact on existing stockholders.

The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.

The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, many of which are out of our control, including:

•

actual or anticipated variations in our operating results or dividends;

•

changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates;

•

publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry in general and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating
agencies with respect to our securities or those of other REIT’s;

•

the ability of our tenants to pay rent and meet their other obligations to us under current lease terms and our ability to re-lease space as leases
expire;



Index to Financial Statements

•

increases in market interest rates that drive purchasers of our stock to demand a higher dividend yield;

•

changes in market valuations of similar companies;

•

adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future;

•

any future issuances of equity securities;

•

additions or departures of key management personnel;

•

strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;

•

actions by institutional stockholders;

•

speculation in the press or investment community; and

•

general market and economic conditions.

These factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. It is impossible to ensure that the market
price of our common stock will not fall in the future.

Risk Factors Related to Federal Income Tax Laws

If the Parent Company fails to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates.

We believe that we qualify for taxation as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can
continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT. If we qualify as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on our income that we distribute currently to our stockholders. Many of the REIT requirements, however, are
highly technical and complex. The determination that we are a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which involve questions of interpretation. For
example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, like rent, that are itemized in the REIT tax laws. There can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) or a court
would agree with the positions we have taken in interpreting the REIT requirements. We are also required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding capital gains. The fact that we hold many of our assets
through co-investment partnerships and their subsidiaries further complicates the application of the REIT requirements. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Furthermore, Congress and the IRS might make changes to
the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a REIT.

Also, unless the IRS granted us relief under certain statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a REIT for four years following the year we first failed to qualify. If we failed to qualify as a
REIT, we would have to pay significant income taxes, reducing cash available to pay dividends, which would likely have a significant adverse affect on the value of our securities. In addition, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to
stockholders.

Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay certain federal, state and
local taxes on our income and property. For example, if we have net income from “prohibited transactions,” that income will be subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions include sales or other dispositions of property held
primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. While we have undertaken a significant
number of asset sales in recent years, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the IRS would not contend otherwise.



Index to Financial Statements

In addition, any net taxable income earned directly by our taxable affiliates, including
Regency Realty Group, Inc. (“RRG”), our taxable REIT subsidiary, is subject to federal and state corporate income tax. Several provisions of the laws applicable to REIT’s and their subsidiaries ensure that a taxable REIT subsidiary
will be subject to an appropriate level of federal income taxation. For example, a taxable REIT subsidiary is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to an affiliated REIT. In addition, a REIT has to pay a 100% penalty tax on some
payments that it receives if the economic arrangements between the REIT, the REIT’s tenants and the taxable REIT subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. Finally, some state and local jurisdictions may
tax some of our income even though as a REIT, we are not subject to federal income tax on that income. To the extent that we and our affiliates are required to pay federal, state and local taxes, we will have less cash available for dividends to our
stockholders.

A REIT may not own securities in any one issuer if the value of those securities exceeds 5% of the value of the
REIT’s total assets or the securities owned by the REIT represent more than 10% of the issuer’s outstanding voting securities or 10% of the value of the issuer’s outstanding securities. An exception to these tests allows a REIT to own
securities of a subsidiary that exceed the 5% value test and the 10% value tests if the subsidiary elects to be a “taxable REIT subsidiary.” We are not able to own securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries that represent in the aggregate
more than 25% of the value of our total assets. We currently own more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of RRG.

Risk Factors Related to Our Ownership Limitations and the Florida Business Corporation Act

Restrictions on the ownership of the Parent Company’s capital stock to preserve our REIT status could delay or prevent a change in control.

Ownership of more than 7% by value of our outstanding capital stock by certain persons is restricted for the purpose of
maintaining our qualification as a REIT, with certain exceptions. This 7% limitation may discourage a change in control and may also (i) deter tender offers for our capital stock, which offers may be attractive to our stockholders, or
(ii) limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their capital stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block in excess of 7% of our outstanding capital stock or to affect a change in
control.

The issuance of the Parent Company’s capital stock could delay or prevent a change in control.

Our articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 shares
of special common stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any shares issued. The issuance of preferred stock or special common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control even if a change in control were in
our stockholders’ interest. The provisions of the Florida Business Corporation Act regarding control share acquisitions and affiliated transactions could also deter potential acquisitions by preventing the acquiring party from voting the common
stock it acquires or consummating a merger or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of our disinterested stockholders.



Index to Financial Statements

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P. have received no written comments regarding their periodic or current reports from
the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding December 31, 2010 that remain unresolved.

Item 2.

Properties

The following
table is a list of the shopping centers summarized by state and in order of largest holdings presented on a Combined Basis (includes properties owned by unconsolidated co-investment partnerships):

The Combined Properties include the consolidated and unconsolidated properties encumbered by mortgage loans of $413.3
million and $2.1 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2010.



Index to Financial Statements

The following table is a list of the shopping centers summarized by state and in order of
largest holdings presented for Consolidated Properties (excludes properties owned by unconsolidated co-investment partnerships):

The Consolidated Properties are encumbered by mortgage loans of $413.3 million as of December 31, 2010.



Index to Financial Statements

The following table is a list of the shopping centers summarized by state and in order of
largest holdings presented for Unconsolidated Properties (only properties owned by unconsolidated co-investment partnerships):

The Unconsolidated Properties are encumbered by mortgage loans of $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2010.



Index to Financial Statements

The following table summarizes the largest tenants occupying our shopping centers for
Consolidated Properties plus Regency’s pro-rata share of Unconsolidated Properties as of December 31, 2010, based upon a percentage of total annualized base rent exceeding or equal to .5% (dollars in thousands):

(1)

Stores owned by anchor tenant that are attached to our centers.

Regency’s leases for tenant space under 5,000 square feet generally have terms ranging from three to five years. Leases greater than 10,000 square feet generally have lease terms in excess of five
years, mostly comprised of anchor tenants. Many of the anchor leases contain provisions allowing the tenant the option of extending the term of the lease at expiration. The leases provide for the monthly payment in advance of fixed minimum rent,
additional rents calculated as a percentage of the tenant’s sales, the tenant’s pro-rata share of real estate taxes, insurance, and common area maintenance (“CAM”) expenses, and reimbursement for utility costs if not directly
metered.



Index to Financial Statements

The following table sets forth a schedule of lease expirations for the next ten years and
thereafter, assuming no tenants renew their leases (dollars in thousands):

(1)

Leased currently under month to month rent or in process of renewal.

(2)

Represents GLA for Consolidated Properties plus Regency’s pro-rata share of Unconsolidated Properties.

(3)

Minimum rent includes current minimum rent and future contractual rent steps for the Consolidated Properties plus Regency’s pro-rata share from Unconsolidated
Properties, but excludes additional rent such as percentage rent, common area maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance reimbursements.



Index to Financial Statements

See the following Combined Basis property table and also see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and
Analysis for further information about Regency’s properties.



Index to Financial Statements



Index to Financial Statements



Index to Financial Statements



Index to Financial Statements



Index to Financial Statements



Index to Financial Statements



Index to Financial Statements



Index to Financial Statements



Index to Financial Statements



Index to Financial Statements



Index to Financial Statements



Index to Financial Statements

(1)

Or latest renovation.

(2)

Includes development properties. If development properties are excluded, the total percentage leased would be 93.2% for Company shopping centers.

(3)

Property under development.

(4)

Owned by a co-investment partnership with outside investors in which RCLP or an affiliate is the general partner.

Note:

Shadow anchor is indicated by parentheses.



Index to Financial Statements

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

We are
a party to various legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of our business. We are not currently involved in any litigation nor to our knowledge, is any litigation threatened against us, the outcome of which would, in our judgment based
on information currently available to us, have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.

Item 4.

(Removed and Reserved)

PART II

Item 5.

Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol “REG”. As of February 24,
2011, we had approximately 17,000 holders of common equity. The following table sets forth the high and low prices and the cash dividends declared on our common stock by quarter for 2010 and 2009:

We intend to pay
regular quarterly dividends to Regency Centers Corporations’ common stockholders. Future dividends will be declared and paid at the discretion of our Board of Directors, and will depend upon cash generated by operating activities, our financial
condition, capital requirements, annual dividend requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and such other factors as our Board of Directors deem relevant. Distributions by us to the extent of our
current and accumulated earnings and profits for federal income tax purposes will be taxable to stockholders as either ordinary dividend income or capital gain income if so declared by us. Distributions in excess of earnings and profits generally
will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital. Such distributions have the effect of deferring taxation until the sale of a stockholder’s common stock. In order to maintain Regency Centers Corporation’s qualification as a REIT, we
must make annual distributions to stockholders of at least 90% of our taxable income. Under certain circumstances, which we do not expect to occur, we could be required to make distributions in excess of cash available for distributions in order to
meet such requirements. We currently maintain the Regency Centers Corporation Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan which enables our stockholders to automatically reinvest dividends, as well as make voluntary cash payments towards the
purchase of additional shares.

Under the loan agreement of our line of credit, in the event of any monetary default, we may
not make distributions to stockholders except to the extent necessary to maintain our REIT status.

We sold the following
equity securities during the quarter ended December 31, 2010 that we did not report on Form 8-K because they represent in aggregate less than 1% of our outstanding common stock. All shares were issued to one accredited investor, an unrelated
party, in a transaction exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, in exchange for an equal number of common units of the Operating Partnership.

Date

Number of Shares

12/30/2010

12,000



Index to Financial Statements

The following table provides information about the Company’s purchases of equity
securities that are registered by the Company pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act during the quarter ended December 31, 2010:

(1)

Represents shares delivered in payment of withholding taxes in connection with options exercised and restricted stock vesting by participants under Regency’s
Long-Term Omnibus Plan.

The performance graph furnished below compares Regency’s cumulative total
stockholder return since December 31, 2005. The stock performance graph should not be deemed filed or incorporated by reference into any other filing made by us under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to
the extent that we specifically incorporate the stock performance graph by reference in another filing.



Index to Financial Statements

Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

(in
thousands, except per share and unit data, number of properties, and ratio of earnings to fixed charges)

The following
tables set forth Selected Financial Data for Regency on a historical basis for the five years ended December 31, 2010. This historical Selected Financial Data has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements as
reclassified for discontinued operations. This information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P. (including the related notes thereto) and Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of the Financial Condition and Results of Operations, each included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Parent Company



Index to Financial Statements

Operating Partnership



Index to Financial Statements

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Overview of Our Strategy

Regency Centers Corporation (the
“Parent Company”) began its operations as a Real Estate Investment Trust (“REIT”) in 1993 and is the managing general partner in Regency Centers, L.P. (the “Operating Partnership”). The term “the Company” or
“Regency” means the Parent Company and the Operating Partnership, collectively. Our key strategic goals are focused on producing superior results to our shareholders by achieving total shareholder returns in excess of REIT shopping center
averages, and sustaining growth in our net asset value and our earnings over an extended period of time. We will achieve these goals through owning, operating, and investing in a high-quality portfolio of primarily grocery-anchored shopping centers
that are tenanted by market-dominant grocers, category-leading anchors, specialty retailers, and restaurants located in areas with above average household incomes and population densities. All of our operating, investing, and financing activities
are performed through the Operating Partnership, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and through its investments in real estate partnerships with third parties (also referred to as co-investment partnerships or joint ventures). The Parent Company
currently owns approximately 99.8% of the outstanding common partnership units of the Operating Partnership. Because of our structure and certain public debt financing, the Operating Partnership is also a registrant.

At December 31, 2010, we directly owned 215 shopping centers (the “Consolidated Properties”) located in 23 states
representing 23.3 million square feet of gross leasable area (“GLA”). Our cost of these shopping centers and those under development is $4.0 billion before depreciation. Through co-investment partnerships, we own partial ownership
interests in 181 shopping centers (the “Unconsolidated Properties”) located in 25 states and the District of Columbia representing 21.8 million square feet of GLA. Our investment in the partnerships that own the Unconsolidated
Properties is $428.6 million. Certain portfolio information described below is presented (1) on a Combined Basis, which is a total of the Consolidated Properties and the Unconsolidated Properties, (2) for our Consolidated Properties only
and (3) for the Unconsolidated Properties that we own through co-investment partnerships. We believe that presenting the information under these methods provides a more complete understanding of the properties that we wholly-own versus those
that we indirectly own through entities we do not control, but for which we provide asset management, property management, leasing, investing, and financing services. The shopping center portfolio that we manage, on a Combined Basis, represents 396
shopping centers located in 28 states and the District of Columbia and contains 45.1 million square feet of GLA.

We earn
revenues and generate cash flow by leasing space in our shopping centers to grocery stores, major retail anchors, side-shop retailers, and restaurants, including ground leasing or selling building pads (out-parcels) to these same types of tenants.
Historically, we have experienced growth in revenues by increasing occupancy and rental rates in our existing shopping centers and by acquiring and developing new shopping centers. Our shopping centers generate substantial daily traffic by
conveniently offering necessities and services. This high traffic should generate increased sales to our tenants, and attract new tenants to our shopping centers, thereby driving higher occupancy levels and rental-rate growth, which we expect will
provide sustained growth in earnings per share and unit, and net asset value over the long term. Increasing occupancy in our shopping centers to historical levels and achieving positive rental rate growth are key objectives of our strategic plan.

We seek a range of strong national, regional, and local specialty retailers, for the same reason that we choose to anchor our
centers with leading grocers and major retailers who provide a mix of goods and services that meet consumer needs. We have created a formal partnering process, the Premier Customer Initiative (“PCI”), to promote mutually beneficial
relationships with our side-shop retailers. The objective of PCI is for us to build a base of non-anchor tenants who represent the “best-in-class” operators in their respective merchandising categories. Such retailers reinforce the
consumer appeal and other strengths of a center’s anchor, help grow and stabilize a center’s occupancy, reduce re-leasing downtime, reduce tenant turnover, and yield higher sustainable rents.

At December 31, 2010, the operating shopping centers on a Combined Basis were 93.2% leased and unchanged from
December 31, 2009. During the recession of 2009, we did experience occupancy declines in our



Index to Financial Statements

shopping centers; however, occupancy levels appear to have stabilized as the economy continues its recovery. We continue to produce higher levels of new leasing activity and fewer tenant defaults
as compared to 2009, and move-outs of weaker tenants hurt by the recession appear to be on the decline. We did however continue to experience a decline in our rental rates. During 2010 and 2009, rental rates in the Combined portfolio declined -2.7%
and -2.0%, respectively. We currently expect rental rates to decline moderately in isolated markets as we release vacant space, or renew expiring leases, where the previous tenant’s rental rates were above market.

We continue to closely monitor the operating performance and rent collections of all tenants in our shopping centers, especially those
tenants operating retail formats that are experiencing significant changes in competition, business practice, and store closings in other locations. We expect these weaker tenants to continue moving out of our shopping centers during 2011, which
will provide us the opportunity to release these vacancies to financially stronger vibrant tenants that will contribute to the overall success of our shopping centers.

We also continue to monitor tenants who have co-tenancy clauses in their lease agreements. These tenants are typically located in larger format community shopping centers that contain multiple anchor
tenants whose leases contain these types of clauses. Co-tenancy clauses have several variants: they may allow a tenant to postpone a store opening if certain other tenants fail to open their store; they may allow a tenant the opportunity to close
their store prior to lease expiration if another tenant closes their store prior to lease expiration; or more commonly, they may allow a tenant to pay reduced levels of rent until a certain number of tenants open their stores within the same
shopping center. If economic weakness persists in geographic areas where we have centers that contain leases with these types of clauses, we could experience reductions in rent and occupancy related to tenants exercising their co-tenancy clauses.

We grow our shopping center portfolio through acquisitions of operating centers and new shopping center development. We will
continue to use our unique combination of development capabilities, market presence, and anchor relationships to invest in value-added opportunities sourced from land owners and joint venture partners, the redevelopment of existing centers, and the
development of land. Development is customer driven, meaning we generally have an executed lease from the anchor before we start construction. Developments serve the growth needs of our anchors and specialty retailers, resulting in modern shopping
centers with long-term anchor leases that produce attractive returns on our invested capital. This development process typically requires three to five years from initial land or redevelopment acquisition through construction, lease-up, and
stabilization of rental income, but can take longer depending upon tenant demand for new stores and the size of the project.

In the near term, fewer new store openings by retailers are resulting in reduced demand for new retail space. As a result, we scaled back
our development program by decreasing the number of new projects started, phasing existing developments that lack retail demand, and decreasing overhead costs. Although our development program will continue to play an important part in our long term
business strategy, new development projects will be rigorously evaluated in regard to the cost and availability of capital, visibility of tenant demand to achieve a stabilized occupancy, and sufficient investment returns.

We strive to cost effectively and opportunistically strengthen our balance sheet, which should allow us to access various sources of
capital to fund our future commitments. We endeavor to continue improving our key financial ratios and to maintain a high percentage of unencumbered assets: 81.5% of our consolidated real estate assets at December 31, 2010 are
unencumbered. Such assets allow us to access the secured and unsecured debt markets and to maintain significant availability on our $713.8 million unsecured line of credit (“The Line”) and revolving credit facility which had an
outstanding balance of $10.0 million on the Line at December 31, 2010. Our debt to asset ratio (before the effect of accumulated depreciation), including our pro-rata share of the debt and assets of joint ventures is 48.4% at
December 31, 2010, and is higher than our ratio at December 31, 2009 of 45.9%; however, our ratio could decline in 2011 if we settle the $246.0 million forward equity offering during 2011, discussed further below. Our coverage
ratio including our pro-rata share of our partnerships was 2.1 times at December 31, 2010 and 2009. We define our coverage ratio as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) divided by the sum of
the gross interest and scheduled mortgage principal paid to our



Index to Financial Statements

lenders plus dividends paid to our preferred stockholders. We plan to grow EBITDA through growth in net operating income by returning the occupancy percentages in our shopping centers back to
historic levels and by acquiring or developing high quality shopping centers, which in combination with a conservative capital structure should favorably impact our coverage ratio on a long-term basis.

Capital recycling involves identifying non-strategic assets from our real estate portfolio and selling those in the open market; and
reinvesting the sale proceeds into new higher quality developments and acquisitions that will generate sustainable revenue growth and attractive returns. To the extent that we are unable to generate capital in excess of our current commitments,
we intend to reduce our new investment activity accordingly.

Co-investment partnerships provide us with a reliable capital
source for shopping center acquisitions, as well as, the opportunity to earn fees for asset management, property management, and other investing and financing services. As asset manager, we are engaged by our partners to apply similar
operating, investment and capital strategies to the portfolios owned by the co-investment partnerships as those applied to the portfolio that we wholly-own. Co-investment partnerships grow their shopping center investments through acquisitions
from third parties or direct purchases from us. Although selling properties to co-investment partnerships reduces our direct ownership interest, it provides a source of capital that further strengthens our balance sheet while we continue to
share, to the extent of our ownership interest, in the risks and rewards of shopping centers that meet our high quality standards and long-term investment strategy.

Our co-investment partnerships have significant levels of debt that mature through 2012 and are subject to significant borrowing risks if the capital markets again become unavailable as they were during
the recession. While we have to date successfully refinanced our maturing loans, the U.S. economy although recovering, remains weak, and could hinder our ability to access capital, including access by our joint venture partners, or to obtain future
financing to fund maturing debt. Currently, we believe that our joint venture partners have sufficient capital or access thereto for these future capital requirements. The impact to the Company or a co-investment partner defaulting on its share of a
capital call is discussed below under “Liquidity and Capital Resources”.

Shopping Center Portfolio

The following table summarizes general information related to our shopping center portfolio, which we use to evaluate and monitor our
performance:

(1)

Combined Basis (includes properties owned by unconsolidated co-investment partnerships)

(2)

Consolidated Properties (excludes properties owned by unconsolidated co-investment partnerships)



Index to Financial Statements

(3)

Unconsolidated Properties (only properties owned by unconsolidated co-investment partnerships)

(4)

Includes Properties in Development

We seek to reduce our operating and leasing risks by diversifying our shopping center locations geographically, and through our tenant mix, as well as, owning a portion of our shopping centers through
co-investment partnerships.

The following table summarizes our four largest tenants, each of which is a grocery tenant,
occupying the shopping centers at December 31, 2010:

(1)

For the Combined Properties including stores owned by grocery anchors that are attached to our centers.

(2)

GLA and annualized base rent include the Consolidated Properties plus Regency’s pro-rata share of the Unconsolidated Properties (“Regency Pro-rata”).

The following table summarizes leasing activity in square feet (“SF”) for the year ended
December 31, 2010 for the Combined Properties and Regency Pro-rata GLA (in thousands):

(1)

Combined Properties includes Consolidated Properties and Unconsolidated Properties.

(2)

Regency Pro-rata includes Consolidated Properties and Regency’s pro-rata share of the Unconsolidated Properties.

Although base rent is supported by long-term lease contracts, tenants who file bankruptcy are given the right to reject any or all of
their leases and close related stores. In the event that a tenant with a significant number of leases in our shopping centers files bankruptcy and cancels its leases, we could experience a significant reduction in our revenues and tenant
receivables. We are closely monitoring industry trends and sales data to help us identify declines in retail categories or tenants who might be experiencing financial difficulties as a result of slowing sales, lack of credit, changes in retail
formats or increased competition. As a result of our findings, we may reduce new leasing, suspend leasing, or curtail the allowance for the construction of leasehold improvements within a certain retail category or to a specific retailer.



Index to Financial Statements

As of December 31, 2010, 56 video rental stores occupied our shopping centers on a
Combined Basis and represent $4.7 million of annual base rent on a pro-rata basis. Blockbuster Video, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on September 23, 2010, represents the majority of our video rental leases with 52 stores and
annual base rent of $4.4 million or 1.0% of our annualized base rent including our pro-rata share of 20 stores in the Unconsolidated Properties. As of December 31, 2010, Blockbuster has rejected 14 leases. Blockbuster has also provided formal
notice that five additional stores will close in early 2011 and those respective leases will be rejected upon closing. We expect additional store closures and lease rejections as their bankruptcy continues.

Movie Gallery/Hollywood Video filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on February 2, 2010 and closed all of its stores in our
shopping centers. The base rent loss associated with these store closings was insignificant to our 2010 annual base rent on a pro-rata basis.

During 2010, Fili’s Enterprises, Inc. doing business as Daphne’s Café, along with Swoozie’s, Pearl Arts, Trade Secret, Jennifer Convertibles, Urban Brands, A&P, and
Loehmann’s, also filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Of these 19 leases, 11 have been assumed or assigned to a new entity and six have been rejected. The combined annual base rent on a pro-rata basis associated with these leases is
insignificant to our annual base rent on a pro-rata basis.

We continuously monitor the financial condition of our tenants. We
communicate often with those tenants who have announced store closings or filed bankruptcy. We are not currently aware of the pending bankruptcy or announced store closings of any tenants in our shopping centers beyond those described above that
would individually cause a material reduction in our revenues, and no tenant represents more than 5% of our annual base rent on a pro-rata basis.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our Parent Company has no capital
commitments other than its guarantees of the commitments of our Operating Partnership. The Parent Company will from time to time access the capital markets for the purpose of issuing new equity and will simultaneously contribute all of the offering
proceeds to the Operating Partnership in exchange for additional partnership units. Any new debt is issued by our Operating Partnership or by our co-investment partnerships. Accordingly, the discussion below regarding liquidity and capital resources
is presented on a consolidated basis for the Company. The following table summarizes net cash flows related to operating, investing, and financing activities of the Company for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 (in
thousands):



Index to Financial Statements

On December 31, 2010 our cash balance was $22.5 million. We operate our business
such that we expect net cash provided by operating activities, before settlements of derivative instruments, in combination with proceeds generated from sales of development properties and land will provide the necessary funds to pay our scheduled
mortgage loan principal payments, capital expenditures necessary to maintain our shopping centers, and distributions to our share and unit holders. The following table summarizes these amounts for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009,
and 2008 (in thousands):

Our dividend distribution policy is set by our Board of Directors and they continuously review our financial
results. Our Board of Directors recently declared our quarterly dividend of $0.4625 per share, payable March 2, 2011 to stock and unit holders of record as of February 16, 2011. Our dividend has remained unchanged since May 2009. We plan
to continue paying an aggregate amount of distributions to our stock and unit holders that at a minimum meet the requirements to continue qualifying as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes.

At December 31, 2010 commitments available to us under our Operating Partnership’s unsecured line of credit (the “Line”)
and revolving credit facility totaled $713.8 million and our outstanding balance on the Line was $10.0 million. In February 2011, the $113.8 million revolving credit facility expired with no balance outstanding. The maturity date of the $600 million
Line was extended one year to February 2012. We initiated discussions with our lenders to evaluate our Line requirements and we expect to complete and close on a new credit facility prior to the maturity date of the Line.

We currently estimate that we will require $455.8 million through 2013 primarily to repay $398.0 million of maturing debt (excluding
scheduled principal payments), complete in-process developments, and to fund our pro-rata share of estimated capital contributions to our co-investment partnerships for repayment of debt. Included in these capital requirements are $374.1 million of
unsecured public debt, as further described below under Notes Payable, which we intend to repay at maturity from the proceeds of new unsecured issues of debt or equity. To the extent that issuing unsecured debt is cost prohibitive or unavailable, we
believe that we have sufficient unsecured assets available for secured mortgage financing whose proceeds could be used to repay the unsecured debt at maturity. When necessary, the Line is available to fund our capital needs. We will also receive
estimated net proceeds of $217.8 million once we settle the 8.0 million common share forward equity offering (“Forward Equity Offering”), as further discussed below under Equity and Capital.

As part of our strategy, we will sell shopping centers that no longer meet our long-term investment criteria and invest those proceeds
into higher quality shopping centers. During 2010, we sold three shopping centers for $36.3 million and reinvested the majority of the proceeds into two shopping centers with a combined purchase price of $82.0 million including the assumption of
existing mortgage debt of $59.0 million.

On September 1, 2010, we acquired a shopping center for a purchase price of
$18.0 million which included the assumption of $7.9 million in debt. Acquired lease intangible assets and acquired lease intangible liabilities of $1.5 million and approximately $562,000, respectively were recorded for this acquisition. The
acquisition was accounted for as a purchase business combination and the results are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition.



Index to Financial Statements

On December 15, 2010, we acquired a shopping center for a purchase price of $64.0
million which included the assumption of $51.1 million in debt, recorded net of a $1.6 million debt premium. Acquired lease intangible assets and acquired lease intangible liabilities of $9.2 million and $1.5 million, respectively were recorded for
this acquisition. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase business combination and the results are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition.

At December 31, 2010 we had 26 development properties on a Combined Basis that were either under construction or in lease up,
which when completed, will represent a net investment of $520.7 million after projected sales of adjacent land and out-parcels. This compares to 40 development properties at December 31, 2009 representing an investment of $820.7 million
upon completion. We estimate that we will earn an average return on investment from our current development projects of 6.7% when completed and fully leased. Costs necessary to complete in-process development projects, net of reimbursements and
projected land sales, are estimated to be $11.4 million.

At December 31, 2010, our joint ventures had $781.4
million of scheduled secured mortgage loans and credit lines maturing through 2013. On April 30, 2010 our joint venture with Global Retail Investors (“GRI”) prepaid, without penalty, $514.8 million of mortgage loans that would have
matured in June and July 2010. Regency and GRI each contributed capital to the joint venture for their respective pro-rata share of the repayment. On June 2, 2010 our joint venture with GRI closed on $202.0 million of new ten year secured
mortgage loans and distributed the proceeds to Regency and GRI in proportion to their ownership interests. A more detailed loan maturity schedule and further discussion about the repayment of maturing debt is included below under Notes Payable. We
believe that our joint venture partners are financially sound and have sufficient capital or access thereto to fund future capital requirements. We communicate with our co-investment partners regularly regarding the operating and capital budgets of
our co-investment partnerships, and believe that we will successfully complete the refinancing of our joint venture debt as it matures in the future. In the event that a co-investment partner was unable to fund its share of the capital requirements
of the co-investment partnership, we would have the right, but not the obligation, to loan the defaulting partner the amount of its capital call at an interest rate at the lesser of prime plus a pre-defined spread or the maximum rate allowed by law.
A decision to loan to a defaulting joint venture partner, which would be secured by the defaulting partner’s partnership interest, would be based on the fair value of the co-investment partnership assets, our joint venture partner’s
financial health, and would be subject to an evaluation of our own capital commitments and sources to fund those commitments. Alternatively, should we determine that our joint venture partners will not have sufficient capital to meet future capital
needs, we could trigger liquidation of the partnership. For the co-investment partnerships that have distribution-in-kind (“DIK”) provisions, and own multiple properties, a liquidation of the co-investment partnership could be completed by
either a DIK of the properties to each joint venture partner in proportion to its partnership interest, open market sale, or a combination of both methods. Our co-investment partnership properties have been financed with non-recourse loans that
represent 99% of the total debt of the co-investment partnerships including lines of credit as of December 31, 2010. We and our partners have no guarantees related to these loans. In those co-investment partnerships which have DIK
provisions, if we trigger liquidation by distribution-in-kind, each partner would receive title to properties selected in a rotation process for distribution and would assume any related loans secured by the properties distributed. The loan
agreements generally provide for assumption by either joint venture partner after obtaining any required lender consent. We would only be responsible for those loans we assume through the DIK and only to the extent of the value of the property we
receive, since after assumption through the DIK the loans would remain non-recourse. We also have a 50% investment interest in a single asset joint venture with an $8.8 million loan which contains guarantees from each partner limited to their
respective interest.

On June 2, 2010 we issued $150.0 million of 6.0% ten-year senior unsecured notes, and the net proceeds
were used to repay the balance of the Line at that point in time. On October 7, 2010 we issued $250.0 million of 4.80% ten-year senior unsecured notes, and used $110.0 million to repay the balance of the Line. On October 29, 2010 we
completed a tender offer for outstanding debt by purchasing $11.8 million of 7.95% unsecured notes maturing in January 2011, and $57.6 million of 6.75% unsecured notes maturing in January 2012. The proceeds



Index to Financial Statements

from the debt offering that remained after repayment of the Line and the completion of the tender offer were used to repay debts that matured in December 2010 and to fund other capital
requirements.

Our preferred stock and preferred units, though callable by us, are not redeemable in cash at the option of the
holders.

Although common or preferred equity raised in the public markets by the Parent Company is an option to fund future
capital needs, access to these markets could be limited at times. When conditions for the issuance of securities are acceptable, we will evaluate issuing debt or equity to fund new acquisition opportunities, fund new developments, or repay maturing
debt. At December 31, 2010, the Parent Company and the Operating Partnership each had existing shelf registration statements available for the issuance of new equity or debt securities.

Investments in Real Estate Partnerships

We account for certain investments in real estate partnerships using the equity method. We have determined that these investments are not variable interest entities and do not require consolidation under
Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 810, and therefore are subject to the voting interest model in determining our basis of accounting. Major decisions, including leasing,
property acquisitions not meeting pre-established investment criteria, dispositions, financings, annual budgets, and dissolution of the joint ventures are subject to the approval of all partners.

Recognition of gains from sales to co-investment partnerships is recorded on only that portion of the sales not attributable to our
ownership interest unless there are certain provisions in the partnership agreement which allow the Company a unilateral right to initiate a DIK upon liquidation, as described further below under our Critical Accounting Policies and Note 1(b)
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our Consolidated Financial Statements each included herein. The presence of such DIK provisions requires that we apply a more restrictive method of gain recognition (“Restricted Gain Method”)
on sales of properties to these co-investment partnerships. This method considers our potential ability to receive property through a DIK on which partial gain has been recognized, and ensures maximum gain deferral upon sale to a co-investment
partnership containing these unilateral DIK rights (“DIK-JV”). During 2010 and 2009, we did not sell any properties to a DIK-JV.

The operations and gains related to properties sold to our investments in real estate partnerships are not classified as discontinued operations because we continue to provide property management services
to these shopping centers under market rate agreements with our co-investment partnerships. For those properties acquired by joint ventures from unrelated parties, we are required to contribute our pro-rata share of the purchase price based on our
ownership interest in the co-investment partnerships.

At December 31, 2010, we had investments in real estate
partnerships of $428.6 million. The following table is a summary of unconsolidated combined assets and liabilities of these co-investment partnerships and our pro-rata share (see note below) at December 31, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in
thousands):

(1)

Pro-rata financial information is not, and is not intended to be, a presentation in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
However, management believes that providing such information



Index to Financial Statements

is useful to investors in assessing the impact of its investments in real estate partnership activities on the operations of Regency, which includes such items on a single line presentation under
the equity method in its consolidated financial statements.

Investments in real estate partnerships are
primarily composed of co-investment partnerships in which we currently invest with five co-investment partners and a real estate fund (“Regency Retail Partners” or the “Fund”), as further described below. In addition to
recognizing our pro-rata share of net income or loss in each of these real estate partnerships, we receive market-based fees for asset management, property management, leasing, investment and financing services, which were $25.1 million, $29.1
million, and $31.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. We also received fees for specific transactions of $2.6 million, $7.8 million, and $23.7 million for the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively, which are further described below.

Our investments in real estate
partnerships as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 consist of the following (in thousands):

(1)

At December 31, 2009, the Company’s ownership interest in GRIR (formerly Macquarie CountryWide-Regency II, LLC) was 25.00%.

Investments in real estate partnerships are reported net of deferred gains of $51.4 million and $52.0 million at
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Cumulative deferred gains related to each co-investment partnership are described below.

We co-invest with GRI, a joint venture between the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (“CalPERS”) and an affiliate of First Washington Realty, Inc. in one real estate
partnership in which we have an ownership interest of 40%. During March 2010, an amendment was filed with the state of Delaware to change the name of the real estate partnership from Macquarie CountryWide – Regency II, LLC (“MCWR II”)
to GRI – Regency, LLC (“GRIR”). Our investment in GRIR totals $277.2 million and represents 7.0% of our total assets at December 31, 2010.

On July 17, 2009, we announced that Charter Hall Retail REIT (“CHRR”), formerly Macquarie CountryWide, had agreed to sell a 60% partnership interest to GRI in two closings. The initial
closing was completed on July 31, 2009, with GRI purchasing a 45% interest in the real estate partnership. At the initial closing we received a disposition fee of $7.8 million from CHRR equal to 1% of the gross sales price paid by GRI. As part
of the closing, we acquired Macquarie-Regency Management, LLC’s (“US Manager”) 0.1% ownership of the real estate partnership. US Manager was owned 50/50 by us and an affiliate of Macquarie Bank Limited. The transaction increased our
ownership to 25% from 24.95%.



Index to Financial Statements

As part of the original agreement with CHRR, we negotiated two separate options to acquire
an additional 15% interest in the partnership. In November 2009, we exercised our two options with closing contingent upon obtaining lender consents. We funded the purchase price of $16.0 million on December 23, 2009, which was held in escrow
and recorded in other assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2009. On March 30, 2010, we received lender consent and closed on our options increasing our ownership interest in the real estate
partnership to 40%.

On April 30, 2010, GRIR repaid $514.8 million of mortgage debt, without penalty, in order to
minimize its future refinancing and interest rate risks. We contributed capital of $206.7 million to GRIR for our pro-rata share of the repayment, which we funded from the Line and available cash balances. Simultaneously, GRI closed on the purchase
of its remaining 15% interest from CHRR, increasing its total ownership interest in the real estate partnership to 60%. As a part of this transaction, we also received a disposition fee of $2.6 million equal to 1% of gross sales price paid by
GRI. We have retained asset management, property management, and leasing responsibilities. On June 2, 2010, GRIR closed on $202.0 million of new ten year secured mortgage loans and we received $79.6 million as our pro-rata share of the
loan proceeds. On September 1, 2010, an additional $47.2 million of mortgage debt was repaid and we contributed our pro-rata share.

As of December 31, 2010, GRIR owned 83 shopping centers, had total assets of $2.1 billion and a net loss of $15.1 million for the year ended, primarily related to provisions for impairment of
$12.3 million recorded on one property that sold during 2010 and $23.9 million on seven properties that are expected to sell during the next three years. Effective January 1, 2010, the partnership agreement was amended to include a unilateral
right to elect to dissolve the partnership and receive a DIK upon liquidation; therefore, we will apply the Restricted Gain Method for any properties sold to GRIR on or after January 1, 2010. During 2010, we did not sell any properties to GRIR.
Since the inception of GRIR (formerly MCWR II), we recognized gains of $2.3 million on partial sales and deferred gains of approximately $766,000. During 2010, GRIR sold three shopping centers for $59.5 million and recognized a gain of $5.4 million.

We co-invest with CHRR as the only other partner in two co-investment partnerships, one in which we have an ownership
interest of 24.95% (“MCWR III”) and one in which we have an ownership interest of 16.35% (“MCWR-DESCO”). Our investment in the two co-investment partnerships with CHRR totals $20.1 million and represents less than 1% of our total
assets at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, the CHRR joint ventures had total assets of $430.4 million and a net loss of $5.3 million for the year ended.

As of December 31, 2010, MCWR III owned four shopping centers, had total assets of $63.6 million, and a net loss of
approximately $433,000 for the year ended. Effective January 1, 2010, the partnership agreement was amended to include a unilateral right to elect to dissolve the partnership and receive a DIK upon liquidation; therefore, we will apply the
Restricted Gain Method for additional properties sold to MCWR III on or after January 1, 2010. During 2010, we did not sell any properties to MCWR III. Since the inception of MCWR III in 2005, we have recognized gain of $14.1 million on partial
sales to MCWR III and deferred gains of $4.7 million.

As of December 31, 2010, MCWR-DESCO owned 32 shopping
centers, had total assets of $366.8 million and recorded a net loss of $4.9 million for the year ended. Since the inception of MCWR-DESCO in 2007, we have not sold any properties to MCWR-DESCO. The partnership agreement does not contain any DIK
provisions that would require us to apply the Restricted Gain Method. In December 2010, the partners of MCWR-DESCO began negotiating the liquidation of the portfolio through DIK. If agreed to and executed by the partners, the liquidation could occur
in 2011, whereby we would receive four shopping centers from MCWR-DESCO representing the distribution of our equity in the partnership on a pro-rata basis. As a result of the expected liquidation of the partnership, we reduced our investment in
MCWR-DESCO to fair value and recorded a provision for impairment of $2.7 million at December 31, 2010 in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations.

We co-invest with the Oregon Public Employees Retirement Fund (“OPERF”) in three co-investment partnerships, two of which we have ownership interests of 20% (“Columbia I” and
“Columbia II”) and one in which we have an ownership interest of 30% (“Cameron”). Our investment in the three co-investment



Index to Financial Statements

partnerships with OPERF totals $47.4 million and represents 1.2% of our total assets at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, the OPERF joint ventures had total assets of
$686.2 million and net loss of $15.9 million for the year ended.

As of December 31, 2010, Columbia I owned 13
shopping centers, had total assets of $277.8 million and net loss of $14.9 million for the year ended, primarily related to a provision for impairment of $23.7 million on two properties it expects to sell in the next three years. The partnership
agreement has a unilateral right to elect to dissolve the partnership and receive a DIK upon liquidation; therefore, we have applied the Restricted Gain Method to determine the amount of gain that we recognize on property sales to Columbia. During
2010, we did not sell any properties to Columbia I. Since the inception of Columbia I in 2001, we have recognized gain of $2.0 million on partial sales to Columbia I and deferred gains of $4.3 million. During 2010, Columbia I sold one shopping
center to a third party for $12.4 million and recognized a gain of $1.2 million.

As of December 31, 2010, Columbia
II owned 16 shopping centers, had total assets of $302.4 million, and net loss of approximately $330,000 for the year ended, primarily related to a provision for impairment of approximately $857,000 on one property it expects to sell in the next
three years. The partnership agreement has a unilateral right to elect to dissolve the partnership and receive a DIK upon liquidation; therefore, we have applied the Restricted Gain Method to determine the amount of gain that we recognize on
property sales to Columbia II. During 2010, we did not sell any properties to Columbia II. Since the inception of Columbia II in 2004, we have recognized gain of $9.1 million on partial sales to Columbia II and deferred gains of $15.7 million.

As of December 31, 2010, Cameron owned one shopping center, had total assets of $106.0 million, and a net loss of
approximately $708,000 for the year ended. The partnership agreement does not contain any DIK provisions that would require us to apply the Restricted Gain Method. Since the inception of Cameron in 2004, we have not sold any properties to Cameron.

We co-invest with the California State Teachers’ Retirement System (“CalSTRS”) in a joint venture
(“RegCal”) in which we have a 25% ownership interest. Our investment in the co-investment partnership with CalSTRS totals $15.3 million and represents less than 1% of our total assets at December 31, 2010. As of
December 31, 2010, RegCal owned eight shopping centers, had total assets of $183.5 million, and net income of approximately $858,000 for the year ended. The partnership agreement has a unilateral right to elect to dissolve the partnership
and receive a DIK upon liquidation; therefore, we have applied the Restricted Gain Method to determine the amount of gain that we recognize on property sales to RegCal. During 2010, we did not sell any properties to RegCal. Since the inception of
RegCal in 2004, we have recognized gain of $10.1 million on partial sales to RegCal and deferred gains of $3.4 million. In March 2010, RegCal purchased one property from a third party for $12.9 million, net of assumed debt of $18.0 million, and we
contributed $3.3 million for our proportionate share of the purchase price.

We co-invest with Regency Retail Partners (the
“Fund”), a closed-end, finite life investment fund in which we have an ownership interest of 20%. Our investment in the Fund totals $17.5 million and represents less than 1% of our total assets at December 31, 2010. As of
December 31, 2010, the Fund owned nine shopping centers, had total assets of $341.1 million, and recorded a net loss of $18.9 million for the year ended, primarily related to provisions for impairment of $18.1 million recorded on four
properties that are expected to sell during the next three years. The partnership agreement does not contain any DIK provisions that would require us to apply the Restricted Gain Method. During 2010, we did not sell any properties to the Fund. Since
the inception of the Fund in 2006, we have recognized gains of $71.6 million on partial sales to the Fund and deferred gains of $17.9 million.

We co-invest with United Services Automobile Association (the “USAA partnership”) in which we have an ownership interest of 20.01%. Our investment in the USAA partnership totals $3.9 million and
represents less than 1% of our total assets at December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the USAA partnership owned eight shopping centers, had total assets of $134.3 million, and recorded a net loss of approximately $441,000
for the year ended. The partnership agreement has a unilateral right for election to dissolve the partnership and receive a DIK upon liquidation; therefore, we applied the Restricted Gain Method to determine the amount of gain



Index to Financial Statements

recognized on property sales to the USAA partnership. During 2010, we did not sell any properties to the USAA partnership. Since the inception of the USAA partnership in 2009, we recognized gains
of $19.4 million on partial sales to the USAA partnership and deferred gains of $8.0 million.

We co-invest in another nine
joint ventures that own seven shopping centers and land (“other investments in real estate partnerships”) in which we have an ownership interest of 50% in each venture. Each venture is also owned 50% by one of three partners, two partners
of which are also the grocery anchor tenants in the seven shopping centers owned by the various ventures. Our investment in these other investments in real estate partnerships totals $47.0 million and represents 1.2% of our total assets at
December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the other investments in real estate partnerships had total combined assets of $130.4 million, and recorded combined net income of $3.2 million for the year ended.

Contractual Obligations

We have debt obligations related to our mortgage loans, unsecured notes, and our Unsecured credit facilities as described further below. We have shopping centers that are subject to non-cancelable
long-term ground leases where a third party owns and has leased the underlying land to us to construct and/or operate a shopping center. In addition, we have non-cancelable operating leases pertaining to office space from which we conduct our
business. The table excludes reserves for $2.9 million related to environmental remediation as discussed below under Environmental Matters as the timing of the remediation is not currently known. The table also excludes obligations related to
construction or development contracts because payments are only due upon satisfactory performance under the contract.

The
following table of Contractual Obligations summarizes our debt maturities including interest, (excluding recorded debt premiums or discounts that are not obligations), and our obligations under non-cancelable operating and ground leases as of
December 31, 2010 including our pro-rata share of obligations within co-investment partnerships excluding interest (in thousands):

(1)

Amounts include interest payments

(2)

Amounts exclude interest payments

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We do not have off-balance sheet arrangements, financings, or other relationships with other unconsolidated entities (other than our co-investment partnerships) or other persons, also known as variable
interest entities not previously discussed.



Index to Financial Statements

Notes Payable and Unsecured Credit Facilities

The Parent Company does not hold any indebtedness, but guarantees all of the unsecured public debt and less than 9% of the secured debt of
the Operating Partnership.

Notes payable consist of mortgage loans secured by properties and unsecured public debt. Mortgage
loans may be prepaid, but could be subject to yield maintenance premiums and are generally due in monthly installments of principal and interest or interest only, and mature over various terms through 2020. Interest on unsecured public debt is
payable semi-annually and the debt matures over various terms through 2021. Fixed interest rates on mortgage loans range from 5.00% to 8.40% with a weighted average rate of 6.52%. As of December 31, 2010, we had two variable rate mortgage
loans, one in the amount of $4.1 million with an interest rate equal to LIBOR plus 380 basis points maturing on October 1, 2014 and one construction loan with a current balance of $7.1 million with a variable interest rate of LIBOR plus 300
basis points maturing on September 2, 2011.

At December 31, 2010, 99.0% of our total debt had fixed interest
rates, compared with 99.7% at December 31, 2009. We intend to limit the percentage of variable interest rate debt to be no more than 30% of total debt, which we believe to be an acceptable risk. Currently, our variable rate debt represents
1.0% of our total debt.

On June 2, 2010, we completed the sale of $150.0 million of 6.0% ten-year
senior unsecured notes. The notes are due June 15, 2020. Interest on the notes will be payable semiannually on June 15

th

and December 15

th

of each year. The net proceeds were used to repay the balance of the Line.

On October 7, 2010 we completed the sale of $250.0 million of 4.80% ten-year senior unsecured notes. The notes
are due April 15, 2021. Interest on the notes will be payable semiannually on April 15

th

and October 15

th

of each year. A portion of the net proceeds were used to repay the $110.0 million balance on the Line and to fund the debt tender offer discussed below.

On October 29, 2010 we completed a tender offer for outstanding debt by purchasing $11.8 million of 7.95% unsecured notes maturing
in January 2011, and $57.6 million of 6.75% unsecured notes maturing in January 2012. We recognized a $4.2 million expense for the early extinguishment of this debt.

We have a $600.0 million Line commitment under an agreement with Wells Fargo Bank and a syndicate of other banks that matures in February 2012. The Line has a current interest rate of LIBOR plus 55 basis
points and an annual facility fee of 15 basis points subject to maintaining our corporate credit and senior unsecured ratings at BBB. The outstanding balance on the line was $10.0 million at December 31, 2010 and there was no outstanding
balance at December 31, 2009. We initiated discussions with our lender to enter into a new Line commitment and term, and we expect to close on the new commitment prior to February 2012.

We had a $113.8 million revolving credit facility under an agreement with Wells Fargo Bank and a syndicate of other banks that matured in
February 2011. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the revolving credit facility had a variable interest rate equal to LIBOR plus 100 basis points and an annual facility fee of 20 basis points subject to maintaining our corporate credit and
senior unsecured ratings at BBB. There was no balance outstanding at December 31, 2010 or 2009, and we will not renew this facility.

The interest spread paid on the Line commitment and the revolving credit facility (collectively, “Unsecured credit facilities”), is dependent upon maintaining specific investment-grade ratings.
We are also required to comply with certain financial covenants as defined in the Credit Agreement such as Minimum Net Worth, Ratio of Total Liabilities to Gross Asset Value (“GAV”) and Ratio of Recourse Secured Indebtedness to GAV, Ratio
of Earnings Before Interest Taxes Depreciation and Amortization (“EBITDA”) to Fixed Charges, and other covenants customary with this type of unsecured financing. As of December 31, 2010, management believes we are in compliance
with all financial covenants for the Unsecured credit facilities. The Unsecured credit facilities are used to finance the acquisition and development of real estate and for general working-capital purposes.



Index to Financial Statements

The fair value of our notes payable is estimated based on the current rates available to us
for debt of the same terms and remaining maturities. Fixed rate loans assumed in connection with real estate acquisitions are recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial statements at fair value at the time of acquisition excluding those
loans assumed in DIK liquidations. Based on the estimates used, the fair value of notes payable was $1.7 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Total outstanding debt at December 31, 2010 and 2009 consists of the following (in thousands):

As of December 31, 2010, scheduled principal repayments on notes payable were as follows (in
thousands):

(1)

Includes unsecured public debt and unsecured credit facilities. The Line is included in 2012 maturities and matures in February 2012.

At December 31, 2010, our investments in real estate partnerships had notes payable of $2.1 billion maturing through 2028, of
which 99.1% had weighted average fixed interest rates of 5.8%. The remaining notes payable had variable interest rates based on LIBOR plus a spread in a range of 73 to 270 basis points. Our pro-rata share of these loans was $663.1 million. We and
our partners have no guarantees related to these loans except for an $8.8 million loan related to our 50% ownership interest in one single asset real estate partnership where we are only responsible for our pro-rata share of the loan. As of
December 31, 2010, scheduled principal repayments on notes payable held by our investments in real estate partnerships were as follows (in thousands):



Index to Financial Statements

On April 30, 2010, GRIR prepaid $514.8 million of $562.0 million mortgage debt maturing
in 2010, without penalty, in order to minimize its refinancing and interest rate risks. Regency and GRI each contributed their pro-rata share of the repayment as a capital contribution to GRIR. In June 2010, the joint venture executed 13 new
mortgage loans representing $202.0 million with ten year terms and rates of 5.825%. The net proceeds were distributed to us and GRI in proportion to our ownership interests in GRIR. An additional $47.2 million of mortgage debt was repaid in
September 2010, which also required pro-rata contributions from each joint venture partner.

GRIR recently locked the interest
rate on $340.0 million of mortgage loan financings to be secured by 19 assets in the partnership to repay a portion of the partnership’s $430.4 million of secured debt maturing in 2011. The refinance includes a weighted average interest rate of
4.9% over a weighted average 11-year term and is interest-only for the first year. The closing is expected to occur in 2011 prior to the maturity dates of the loans. The GRIR partners intend to contribute their pro-rata share of the capital
necessary to repay the balance of the 2011 maturities not repaid from the new loans.

Equity and Capital

We have issued common and preferred stock from the Parent Company and common and preferred units from the Operating Partnership to fund
our capital commitments and to maintain a conservative capital structure as described below.

Equity of the Parent Company

The Series 3, 4, and 5 preferred shares are perpetual, are not convertible into common stock of the Parent Company,
and are redeemable at par upon our election beginning five years after the issuance date. None of the terms of the preferred stock contain any unconditional obligations that would require us to redeem the securities at any time or for any purpose
and we do not currently anticipate redeeming any preferred stock. Terms and conditions of the three series of preferred stock outstanding as of December 31, 2010 are summarized as follows:

Common Stock

On December 9, 2009, the Parent Company completed a public offering of 8.0 million common shares at $30.75 per share in
connection with forward sale agreements entered into with J.P. Morgan and Wells Fargo Securities, which will result in estimated future net proceeds of $217.8 million, net of issuance costs, once the agreements are settled. We expect to settle the
agreements by March 2011 unless we enter into an extension with the forward purchasers. The offering included an over-allotment option of 1.2 million shares, which closed simultaneously with the execution of the forward sale agreements, and
provided proceeds of $34.9 million to us during 2010. We intend to use the proceeds from the settlement of the forward sale agreements to repay debt maturing in 2011 and outstanding balances on our line of credit.

On April 24, 2009, we completed a public offering of 10.0 million common shares at $32.50 per share resulting in proceeds of
$310.9 million, net of issuance costs. The net proceeds were used to repay the balance of the Line and general working capital purposes.



Index to Financial Statements

Noncontrolling Interests of Preferred Units

We have issued Preferred Units through the Operating Partnership in various amounts since 1998 primarily to institutional investors in
private placements. Generally, the Preferred Units may be exchanged by the holders for Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock of the Parent Company after a specified date at an exchange rate of one share for one unit. The Preferred Units of the
Operating Partnership and the related Preferred Stock of the Parent Company are not convertible into common stock of the Parent Company. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, only the Series D Preferred Units were outstanding with a face value of
$50.0 million and a fixed distribution rate of 7.45%. These Units are callable by the Parent Company beginning September 29, 2009, and have no stated maturity or mandatory redemption. Included in the Series D Preferred Units are original
issuance costs of approximately $842,000.

Noncontrolling Interest of Exchangeable Operating Partnerships Units

As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Operating Partnership had 177,164 and 468,211 limited Partnership
Units outstanding that were not owned by the Parent Company, representing less than 1% of the outstanding Partnership Units of the Operating Partnership. The redemption value of the limited Partnership Units is based on the closing market price of
the Parent Company’s common stock, which was $42.24 and $35.06 per share as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, an aggregate redemption value of $7.5 million and $16.4 million, respectively.

Noncontrolling Interests of Limited Partners’ Interests in Consolidated Partnerships

Limited partners’ interests in consolidated partnerships not owned by us are classified as noncontrolling interests on the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Subject to certain conditions and pursuant to the conditions of the agreement, we have the right, but not the obligation, to purchase the other member’s interest or sell our own interest in these
consolidated partnerships. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the noncontrolling interest in these consolidated partnerships was $10.8 million and $11.7 million, respectively.

Capital of the Operating Partnership

Preferred Units

The Series D Preferred Units are owned by institutional investors. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the face
value of the Series D Preferred Units was $50.0 million with a fixed distribution rate of 7.45% and recorded in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets net of original issuance costs of approximately $842,000. See above for further discussion.

Preferred Units of General Partner

The Parent Company, as general partner, owns corresponding Series 3, 4, and 5 preferred unit interests (“Series 3, 4, and 5 Preferred Units”) in the Operating Partnership. See above for further
discussion.

General Partner

As of December 31, 2010, the Parent Company, as general partner, owned approximately 99.8% or 81,886,872 of the total 82,064,036 Partnership Units outstanding.

Limited Partners

The Operating Partnership had 177,164 and 468,211 limited Partnership Units outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



Index to Financial Statements

Noncontrolling Interests of Limited Partners’ Interests in Consolidated
Partnerships

See above for further discussion.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Knowledge about our
accounting policies is necessary for a complete understanding of our financial statements. The preparation of our financial statements requires that we make certain estimates that impact the balance of assets and liabilities at a financial statement
date and the reported amount of income and expenses during a financial reporting period. These accounting estimates are based upon, but not limited to, our judgments about historical results, current economic activity, and industry accounting
standards. They are considered to be critical because of their significance to the financial statements and the possibility that future events may differ from those judgments, or that the use of different assumptions could result in materially
different estimates. We review these estimates on a periodic basis to ensure reasonableness; however, the amounts we may ultimately realize could differ from such estimates.

Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable – Accounts receivable represent revenues recognized in our financial statements, and include base rent, percentage rent, and expense recoveries from
tenants for common area maintenance costs, insurance and real estate taxes. We analyze tenant receivables, historical bad debt levels, customer credit-worthiness and current economic trends when evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for doubtful
accounts. Our reported net income (loss) is directly affected by our estimate of the recoverability of accounts receivable.

Recognition of Gains from the Sales of Real Estate – Profits from sales of real estate are recognized under the full accrual method
by us when a sale is consummated; the buyer’s initial and continuing investment is adequate to demonstrate a commitment to pay for the property; a receivable, if applicable, is not subject to future subordination; we have transferred to the
buyer the usual risks and rewards of ownership; and we do not have substantial continuing involvement with the property. We sell shopping center properties to joint ventures in exchange for cash equal to the fair value of the percentage interest
acquired by our partners. We have accounted for those sales as “partial sales” and recognized gains on those partial sales in the period the properties were sold to the extent of the percentage interest sold, and in the case of certain
joint venture partnerships, we apply a more restrictive method of recognizing gains as discussed below. The gains and operations associated with properties sold to these joint venture partnerships are not classified as discontinued operations
because we continue to partially own and manage these shopping centers. Certain DIK-JVs give either partner the unilateral right to elect to dissolve the joint venture partnership and, upon such an election, receive a distribution in-kind of the
assets of the joint venture partnership equal to its respective ownership interests. We have concluded that these DIK dissolution provisions constitute in-substance call/put options, and represent a form of continuing involvement with respect to
property that we sold to these joint venture partnerships, limiting our recognition of gain related to the partial sale. This more restrictive method of gain recognition, the Restricted Gain Method, considers our potential ability to receive
property through a DIK on which partial gain has been recognized, and ensures, maximum gain deferral upon sale to a DIK-JV. We have applied the Restricted Gain Method to partial sales of property to joint venture partnerships that contain such
unilateral DIK provisions.

Capitalization of Costs – We capitalize the acquisition of land, the construction of
buildings and other specifically identifiable development costs incurred by recording them into properties in development in our accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. In summary, a project changes from non-operating to operating when it is
substantially completed and held available for occupancy. At that time, costs are no longer capitalized. Other development costs include pre-development costs essential to the development of the property, as well as, interest, real estate taxes, and
direct employee costs incurred during the development period. Pre-development



Index to Financial Statements

costs are incurred prior to land acquisition during the due diligence phase and include contract deposits, legal, engineering, and other professional fees related to evaluating the feasibility of
developing a shopping center. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had capitalized pre-development costs of approximately $899,000 and $816,000, respectively, of which approximately $840,000 and $325,000, respectively, were refundable
contract deposits. If we determine that the development of a specific project undergoing due diligence is no longer probable, we immediately expense all related capitalized pre-development costs not considered recoverable. During the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, we expensed pre-development costs of approximately $520,000, $3.8 million, and $15.5 million, respectively, recorded in other expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. Interest
costs are capitalized into each development project based on applying our weighted average borrowing rate to that portion of the actual development costs expended. We cease interest cost capitalization when the property is no longer being developed
or is available for occupancy upon substantial completion of tenant improvements, but in no event would we capitalize interest on the project beyond 12 months after substantial completion of the building shell. During the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, we capitalized interest of $5.1 million, $19.1 million, and $36.5 million, respectively, on our development projects. We have a staff of employees who directly support our development program. All direct
internal costs attributable to these development activities are capitalized as part of each development project. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, we capitalized $2.7 million, $6.5 million, and $27.8 million,
respectively, of direct costs incurred to support our development program. The capitalization of costs is directly related to the actual level of development activity occurring. If accounting standards issued in the future were to limit the amount
of internal costs that may be capitalized we could incur additional increases in general and administrative expenses which would further reduce net income.

Real Estate Acquisitions – Upon acquisition of operating real estate properties, we estimate the fair value of acquired tangible assets (consisting of land, building and improvements), and identify
intangible assets and liabilities (consisting of above- and below-market leases, in-place leases and tenant relationships) and assumed debt. Based on these estimates, we assign the purchase price to the applicable assets acquired, the liabilities
assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. We utilize methods similar to those used by independent appraisers in estimating the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities. We evaluate the useful lives of amortizable intangible
assets each reporting period and account for any changes in estimated useful lives over the revised remaining useful life. We expense transaction costs associated with business combinations in the period incurred.

Valuation of Real Estate Investments – Our long-lived assets, primarily real estate held for investment, are carried at cost unless
circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate such an evaluation is warranted. In addition, we perform an annual
review to re-evaluate market-based capitalization rates, estimated holding periods, expected future operating income, trends and prospects, the effects of demand, competition and other factors. If we determine that the carrying amount of a property
is not recoverable, we write down the asset to fair value. For properties to be “held and used” for long term investment, to determine recoverability, we estimate undiscounted future cash flows over the expected investment term including
the estimated future value of the asset upon sale at the end of the investment period. Future value is generally determined by applying a market-based capitalization rate to the estimated future net operating income in the final year of the expected
investment term. If the estimated undiscounted cash flows used in the recoverability test are less than the long-lived asset’s carrying amount, management then determines the fair value of the long-lived asset and if the carrying amount of the
long-lived asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the excess of carrying value over fair value. Fair value is determined through comparable sales information and other market data if available, or through use of an
income approach such as the direct capitalization method or the traditional discounted cash flow approach. For properties “held for sale”, we estimate current market resale values through appraisal less expected costs to sell. A loss in
value of an investment under the equity method of accounting, which is other than a temporary decline, must be recognized in the period in which the loss occurs. In the case of our investments in unconsolidated real estate partnerships, we calculate
the present value of our investment by discounting estimated future cash flows over the expected term of the investment. Fair value can



Index to Financial Statements

fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including changes in the general economy of those markets in which we operate, our estimated holding period of the property, tenant credit quality,
and demand for new retail stores. If as a result of a change in our strategy for a specific property which we own directly or through our co-investment partnerships, a property previously classified as held and used is changed to held for
sale, or if its estimated holding period changes, such change could cause us to determine that the property is impaired and a provision for impairment in relation to that property would be recorded by us either directly or through a reduction of our
equity in income of real estate partnerships.

Discontinued Operations – The application of current accounting principles
that govern the classification of any of our properties as held-for-sale on the balance sheet, or the presentation of results of operations and gains on the sale of these properties as discontinued, requires management to make certain significant
judgments. We classify an operating property or a property in development as held-for-sale when we determine that the property is available for immediate sale in its present condition, the property is being actively marketed for sale, and management
believes it is probable that a sale will be consummated within one year. Given the nature of real estate sales contracts, it is not unusual for such contracts to allow a contractual buyer a due diligence period to evaluate the property with the
right to cancel the contract without any financial loss. In addition, certain other matters critical to the final sale, such as financing arrangements often remain pending even upon contract acceptance. As a result, properties under contract may not
close within the expected time period, or may not close at all. Therefore, any properties categorized as held-for-sale represent only those properties that management has determined are likely to close within the requirements set forth above. In
order to determine if the results of operations and gain on sale should be reflected as discontinued operations, prior to the sale, we evaluate the extent of our involvement and significance of cash flows the sale will have on a property after the
sale. Any property sold in which we have significant continuing involvement or cash flows (most often sales to co-investment partnerships in which we continue to manage the property) is not considered to be discontinued. In addition, any property
which we sell to an unrelated third party, but which we retain a property management function, is not considered discontinued. Therefore, only properties sold, or to be sold, to unrelated third parties, where we will have no significant continuing
involvement or significant cash flows are classified as discontinued and their operations, including any mortgage interest and gain on sale, are reported in discontinued operations so that the operations are clearly distinguished. Prior periods are
also reclassified to reflect the operations of these properties as discontinued operations. When we sell operating properties to our joint ventures or to third parties, and will have continuing involvement, the operations and gains on sales are
included in income from continuing operations. If circumstances arise that previously were considered unlikely and, as a result, we decide not to sell a property previously classified as held for sale, the property is reclassified as held and used
and is measured individually at the lower of its (i) carrying amount before the property was classified as held for sale, adjusted for any depreciation and amortization expense that would have been recognized had the property been continuously
classified as held and used or (ii) the fair value at the date of the subsequent decision not to sell. Any required adjustment to the carrying amount of the property reclassified as held and used is included in income from continuing operations
in the period of the subsequent decision not to sell. If a property is reclassified as held and used, the results of operations of the property previously reported in discontinued operations are reclassified and included in income from continuing
operations for all periods presented.

Investments in Real Estate Partnerships – In addition to owning real estate
directly, we invest in real estate through our co-investment partnerships. As asset and property manager, we conduct the business of the Unconsolidated Properties held in the co-investment partnerships in the same way that we conduct the business of
the Consolidated Properties that are wholly-owned; therefore, the Critical Accounting Policies as described are also applicable to our investments in the real estate partnerships. We account for all investments in which we do not have a controlling
financial ownership interest using the equity method. We have determined that these investments are not variable interest entities and do not require consolidation, and therefore, are subject to the voting interest model in determining our basis of
accounting. Decisions, including property acquisitions and dispositions, financings, certain leasing arrangements, annual budgets and dissolution of the joint ventures are subject to the approval of all partners, or in the case of the Fund, its
advisory committee.



Index to Financial Statements

Income Tax Status – The Parent Company believes it qualifies, and intends to continue
to qualify, as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”). The Parent Company is required to meet certain income and asset tests on a periodic basis to ensure that it continues to qualify as a REIT. As
a REIT, the Parent Company is allowed to reduce taxable income by all or a portion of its distributions to shareholders. We evaluate the transactions that we enter into and determine their impact on our REIT status. projects. We have a staff of
employees who directly support our development program. All direct internal costs attributable to these development activities are capitalized as part of each development project. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008,
we capitalized $2.7 million, $6.5 million, and $27.8 million, respectively, of direct costs incurred to support our development program. The capitalization of costs is directly related to the actual level of development activity occurring. If
accounting standards issued in the future were to limit the amount of internal costs that may be capitalized we could incur additional increases in general and administrative expenses which would further reduce net income.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2010-06, “Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (820) – Improving Disclosures about Fair Value
Measurements” (“ASU 2010-06”). ASU 2010-06 provides amendments to Subtopic 820-10 and requires new disclosures for transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 and activity in Level 3 fair value measurements. ASU 2010-06 also clarifies
existing disclosure requirements for the level of disaggregation for each class of assets and liabilities and for the inputs and valuation techniques used to measure fair value. ASU 2010-06 is effective for financial statements issued for interim
and annual periods ending after December 15, 2009, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward of activity in Level 3 fair value measurements which is effective for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2010, and for interim periods within those fiscal years. We adopted this ASU on December 31, 2009.

In December 2009, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009-17 “Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable
Interest Entities” (“ASU 2009-17”). ASU 2009-17 was issued to reflect the amendments from Statement 167 “Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)” as a revision to FASB Interpretation No. 46 (Revised December
2003), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities”. ASU 2009-17 changes how a reporting entity determines when an entity that is insufficiently capitalized or is not controlled through voting (or similar rights) should be consolidated.
The determination of whether a reporting entity is required to consolidate another entity is based on, among other things, the other entity’s purpose and design and the reporting entity’s ability to direct the activities of the other
entity that most significantly impact the other entity’s economic performance. ASU 2009-17 was effective January 1, 2010 and early application is not permitted. We have evaluated the adoption of this ASU and it has no effect on our results
of operations or financial position, as we do not currently have any variable interests that we believe would require consolidation.

Results from Operations – 2010 vs. 2009

Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2010 to 2009:

At
December 31, 2010, on a Combined Basis, we were operating or developing 396 shopping centers, as compared to 400 shopping centers at December 31, 2009. We identify our shopping centers as either properties in development or
operating properties. Properties in development are defined as properties that are in the construction or lease-up process and have not reached their initial full occupancy. A development property becomes an operating property at the earlier to
occur of attaining 95% leased and rent paying or four years from the start of site work, regardless of the percentage leased. At December 31, 2010, on a Combined Basis, we had 26 development properties, as compared to 40 properties at
December 31, 2009.



Index to Financial Statements

Our revenues decreased by $1.3 million or 0.3% to $486.8 million in 2010, as summarized in
the following table (in thousands):

Generally, leased percentages were unchanged between 2010 and 2009; however, the percent leased of a
development property may not reflect rent paying occupancy if a tenant’s space is under construction for a portion of the year and not yet rent paying. Therefore, increase in minimum rent was related primarily to tenants opening new stores in
our development properties during 2010, or operating for a full 12 months during 2010, as compared to 2009. Declines in percentage rent were a result of the change in percentage rent lease terms due to the increase in minimum rent for certain
leases, upon their renewal. The increase in recoveries from tenants and other income resulted from a significant increase in termination fees received during 2010 related to weak tenant operators negotiating an early end to their lease agreements,
as well as, higher operating and real estate tax expenses. The decrease in management, transaction, and other fees relates primarily to a $7.8 million disposition fee we received from CHRR in 2009 equal to 1% of the gross sales price paid by GRI
described below.

We earn fees, at market-based rates, for asset management, disposition, property management, leasing,
acquisition, and financing services that we provide to our co-investment partnerships and third parties as follows (in thousands):

Asset management fees, which are tied to the value of the real estate we manage for our co-investment
partners, decreased in 2010 due to an overall decline in commercial real estate values, but was also a result of the liquidation of a joint venture with Macquarie Countrywide that occurred in 2009, as well as, our increased ownership and revised
agreements in the GRIR joint venture, which resulted in lower fees paid to us by our partner. Property management fees are based on net operating income and increased as a result of the increase in base rent. Transaction fees decreased primarily as
a result of the $7.8 million disposition fee we received from CHRR in 2009. Leasing commissions decreased as a result of our increased ownership in the GRIR joint venture, which resulted in a reduction of fee recognized.

Our operating expenses increased by $4.5 million or 1.5% to $311.6 million in 2010. The following table summarizes our operating expenses
(in thousands):



Index to Financial Statements

Increases in operating, maintenance, and real estate taxes along with depreciation and
amortization expense are primarily related to the recently completed developments commencing operations in the current year and general increases in expenses incurred by the operating properties. The majority of these cost increases are recoverable
from our tenants and included in our revenues. General and administrative expense increased $2.2 million as a result of higher levels of compensation earned in 2010 for higher levels of performance as compared to 2009. The provision for doubtful
accounts decreased $4.7 million in 2010 as compared to 2009 directly related to significantly improved tenant collection rates and fewer tenant defaults; continued evidence of the recovering U.S. economy. The decrease in other expenses is due to a
$1.3 million tax benefit incurred in 2010, as compared to tax expense of $1.8 million incurred in 2009, as well as a reduction in pre-development costs written off as a result of pursuing less new development activity during 2010.

The following table presents the change in interest expense (in thousands):

Interest on Unsecured credit facilities decreased by $4.6 million as a result of lower outstanding balances
during 2010 as compared to 2009. Capitalized interest decreased as a result of a reduced development activity as compared to 2009, and a higher level of shopping center completions during 2010.

During 2010, we sold eleven out-parcels for net proceeds of $11.8 million and recognized a gain of approximately $661,000, as compared to
2009 where we sold 18 out-parcels for net proceeds of $27.8 million and recognized a gain of approximately $219,000. During 2010, we recognized approximately $332,000 in contingent gains related to three properties sold to the USAA partnership
during 2009. During 2009, we sold eight operating properties to the USAA partnership for net proceeds of $103.3 million and recognized gains of $19.1 million recorded under the Restricted Gain Method.

In 2010, we recorded a provision for impairment of $26.6 million, which was a decrease of $70.9 million from the impairment provision
recorded in 2009. The impairment provision recorded in 2010 was a result of identifying properties that had been previously considered held for long term investment and determining that they no longer met our long term investment strategy. As a
result of this re-evaluation, we changed our expected investment holding period and reduced our carrying value to estimated fair value. During 2009, we recorded a provision for impairment of $104.4 million, of which $93.7 million related to land
held for future development or sale. During 2009, a prospective anchor tenant for several development sites expressed considerable uncertainty about the timing and location of future stores given the recession occurring during that period. As a
result, we reevaluated and reduced the probability of future development at these sites and accordingly reduced our carrying value in the land parcels to estimated fair value of the land. Included in the impairment provision recorded during 2009
were operating properties that were subjected to the same investment criteria evaluation that we applied during 2010, and we accordingly reduced our carrying value on those properties to estimated fair value based upon a change in expected holding
periods. If we sell a property or classify a property as held-for-sale, we are required to reclassify its operations into discontinued operations for all prior periods which results in a reclassification of amounts previously reported as continuing
operations into discontinued operations. All of the $26.6 million provision was recorded in continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 and of the $104.4 million provision recorded during the year ended
December 31, 2009, $6.9 million was reclassified into discontinued operations.



Index to Financial Statements

Our equity in loss of investments in real estate partnerships was $13.5 million less during
2010, as compared to 2009 as follows (in thousands):

(1)

At December 31, 2008, our ownership interest in MCWR I was 25%. The liquidation of MCWR I was complete December 31, 2009.

(2)

At December 31, 2009, our ownership interest in GRIR (formerly Macquarie CountryWide-Regency II, LLC) was 25%.

The change in our equity in loss of investments in real estate partnerships is primarily related to increasing our ownership interest in
GRIR effective January 1, 2010 to 40% from our 24.95% ownership interest in 2009, combined with similar positive trends that we experienced in the Consolidated properties as they relate to increases in base rent, reductions in provisions for
doubtful accounts, higher termination fees and lower provisions for impairment. During 2010, our pro-rata share of the impairment reserves recorded in the real estate partnerships was $23.0 million as compared to $26.1 million in 2009. During 2009,
impairment provisions were primarily incurred and recorded by GRIR; however, during 2010, impairment provisions, which were significantly lower in GRIR and contributed to GRIR’s reduction in equity loss, were higher in Columbia I and the Fund,
which contributed to the equity losses reported by these two partnerships in 2010.

Income from discontinued operations was
$7.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to $6.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 includes the sale of two operating
properties and one property in development for combined net proceeds of $34.9 million and gains of $7.6 million, net of taxes, and the operations of shopping centers sold or classified as held-for sale in 2010 and 2009. Income from discontinued
operations for the year ended December 1, 2009 includes the sale of one operating property and four properties in development for combined net proceeds of $49.3 million and gains of $5.8 million and the operations of shopping centers sold or
classified as held for sale in 2010 and 2009. If we sell a property or classify a property as held-for-sale, we are required to reclassify its operations into discontinued operations for all prior periods which results in a reclassification of
amounts previously reported as continuing operations into discontinued operations.

Related to our Parent Company’s
results, our net loss attributable to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $7.7 million, an increase in net income of $48.7 million as compared with the net loss of $56.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2009. The higher net income was primarily related to a lower provision for impairment recorded during 2010 as compared to 2009, moderate improvement in our operating fundamentals impacting base rent, but partially offset by
lower gains realized in 2010 on sales of operating properties, and higher interest expense. Our diluted net loss per share was $0.10 in 2010 as compared to diluted net loss per share of $0.74 in 2009.



Index to Financial Statements

Related to our Operating Partnership results, our net loss attributable to common unit
holders for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $7.6 million, an increase in net income of $49.0 million as compared with the net loss of $56.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 for the same reasons stated above. Our
diluted net loss per unit was $0.10 for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to net loss per unit of $0.74 for the year ended December 31, 2009.

Results from Operations – 2009 vs. 2008

Comparison of the years ended
December 31, 2009 to 2008:

At December 31, 2009, on a Combined Basis, we were operating or developing
400 shopping centers, as compared to 440 shopping centers at December 31, 2008. The decrease in properties is related to the liquidation of the assets of MCWR I where the properties were distributed through a DIK to MCW and Regency, and in
which we received six properties. At December 31, 2009, on a Combined Basis, we had 40 development properties, as compared to 45 properties at December 31, 2008.

Our revenues decreased by $6.9 million to $488.1 million in 2009, as summarized in the following table (in thousands):

Our decline in revenues was related to a one-time transaction fee earned and recognized in 2008, which is
more fully described in the fee table and discussion below. The increase in minimum rent related primarily to new properties distributed to us as part of the MCWR I DIK liquidation and new rent generated by the development properties.

We earn fees, at market-based rates, for asset management, disposition, property management, leasing, acquisition, and financing services
that we provide to our co-investment partnerships and third parties as follows (in thousands):

Asset management fees, which are tied to the value of the real estate we manage for our co-investment
partners, decreased in 2009 due to an overall decline in commercial real estate values, as well as, a reduction in the number of joint venture partnership properties we manage as a result of the DIK liquidation of MCWR I. Transaction fees decreased
as a result of the $19.7 million Portfolio Incentive Return Fee earned and recognized in 2008, and not recurring in 2009.



Index to Financial Statements

Our operating expenses increased by $30.0 million or 10.8% to $307.1 million in 2009. The
following table summarizes our operating expenses (in thousands):

Increases in operating, maintenance, and real estate taxes along with depreciation and amortization expense
were primarily related to six properties distributed to us as part of the MCWR I DIK liquidation during 2009 not included in the 2008 amounts, completed developments that commenced operations in 2009, and general increases in expenses incurred by
the operating properties. General and administrative expense was 9.4% higher in 2009 primarily related to $7.5 million in severance and benefit payments associated with two reductions in force completed during 2009, offset by reduction in incentive
compensation for not achieving targeted performance levels. During 2009, we increased the provision for doubtful accounts to reserve for past due amounts reflecting a significantly higher tenant default rate on rental payments as tenants struggled
during the recession of 2009. The decrease in other expenses was due to a reduction in pre-development costs written off as a result of pursuing less new development activity.

The following table presents the change in interest expense (in thousands):

Interest on Unsecured credit facilities decreased by $6.7 million as a result of lower average outstanding
balances on our credit facilities in 2009 as compared to 2008. At December 31, 2009, the balance of our Line was zero, we had repaid the term loan portion of our unsecured Term Facility, and we completed a partial tender offer of outstanding
unsecured debt. Interest on notes payable increased as a result of issuing $106.0 million secured mortgage loans in addition to four mortgage loans assumed as part of the MCWR I DIK liquidation. Capitalized interest decreased as in-process
developments were completed during 2009 and new development activity declined.

During 2009, we sold 18 out-parcels for net
proceeds of $27.8 million and recognized a gain of approximately $219,000, whereas during 2008, we sold 12 out-parcels for net proceeds of $38.2 million and recognized a gain of $5.3 million. During 2008, we also recognized a $1.2 million gain on
two out-parcels originally deferred at the time of sale. During 2009, we also sold eight operating properties to the USAA partnership for net proceeds of $103.3 million and recognized gains of $19.1 million recorded under the Restricted Gain Method.
During 2008, we sold four properties to several joint ventures for net proceeds of $110.5 million and recognized gains of $13.8 million recorded under the Restricted Gain Method.

During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded a provision for impairment of $104.4 million, of which $93.7 million related to
land held for future development or sale. During 2009, a prospective anchor tenant for several development sites expressed considerable uncertainty about the timing and location of future stores given the continuation of the weak economy and
reductions in consumer spending. As a result, we re-evaluated and reduced the probability of future development at these sites and accordingly reduced our carrying value in



Index to Financial Statements

the land parcels to estimated fair value. Included in the impairment loss was a $10.2 million provision related to operating properties that became targeted for sale in the near future, which
caused us to re-evaluate and reduce our expected holding periods for these assets and corresponding future cash flows. We also recorded a reserve of $465,000 on a note receivable in default. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded
a provision for impairment of $34.9 million of which $7.2 million related to land held for future development or sale, $20.6 million related to operating properties, $1.1 million related to a note receivable in default, and $6.0 related to our
investment in real estate partnerships. If we sell a property or classify a property as held-for-sale, we are required to reclassify its operations into discontinued operations for all prior periods which results in a reclassification of amounts
previously reported as continuing operations into discontinued operations. Of the $104.4 million provision recorded during the year ended December 31, 2009, $6.9 million was reclassified into discontinued operations, and of the $34.9
million provision recorded during the year ended December 31, 2008, $3.4 million was reclassified into discontinued operations.

Our equity in income (loss) of investments in real estate partnerships decreased by $31.7 million during 2009 as follows (in thousands):

(1)

At December 31, 2008, our ownership interest in MCWR I was 25%. The liquidation of MCWR I was complete December 31, 2009.

(2)

At December 31, 2008, our ownership interest in GRIR (formerly Macquarie CountryWide-Regency II, LLC) was 24.95%.

The decrease in our equity in income (loss) of investments in real estate partnerships is primarily related to a provision for impairment
of $104.4 million recognized by GRIR associated with multiple shopping centers that became targeted for sale in the near future. Our pro-rata share of this provision for impairment was $26.1 million. Excluding the impairment, the declines in
revenues or losses incurred by our co-investment partnerships were directly related to reductions in operating revenues as occupancy levels declined in 2009 and to increased allowances for doubtful accounts as they also experienced a significantly
higher tenant default rate during a difficult economic environment.

Income from discontinued operations was $6.2 million for
the year ended December 31, 2009 related to the operations of shopping centers sold or classified as held-for-sale in 2010, 2009, and 2008 whereas income from discontinued operations was $22.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008.
Income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 includes the sale of four properties in development for net proceeds of $29.8 million and gains of $5.6 million, one operating property which was sold for net proceeds of



Index to Financial Statements

$19.5 million and a gain of approximately $273,000, and the operations of shopping centers sold or classified as held-for-sale in 2010, 2009, and 2008. Income from discontinued operations for the
year ended December 31, 2008 includes the sale of seven properties in development for net proceeds of $55.3 million and gains of $14.0 million, three operating properties which were sold for net proceeds of $30.9 million and gains of $3.5
million, and the operations of shopping centers sold or classified as held-for-sale in 2010, 2009, and 2008. If we sell a property or classify a property as held-for-sale, we are required to reclassify its operations into discontinued operations for
all prior periods which results in a reclassification of amounts previously reported as continuing operations into discontinued operations.

Related to our Parent Company’s results, our net loss attributable to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $56.4 million, a decrease of $172.9 million as compared
with net income of $116.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in net income was primarily related to the large provision for impairment recognized during 2009. Our diluted net loss per share was $0.74 in 2009 as
compared to diluted net income per share of $1.66 in 2008.

Related to our Operating Partnership results, our net loss
attributable to common unit holders for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $56.6 million, a decrease of $174.0 million as compared with net income of $117.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 for the same reasons
stated above. Our diluted net loss per unit was $0.74 in 2009 as compared to net income per unit of $1.66 in 2008.

Environmental
Matters

We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations as they apply to our shopping centers pertaining
to chemicals used by the dry cleaning industry, the existence of asbestos in older shopping centers, and underground petroleum storage tanks. We believe that the tenants who currently operate dry cleaning plants or gas stations do so in accordance
with current laws and regulations. Generally, we use all legal means to cause tenants to remove dry cleaning plants from our shopping centers or convert them to non-chlorinated solvent systems. Where available, we have applied and been accepted into
state-sponsored environmental programs. We have a blanket environmental insurance policy that covers us against third-party liabilities and remediation costs on shopping centers that currently have no known environmental contamination. We have also
placed environmental insurance, where possible, on specific properties with known contamination, in order to mitigate our environmental risk. We monitor the shopping centers containing environmental issues and in certain cases voluntarily remediate
the sites. We also have legal obligations to remediate certain sites and we are in the process of doing so. We estimate the cost associated with these legal obligations to be $2.9 million and $3.2 million, all of which has been accrued as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We believe that the ultimate disposition of currently known environmental matters will not have a material effect on our financial position, liquidity, or results of operations; however, we can
give no assurance that existing environmental studies on our shopping centers have revealed all potential environmental liabilities; that any previous owner, occupant or tenant did not create any material environmental condition not known to us;
that the current environmental condition of the shopping centers will not be affected by tenants and occupants, by the condition of nearby properties, or by unrelated third parties; or that changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations or
their interpretation will not result in additional environmental liability to us.

Inflation/Deflation

Inflation has been historically low and has had a minimal impact on the operating performance of our shopping centers; however, more
recent data suggests inflation will eventually become a greater concern as the economy continues to recover from the recent recession. Substantially all of our long-term leases contain provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation.
Such provisions include clauses enabling us to receive percentage rent based on tenants’ gross sales, which generally increase as prices rise; and/or escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the terms of the leases. Such
escalation clauses are often related to increases in the consumer price index or similar inflation indices. In addition, many of our leases are



Index to Financial Statements

for terms of less than ten years, which permits us to seek increased rents upon re-rental at market rates. Most of our leases require tenants to pay their pro-rata share of operating expenses,
including common-area maintenance, real estate taxes, insurance and utilities, thereby reducing our exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation. However, during deflationary periods or periods of economic weakness,
minimum rents and percentage rents will decline as the supply of available retail space exceeds demand and consumer spending declines. Occupancy declines resulting from a weak economic period will also likely result in lower recovery rates of our
operating expenses.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Market Risk

We are exposed to two significant components of
interest rate risk. Our Line commitment has a variable interest rate that is based upon LIBOR plus a spread of 55 basis points and our revolving credit facility has a variable interest rate based upon LIBOR plus a spread of 100 basis points. LIBOR
rates charged on our Unsecured credit facilities change monthly. The spread on the Unsecured credit facilities is dependent upon maintaining specific credit ratings. If our credit ratings are downgraded, the spread on the Unsecured credit facilities
would increase, resulting in higher interest costs. We are also exposed to higher interest rates when we refinance our existing long-term fixed rate debt. The objective of our interest rate risk management is to limit the impact of interest rate
changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed interest rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, or treasury
locks in order to mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument. We do not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes.

During 2006, we entered into four forward-starting interest rate swaps (the “Swaps”) totaling $396.7 million with fixed rates of 5.399%, 5.415%, 5.399%, and 5.415%. At inception, we
designated these Swaps as cash flow hedges to lock in the underlying treasury rates on $400.0 million of fixed rate financing that was expected to occur in 2010 and 2011. During 2009, we paid $20.0 million to partially settle $106.0 million of the
$396.7 Swaps in place to hedge the $106.0 million mortgage loan issued on July 1, 2009. On June 1, 2010, we paid $26.8 million to partially settle $150.0 million of the remaining $290.7 million Swaps in place to hedge the $150.0 million
ten-year senior unsecured notes issued on June 2, 2010. On September 30, 2010, we paid $36.7 million to settle the remaining $140.7 million of Swaps to hedge the $250.0 million ten-year senior unsecured notes issued on October 7,
2010. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized income of $1.4 million for changes in hedge ineffectiveness attributable to revised inputs used in valuation models to estimate effectiveness.

We have $374.7 million of fixed rate debt maturing in 2011 and 2012 that has a weighted average fixed interest rate of 7.29%, which
includes $374.1 million of unsecured long-term debt. We continuously monitor the capital markets and evaluate our ability to issue new debt to repay maturing debt or fund our commitments. Based upon the current capital markets, our current
credit ratings, and the number of high quality, unencumbered properties that we own which could collateralize borrowings, we expect that we will be able to successfully issue new secured or unsecured debt to fund these debt obligations.

Our interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. The table below presents the principal cash flows (in
thousands), weighted average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total debt (in thousands) as of December 31, 2010, by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate
changes. Although the average interest rate for variable rate debt is included in the table, those rates represent rates that existed at December 31, 2010 and are subject to change on a monthly basis.



Index to Financial Statements

The table below incorporates only those exposures that exist as of
December 31, 2010 and does not consider exposures or positions that could arise after that date. Since firm commitments are not presented, the table has limited predictive value. As a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect
to interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the period, our hedging strategies at that time, and actual interest rates.

(1)

Average interest rates at the end of each year presented.

The fair value of total debt in the table above is $1.7 billion versus the face value of $2.1 billion, which suggests that as new debt is issued in the future to repay maturing debt, the cost of new debt
issuances will be higher than the current cost of existing debt.



Index to Financial Statements

Item 8.

Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Index to Financial Statements

All other schedules are omitted
because of the absence of conditions under which they are required, materiality or because information required therein is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.



Index to Financial Statements

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Regency Centers Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Regency Centers Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations, equity and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the years in the three–year
period ended December 31, 2010. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited financial statement Schedule III. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Regency
Centers Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three–year period ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information
set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
Regency Centers Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated March 1, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ KPMG LLP

March 1, 2011

Jacksonville, Florida

Certified Public Accountants



Index to Financial Statements

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Regency Centers Corporation:

We have audited
Regency Centers Corporation’s (the Company’s) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Regency Centers Corporation’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based
on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Regency Centers
Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Regency Centers Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations, equity and comprehensive income (loss), and cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010 and the related financial statement schedule, and our report dated March 1, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements and the
related financial statement schedule.

/s/ KPMG LLP

March 1, 2011

Jacksonville, Florida

Certified Public Accountants



Index to Financial Statements

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Unit Holders of Regency Centers, L.P. and

the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

Regency Centers Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Regency Centers, L.P. and subsidiaries (the Partnership) as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations, capital and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the years in the
three–year period ended December 31, 2010. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited financial statement Schedule III. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedule are the responsibility of the Partnership’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for
our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Regency Centers, L.P. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three–year period ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), Regency Centers, L.P.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated March 1, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Partnership’s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ KPMG LLP

March 1, 2011

Jacksonville, Florida

Certified Public
Accountants



Index to Financial Statements

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Unit Holders of Regency Centers, L.P. and

the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

Regency Centers Corporation:

We have audited Regency Centers,
L.P.’s (the Partnership’s) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO). Regency Centers, L.P.’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included
in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Partnership’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Regency Centers, L.P. maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
consolidated balance sheets of Regency Centers, L.P. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations, capital and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2010 and the related financial statement schedule, and our report dated March 1, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements and the related financial statement schedule.

/s/ KPMG LLP

March 1, 2011

Jacksonville, Florida

Certified
Public Accountants



Index to Financial Statements

REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

Consolidated Balance Sheets

December 31, 2010 and 2009

(in thousands, except share data)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



Index to Financial Statements

REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

Consolidated Statements of Operations

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008

(in
thousands, except per share data)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



Index to Financial Statements

REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

Consolidated Statements of Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss)

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008

(in thousands, except per share data)



Index to Financial Statements

REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

Consolidated Statements of Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss)

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008

(in thousands, except per share data)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



Index to Financial Statements

REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008

(in
thousands)



Index to Financial Statements

REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008

(in
thousands)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



Index to Financial Statements

REGENCY CENTERS, L.P.

Consolidated Balance Sheets

December 31, 2010 and 2009

(in thousands, except unit data)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



Index to Financial Statements

REGENCY CENTERS, L.P.

Consolidated Statements of Operations

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008

(in
thousands, except per unit data)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



Index to Financial Statements

REGENCY CENTERS, L.P.

Consolidated Statements of Capital and Comprehensive Income (Loss)

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008

(in thousands)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



Index to Financial Statements

REGENCY CENTERS, L.P.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008

(in
thousands)



Index to Financial Statements

REGENCY CENTERS, L.P.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008

(in
thousands)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

1.

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

(a)

Organization and Principles of Consolidation

General

Regency Centers Corporation (the “Parent Company”) began its
operations as a Real Estate Investment Trust (“REIT”) in 1993 and is the managing general partner of Regency Centers, L.P. (the “Operating Partnership”). The Parent Company currently owns approximately 99.8% of the outstanding
common Partnership Units of the Operating Partnership. The Parent Company engages in the ownership, management, leasing, acquisition, and development of retail shopping centers through the Operating Partnership, and has no other assets or
liabilities other than through its investment in the Operating Partnership. At December 31, 2010, the Parent Company, the Operating Partnership and their controlled subsidiaries on a consolidated basis (“the Company” or
“Regency”) directly owned 215 retail shopping centers and held partial interests in an additional 181 retail shopping centers through investments in real estate partnerships (also referred to as joint ventures or real estate partnerships).

Estimates, Risks, and Uncertainties

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) requires the Company’s management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could
differ from those estimates. The most significant estimates in the Company’s financial statements relate to the carrying values of its investments in real estate including its shopping centers, properties in development and its investments in
real estate partnerships, accounts receivable, net, and derivative instruments. Although the U.S. economy is recovering from the recession of 2009, economic conditions remain challenging, and therefore, it is possible that the estimates and
assumptions that have been utilized in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements could change significantly, if economic conditions where to weaken.

Consolidation

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of the Parent Company, the Operating Partnership, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and consolidated partnerships in which the Company has a controlling ownership interest. All significant inter-company balances and transactions are
eliminated in the consolidated financial statements.

Ownership of the Parent Company

The Parent Company has a single class of common stock outstanding and three series of preferred stock outstanding (“Series 3, 4, and
5 Preferred Stock”). The dividends on the Series 3, 4, and 5 Preferred Stock are cumulative and payable in arrears on the last day of each calendar quarter. The Parent Company owns corresponding Series 3, 4, and 5 preferred unit interests
(“Series 3, 4, and 5 Preferred Units”) in the Operating Partnership that entitle the Parent Company to income and distributions from the Operating Partnership in amounts equal to the dividends paid on the Parent Company’s Series 3, 4,
and 5 Preferred Stock.



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

Ownership of the Operating Partnership

The Operating Partnership’s capital includes general and limited common Partnership Units, Series 3, 4, and 5 Preferred Units owned
by the Parent Company, and Series D Preferred Units owned by institutional investors. At December 31, 2010, the Parent Company owned approximately 99.8% or 81,886,872 of the total 82,064,036 Partnership Units outstanding.

Net income and distributions of the Operating Partnership are allocable first to the Preferred Units and the remaining amounts to the
general and limited common Partnership Units in accordance with their ownership percentages. The Series 3, 4, and 5 Preferred Units owned by the Parent Company are eliminated in consolidation in the accompanying consolidated financial statements of
the Parent Company and are classified as preferred units of general partner in the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Operating Partnership.

Investments in Real Estate Partnerships

Investments in real estate
partnerships not controlled by the Company are accounted for under the equity method. Income or loss from these real estate partnerships, which includes all operating results (including impairments) and gains on sales of properties within the joint
ventures, is allocated to the Company in accordance with the respective partnership agreements. Such allocations of net income or loss are recorded in equity in income (loss) of investments in real estate partnerships in the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Operations. The net difference in the carrying amount of investments in real estate partnerships and the underlying equity in net assets is either accreted to income and recorded in equity in income (loss) of investments
in real estate partnerships in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations over the expected useful lives of the properties and other intangible assets, which range in lives from 10 to 40 years, or recognized at liquidation if the joint
venture agreement includes a unilateral right to elect to dissolve the real estate partnership and, upon such an election, receive a distribution in-kind, as discussed further below.

Cash distributions of earnings from operations from investments in real estate partnerships are presented in cash flows provided by
operating activities in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Cash distributions from the sale of a property or loan proceeds received from the placement of debt on a property included in investments in real estate partnerships are
presented in cash flows provided by investing activities in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

The
Company evaluates the structure and the substance of its investments in the real estate partnerships to determine if they are variable interest entities. The Company has concluded that these partnership investments are not variable interest
entities. Further, the joint venture partners in the real estate partnerships have significant ownership rights, including approval over operating budgets and strategic plans, capital spending, sale or financing, and admission of new partners. Upon
formation of the joint ventures, the Company, through the Operating Partnership, also became the managing member, responsible for the day-to-day operations of the real estate partnerships. In accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 810, the Company evaluated its investment in each real estate partnership and concluded that the other partners have kick-out rights and/or substantive participating rights
and, therefore, the Company has concluded that the equity method of accounting is appropriate for these investments and they do not require consolidation. Under the equity method of accounting, investments in real estate partnerships are initially
recorded at cost, subsequently increased for additional contributions and allocations of



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

income, and reduced for distributions received and allocations of loss. These investments are included in the consolidated financial statements as investments in real estate partnerships.

Noncontrolling Interests

The Company consolidates all entities in which it has a controlling ownership interest. A controlling ownership interest is typically attributable to the entity with a majority voting interest.
Noncontrolling interest is the portion of equity, in a subsidiary or consolidated entity, not attributable, directly or indirectly to the Company. Such noncontrolling interests are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets within equity or
capital, but separately from stockholders’ equity or partners’ capital. On the Consolidated Statements of Operations, all of the revenues and expenses from less-than-wholly-owned consolidated subsidiaries are reported in net income (loss),
including both the amounts attributable to the Company and noncontrolling interests. The amounts of consolidated net income (loss) attributable to the Company and to the noncontrolling interests are clearly identified on the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Noncontrolling Interests of the Parent Company

The consolidated financial statements of the Parent Company include the following ownership interests held by owners other than the
preferred and common stockholders of the Parent Company: the preferred units in the Operating Partnership held by third parties (“Series D preferred units”), the limited Partnership Units in the Operating Partnership held by third parties
(“Exchangeable operating partnership units”), and the minority-owned interest held by third parties in consolidated partnerships (“Limited partners’ interests in consolidated partnerships”). The Parent Company has included
all of these noncontrolling interests in permanent equity, separate from the Parent Company’s stockholders’ equity, in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss). The
portion of net income (loss) or comprehensive income (loss) attributable to these noncontrolling interests is included in net income (loss) and comprehensive income (loss) in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and Consolidated
Statements of Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss) of the Parent Company.

In accordance with the FASB ASC Topic 480,
securities that are redeemable for cash or other assets at the option of the holder, not solely within the control of the issuer, are classified as redeemable noncontrolling interests outside of permanent equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Parent Company has evaluated the conditions as specified under the FASB ASC Topic 480 as it relates to Preferred Units and exchangeable operating partnership units outstanding and concluded that it has the right to satisfy the redemption
requirements of the units by delivering unregistered preferred or common stock. Each outstanding Preferred Unit and exchangeable operating partnership unit is exchangeable for one share of preferred stock or common stock of the Parent Company,
respectively, and the unit holder cannot require redemption in cash or other assets. Limited partners’ interests in consolidated partnerships are not redeemable by the holders. The Parent Company’s only asset is its investment in the
Operating Partnership, and therefore settlement in shares would not be a surrender of assets, but a contra-equity. The Parent Company also evaluated its fiduciary duties to itself, its shareholders, and, as the managing general partner of the
Operating Partnership, to the Operating Partnership, and concluded its fiduciary duties are not in conflict with each other or the underlying agreements. Therefore, the Parent Company classifies such units and interests as permanent equity in the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss).



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

Noncontrolling Interests of the Operating Partnership

The Operating Partnership has determined that Limited partners’ interests in consolidated partnerships are noncontrolling interests.
The Operating Partnership has included these noncontrolling interests in permanent capital, separate from partners’ capital, in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Capital and Comprehensive Income (Loss).
The portion of net income (loss) or comprehensive income (loss) attributable to these noncontrolling interests is included in net income (loss) and comprehensive income (loss) in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and
Consolidated Statements of Capital and Comprehensive Income (Loss) of the Operating Partnership.

(b)

Revenues

The Company leases
space to tenants under agreements with varying terms. Leases are accounted for as operating leases with minimum rent recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease regardless of when payments are due. The Company estimates the
collectibility of the accounts receivable related to base rents, straight-line rents, expense reimbursements, and other revenue taking into consideration the Company’s experience in the retail sector, available internal and external tenant
credit information, payment history, industry trends, tenant credit-worthiness, and remaining lease terms. In some cases, primarily related to straight-line rents, the ultimate collection of these amounts are associated with increased rents to be
collected in future years which extend beyond one year. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, the Company recorded provisions for doubtful accounts of $4.0 million, $9.1 million, and $1.2 million respectively, of which
approximately $13,000, $401,000, and $66,000 respectively, is included in discontinued operations.

The following table
represents the components of accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands):

Substantially all of the lease agreements with anchor tenants contain provisions that provide for additional
rents based on tenants’ sales volume (percentage rent). Percentage rents are recognized when the tenants achieve the specified targets as defined in their lease agreements. Substantially all lease agreements contain provisions for reimbursement
of the tenants’ share of real estate taxes, insurance and common area maintenance (“CAM”) costs. Recovery of real estate taxes, insurance, and CAM costs are recognized as the respective costs are incurred in accordance with the lease
agreements.

As part of the leasing process, the Company may provide the lessee with an allowance for the construction of
leasehold improvements. These leasehold improvements are capitalized and recorded as tenant improvements, and depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the improvements or the remaining lease term. If the allowance represents a payment for
a purpose other than funding leasehold improvements, or in the event the Company is not considered the owner of the improvements, the allowance is considered to be a lease incentive and is recognized over the lease term as a reduction of



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

minimum rent. Factors considered during this evaluation include, among other things, who holds legal title to the improvements as well as other controlling rights provided by the lease agreement
and provisions for substantiation of such costs (e.g. unilateral control of the tenant space during the build-out process). Determination of the appropriate accounting for the payment of a tenant allowance is made on a lease-by-lease basis,
considering the facts and circumstances of the individual tenant lease. When the Company is the owner of the leasehold improvements, recognition of lease revenue commences when the lessee is given possession of the leased space upon completion of
tenant improvements. However, when the leasehold improvements are owned by the tenant, the lease inception date is the date the tenant obtains possession of the leased space for purposes of constructing their leasehold improvements.

Profits from sales of real estate are recognized under the full accrual method by the Company when a sale is consummated; the buyer’s
initial and continuing investment is adequate to demonstrate a commitment to pay for the property; the Company’s receivable, if applicable, is not subject to future subordination; the Company has transferred to the buyer the usual risks and
rewards of ownership; and the Company does not have substantial continuing involvement with the property.

The Company sells
shopping centers to joint ventures in exchange for cash equal to the fair value of the ownership interest of its partners. The Company accounts for those sales as “partial sales” and recognizes gains on those partial sales in the period
the properties were sold to the extent of the percentage interest sold, and in the case of certain real estate partnerships, applies a more restrictive method of recognizing gains, as discussed further below. The gains and operations associated with
properties sold to these real estate partnerships are not classified as discontinued operations because the Company continues to partially own and manage these shopping centers.

As of December 31, 2010, six of the Company’s joint ventures (“DIK-JV”) give each partner the unilateral right to
elect to dissolve the real estate partnership and, upon such an election, receive a distribution in-kind (“DIK”) of the assets of the real estate partnership equal to their respective capital account, which could include properties the
Company previously sold to the real estate partnership. The liquidation provisions require that all of the properties owned by the real estate partnership be appraised to determine their respective fair values. As a general rule, if the Company
initiates the liquidation process, its partner has the right to choose the first property that it will receive with the Company choosing the next property that it will receive in liquidation. If the Company’s partner initiates the liquidation
process, the order of the selection process is reversed. The process then continues with an alternating selection of properties by each partner until the balance of each partner’s capital account, on a fair value basis, has been distributed.
After the final selection, to the extent that the fair value of properties in the DIK-JV are not distributable in a manner that equals the balance of each partner’s capital account, a cash payment would be made to the other partner by the
partner receiving a property distribution in excess of its capital account. The partners may also elect to liquidate some or all of the properties through sales rather than through the DIK process.

The Company has concluded that these DIK dissolution provisions constitute in-substance call/put options and represent a form of
continuing involvement with respect to property that the Company has sold to these real estate partnerships, limiting the Company’s recognition of gain related to the partial sale. This more restrictive method of gain recognition
(“Restricted Gain Method”) considers the Company’s potential ability to receive property through a DIK on which partial gain has been recognized, and ensures, as discussed below, maximum gain deferral upon sale to a DIK-JV. The
Company has applied the Restricted Gain Method to partial sales of property to real estate partnerships that contain unilateral DIK provisions.



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

Profit shall be recognized under a method determined by the nature and extent of the
seller’s continuing involvement and the profit recognized shall be reduced by the maximum exposure to loss. The Company has concluded that the Restricted Gain Method accomplishes this objective.

Under the Restricted Gain Method, for purposes of gain deferral, the Company considers the aggregate pool of properties sold into the
DIK-JV as well as the aggregate pool of properties which will be distributed in the DIK process. As a result, upon the sale of properties to a DIK-JV, the Company performs a hypothetical DIK liquidation assuming that it would choose only those
properties that it has sold to the DIK-JV in an amount equal to its capital account. For purposes of calculating the gain to be deferred, the Company assumes that it will select properties in a DIK liquidation that would otherwise have generated the
highest gain to the Company when originally sold to the DIK-JV. The deferred gain, recorded by the Company upon the sale of a property to a DIK-JV, is calculated whenever a property is sold to a DIK-JV. During the periods when there are no property
sales to a DIK-JV, the deferred gain is not recalculated.

Because the contingency associated with the possibility of receiving
a particular property back upon liquidation, which forms the basis of the Restricted Gain Method, is not satisfied at the property level, but at the aggregate level, no deferred gain is recognized on property sold by the DIK-JV to a third party or
received by the Company upon actual dissolution. Instead, the property received upon dissolution is recorded at the carrying value of the Company’s investment in the DIK-JV on the date of dissolution.

The Company is engaged under agreements with its joint venture partners to provide asset management, property management, leasing,
investing, and financing services for such joint ventures’ shopping centers. The fees are market-based, generally calculated as a percentage of either revenues earned or the estimated values of the properties managed or the proceeds received,
and are recognized as services are rendered, when fees due are determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. The Company also receives transaction fees, as contractually agreed upon with a joint venture, which include fees such as
acquisition fees, disposition fees, “promotes”, or “earnouts”.

(c)

Real Estate Investments

Land,
buildings, and improvements are recorded at cost. All specifically identifiable costs related to development activities are capitalized into properties in development on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Properties in development are
defined as properties that are in the construction or initial lease-up phase and have not reached their initial full occupancy. In summary, a project changes from non-operating to operating when it is substantially completed and available for
occupancy. At that time, costs are no longer capitalized. The capitalized costs include pre-development costs essential to the development of the property, development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes, and allocated
direct employee costs incurred during the period of development. Interest costs are capitalized into each development project based upon applying the Company’s weighted average borrowing rate to that portion of the actual development costs
expended. The Company discontinues interest cost capitalization when the property is no longer being developed or is available for occupancy upon substantial completion of tenant improvements, but in no event would the Company capitalize interest on
the project beyond 12 months after substantial completion of the building shell.



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

The following table represents the components of properties in development as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009 in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands):

Construction in process represents developments where the Company has not yet incurred at least 90% of the
expected costs to complete. Construction complete and in lease-up represents developments where the Company has incurred at least 90% of the estimated costs to complete, but is still completing lease-up and final tenant build out. Land held for
future development represents projects not in construction, but identified and available for future development if and when the market demand for a new shopping center exists.

The Company incurs costs prior to land acquisition including contract deposits, as well as legal, engineering, and other external professional fees related to evaluating the feasibility of developing a
shopping center. These pre-development costs are included in properties in development in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had capitalized pre-development costs of approximately
$899,000 and $816,000, respectively, of which approximately $840,000 and $325,000, respectively, were refundable deposits. If the Company determines that the development of a particular shopping center is no longer probable, any related
pre-development costs previously capitalized are immediately expensed in other expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, the Company expensed pre-development
costs of approximately $520,000, $3.8 million, and $15.5 million, respectively, in other expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Maintenance and repairs that do not improve or extend the useful lives of the respective assets are recorded in operating and maintenance expense.

Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over estimated useful lives of approximately 40 years for buildings and
improvements, the shorter of the useful life or the remaining lease term subject to a maximum of 10 years for tenant improvements, and three to seven years for furniture and equipment.

The Company and the real estate partnerships account for business combinations using the acquisition method by recognizing and measuring
the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at their acquisition date fair values. The Company expenses transaction costs associated with business combinations in the period incurred.

The Company’s methodology includes estimating an “as-if vacant” fair value of the physical property, which
includes land, building, and improvements. In addition, the Company determines the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets, considering the following three categories: (i) value of in-place leases, (ii) above and
below-market value of in-place leases, and (iii) customer relationship value.

The value of in-place leases is estimated
based on the value associated with the costs avoided in originating leases compared to the acquired in-place leases as well as the value associated with lost rental and recovery revenue during the assumed lease-up period. The value of in-place
leases is recorded to amortization expense over the remaining initial term of the respective leases.



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

Above-market and below-market in-place lease values for acquired properties are recorded
based on the present value of the difference between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the in-place leases and (ii) management’s estimate of fair market lease rates for comparable in- place leases, measured over a
period equal to the remaining non-cancelable term of the lease. The value of above-market leases is amortized as a reduction of minimum rent over the remaining terms of the respective leases and the value of below-market leases is accreted to
minimum rent over the remaining terms of the respective leases, including below-market renewal options, if applicable. The Company does not assign value to customer relationship intangibles if it has pre-existing business relationships with the
major retailers at the acquired property since they do not provide incremental value over the Company’s existing relationships.

The Company classifies an operating property or a property in development as held-for-sale when it determines that the property is available for immediate sale in its present condition, the property is
being actively marketed for sale, and management believes it is probable that a sale will be consummated within one year. Given the nature of all real estate sales contracts, it is not unusual for such contracts to allow prospective buyers a period
of time to evaluate the property prior to formal acceptance of the contract. In addition, certain other matters critical to the final sale, such as financing arrangements, often remain pending even upon contract acceptance. As a result, properties
under contract may not close within the expected time period, or may not close at all. Therefore, any properties categorized as held-for-sale represent only those properties that management has determined are probable to close within the
requirements set forth above. Operating properties held-for-sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. The recording of depreciation and amortization expense is suspended during the held-for-sale period. If circumstances
arise that previously were considered unlikely and, as a result, the Company decides not to sell a property previously classified as held-for-sale, the property is reclassified as held and used and is measured individually at the lower of its
(i) carrying amount before the property was classified as held-for-sale, adjusted for any depreciation and amortization expense that would have been recognized had the property been continuously classified as held and used or (ii) the fair
value at the date of the subsequent decision not to sell. Any required adjustment to the carrying amount of the property reclassified as held and used is included in income from continuing operations in the period of the subsequent decision not to
sell and the results of operations previously reported in discontinued operations are reclassified and included in income from continuing operations for all periods presented.

When the Company sells a property or classifies a property as held-for-sale and will not have significant continuing involvement in the operation of the property, the operations of the property are
eliminated from ongoing operations and classified in discontinued operations. Its operations, including any mortgage interest and gain on sale, are reported in discontinued operations so that the operations are clearly distinguished. Prior periods
are also reclassified to reflect the operations of the property as discontinued operations. When the Company sells an operating property to a joint venture or to a third party, and will continue to manage the property, the operations and gain on
sale are included in income from continuing operations.

The Company reviews its real estate portfolio, including the
properties owned through real estate partnerships, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. In addition, the Company performs an annual review to re-evaluate market-based
capitalization rates, estimated holding periods, expected future operating income, trends and prospects, the effects of demand, competition and other factors. For properties to be “held and used” for long term investment, to determine
recoverability, the Company estimates undiscounted future cash flows over the expected investment term including the estimated future value of the asset upon sale at the end of the investment period. Future value is generally determined by applying
a



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

market-based capitalization rate to the estimated future net operating income in the final year of the expected investment term. If the estimated undiscounted cash flows used in the
recoverability test are less than the long-lived asset’s carrying amount, management then determines the fair value of the long-lived asset and if the carrying amount of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is
recognized equal to the excess of carrying value over fair value. Fair value is determined through comparable sales information and other market data if available, or through use of an income approach such as the direct capitalization method or the
traditional discounted cash flow approach. For properties “held-for-sale”, the Company estimates current resale values through appraisal information and other market data, less expected costs to sell. These methods of determining fair
value can fluctuate significantly as a result of a number of factors, including changes in the general economy for those markets in which the Company operates, the Company’s estimated holding period of the property, tenant credit quality,
ongoing leasing activity, and demand for new retail stores. If as a result of a change in the Company’s strategy for a specific property which the Company owns directly or through real estate partnerships, a property previously classified as
held and used is changed to held-for-sale, or if its estimated holding period changes, such change could cause the Company to determine that the property is impaired and a provision for impairment would be recorded either directly or through the
Company’s equity in income (loss) of investments in real estate partnerships. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, the Company established a provision for impairment on consolidated properties of $23.9 million, $103.9
million, and $27.8 million, respectively, of which there was no impact to discontinued operations in 2010, and $6.9 million and $3.4 million were included in discontinued operations for 2009 and 2008, respectively. See Note 10 for further
discussion.

A loss in value of investments in real estate partnerships under the equity method of accounting, other than a
temporary decline, must be recognized in the period in which the loss occurs. To evaluate the Company’s investment in real estate partnerships, the Company calculates the fair value of the investment by discounting estimated future cash flows
over the expected term of the investment. As a result of this evaluation, the Company established a provision for impairment of $2.7 million on one investment in real estate partnership and $6.0 million on two investments in real estate partnerships
for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2008, respectively. No provision for impairment for investments in real estate partnerships was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2009.

(d)

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Any
instruments which have an original maturity of 90 days or less when purchased are considered cash equivalents. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, $5.4 million and $3.6 million, respectively, of cash was restricted through escrow agreements and
certain mortgage loans.

(e)

Notes Receivable

The Company
records notes receivable at cost on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets and interest income is accrued as earned and netted against interest expense in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. If a note receivable is past
due, meaning the debtor is past due per contractual obligations, the Company ceases to accrue interest. However, in the event the debtor subsequently becomes current, the Company will resume accruing interest and record the interest income
accordingly. The Company evaluates the collectibility of both interest and principal for all notes receivable to determine whether impairment exists using the present value of expected cash flows discounted at the note receivable’s effective
interest rate or, alternatively, at the observable market price of the loan or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. In the event the



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

Company determines a note receivable or a portion thereof is considered uncollectible, the Company records a provision for impairment. No impairment was recorded during the year ended
December 31, 2010, and approximately $465,000 and $1.1 million was recorded during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company estimates the collectibility of notes receivable taking into consideration the
Company’s experience in the retail sector, available internal and external credit information, payment history, market and industry trends, and debtor credit-worthiness. See Note 5 for further discussion.

(f)

Deferred Costs

Deferred costs
include leasing costs and loan costs, net of accumulated amortization. Such costs are amortized over the periods through lease expiration or loan maturity, respectively. If the lease is terminated early, or if the loan is repaid prior to maturity,
the remaining leasing costs or loan costs are written off. Deferred leasing costs consist of internal and external commissions associated with leasing the Company’s shopping centers. Net deferred leasing costs were $52.9 million and $49.9
million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Deferred loan costs consist of initial direct and incremental costs associated with financing activities. Net deferred loan costs were $10.2 million and $8.5 million at
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

(g)

Derivative Financial Instruments

All derivative instruments, whether designated in hedging relationships or not, are recorded on the accompanying Consolidated Balance
Sheets at their fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives depends on the intended use of the derivative, whether the Company has elected to designate a derivative in a hedging relationship and apply hedge accounting,
and whether the hedging relationship has satisfied the criteria necessary to apply hedge accounting. Derivatives designated and qualifying as a hedge of the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability, or firm commitment
attributable to a particular risk, such as interest rate risk, are considered fair value hedges. Derivatives designated and qualifying as a hedge of the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted
transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. Hedge accounting generally provides for the matching of the timing of gain or loss recognition on the hedging instrument with the recognition of the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or
liability attributable to the hedged risk in a fair value hedge or the earnings effect of the hedged forecasted transactions in a cash flow hedge. The Company may enter into derivative contracts that are intended to economically hedge certain risks,
even though hedge accounting does not apply or the Company elects not to apply hedge accounting.

The Company’s use of
derivative financial instruments is intended to mitigate its interest rate risk on a related financial instrument or forecasted transaction through the use of interest rate swaps (the “Swaps”) and the Company designates these interest rate
swaps as cash flow hedges. The gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value of derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges are recognized in other comprehensive income (“OCI”) while the ineffective portion of the derivative’s
change in fair value is recognized in the Statements of Operations as a gain or loss on derivative instruments. Upon the settlement of a hedge, gains and losses remaining in OCI are amortized over the underlying term of the hedged transaction. The
Company formally documents all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategies for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Company assesses, both at inception of the hedge
and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows and/or forecasted cash flows of the hedged items.



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

In assessing the valuation of the hedges, the Company uses standard market conventions
and techniques such as discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models, and termination costs at each balance sheet date. All methods of assessing fair value result in a general approximation of value, and such value may never actually be
realized. See Notes 9 and 10 for further discussion.

The settlement of swap terminations is presented in cash flows provided
by operating activities in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

(h)

Income Taxes

The Parent Company
believes it qualifies, and intends to continue to qualify, as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”). As a REIT, the Parent Company will generally not be subject to federal income tax, provided that distributions to its
stockholders are at least equal to REIT taxable income. Regency Realty Group, Inc. (“RRG”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Operating Partnership, is a Taxable REIT Subsidiary (“TRS”) as defined in Section 856(l) of the
Code. RRG is subject to federal and state income taxes and files separate tax returns. As a pass through entity, the Operating Partnership’s taxable income or loss is reported by its partners, of which the Parent Company as general partner and
approximately 99.8% owner, is allocated its pro-rata share of tax attributes.

Income taxes are accounted for under the asset
and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax
bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which these temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled.

Earnings and profits, which determine the taxability of dividends to stockholders, differs from net income reported for financial
reporting purposes primarily because of differences in depreciable lives and cost bases of the shopping centers, as well as other timing differences. See Note 7 for further discussion.

Tax positions are initially recognized in the financial statements when it is more likely than not the position will be sustained upon
examination by the tax authorities. Such tax positions shall initially and subsequently be measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the tax authority
assuming full knowledge of the position and relevant facts. The Company believes that it has appropriate support for the income tax positions taken and to be taken on its tax returns and that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all
open tax years (after 2008 for federal and state) based on an assessment of many factors including past experience and interpretations of tax laws applied to the facts of each matter.

(i)

Earnings per Share and Unit

Basic earnings per share of common stock and unit are computed based upon the weighted average number of common shares and units,
respectively, outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share and unit reflect the conversion of obligations and the assumed exercises of securities including the effects of shares issuable under the Company’s share-based payment
arrangements, if dilutive. Dividends paid on the Company’s share-based payment transactions are not participating securities as they are forfeitable. See Note 13 for the calculation of earnings per share (“EPS”) and earnings per unit
(“EPU”).



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

(j)

Stock-Based Compensation

The
Company grants stock-based compensation to its employees and directors. The Company recognizes stock-based compensation based on the grant-date fair value of the award and the cost of the stock-based compensation is expensed over the vesting period.
See Note 12 for further discussion.

When the Parent Company issues common shares as compensation, it receives a like number of
common units from the Operating Partnership. The Company is committed to contribute to the Operating Partnership all proceeds from the exercise of stock options or other share-based awards granted under the Parent Company’s Long-Term Omnibus
Plan (the “Plan”). Accordingly, the Parent Company’s ownership in the Operating Partnership will increase based on the amount of proceeds contributed to the Operating Partnership for the common units it receives. As a result of the
issuance of common units to the Parent Company for stock-based compensation, the Operating Partnership accounts for stock-based compensation in the same manner as the Parent Company.

(k)

Segment Reporting

The
Company’s business is investing in retail shopping centers through direct ownership or through joint ventures. The Company actively manages its portfolio of retail shopping centers and may from time to time make decisions to sell lower
performing properties or developments not meeting its long-term investment objectives. The proceeds from sales are reinvested into higher quality retail shopping centers, through acquisitions or new developments, which management believes will
generate sustainable revenue growth and attractive returns. It is management’s intent that all retail shopping centers will be owned or developed for investment purposes; however, the Company may decide to sell all or a portion of a development
upon completion. The Company’s revenues and net income are generated from the operation of its investment portfolio. The Company also earns fees for services provided to manage and lease retail shopping centers owned through joint
ventures.

The Company’s portfolio is located throughout the United States; however, management does not distinguish or
group its operations on a geographical basis for purposes of allocating resources or capital. The Company reviews operating and financial data for each property on an individual basis; therefore, the Company defines an operating segment as its
individual properties. The individual properties have been aggregated into one reportable segment based upon their similarities with regard to both the nature and economics of the centers, tenants and operational processes, as well as long-term
average financial performance. In addition, no single tenant accounts for 5% or more of revenue and none of the shopping centers are located outside the United States.

(l)

Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity

The Company accounts for the fair value of noncontrolling interests in consolidated entities with specified termination dates in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 480. See Note 10 for further discussion.

(m)

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value

Fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement. Therefore, a fair value measurement is determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the
asset or liability. As a basis for considering market participant assumptions in fair value measurements, the Company uses a fair value hierarchy that distinguishes between market participant assumptions based on market data obtained from
independent sources (observable inputs that are classified within



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

Levels 1 and 2 of the hierarchy) and the Company’s own assumptions about market participant assumptions (unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the hierarchy). The three levels of
inputs used to measure fair value are as follows:

•

Level 1 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access.

•

Level 2 - Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.

•

Level 3 - Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability, which are typically based on the Company’s own assumptions, as there is little, if any,
related market activity.

The Company also remeasures nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities,
initially measured at fair value in a business combination or other new basis event, at fair value in subsequent periods. See Note 10 for all fair value measurements of assets and liabilities made on a recurring and nonrecurring basis.

(n)

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2010-06, “Fair Value Measurements and
Disclosures (820) - Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements” (“ASU 2010-06”). ASU 2010-06 provides amendments to Subtopic 820-10 and requires new disclosures for transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 and activity in Level
3 fair value measurements. ASU 2010-06 also clarifies existing disclosure requirements for the level of disaggregation for each class of assets and liabilities and for the inputs and valuation techniques used to measure fair value. ASU 2010-06 is
effective for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after December 15, 2009, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward of activity in Level 3 fair value
measurements which is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010, and for interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted this ASU on December 31, 2009.

In December 2009, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009-17 “Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable
Interest Entities” (“ASU 2009-17”). ASU 2009-17 was issued to reflect the amendments from Statement 167 “Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)” as a revision to FASB Interpretation No. 46 (Revised December
2003), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities”. ASU 2009-17 changes how a reporting entity determines when an entity that is insufficiently capitalized or is not controlled through voting (or similar rights) should be consolidated.
The determination of whether a reporting entity is required to consolidate another entity is based on, among other things, the other entity’s purpose and design and the reporting entity’s ability to direct the activities of the other
entity that most significantly impact the other entity’s economic performance. ASU 2009-17 was effective January 1, 2010 and early application is not permitted. The Company has evaluated the adoption of this ASU and it has no effect on its
results of operations or financial position, as it does not currently have any variable interests that it believes would require consolidation.

(o)

Reclassifications

Certain
reclassifications have been made to the 2009 and 2008 amounts to conform to classifications adopted in 2010.



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

2.

Real Estate Investments

On
December 15, 2010, the Company acquired a shopping center for a purchase price of $64.0 million which included the assumption of $51.1 million in debt, recorded net of a $1.6 million debt premium. Acquired lease intangible assets and acquired
lease intangible liabilities of $9.2 million and $1.5 million, respectively, were recorded for this acquisition. On September 1, 2010, the Company acquired a shopping center for a purchase price of $18.0 million which included the assumption of
$7.9 million in debt. Acquired lease intangible assets and acquired lease intangible liabilities of $1.5 million and approximately $562,000, respectively, were recorded for this acquisition. The acquisitions were accounted for as purchase business
combinations and the results are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The Company did not have any acquisition activity, other than through its investments in real estate partnerships during 2009.

3.

Discontinued Operations

During
the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company sold 100% of its ownership interest in two operating properties and one property in development for net proceeds of $34.9 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company sold
100% of its ownership interest in one operating property and four properties in development for proceeds of $73.0 million, net of notes receivable taken by the Company of $20.4 million of which $8.9 million was subsequently paid in full in May 2009.
During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company sold 100% of its ownership interest in three operating properties and seven properties in development for net proceeds of $86.2 million. The combined operating income and gain on the sale of
these properties and properties classified as held-for-sale were reclassified to discontinued operations. The revenues from properties included in discontinued operations were approximately $759,000, $9.8 million, and $17.4 million for the years
ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. The operating income and gains on sales of properties included in discontinued operations are reported net of income taxes, if the property is sold by the TRS. Income tax benefit of
approximately $166,000 and $2.1 million was allocated to operating income (loss) from discontinued operations at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. There was no income tax benefit or expense allocated in 2008.

4.

Investments in Real Estate Partnerships

The Company’s investments in real estate partnerships were $428.6 million and $326.2 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company’s carrying amount of these
investments was $128.8 million and $48.9 million lower than the underlying equity in net assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Investments in real estate partnerships are primarily composed of real estate partnerships where the Company invests with five co-investment partners and a close-ended real estate fund (“Regency
Retail Partners” or the “Fund”), as further described below. In addition to earning its pro-rata share of net income or loss in each of these real estate partnerships, the Company received recurring market-based fees for asset
management, property management, and leasing as well as fees for investment and financing services, of $25.1 million, $29.1 million and $31.6 million and transaction fees of $2.6 million, $7.8 million and $23.7 million for the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

Investments in real estate partnerships as of December 31, 2010 and 2009
consist of the following (in thousands):

(1)

At December 31, 2009, the Company’s ownership interest in GRIR (formerly Macquarie CountryWide-Regency II, LLC) was 25.00%.

Investments in real estate partnerships are reported net of deferred gains of $51.4 million and $52.0 million at
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Cumulative deferred gains related to each real estate partnership are described below.

The Company co-invests with Global Retail Investors LLC (“GRI”), a joint venture between the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (“CalPERS”) and an affiliate of First
Washington Realty, Inc. in one real estate partnership in which the Company has an ownership interest of 40%. During March 2010, an amendment was filed with the state of Delaware to change the name of the real estate partnership from Macquarie
CountryWide – Regency II, LLC (“MCWR II”) to GRI – Regency, LLC (“GRIR”). The Company’s investment in GRIR totals $277.2 million and represents 7.0% of the Company’s total assets at
December 31, 2010.

On July 17, 2009, the Company announced that Charter Hall Retail REIT (“CHRR”),
formerly Macquarie CountryWide, had agreed to sell 60% of the partnership’s interest to GRI in two closings. The first closing was completed on July 31, 2009, with GRI purchasing a 45% ownership interest in the real estate
partnership. As part of the closing, the Company acquired Macquarie-Regency Management, LLC’s (“US Manager”) 0.1% ownership of the real estate partnership. US Manager was owned 50/50 by the Company and an affiliate of Macquarie
Bank Limited. The transaction increased the Company’s ownership to 25% from 24.95%. At the first closing, the Company received a disposition fee of $7.8 million from CHRR equal to 1% of the gross sales price paid by GRI.

As part of the original agreement with CHRR, the Company negotiated two separate options to acquire an additional 15% interest in the
partnership at a 7.7% discount. In November 2009, the Company exercised its two options with the closing contingent upon obtaining lender consents. The Company funded the purchase price of $16.0 million on December 23, 2009, which was held in
escrow and recorded in other assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2009. On March 30, 2010, the Company closed on both of its options increasing its ownership interest in the real estate partnership to
40%.

On April 30, 2010, GRIR prepaid $514.8 million of mortgage debt, without penalty, in order to minimize its future
refinancing and interest rate risks. The Company contributed capital of $206.7 million to GRIR for its



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

pro-rata share of the repayment funded from its unsecured line of credit and available cash balances. Simultaneously, GRI closed on the purchase of its remaining 15% interest from CHRR,
increasing its total ownership in the real estate partnership to 60%. As a part of this second closing, the Company also received a disposition fee of $2.6 million equal to 1% of gross sales price paid by GRI. The Company retained asset
management, property management, and leasing responsibilities. On June 2, 2010, GRIR closed on $202.0 million of new ten year secured mortgage loans. The Company received $79.6 million as its pro-rata share of the proceeds. On September 1,
2010, an additional $47.2 million of mortgage debt was repaid, which also required pro-rata contributions from each joint venture partner.

As of December 31, 2010, GRIR owned 83 shopping centers, had total assets of $2.1 billion and a net loss of $15.1 million for the year ended, primarily related to the provision for impairment of
$12.3 million on one property that sold in 2010 and $23.9 million on seven properties that it expects to sell in the next three years. The Company’s share of its total assets and net loss was $831.5 million and $6.7 million, respectively.
Effective January 1, 2010, the partnership agreement was amended to include a unilateral right to elect to dissolve the partnership and receive a DIK upon liquidation; therefore, the Company will apply the Restricted Gain Method for additional
properties sold to GRIR on or after January 1, 2010. During 2010, the Company did not sell any properties to GRIR. Since the inception of the real estate partnership in 2005, the Company has recognized gain of $2.3 million on partial sales to
GRIR and deferred gains of approximately $766,000. During 2010, GRIR sold three shopping centers to third parties for $59.5 million and recognized a gain of $5.4 million.

The Company co-invests with CHRR in two real estate partnerships, one in which the Company has an ownership interest of 24.95% (“MCWR III”) and one in which the Company has an ownership interest
of 16.35% (“MCWR-DESCO”). The Company’s investment with CHRR totals $20.1 million and represents less than 1% of the Company’s total assets at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, these joint ventures had
total assets of $430.4 million and a net loss of $5.3 million for the year ended.

As of December 31, 2010, MCWR III
owned four shopping centers, had total assets of $63.6 million, and a net loss of approximately $433,000 for the year ended and the Company’s share of its total assets and net loss was $15.9 million and approximately $108,000, respectively.
Effective January 1, 2010, the partnership agreement was amended to include a unilateral right to elect to dissolve the partnership and receive a DIK upon liquidation; therefore, the Company will apply the Restricted Gain Method for properties
sold to MCWR III on or after January 1, 2010. During 2010, the Company did not sell any properties to MCWR III. Since the inception of MCWR III in 2005, the Company has recognized gain of $14.1 million on partial sales to MCWR III and deferred
gains of $4.7 million.

As of December 31, 2010, MCWR-DESCO owned 32 shopping centers, had total assets of $366.8
million and recorded a net loss of $4.9 million for the year ended and the Company’s share of its total assets and net loss was $60.0 million and approximately $817,000, respectively. Since the inception of MCWR-DESCO in 2007, Regency has not
sold any properties to MCWR-DESCO. The partnership agreement does not contain any DIK provisions that would require the Company to apply the Restricted Gain Method. In December 2010, the partners of MCWR-DESCO began negotiating the liquidation of
the portfolio through DIK. If agreed to and executed by the partners, the liquidation could occur in 2011, whereby Regency would receive four shopping centers from MCWR-DESCO representing the distribution of its equity in the partnership on a
pro-rata basis. As a result of the expected liquidation of the partnership, Regency reduced its investment in MCWR-DESCO to fair value and recorded a provision for impairment of $2.7 million at December 31, 2010 in the accompanying Consolidated
Statements of Operations.

The Company co-invests with the Oregon Public Employees Retirement Fund (“OPERF”) in three
real estate partnerships, two of which the Company has ownership interests of 20% (“Columbia I” and “Columbia II”) and one in which the Company has an ownership interest of 30% (“Cameron”). The



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

Company’s investment in these three real estate partnerships totals $47.4 million and represents 1.2% of the Company’s total assets at December 31, 2010. At
December 31, 2010, the OPERF joint ventures had total assets of $686.2 million and a net loss of $15.9 million.

As
of December 31, 2010, Columbia I owned 13 shopping centers, had total assets of $277.8 million, and net loss of $14.9 million for the year ended, primarily related to the provision for impairment of $23.7 million on two properties that it
expects to sell in the next three years. The Company’s share of its total assets and net loss was $57.8 million and $3.0 million, respectively. The partnership agreement has a unilateral right for election to dissolve the partnership and
receive a DIK upon liquidation; therefore, the Company has applied the Restricted Gain Method to determine the amount of gain recognized on property sales to Columbia I. During 2010, the Company did not sell any properties to Columbia I. Since the
inception of Columbia I in 2001, the Company has recognized gain of $2.0 million on partial sales to Columbia I and deferred gains of $4.3 million. During 2010, Columbia I sold one shopping center to a third party for $12.4 million and recognized a
gain of $1.2 million.

As of December 31, 2010, Columbia II owned 16 shopping centers, had total assets of $302.4
million and net loss of approximately $330,000 for the year ended, primarily related to the provision for impairment of approximately $857,000 on one property it expects to sell in the next three years. The Company’s share of its total assets
and net loss was $59.0 million and approximately $69,000, respectively. The partnership agreement has a unilateral right for election to dissolve the partnership and receive a DIK upon liquidation; therefore, the Company has applied the Restricted
Gain Method to determine the amount of gain recognized on property sales to Columbia II. During 2010, the Company did not sell any properties to Columbia II. Since the inception of Columbia II in 2004, the Company has recognized gain of $9.1 million
on partial sales to Columbia II and deferred gains of $15.7 million.

As of December 31, 2010, Cameron owned one
shopping center, had total assets of $106.0 million and a net loss of approximately $708,000 for the year ended and the Company’s share of its total assets and net loss was $31.9 million and approximately $221,000, respectively. The partnership
agreement does not contain any DIK provisions that would require the Company to apply the Restricted Gain Method. Since the inception of Cameron in 2004, the Company has not sold any properties to the real estate partnership.

The Company co-invests with the California State Teachers’ Retirement System (“CalSTRS”) in a joint venture
(“RegCal”) in which the Company has a 25% ownership interest. As of December 31, 2010, RegCal owned eight shopping centers, had total assets of $183.5 million, and net income of approximately $858,000 for the year ended and the
Company’s share of its total assets and net income was $45.9 million and approximately $194,000 respectively. The partnership agreement has a unilateral right for election to dissolve the partnership and receive a DIK upon liquidation;
therefore, the Company has applied the Restricted Gain Method to determine the amount of gain recognized on property sales to RegCal. During 2010, the Company did not sell any properties to RegCal. Since the inception of RegCal in 2004, the Company
has recognized gain of $10.1 million on partial sales to RegCal and deferred gains of $3.4 million. In March 2010, RegCal purchased one property from a third party for a sales price of $12.9 million, net of assumed debt of $18.0 million, and the
Company contributed $3.3 million for its proportionate share of the purchase price.

The Company co-invests with Regency Retail
Partners (the “Fund”), a closed-end, finite life investment fund in which the Company has an ownership interest of 20%. As of December 31, 2010, the Fund owned nine shopping centers, had total assets of $341.1 million, and
recorded a net loss of $18.9 million for the year ended, primarily related to provisions for impairment of $18.1 million recorded on four properties that are expected to sell in the next three years, and the Company’s share of its total assets
and net loss was $68.1 million and $3.6 million, respectively. The partnership agreement does not contain any DIK provisions that would require the Company to apply the Restricted Gain Method. During 2010, the



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

Company did not sell any properties to the Fund. Since the inception of the Fund in 2006, the Company has recognized gains of $71.6 million on partial sales to the Fund and deferred gains of
$17.9 million.

The Company co-invests with United Services Automobile Association (the “USAA partnership”) in which
the Company has an ownership interest of 20.01%. As of December 31, 2010, the USAA partnership owned eight shopping centers, had total assets of $134.3 million and recorded a net loss of approximately $441,000 for the year ended and the
Company’s share of its total assets and net loss was $26.9 million and approximately $88,000, respectively. The partnership agreement has a unilateral right for election to dissolve the partnership and receive a DIK upon liquidation; therefore,
the Company has applied the Restricted Gain Method to determine the amount of gain recognized on property sales to the USAA partnership. During 2010, the Company did not sell any properties to the USAA partnership. Since the inception of the USAA
partnership in 2009, the Company has recognized gains of $19.4 million on partial sales to the USAA partnership and deferred gains of $8.0 million.

The Company co-invests in another nine joint ventures that own seven shopping centers and land (“other investments in real estate partnerships”) in which the Company has an ownership interest of
50% in each venture. Each venture is also owned 50% by one of three partners, two partners of which are also the grocery anchor tenants in the seven shopping centers owned by the various ventures. The Company’s investment in these other
investments in real estate partnerships totals $47.0 million and represents 1.2% of the Company’s total assets at December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the other investments in real estate partnerships had total combined
assets of $130.4 million, and recorded combined net income of $3.2 million for the year ended and the Company’s share of these combined total assets and combined net income was $66.5 million and $1.4 million, respectively.

Summarized financial information for the investments in real estate partnerships on a combined basis, is as follows (in
thousands):

Investments in real estate partnerships had notes payable of $2.1 billion and $2.5 billion as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and the Company’s proportionate share of these loans was $663.1 million and $585.5 million, respectively. The Company does not guarantee these loans with the exception of an $8.8 million loan
related to its 50% ownership interest in a single asset real estate partnership where the loan agreement contains “several” guarantees from each partner.



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

As of December 31, 2010, scheduled principal repayments on notes payable of
the investments in real estate partnerships were as follows (in thousands):

The revenues and expenses for the investments in real estate partnerships on a combined basis are summarized
as follows (in thousands):

5.

Notes Receivable

The Company had
notes receivable outstanding of $35.9 million and $37.8 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The notes receivable have fixed interest rates ranging from 6.0% to 9.0% with maturity dates through January 2019 and are secured
by property held as collateral. There was no provision for impairment recorded for notes receivable during 2010. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, impairment losses of approximately $465,000 related to an $879,000 note
receivable and $1.1 million related to a $3.6 million note receivable, respectively, were recorded in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the years ended December 31, 2009, and 2008, the Company recorded approximately
$50,000 and $417,000 in interest income related to these impaired loans of which $296,000 was recognized on a cash basis during the year ended December 31, 2008.



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

6.

Acquired Lease Intangibles

The
Company had acquired lease intangible assets, net of amortization, of $18.2 million and $10.0 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, of which $15.7 million and $9.7 million, respectively relates to in-place leases. These
in-place leases had a remaining weighted average amortization period of 7.9 years. The aggregate amortization expense recorded for these in-place leases was $2.3 million, $2.7 million, and $4.2 million for the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. The Company had above-market lease intangible assets, net of amortization, of approximately $974,000 and $341,000 at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The remaining
weighted average amortization period was 6.0 years. The aggregate amortization expense recorded as a reduction to minimum rent for these above-market leases was approximately $108,000, $102,000 and $113,000 for the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. In 2010, the Company acquired an above-market ground rent lease intangible asset in the amount of $1.6 million with a remaining life of 91 years. There were no above-market ground rent lease
intangible assets recorded as of December 31, 2009.

The Company had acquired lease intangible liabilities, net of
accretion, of $6.7 million and $5.9 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The remaining weighted average accretion period is 8.4 years. The aggregate amount recorded as an increase to minimum rent for these below-market
rents was $1.3 million, $1.9 million, and $2.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.

The estimated aggregate amortization and net accretion amounts from acquired lease intangibles for the next five years are as follows (in thousands):

7.

Income Taxes

The net book basis
of the Company’s real estate assets exceeds the tax basis by $40.2 million and $78.7 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, primarily due to the difference between the cost basis of the assets acquired and their
carryover basis recorded for tax purposes.

The following summarizes the tax status of dividends paid during the respective
years:



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

RRG is subject to federal and state income taxes and files separate tax returns. Income
tax expense (benefit) is included in other expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and consists of the following for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 (in thousands):

Income tax expense (benefit) is included in either other expenses if the related income is from continuing
operations or discontinued operations on the Consolidated Statements of Operations as follows for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 (in thousands):

Income tax benefit differed from the amounts computed by applying the U.S. Federal income tax rate of 34% to
pretax income of RRG for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively as follows (in thousands):

All other items principally represent the tax effect of gains associated with the sale of properties to joint
ventures. Included in the income tax expense (benefit) disclosed above, the Company has approximately $600,000 of state income tax expense at the Operating Partnership for the Texas Gross Margin Tax recorded in other expenses in the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008.

The following table
represents the Company’s net deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 recorded in other assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands):

During 2010, a valuation allowance of approximately $286,000 was established representing 100% of the
charitable contribution carryforward. During 2009, a valuation allowance of $4.8 million was established representing 100% of the disallowed interest, under Section 163(j) of the Code. In both cases, it was



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

determined to be more likely than not that the asset would not be realized. Other deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate primarily to differences in the timing of the recognition
of income or loss between U.S. GAAP and tax basis of accounting. Excluding the provision for valuation allowance, significant portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities include a $5.1 million deferred tax asset for capitalized
costs under Section 263A of the Code, a $9.0 million deferred tax asset related to the provision for impairment, a $2.7 million deferred tax asset related to a net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforward and a $1.7 million deferred tax
liability related to straight line rents. Our estimated Federal NOL generated in 2010 is $7.6 million of which we carryback two years and forward 20 years. We intend to carryback approximately $527,000 to 2009 and the balance forward, expiring in
2030. We assessed the components of the net deferred tax asset balance at year end, excluding the items for which a valuation allowance was provided, and determined that it is more likely than not that the assets will be utilized.

The Company accounts for uncertainties in income tax law in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 740. Under FASB ASC Topic 740, tax positions
shall initially be recognized in the financial statements when it is more likely than not the position will be sustained upon examination by the tax authorities. Such tax positions shall initially and subsequently be measured as the largest amount
of tax benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the tax authority assuming full knowledge of the position and relevant facts. The Company believes that it has appropriate support for the income
tax positions taken and to be taken on its tax returns and that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open tax years based on an assessment of many factors including past experience and interpretations of tax laws applied to the
facts of each matter. Federal and state tax returns are open from 2007 and forward for the Company and federal returns are open from 2008 and forward for the TRS.

During 2008, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) commenced an examination of RRG’s U.S. income tax returns for 2006 and 2007 which was completed in June 2009. No adjustments were made.

8.

Notes Payable and Unsecured Credit Facilities

The Parent Company does not hold any indebtedness, but guarantees all of the unsecured debt and less than 9% of the secured debt of the Operating Partnership.

Notes Payable

Notes payable consist of mortgage loans secured by properties and unsecured public debt. Mortgage loans may be prepaid, but could be subject to yield maintenance premiums. Mortgage loans are generally due
in monthly installments of principal and interest or interest only, and mature over various terms through 2020, whereas, interest on unsecured public debt is payable semi-annually and the debt mature over various terms through 2021. Fixed interest
rates on mortgage loans range from 5.00% to 8.40% with a weighted average rate of 6.52%. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had two variable rate mortgage loans, one in the amount of $4.1 million with an interest rate equal to LIBOR plus
380 basis points maturing on October 1, 2014 and one construction loan with a current balance of $7.1 million with a variable interest rate of LIBOR plus 300 basis points maturing on September 2, 2011. During the year ended
December 31, 2010, $6.1 million was funded from the construction loan for a development project.

On June 2, 2010, RCLP completed the sale of $150.0 million of 6.0% ten-year senior unsecured notes. The notes are
due June 15, 2020. Interest on the notes will be payable semi-annually on June 15

th

and December 15

th

of each year. The net proceeds were used to repay the balance of the unsecured line of credit.



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

On October 7, 2010, RCLP completed the sale of $250.0 million
of 4.80% ten-year senior unsecured notes. The notes are due April 15, 2021. Interest on the notes will be payable semiannually on April 15

th

and October 15

th

of each year. A portion of the net proceeds were used to repay the $110.0 million balance of the unsecured line of
credit and to fund the debt tender offer discussed below.

On October 29, 2010, RCLP completed a tender offer for
outstanding debt by purchasing $11.8 million of its $173.5 million 7.95% unsecured notes maturing in January 2011, and $57.6 million of its $250.0 million 6.75% unsecured notes maturing in January 2012 (collectively, the “Notes”). The
total consideration paid for the Notes was $74.8 million or $1,066.25 per $1,000 in principal amount of the 6.75% Notes and $1,015.50 per $1,000 in principal amount of the 7.95% Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Company recognized a $4.2
million expense for the early extinguishment of this debt.

Unsecured Credit Facilities

The Company has a $600.0 million line of credit (the “Line”) commitment under an agreement with Wells Fargo Bank and a syndicate
of other banks that matures in February 2012. The Line has a current interest rate of LIBOR plus 55 basis points and an annual facility fee of 15 basis points subject to Regency maintaining its corporate credit and senior unsecured ratings at BBB.
The balance on the Line was $10.0 million at December 31, 2010 and there was no balance outstanding at December 31, 2009. The Company initiated discussions with its lender to enter into a new Line commitment and term, and expects
to close on a new commitment prior to February 2012.

The Company had a $113.8 million revolving credit facility under an
agreement with Wells Fargo Bank and a syndicate of other banks that matured in February 2011. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the revolving credit facility had a variable interest rate equal to LIBOR plus 100 basis points and an annual
facility fee of 20 basis points subject to maintaining its corporate credit and senior unsecured ratings at BBB. There was no balance outstanding at December 31, 2010 or 2009 and the Company did not renew this facility.

Including both the Line commitment and the revolving credit facility (collectively, “Unsecured credit facilities”), the Company
has $703.8 million of total availability as of December 31, 2010 and the spread paid is dependent upon the Company maintaining specific investment-grade ratings. The Company is also required to comply with certain financial covenants as
defined in the Credit Agreement such as Minimum Net Worth, Ratio of Total Liabilities to Gross Asset Value (“GAV”) and Ratio of Recourse Secured Indebtedness to GAV, Ratio of Earnings Before Interest Taxes Depreciation and Amortization
(“EBITDA”) to Fixed Charges, and other covenants customary with this type of unsecured financing. As of December 31, 2010, management of the Company believes it is in compliance with all financial covenants for the Unsecured
credit facilities. The Unsecured credit facilities are used to finance the acquisition and development of real estate and for general working-capital purposes.

The Company’s outstanding debt at December 31, 2010 and 2009 consists of the following (in thousands):



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

As of December 31, 2010, scheduled principal repayments on notes payable were
as follows (in thousands):

(1)

Includes unsecured public debt and unsecured credit facilities. The Line is included in 2012 maturities and matures in February 2012.

9.

Derivative Financial Instruments

Risk Management Objective of Using Derivatives

The Company is exposed to certain risks arising from both its business operations and economic conditions. The Company principally manages its exposures to a wide variety of business and operational risks
through management of its core business activities. The Company manages economic risks, including interest rate, liquidity, and credit risk primarily by managing the amount, sources, and duration of its debt funding and the use of derivative
financial instruments. Specifically, the Company enters into derivative financial instruments to manage exposures that arise from business activities that result in the receipt or future payment of known and uncertain cash amounts, the amount of
which are determined by interest rates. The Company’s derivative financial instruments are used to manage differences in the amount, timing, and duration of the Company’s known or expected cash payments principally related to the
Company’s borrowings.

Cash Flow Hedges of Interest Rate Risk

The Company’s objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to interest expense and to manage its exposure to
interest rate movements. To accomplish this objective, the Company primarily uses interest rate swaps as part of its interest rate risk management strategy. Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of variable-rate
amounts from a counterparty in exchange for the Company making fixed-rate payments over the life of the agreements without exchange of the underlying notional amount.

The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and qualifying as cash flow hedges is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss and subsequently reclassified into
earnings in the period that the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. During 2010, such derivatives were used to hedge the variable cash flows associated with forecasted issuances of debt (see “Objectives and Strategies” below
for further discussion). The ineffective portion of the change in fair value of the derivatives is recognized directly in earnings as gain or loss on derivative instruments. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company
recognized a gain of $1.4 million and loss of $3.3 million, respectively, for changes in hedge ineffectiveness attributable to revised inputs used in the valuation models to estimate effectiveness. There was no hedge ineffectiveness recognized for
the year ended December 31, 2008.



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

On October 7, 2010, the Company paid $36.7 million to settle the remaining $140.7
million of interest rate swaps then outstanding. On October 7, 2010, the Company closed on $250.0 million of 4.80% ten-year senior unsecured notes The Company began amortizing the $36.7 million loss realized from the swap settlement in October
2010 over a ten year period; therefore, the effective interest rate on these notes is 6.26%.

On June 1, 2010, the Company
paid $26.8 million to settle and partially settle $150.0 million of its interest rate swaps then outstanding of $290.7 million. On June 2, 2010 the Company also closed on $150.0 million of ten-year senior unsecured notes with an interest rate
of 6.00%. The Company began amortizing the $26.8 million loss realized from the swap settlement in June 2010 over a ten year period; therefore, the effective interest rate on these notes is 7.67%.

Realized gains and losses associated with the settled interest rate swaps have been included in accumulated other comprehensive loss in
the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss) of the Parent Company and the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Capital and Comprehensive Income (Loss) of the Operating Partnership and are amortized as the
corresponding hedged interest payments are made in future periods.

The tables below represent the effect of the derivative
financial instruments on the accompanying consolidated financial statements for the years ended (in thousands):

The unamortized balance of the settled interest rate swaps at December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $81.5 million and $25.4 million, respectively, of which the Company expects to amortize $9.5 million
over 2011.

The table below presents the fair value of the Company’s derivative financial instruments as well as their
classification on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in thousands):

Non-designated Hedges

The Company does not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes and currently does not have any derivatives that
are not designated as hedges.



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

Objectives and Strategies

The Company continuously monitors the capital markets and evaluates its ability to issue new debt to repay maturing debt or fund its
commitments. Based upon the current capital markets, the Company’s current credit ratings, and the number of high quality, unencumbered properties that it owns which could collateralize borrowings, the Company expects that it will successfully
issue new secured or unsecured debt to fund its obligations.

10.

Fair Value Measurements

Derivative Financial Instruments

The valuation of these instruments is determined using widely accepted valuation techniques including discounted cash flow analysis on the expected cash flows of each derivative. This analysis reflects
the contractual terms of the derivatives, including the period to maturity, and uses observable market-based inputs, including interest rate curves, and implied volatilities. The Company incorporates credit valuation adjustments to appropriately
reflect both its own nonperformance risk and the respective counterparty’s nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements.

Although the Company has determined that the majority of the inputs used to value its derivatives fall within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, the credit valuation adjustments associated with its
derivatives utilize Level 3 inputs, such as estimates of current credit spreads to evaluate the likelihood of default by the Company and its counterparties.

As of December 31, 2010, there were no liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis.

As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, aggregated by the level in the fair value hierarchy within which those measurements fall were
as follows (in thousands):

Fair Value Measurements Using:

Liabilities

Balance

Quoted

Prices in

Active Markets

for Identical

Liabilities

(Level 1)

Significant

Other

Observable

Inputs (Level 2)

Significant

Unobservable

Inputs (Level 3)

Derivative instruments

$

(28,363

)

—

(29,040

)


Changes in Level 3
inputs are not considered significant enough to warrant reconciliation as of December 31, 2009.

Impairment of
Long-lived Assets

Long-lived assets held and used are comprised primarily of real estate. During the years ended
December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company established provisions for impairment of long-lived assets as follows (in thousands):



Land held for future development or sale

$

2,177

93,710

Operating and development properties

21,688

10,227

Total

$

23,865

103,937



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

The triggering event that led to the impairment charges during 2010 was primarily due to
a change in the expected investment holding period for certain properties. As a result, the Company evaluated the current fair value of said properties and recorded an impairment loss during 2010. Additional impairments may be necessary in the
future, in the event that market conditions change and impact the factors used to estimate fair value, the Company reduces the holding period on properties held and used, or it decides to classify properties as held for sale where they were
previously classified as held and used. See Note 1(c) for a discussion of the inputs used in determining the fair value of long-lived assets. The Company has determined that the inputs used to value its long-lived assets fall within Level 3 of the
fair value hierarchy.

The Company’s assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis are those assets for which the
Company has recorded a provision for impairment during 2010. The assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis are as follows (in thousands):

Notes Payable

The fair value of the Company’s notes payable are estimated based on the current rates available to the Company for debt of the same terms and remaining maturities. Fixed rate loans assumed in
connection with real estate acquisitions are recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial statements at fair value at the time of acquisition excluding those loans assumed in DIK liquidations. Each of these fair value measurements fall within
Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Based on the estimates used by the Company, the fair value of notes payable was $1.7 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Noncontrolling Interests of the Parent Company and Partners’ Capital

The Operating Partnership had 177,164 and 468,211 limited Partnership Units outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. The limited Partnership Units are exchangeable for the Parent Company’s common stock. The redemption value of the limited Partnership Units is based on the closing market price of the Parent Company’s common stock and is used
to calculate the fair value measurement. Therefore, the fair value measurements fall within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. The Parent Company’s closing common stock price was $42.24 and $35.06 per share as of December 31, 2010
and 2009, respectively, and the aggregate redemption value of the limited Partnership Units was $7.5 million and $16.4 million, respectively.



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

Noncontrolling Interests of the Parent Company and the Operating Partnership

At December 31, 2010, the Company held a majority interest in four consolidated entities with specified
termination dates through 2049. The noncontrolling interests in these entities will be settled upon termination by distribution or transfer of either cash or specific assets of the underlying entities. The estimated fair value of the noncontrolling
interests in entities with specified termination dates was $9.3 million and $9.1 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and is generally determined by applying a market-based capitalization rate to net operating income. Each
of the inputs used in calculating these fair value measurements fall within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Their related carrying value was $6.8 million and $6.6 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which is
included within noncontrolling interests of Limited partners’ interests in consolidated partnerships in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

11.

Equity and Capital

Equity of
the Parent Company

Preferred Stock

The Series 3, 4, and 5 preferred shares are perpetual, are not convertible into common stock of the Parent Company, and are redeemable at par upon the Company’s election beginning five years after
the issuance date. None of the terms of the preferred stock contain any unconditional obligations that would require the Company to redeem the securities at any time or for any purpose and the Company does not currently anticipate redeeming any
preferred stock. Terms and conditions of the three series of preferred stock outstanding as of December 31, 2010 are summarized as follows:

Common Stock

On December 9, 2009, the Parent Company completed a public offering of 8.0 million shares of common stock at $30.75 per share in connection with forward sale agreements entered into with J.P
Morgan and Wells Fargo Securities, which will result in estimated future net proceeds of $217.8 million, net of issuance costs, once the agreements are settled by March 2011, unless the Company and the forward purchasers agree to extend the
settlement date. This offering included an over-allotment option of 1.2 million shares which closed simultaneously with the offering and provided the Company with net proceeds of $34.9 million during 2010. The Company intends to use the
proceeds it receives upon settlement of the forward sale agreements to repay debt maturing in 2011 and outstanding balances on its line of credit.

On April 24, 2009, the Parent Company completed a public offering of 10.0 million common shares at $32.50 per share resulting in proceeds of $310.9 million, net of issuance costs. The net
proceeds were used to repay the balance of the Line and general working capital purposes.



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

Noncontrolling Interest of Preferred Units

At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the face value of the Series D preferred units was $50.0 million with a fixed distribution rate
of 7.45% which are recorded in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, net of original issuance costs of approximately $842,000.

Terms and conditions for the Series D preferred units outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 are summarized as follows:

Units Outstanding

Amount

Outstanding

Distribution

Rate

Callable by

Company

Exchangeable

by Unit 
holder

500,000

$

50,000,000

7.45

%

9/29/2009

1/1/2014

The Series D preferred
units are callable at par beginning September 29, 2009, have no stated maturity or mandatory redemption and pay a cumulative, quarterly dividend at a fixed rate. The Series D preferred units may be exchanged by the holder for cumulative
redeemable preferred stock of the Parent Company at an exchange rate of one unit for one share. The Series D preferred units and the related preferred stock are not convertible into common stock of the Parent Company.

Noncontrolling Interest of Exchangeable Operating Partnership Units

The Operating Partnership had 177,164 and 468,211 limited Partnership Units not owned by the Parent Company outstanding as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 10 for further discussion.

Noncontrolling Interests of
Limited Partners’ Interests in Consolidated Partnerships

Limited partners’ interests in consolidated
partnerships not owned by the Company are classified as noncontrolling interests on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of the Parent Company. Subject to certain conditions and pursuant to the conditions of the agreement, the Company has
the right, but not the obligation, to purchase the other member’s interest or sell its own interest in these consolidated partnerships. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company’s noncontrolling interest in these consolidated
partnerships was $10.8 million and $11.7 million, respectively.

Capital of the Operating Partnership

Preferred Units

The Series D Preferred Units are owned by institutional investors. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the face value of the Series D Preferred Units was $50.0 million with a fixed distribution
rate of 7.45% and are recorded in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets net of original issuance costs of approximately $842,000.

Preferred Units of General Partner

The Parent Company, as general partner,
owns corresponding Series 3, 4, and 5 preferred unit interests (“Series 3, 4, and 5 Preferred Units”) in the Operating Partnership. See above for further discussion.

General Partner

As of December 31, 2010, the Parent Company, as
general partner, owned approximately 99.8% or 81,886,872 of the total 82,064,036 Partnership Units outstanding.



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

Limited Partners

The Operating Partnership had 177,164 and 468,211 limited Partnership Units outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. See Note 10 for further discussion.

Noncontrolling Interests of Limited Partners’ Interests in
Consolidated Partnerships

See above for further discussion.

12.

Stock-Based Compensation

The
Company recorded stock-based compensation in general and administrative expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations, the components of which are further described below (in thousands):

The recorded amounts of stock-based compensation expense represent amortization of deferred compensation
related to share-based payments. Compensation expense specifically identifiable to development and leasing activities is capitalized and included above.

The Company established the Plan under which the Board of Directors may grant stock options and other stock-based awards to officers, directors, and other key employees. The Plan allows the Company to
issue up to 5.0 million shares in the form of the Parent Company’s common stock or stock options. The plan permits the grant of any type of stock-based award but limits non-option awards to no more than 2.75 million shares. At
December 31, 2010, there were approximately 2.2 million shares available for grant under the Plan either through options or restricted stock. The Plan also limits outstanding awards to no more than 12% of the Parent Company’s
outstanding common stock.

Stock options are granted under the Plan with an exercise price equal to the Parent Company’s
stock’s price at the date of grant. All stock options granted have ten-year lives, contain vesting terms of one to five years from the date of grant and some have dividend equivalent rights. Stock options granted prior to 2005 also contained
“reload” rights, which allowed an option holder the right to receive new options each time existing options were exercised, if the existing options were exercised under specific criteria provided for in the Plan.

The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton closed-form
(“Black-Scholes”) option valuation model. The Company believes that the use of the Black-Scholes model meets the fair value measurement objectives of FASB ASC Topic 718 and reflects all substantive characteristics of the instruments being
valued.



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

The following table reports stock option activity during the year ended
December 31, 2010:

There were no stock options granted in 2010, 2009, and 2008. The total intrinsic value of options exercised
during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 was approximately $1,000, $40,000, and $2.3 million, respectively. The Company received cash proceeds for stock option exercises of $1.0 million during 2008. The Company issues new shares
to fulfill option exercises from its authorized shares available.

The following table presents information regarding
non-vested option activity during the year ended December 31, 2010:

Non-vested

Number of

Options

Weighted

Average

Grant-Date

Fair Value

Non-vested at December 31, 2009

4,369

$

8.78

Less: 2010 Vesting

2,184

8.78

Non-vested at December 31, 2010

2,185

$

8.78

The Company grants restricted stock under the Plan to its employees as a form of long-term compensation and
retention. The terms of each grant vary depending upon the participant’s responsibilities and position within the Company. The Company’s stock grants can be categorized as either time-based awards, performance-based awards, or market-based
awards. All awards were valued at the fair market value on the date of grant, earn dividends throughout the vesting period, and have no voting rights. Compensation expense is measured at the grant date and recognized over the vesting period.

•

Time-based awards vest 25% per year beginning on the first anniversary following the grant date. These grants are subject only to continued
employment and not dependent on future performance measures; and accordingly, if such vesting criteria are not met, compensation cost previously recognized would be reversed. During 2010, the Company granted 181,309 shares of time-based awards.

•

Performance-based awards are earned subject to future performance measurements, including individual goals, annual growth in earnings, and compounded
three-year growth in earnings. Once the performance criteria are achieved and the actual number of shares earned is determined, shares will vest over a required service period. If such performance criteria are not met, compensation cost previously
recognized would be reversed. The Company considers the likelihood of meeting



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

the performance criteria based upon managements’ estimates from which it determines the amounts recognized as expense on a periodic basis. During 2010, the Company did not grant any
performance-based awards.

•

Market-based awards are earned dependent upon the Company’s total shareholder return in relation to the shareholder return of peer indices over a
three-year period (“TSR Grant”). Once the market criteria are met and the actual number of shares earned is determined, 100% of the earned shares vest. The probability of meeting the market criteria was considered when calculating the
estimated fair market value on the date of grant using a Monte Carlo simulation. These awards were accounted for as awards with market criteria, with compensation cost recognized over the service period, regardless of whether the market criteria are
achieved and the awards are ultimately earned and vest. During 2010, the Company granted 93,688 shares of market-based awards.

The following table reports non-vested restricted stock activity during the year ended December 31, 2010:

The following table reports shares vested and distributed during the years ended December 31, 2010
and 2009:

The weighted-average grant price for restricted stock granted during the years 2010, 2009, and 2008 was
$35.65, $38.91, and $63.76, respectively. The total intrinsic value of restricted stock vested during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 was $6.1 million, $9.6 million, and $12.3 million, respectively.

As of December 31, 2010, there was $11.4 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested restricted stock
granted under the Plan. When recognized, this compensation results in additional paid in capital in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss) of the Parent Company and in general partner preferred and common
units in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Capital and Comprehensive Income (Loss) of the Operating Partnership. This unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over the next three years, through 2013. The Company issues
new restricted stock from its authorized shares available at the date of grant.



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

The Company maintains a 401(k) retirement plan covering substantially all employees,
which permits participants to defer up to the maximum allowable amount determined by the IRS of their eligible compensation. This deferred compensation, together with Company matching contributions equal to 100% of employee deferrals up to a maximum
of $3,900 of their eligible compensation, is fully vested and funded as of December 31, 2010. Costs related to the matching portion of the plan were $1.1 million, $1.4 million, and $1.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009,
and 2008, respectively.

13.

Earnings per Share and Unit

Parent Company Earnings per Share

The following summarizes the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively (in thousands except per share
data):

The exchangeable operating partnership units were anti-dilutive to diluted EPS for the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 and therefore, the units and related minority interest of exchangeable operating partnership units are excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS.



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

Operating Partnership Earnings per Unit

The following summarizes the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per unit for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and
2008, respectively (in thousands except per unit data):



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

14.

Operating Leases

The
Company’s properties are leased to tenants under operating leases with expiration dates extending to the year 2084. Future minimum rents under non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2010, excluding both tenant
reimbursements of operating expenses and additional percentage rent based on tenants’ sales volume, are as follows (in thousands):

The shopping centers’ tenant base includes primarily national and regional supermarkets, drug stores,
discount department stores and other retailers and, consequently, the credit risk is concentrated in the retail industry. There were no tenants that individually represented more than 5% of the Company’s annualized future minimum rents.

The Company has shopping centers that are subject to non-cancelable long-term ground leases where a third party owns and has
leased the underlying land to the Company to construct and/or operate a shopping center. Ground leases expire through the year 2085 and in most cases provide for renewal options. In addition, the Company has non-cancelable operating leases
pertaining to office space from which it conducts its business. Office leases expire through the year 2017 and in most cases provide for renewal options. Leasehold improvements are capitalized, recorded as tenant improvements, and depreciated over
the shorter of the useful life of the improvements or the lease term. Operating lease expense, including capitalized ground lease payments on properties in development, was $8.1 million, $7.9 million, and $8.1 million for the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. The following table summarizes the future obligations under non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2010, (in thousands):

15.

Commitments and Contingencies

The Company is involved in litigation on a number of matters and is subject to certain claims which arise in the normal course of
business, none of which, in the opinion of management, is expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, or liquidity. The Company is also subject to numerous environmental
laws and regulations as they apply to real estate



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

pertaining to chemicals used by the dry cleaning industry, the existence of asbestos in older shopping centers, and underground petroleum storage tanks. The Company believes that the tenants who
currently operate dry cleaning plants or gas stations do so in accordance with current laws and regulations. The Company has placed environmental insurance, when possible, on specific properties with known contamination, in order to mitigate its
environmental risk. The Company monitors the shopping centers containing environmental issues and in certain cases voluntarily remediates the sites. If an operating or development property requires remediation to be performed by the Company prior to
development or as a condition of sale, environmental remediation obligations are estimated and are considered in the assessment of the property’s value. In the event environmental remediation is required, the Company adjusts the sales price of
the property for the environmental remediation to be performed, funds the cash in escrow to remediate the environmental issues, or agrees to remain responsible for the future environmental remediation expenses in which case the Company would accrue
the estimated potential liability. The Company also has legal obligations to remediate certain sites and is in the process of doing so. The Company estimates the cost associated with remediating all of its environmental obligations at
December 31, 2010 and 2009 to be $2.9 million and $3.2 million, respectively, all of which has been accrued in accounts payable and other liabilities on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company believes that the ultimate
disposition of currently known environmental matters will not have a material effect on its financial position, liquidity, or operations; however, it can give no assurance that existing environmental studies with respect to the shopping centers have
revealed all potential environmental liabilities; that any previous owner, occupant or tenant did not create any material environmental condition not known to it; that the current environmental condition of the shopping centers will not be affected
by tenants and occupants, by the condition of nearby properties, or by unrelated third parties; or that changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations or their interpretation will not result in additional environmental liability to the
Company.

The Company has the right to issue letters of credit under the Line up to an amount not to exceed $50.0 million which
reduces the credit availability under the Line. The Company also has stand alone letters of credit with other banks. These letters of credit are primarily issued as collateral to facilitate the construction of development projects. As of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had $5.3 million and $9.5 million letters of credit outstanding, respectively.

16.

Reorganization and Restructuring Charges

During 2009 and 2008, the Company announced restructuring plans designed to align employee headcount with projected workload. During 2009, the Company severed 103 employees with no future service
requirement and recorded restructuring charges of $7.5 million for employee severance benefits. During 2008, the Company severed 50 employees and recorded restructuring charges of $2.4 million for employee severance benefits. There were no
restructuring charges in 2010. Restructuring charges are included in general and administrative expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. All severance payouts were completed by January 2010 and funded using cash from
operations. The component charges of the restructuring program for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 follows (in thousands):



Index to Financial Statements

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2010

As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the remaining accrued liabilities are as follows
(in thousands):

17.

Summary of Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

The following table sets forth selected Quarterly Financial Data for the Company on a historical basis for each of the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 and has been derived from the
accompanying consolidated financial statements as reclassified for discontinued operations (in thousands except per share and per unit data):



Index to Financial Statements

REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

Consolidated Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2010

(in thousands)



Index to Financial Statements

REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

Consolidated Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2010

(in thousands)



Index to Financial Statements

REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

Consolidated Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2010

(in thousands)



Index to Financial Statements

REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

Consolidated Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2010

(in thousands)



Index to Financial Statements

REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

Consolidated Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2010

(in thousands)



Index to Financial Statements

REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

Consolidated Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2010

(in thousands)



Index to Financial Statements

REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

Consolidated Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2010

(in thousands)

(1)

See Item 2. Properties for geographic location and year acquired.

(2)

The negative balance for costs capitalized subsequent to acquisition could include out-parcels sold, provision for loss recorded and development transfers subsequent to
the initial costs.

See accompanying report of independent registered public accounting firm.



Index to Financial Statements

REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

Consolidated Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2010

(in thousands)

Depreciation and amortization of the Company’s investment in buildings and improvements reflected in the statements of operations is
calculated over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:

Buildings and improvements up to 40 or more years

The aggregate cost for Federal income tax purposes was approximately $3.2 billion at December 31, 2010.

The changes in total real estate assets for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008:

The changes in accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008:



Index to Financial Statements

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures (Regency Centers Corporation)

Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Under the supervision and with the participation of the Parent Company’s management, including its chief executive officer and chief financial officer, the Parent Company conducted an evaluation of
its disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined under Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Based on this evaluation, the Parent Company’s chief
executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that its disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual report on Form 10-K to ensure information required to be disclosed in the reports
filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time period specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. These disclosure controls and procedures include controls and procedures designed to
ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Parent Company in the reports it files or submits is accumulated and communicated to management, including its chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow
timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The Parent Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of its management, including its chief executive officer and chief financial officer, the Parent Company
conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in

Internal Control—Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Based on its evaluation under the framework in

Internal Control—Integrated Framework

, the Parent Company’s management concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2010.

KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the consolidated financial statements included in
this annual report on Form 10-K and, as part of their audit, has issued a report, included herein, on the effectiveness of the Parent Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

The Parent Company’s system of internal control over financial reporting was designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore,
even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance and may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Changes
in Internal Controls

There have been no changes in the Parent Company’s internal controls over financial
reporting identified in connection with this evaluation that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2010 and that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, its internal controls over financial reporting.

Controls and Procedures (Regency Centers, L.P.)

Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Under the supervision and with the participation of the Operating Partnership’s management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of its general partner, the Operating
Partnership conducted an



Index to Financial Statements

evaluation of its disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined under Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange
Act). Based on this evaluation, the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of its general partner concluded that its disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual report on Form
10-K to ensure information required to be disclosed in the reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time period specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. These disclosure
controls and procedures include controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Operating Partnership in the reports it files or submits is accumulated and communicated to management, including the chief
executive officer and chief financial officer of its general partner, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The Operating Partnership’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of its management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of its general partner, the
Operating Partnership conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in

Internal Control—Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission. Based on its evaluation under the framework in

Internal Control—Integrated Framework

, the Operating Partnership’s management concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective as of
December 31, 2010.

KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the consolidated
financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K and, as part of their audit, has issued a report, included herein, on the effectiveness of the Operating Partnership’s internal control over financial reporting.

The Operating Partnership’s system of internal control over financial reporting was designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations.
Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance and may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls
may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Changes in Internal Controls

There have been no changes in the Operating Partnership’s internal controls over financial reporting identified in connection with this evaluation that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2010 and
that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, its internal controls over financial reporting.

Item 9B.

Other Information

Not
applicable



Index to Financial Statements

PART III

Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance

Information concerning the directors of Regency is incorporated herein by reference to Regency’s definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days
after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to its 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Information regarding executive officers is included in Part I of this Form 10-K as permitted by General Instruction G(3).

Audit Committee, Independence, Financial Experts.

Incorporated herein by reference to Regency’s definitive proxy
statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to its 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act

. Information concerning filings under Section 16(a) of the
Exchange Act by the directors or executive officers of Regency is incorporated herein by reference to Regency’s definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year
covered by this Form 10-K with respect to its 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Code of Ethics.

We have adopted a
code of ethics applicable to our Board of Directors, principal executive officers, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and persons performing similar functions. The text of this code of ethics may be found on our web site at
“www.regencycenters.com.” We intend to post notice of any waiver from, or amendment to, any provision of our code of ethics on our web site.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

Incorporated herein by reference to Regency’s definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to its 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Equity Compensation Plan Information

(1)

The weighted average exercise price excludes stock rights awards, which is sometimes referred to as unvested restricted stock.



Index to Financial Statements

(2)

Our Long Term Omnibus Plan, as amended and approved by stockholders at our 2003 annual meeting, provides for the issuance of up to 5.0 million shares of common
stock or stock options for stock compensation; however, outstanding unvested grants plus vested but unexercised options cannot exceed 12% of our outstanding common stock and common stock equivalents (excluding options and other stock equivalents
outstanding under the plan). The plan permits the grant of any type of share-based award but limits restricted stock awards, stock rights awards, performance shares, dividend equivalents settled in stock and other forms of stock grants to
2.75 million shares, of which 735,297 shares were available at December 31, 2010 for future issuance.

Information about security ownership is incorporated herein by reference to Regency’s definitive proxy statement to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to its 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

Incorporated herein by reference to Regency’s definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form
10-K with respect to its 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

Incorporated herein by reference to Regency’s definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form
10-K with respect to its 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.



Index to Financial Statements

PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a)

Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules:

Regency Centers Corporation and Regency Centers, L.P. 2010 financial statements and financial statement schedule, together with the reports of KPMG LLP are listed on
the index immediately preceding the financial statements in Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplemental Data.

(b)

Exhibits:

In reviewing the
agreements included as exhibits to this report, please remember they are included to provide you with information regarding their terms and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure information about the Company, its subsidiaries
or other parties to the agreements. The Agreements contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the
applicable agreement and:

•

should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to one of the parties if
those statements prove to be inaccurate;

•

have been qualified by disclosures that were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable agreement, which
disclosures are not necessarily reflected in the agreement;

•

may apply standards of materiality in a way that is different from what may be viewed as material to you or other investors; and

•

were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement and are subject to
more recent developments.

Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the
actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time. We acknowledge that, notwithstanding the inclusion of the foregoing cautionary statements, we are responsible for considering whether additional specific disclosures of
material information regarding material contractual provisions are required to make the statements in this report not misleading. Additional information about the Company may be found elsewhere in this report and the Company’s other public
files, which are available without charge through the SEC’s website at

http://www.sec.gov.

Unless
otherwise indicated below, the Commission file number to the exhibit is No. 001-12298.

3.

Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws

(a)

Restated Articles of Incorporation of Regency Centers Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Company’s Form 8-K filed February 19,
2008).

(b)

Amended and Restated Bylaws of Regency Centers Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2(b) of the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 7, 2008).

(c)

Fourth Amended and Restated Certificate of Limited Partnership of Regency Centers, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to Regency Centers, L.P.’s Form
10-K filed March 17, 2009).

(d)

Fourth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Regency Centers, L.P., as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(m) to the Company’s Form
10-K filed March 12, 2004).

(i)

Amendment to Fourth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Regency Centers, L.P. relating to 6.70% Series 5 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed August 1, 2005).



Index to Financial Statements

(ii)

Amended and Restated Amendment dated January 1, 2008 to Fourth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Regency Centers, L.P. relating to 7.45%
Series 3 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Regency Centers, L.P.’s Form 8-K filed January 7, 2008).

(iii)

Amended and Restated Amendment dated January 1, 2008 to Fourth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Regency Centers, L.P. relating to 7.25%
Series 4 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Regency Centers, L.P.’s Form 8-K filed January 7, 2008).

4.

Instruments Defining Rights of Security Holders

(a)

See Exhibits 3(a) and 3(b) for provisions of the Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws of the Company defining the rights of security holders. See Exhibit 3(d) for
provisions of the Partnership Agreement of Regency Centers, L.P. defining rights of security holders.

(b)

Indenture dated March 9, 1999 between Regency Centers, L.P., the guarantors named therein and First Union National Bank, as trustee (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.1 to the registration statement on Form S-3 of Regency Centers, L.P. filed February 24, 1999, No. 333-72899).

(c)

Indenture dated December 5, 2001 between Regency Centers, L.P., the guarantors named therein and First Union National Bank, as trustee (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.4 of Form 8-K of Regency Centers, L.P. filed December 10, 2001).

(i)

First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 5, 2007 among Regency Centers, L.P., the Company as guarantor and U.S. Bank National Association, as successor to
Wachovia Bank, National Association (formerly known as First Union National Bank), as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of Form 8-K of Regency Centers, L.P. filed June 5, 2007).

(d)

Indenture dated July 18, 2005 between Regency Centers, L.P., the guarantors named therein and Wachovia Bank, National Bank, as trustee (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.1 to the registration statement on Form S-4 of Regency Centers, L.P. filed August 5, 2005, No. 333-127274).

(e)

Confirmation of Forward Sale Transaction dated as of December 4, 2009 among Regency Centers Corporation and Wachovia Bank, National Association (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed December 7, 2009).

(f)

Confirmation of Forward Sale Transaction dated as of December 4, 2009 among Regency Centers Corporation and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed December 7, 2009) .

10.

Material Contracts

~(a)

Regency Centers Corporation Long Term Omnibus Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 8, 2008).

~(i)

Form of Stock Rights Award Agreement pursuant to the Company’s Long Term Omnibus Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company’s Form 10-K
filed March 10, 2006).

~(ii)

Form of 409A Amendment to Stock Rights Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b)(i) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 17, 2009).

~(iii)

Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the Company’s Long Term Omnibus Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company’s Form
10-K filed March 10, 2006).

~(iv)

Form of 409A Amendment to Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c)(i) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 17, 2009).

~(v)

Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan dated May 6, 2003 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(k) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 12,
2004).



Index to Financial Statements

~(vi)

Regency Centers Corporation 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(s) to the Company’s Form 8-K filed December 21, 2004).

~(vii)

First Amendment to Regency Centers Corporation 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan dated December 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(q)(i) to the Company’s
Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006).

~(b)

Form of Director/Officer Indemnification Agreement (filed as an Exhibit to Pre-effective Amendment No. 2 to the Company registration statement on Form S-11 filed
October 5, 1993 (33-67258), and incorporated by reference).

~(c)

2011 Amended and Restated Severance and Change of Control Agreement dated as of January 1, 2011 by and between the Company and Martin E. Stein, Jr. (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 3, 2011).

~(d)

2011 Amended and Restated Severance and Change of Control Agreement dated as of January 1, 2011 by and between the Company and Bruce M. Johnson (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 3, 2011).

~(e)

2011 Amended and Restated Severance and Change of Control Agreement dated as of January 1, 2011 by and between the Company and Brian M. Smith (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 3, 2011).

(f)

Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of February 9, 2007 by and among Regency Centers, L.P., the Company, each of the financial institutions
initially a signatory thereto, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.A to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed August 6, 2010).

(i)

First Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 8, 2008).

(g)

Credit Agreement dated as of March 5, 2008 by and among Regency Centers, L.P., the Company, each of the financial institutions party thereto and Wells Fargo Bank,
National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.B to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed August 6, 2010).

(h)

Second Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of Macquarie CountryWide-Regency II, LLC dated as of July 31, 2009 by and among Global Retail
Investors, LLC, Regency Centers, L.P. and Macquarie CountryWide (US) No. 2 LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed November 6, 2009).

(i)

Amendment No. 1 to Second Amended and Restate Limited Liability Company Agreement of GRI-Regency, LLC (formerly Macquarie CountryWide-Regency II, LLC).

(i)

Limited Partnership Agreement dated as of December 21, 2006 of RRP Operating, LP (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(u) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed
February 27, 2007.

21.

Subsidiaries of Regency Centers Corporation.

23.

Consents of KPMG LLP.

23.1

Consent of KPMG LLP for Regency Centers Corporation.

23.2

Consent of KPMG LLP for Regency Centers, L.P.

23.3

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for GRI-Regency, LLC.

31.

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications.

31.1

Rule 13a-14 Certification of Chief Executive Officer for Regency Centers Corporation.

~

Management contract or compensatory plan



Index to Financial Statements

31.2

Rule 13a-14 Certification of Chief Financial Officer for Regency Centers Corporation.

31.3

Rule 13a-14 Certification of Chief Executive Officer for Regency Centers, L.P.

31.4

Rule 13a-14 Certification of Chief Financial Officer for Regency Centers, L.P.

32.

Section 1350 Certifications.

The
certifications in this exhibit are being furnished solely to accompany this report pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1350, and are not being filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are not to be
incorporated by reference into any of the Company’s filings, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.

32.1

18 U.S.C. § 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer for Regency Centers Corporation.

32.2

18 U.S.C. § 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer for Regency Centers Corporation.

32.3

18 U.S.C. § 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer for Regency Centers, L.P.

32.4

18 U.S.C. § 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer for Regency Centers, L.P.

99.

Financial Statements under Rule 3-09 of Regulation S-X.

99.1

Financial Statements of GRI-Regency, LLC.

101.

Interactive Data Files

101.INS**+

XBRL Instance Document

101.SCH**+

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document

101.CAL**+

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document

101.DEF**+

XBRL Taxonomy Definition Linkbase Document

101.LAB**+

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document

101.PRE**+

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document

**

Pursuant to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, these interactive data files are deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of Sections 11
or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and otherwise are not subject to liability.

+

Submitted electronically with this Annual Report



Index to Financial Statements

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

135