
10-K405
ANNUAL REPORT




--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                         ------------------------------
                                   FORM 10-K
                         ------------------------------
 
                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                         ------------------------------
FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994            COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-3157
                         ------------------------------
 
                          INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY
 
              (Exact name of Company as specified in its charter)
 
               NEW YORK                                13-0872805
    (State or other jurisdiction of       (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
    incorporation or organization)
 
TWO MANHATTANVILLE ROAD, PURCHASE, N.Y.                   10577
    (Address of principal executive                    (Zip Code)
               offices)                                
 
         COMPANY'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: 914-397-1500
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
     Indicate by check mark whether the Company (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Company
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes /x/    No

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements

incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.   /x/

     The aggregate market value of the common stock of the Company outstanding
as of February 28, 1995, held by non-affiliates of the Company was
$9,628,865,930, calculated on the basis of the closing price on the Composite
Tape on February 28, 1995. For this computation, the Company has excluded the
market value of all common stock beneficially owned by all executive officers
and directors of the Company and their associates as a group and treasury stock.
Such exclusion is not to signify in any way that members of this group are
'affiliates' of the Company.
 
     The number of shares outstanding of the Company's common stock, as of
February 28, 1995:
 
OUTSTANDING   IN TREASURY
-----------   -----------
128,243,966    1,645,851
 
     The following documents are incorporated by reference into the parts of
this report indicated below:
 

 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
     International Paper Company,* a New York corporation incorporated in 1941
as the successor to the New York corporation of the same name organized in 1898,
is a worldwide producer of printing and writing papers, paperboard and packaging
and wood products; and distributes paper and office supply products in both the
United States and Europe. It also produces pulp, laminated products, and
specialty products, including photosensitive films and papers, nonwovens,
chemicals and minerals.
 
     In the United States, the Company operates 24 pulp and paper mills, 53
converting and packaging plants, 43 wood products facilities, 15 specialty
panels and laminated products plants, six nonwoven products facilities and two
envelope plants. Production facilities in Europe, Asia, Latin America and Canada
include 13 pulp and paper mills, 29 converting and packaging plants, two wood
products facilities, four specialty panels and laminated products plants and
five nonwoven products facilities.
 
     The Company distributes fine paper, printing and industrial products and
building materials, primarily manufactured by other companies, through over 280
distribution branches located primarily in the United States. In addition, the
Company produces photosensitive films and papers and photographic equipment
(three U.S. and six international locations) and specialty chemicals (seven U.S.
and two international locations), and engages in domestic oil and gas and real
estate activities.
 
     In January 1995, the Company acquired the assets of two Michigan-based
paper distributors, Carpenter Paper Company and Seaman-Patrick Holding Company.
 
     In March 1994, the Company, through a subsidiary, acquired from Brierley
Investments Limited an additional 8 percent interest in Carter Holt Harvey
Limited (Carter Holt), a major New Zealand forest and paper products company
with substantial assets in Chile. The purchase increased the Company's ownership
of Carter Holt to 24 percent. In July 1994, the Company, through a subsidiary,
acquired certain assets of Papelera Kif and Ogi Papel, distributors of printing
papers in Juarez and Chihuahua, Mexico. In December 1994, the Company completed
a merger with Kirk Paper Corporation, a paper distributor located in Downey,
California using the pooling-of-interests accounting method, and acquired
additional stock of Zanders Feinpapiere AG.
 
     In April 1993, the Company acquired certain assets of the Los Angeles-based
Ingram Paper Company, a distributor of industrial and fine printing papers. In
December, J.B. Papers, Inc., a paper distribution company located in Union,
N.J., was purchased. Also in December, the assets of Monsanto Company's
Kentucky-based Fome-Cor division, a manufacturer of polystyrene foam products,
were acquired.
 
     In the first quarter of 1992, the operating assets of Western Paper Company
(Western Pacific), a printing and industrial paper distribution business based

in Portland, Oregon, were purchased. In the second quarter, the Company acquired
an equity interest in Scitex Corporation Ltd., an Israel-based world leader in
digital visual information communication for the graphic design, printing,
publishing and video industries. In the third quarter, Zaklady
Celulozowa-Papierniecze S.A. w Kwidzynie (Kwidzyn) was acquired from the
Government of the Republic of Poland. Kwidzyn is Poland's largest white papers
manufacturer and the only integrated bleached pulp and paper company. In the
fourth quarter, certain assets of the chemical division of Norway-based M.
Peterson & Son AS were acquired.
 
     All of the 1994, 1993 and 1992 acquisitions, except the merger with Kirk
Paper Corporation, were accounted for using the purchase method. The effects of
these mergers and acquisitions, both individually and in the aggregate, were not
significant to the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
     A further discussion of mergers and acquisitions can be found on page 51 of
the Company's 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders (the 'Annual Report'), which
information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
------------------
* Unless otherwise indicated by the context, the terms 'Company' and
  'International Paper' are used interchangeably to describe International Paper
  Company and its consolidated subsidiaries.
 

     From 1990 through 1994, International Paper's capital expenditures
approximated $5.9 billion, excluding mergers and acquisitions. These
expenditures reflect continuing efforts to improve product quality and
environmental performance, lower costs, expand production capacity, and acquire
and improve forestlands. Capital spending in 1994 was $1.1 billion and is
expected to exceed $1.3 billion in 1995. A further discussion of capital
expenditures can be found on pages 12, 40 and 41 of the Annual Report, which
information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     The Company, which owns a majority interest in IP Timberlands, Ltd., a
Texas limited partnership ('IPT'), controlled approximately 6.1 million acres of
forestlands in the United States at December 31, 1994. IPT was formed to succeed
to substantially all of International Paper's forest products business for the
period 1985 through 2035, unless earlier terminated. 
 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING INDUSTRY SEGMENTS
 
     The financial information concerning industry segments is set forth on
pages 40 and 44 of the Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein
by reference.
 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INTERNATIONAL AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS
 
     The financial information concerning international and domestic operations
and export sales is set forth on page 43 of the Annual Report, which information
is incorporated herein by reference.

 
COMPETITION AND COSTS
 
     Despite the size of the Company's manufacturing capacities for paper,
paperboard, packaging and pulp products, the markets in all of the cited product
lines are large and highly fragmented. The markets for wood and specialty
products are similarly large and fragmented. There are numerous competitors, and
the major markets, both domestic and international, in which the Company sells
its principal products are very competitive. These products are in competition
with similar products produced by others, and in some instances, with products
produced by other industries from other materials.
 
     Many factors influence the Company's competitive position, including
prices, costs, product quality and services. Information on the impact of prices
and costs on operating profits is contained on pages 28 through 42 of the Annual
Report, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION
 
     Paper and packaging products are sold through the Company's own sales
organization directly to users or converters for manufacture. Sales offices are
located throughout the United States as well as internationally. Significant
volumes of products are also sold through paper merchants and distributors,
including facilities in the Company's distribution network.
 
     The Company's U.S. production of lumber and plywood is marketed through
independent and Company-owned distribution centers. Specialty products are
marketed through various channels of distribution.
 

DESCRIPTION OF PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS
 
     The Company's principal products are described on pages 4 through 39 of the
Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     Production of major products for 1994, 1993 and 1992 was as follows:
 
                             PRODUCTION BY PRODUCTS
                                  (UNAUDITED)
 

 
------------------
(1) This excludes market pulp purchases of approximately 700,000 tons annually.
 
(2) A significant portion of this tonnage was fabricated from paperboard and
    paper produced at the Company's own mills and included in the
    containerboard, bleached packaging board and industrial papers figures in
    this table.
 
(3) Panels include plywood and oriented strand board.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     The Company operates research and development centers at Sterling Forest,
New York; Mobile, Alabama; Erie, Pennsylvania; Kaukauna, Wisconsin; Binghamton,
New York; South Walpole, Massachusetts; St. Charles, Illinois; Orange Park,
Florida; Holyoke, Massachusetts; Odenton, Maryland; Mobberley, United Kingdom;
Morley, United Kingdom; Munich, Germany; Fribourg, Switzerland; Saint-Priest,
France; and Annecy, France; a regional center for applied forest research in
Bainbridge, Georgia; and several product laboratories. Research and development
activities are directed to short-term, long-term and technical assistance needs
of customers and operating divisions; process, equipment and product
innovations; and improvements of profits through tree generation and propagation
research. Activities include studies on improved forest species and management;
innovation and improvement of pulping, bleaching, chemical recovery, papermaking
and coating processes; innovation and improvement of photographic materials and
processes, printing plates, pressroom/plate chemistries and plate processors;
reduction of environmental discharges; re-use of raw materials in manufacturing
processes; recycling of consumer and packaging paper products; energy
conservation; applications of computer controls to manufacturing operations;
innovations and improvement of products; and development of various new
products. Product development efforts specifically address product safety as
well as the minimization of solid waste. The cost to the Company of its research
and development operations was $102.6 million in 1994, $94.7 million in 1993,
and $91.1 million in 1992.
 

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
 
     Control over discharges of pollutants into the air, water, soil and
groundwater to avoid significant adverse impacts on the environment and to
achieve 100% compliance with regulations is a continuing objective of the
Company. The Company has invested substantial funds to modify facilities to
assure compliance with applicable environmental quality laws and plans to make
substantial capital expenditures for these purposes in the future. A total of

$95 million was spent in 1994 to control air and water pollution and to assure
environmentally sound disposal of solid and hazardous waste. The Company expects
to spend approximately $160 million in 1995 for similar capital programs.
Amounts to be spent for environmental control facilities in future years will
depend on new laws and regulations and other changes in legal requirements,
changes in environmental concerns and changes in technology. Taking these
uncertainties into account, the Company's preliminary estimate for additional
environmental appropriations during the period 1996 through 1997 is in the range
of $400 to $600 million. In December 1993, the United States Environmental
Protection Agency ('EPA') proposed new guidelines for air emissions and water
discharges for the pulp and paper industry to meet in 1998 known as 'Cluster
Rulemaking'. It also proposed regulations implementing the Great Lakes
Initiative ('GLI') covering water quality and implementation procedures. Future
spending will be heavily influenced by the final standards included within each
of the regulations. Last year, the Company estimated future capital spending to
comply with the Cluster Rulemaking and GLI requirements to be between $700
million and $1.5 billion depending upon the methods allowed by the final
regulations to meet requirements. While there are ongoing discussions with the
EPA and Congress concerning these rules, there have been no announced changes to
the proposals and thus the estimates remain valid at this time. As a result of
these ongoing discussions, there is some basis to expect that the EPA will make
moderating adjustments to these rules and, if so, the range of estimated capital
spending would be adjusted downward. Last year, the Company estimated that
annual operating costs, excluding depreciation, would increase between $60
million and $120 million when these regulations are fully implemented in 1998 or
1999. This estimate will also be adjusted to the extent the EPA makes moderating
changes. The Company expects the significant effort it has made in the analysis
of environmental issues and the development of environmental control technology
to enable it to keep costs for compliance with environmental regulations at, or
below, industry averages. A further discussion of environmental issues can be
found on pages 22 through 26, 41 and 42 of the Annual Report, which information
is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     As of December 31, 1994, $848 million of industrial and pollution control
revenue bonds, secured by Company contractual obligations, were outstanding in
57 political subdivisions of various states, counties and municipalities,
primarily to finance environmental control projects located at or in conjunction
with the Company's plants in those subdivisions. It is contemplated that
additional industrial revenue bonds will be issued from time to time to finance
other environmental control projects, provided tax law changes do not curtail
the Company's access to the municipal bond market.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     As of December 31, 1994, the Company had approximately 70,000 employees, of
whom approximately 52,000 were located in the United States and the remainder
overseas. Of these, approximately 44,500 are hourly employees, approximately
16,000 of whom are represented by the United Paperworkers International Union.
 
     During 1994, new labor agreements were reached at the Camden, Natchez and
Pine Bluff mills. Currently, negotiations are still in progress at the Erie
mill. Two mills, Turners Falls and Ward, closed.
 
     During 1995, labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated at the

following mills: Georgetown and Hudson River. During 1996 labor agreements are
scheduled to be negotiated at the following mills: Gardiner, Pineville,
Texarkana, Thilmany, Ticonderoga and Woronoco.
 
     During 1994, labor agreements expired at 10 packaging plants, three
chemical plants, three wood products plants, four land and timber operations,
two specialty products plants and eight distribution operations. Multiyear labor
agreements were negotiated at each location except one land and timber operation
and two distribution operations where negotiations were still in progress at
year end. One packaging plant has a contract remaining open from a previous
year.
 

RAW MATERIALS
 
     For information as to the sources and availability of raw materials
essential to the Company's business, see Item 2 'Properties.'
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
 
FORESTLANDS
 
     The principal raw material used by International Paper is wood in various
forms. At December 31, 1994, IPT, a limited partnership in which the Company has
a majority ownership interest, controlled approximately 5.9 million acres of
forestlands in the U.S. while an additional 0.2 million acres are held under
short-term leases to International Paper.
 
     During 1994, such forestlands supplied 1.3 million cords of roundwood to
the Company's U.S. facilities. This amounted to the following percentages of the
roundwood requirements of its mills and forest products facilities: 13% in its
Northern mills, 12% in its Southern mills and none in its Western mill. The
balance was acquired from other private industrial and nonindustrial forestland
owners, as well as the United States government. In addition, 2.9 million cords
of IPT's wood were sold to other users in 1994.
 
     In November 1994, the Company adopted the Sustainable Forestry Principles
developed by the American Forest and Paper Association in August 1994.
 
MILLS AND PLANTS
 
     A listing of the Company's production facilities can be found in Appendix I
hereto, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     The Company's facilities are in good operating condition and are suited for
the purposes for which they are presently being used. The Company continues to
study the economics of modernizing or adopting other alternatives for higher
cost facilities. Further discussions of new mill and plant projects can be found
on pages 12, 40 and 41 of the Annual Report, which information is incorporated
herein by reference.
 

CAPITAL INVESTMENTS AND DISPOSITIONS
 
     Given the size, scope and complexity of its business interests,
International Paper continuously examines and evaluates a wide variety of
business opportunities and planning alternatives, including possible
acquisitions and sales or other dispositions of properties. Planned capital
investments for 1995, as of December 31, 1994, are set forth on pages 12, 40 and
41 of the Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
DIOXIN LITIGATION
 
On June 11, 1993, a lawsuit purporting to be a class action was filed by
individuals against the Company, Dow Chemical and other individual employees of
both companies in the 18th Judicial District of Louisiana seeking compensatory
and punitive damages of an unspecified amount, alleging that the Company
polluted Staulkinghead Creek and all waterways south thereof, by discharging
chemicals, including dioxin, from its Bastrop, Louisiana mill. The case was
removed to the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Louisiana. On June
22, 1994, the Court entered an order dismissing Dow and its employees from the
case. The plaintiff is appealing that ruling, as well as the Federal
jurisdictional issue. Oral argument in the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals is set
for April 3, 1995, with a ruling expected before the end of this year.
 
     Beginning in November of 1990, the Company has been named as a defendant in
88 lawsuits by individuals filed in state or federal court in Mississippi
alleging that it has polluted and damaged the Pascagoula, Leaf and Escatawpa
Rivers by releasing dioxin and over 40 other chemicals into those rivers.
Georgia-Pacific was initially
 

named in most of these suits but an order severing it from the Company in all
the then pending cases was entered on September 15, 1992. Following the
severance order, nine of the state cases were removed from state court to


Federal District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi. Of the nine
cases that were removed, four have been dismissed. The remaining five cases are
set for trial on April 17, 1995.
 
     On May 24, 1993, a wrongful death action was filed in Mississippi state
court against the Company claiming that decedent's death was related to exposure
to hazardous and toxic substances from the Moss Point mill. The lawsuit also
included the independent survivorship claims of the widow. The complaint raises
claims similar to those in the previously-filed lawsuits and also contains
specific allegations relating to the disposal of sludge by the mill. The
plaintiff seeks compensatory damages of $1 million and punitive damages of $20
million. The case has been removed to the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of Mississippi and is currently scheduled for trial in August 1995.
Through a series of pre-trial rulings by the Court and voluntary dismissals by
the plaintiff, the claims in this lawsuit have been reduced to a claim for
wrongful death based on fish consumption and claims for negligent and
intentional infliction of emotional distress.
 

     All of the 70 cases currently pending in the Mississippi state court have
been consolidated before one judge. A proposed scheduling order has been
presented requesting that the first trial of these cases be set in November
1995. The judge has not yet entered a scheduling order.
 
     On December 15, 1992, a lawsuit purporting to be a class action was filed
against the Company in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
Mississippi (Biloxi). The plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory and punitive
damages for the alleged violation by the Company of Federal environmental laws
relating to dioxin and other chemicals associated with the operations of the
Moss Point mill. On February 18, 1994, the judge denied the plaintiffs' motion
to certify the class. The plaintiffs obtained a voluntary dismissal of this case
over the objections of the Company shortly thereafter.
 
     In summary, taking into account various dismissals and new filings, there
are 70 cases pending in state court and six pending in Federal Court for a total
of 76 Mississippi cases as of February 28, 1995. In these cases, both state and
federal, there are a total of 5,090 plaintiffs seeking total compensatory
damages of approximately $1.0 billion, punitive damages of approximately $8.2
billion and injunctive relief. While any of this litigation has an element of
uncertainty, the Company believes that the outcome of any of these proceedings,
lawsuits or claims, pending or threatened, or all of them combined, will not
have a materially adverse effect on its consolidated financial position or
results of operations.
 
OTHER LITIGATION
 
     On October 14, 1993, the Town of Jay, Maine assessed a penalty of $394,000
against the Company's Androscoggin mill for violations of its air permit under
the Town's Environmental Control and Improvement Ordinance attributable to
excess emissions of particulate from one of the mill's lime kilns, as well as
violations of certain reporting requirements. The Town's penalty assessment was
appealed. On September 28, 1994, the Maine Superior Court vacated most of the
penalty the Town had assessed, leaving $22,000 in place but providing the Town
with the opportunity to reassess the penalty on four violations. The Town
appealed this decision to the Law Court, the State's highest court. The Company
has also appealed the findings adverse to it.
 
     The Maine Department of Environmental Protection proposed on October 15,
1992 that the Androscoggin mill enter into an Administrative Consent Agreement
and Enforcement Order and pay a civil penalty of $217,892 because the
particulate emissions from the same lime kiln which was the subject of the
foregoing proceeding with the Town of Jay, had exceeded the limits in the state
air license. Settlement discussions are no longer being conducted and the State
has filed a lawsuit against the Company. Further proceedings in this litigation
have been suspended until the aforementioned litigation by the Town of Jay has
been resolved by the Law Court. Although no specific amount is claimed in the
complaint, presumably the State will seek civil penalties in excess of the
amount it had originally proposed.
 
     On November 15, 1993, the Thilmany division of the Company agreed with the
EPA, Region 5, to pay a penalty of $150,000 for alleged violations of the Clean
Air Act in 1988 at the Thilmany mill located in Kaukauna, Wisconsin. The
settlement was approved by the Federal Court having jurisdiction of the civil

action on August 3, 1994, terminating this action.
 

     In 1990, the Missouri Attorney General's office notified the Company that
it was preparing an enforcement action alleging violations of the hazardous
waste management rules at the Company's treated wood plant in 


Joplin, Missouri. On July 18, 1994, the Company entered into a consent decree
with the Attorney General's office and the Department of Natural Resources,
which resolved the enforcement action. The settlement included a civil penalty
of $273,500.
 
     In 1989, Masonite Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company
('Masonite'), modified a production line to make a new product at a facility in
Ukiah, California. The facility obtained the necessary Authority to Construct
permits from the appropriate authority. In May 1992 the EPA, Region 9, issued an
order alleging that an additional Prevention of Significant Deterioration permit
was required for the new product line. On January 18, 1995, a consent decree
which resolved this matter was lodged with the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California. The consent decree includes a civil penalty of
$600,000.
 
     On September 29, 1994, Arizona Chemical Company ('Arizona'), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company, entered into a Consent Agreement and Consent Order
with the EPA which resolves an enforcement action alleging violations of rules
which govern the burning of hazardous waste fuel in a boiler at an Arizona
facility in Panama City, Florida. The settlement includes a civil penalty of
$200,000.
 
     On September 26, 1994, the EPA issued a Complaint and Compliance Order
alleging that an Arizona facility in Gulfport, Mississippi violated regulations
governing the burning of hazardous waste fuel in an industrial boiler. The
Complaint seeks a civil penalty of $712,350. The Company has filed its Answer to
the Complaint and Compliance Order.
 
     The Company was advised in 1993 by the State of New York of an impending
enforcement action concerning emissions from the power boiler at the Company's
Ticonderoga, New York, paper mill. In July 1994 the Company entered into an
Order on Consent with the State, which settles with the State all outstanding
emissions matters concerning the mill's power boiler. The Order requires the
Company to install new control equipment on the power boiler in accordance with
a schedule and assessed a penalty against the Company of $175,000, of which
$25,000 was suspended so long as the Company complies with the provisions of the
Order.
 
     As of March 30, 1995, there were no other pending judicial proceedings,
brought by governmental authorities against the Company, for alleged violations
of applicable environmental laws or regulations. The Company is engaged in
various administrative proceedings that arise under applicable environmental and
safety laws or regulations, including approximately 71 active proceedings under
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
('CERCLA') and comparable state laws. Most of these proceedings involve the
cleanup of hazardous substances at large commercial landfills that received
waste from many different sources. While joint and several liability is
authorized under the CERCLA, as a practical matter, liability for CERCLA

cleanups is allocated among the many potential responsible parties. Based upon
previous experience with respect to the cleanup of hazardous substances and upon
presently available information, the Company believes that it has no or de
minimus liability with respect to 27 of these sites; that liability is not
likely to be significant at 28 sites; and that estimates of liability at 16 of
these sites is likely to be significant but not material to the Company's
consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
     The Company is also involved in other contractual disputes, administrative
and legal proceedings and investigations of various types. While any litigation,
proceeding or investigation has an element of uncertainty, the Company believes
that the outcome of any proceeding, lawsuit or claim that is pending or
threatened, or all of them combined, will not have a materially adverse effect
on its consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.
 

SPECIAL ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY.
 
                          INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY
                               EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

                              AS OF MARCH 31, 1995

              INCLUDING NAME, AGE, OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD* AND
                 BUSINESS EXPERIENCE DURING THE PAST FIVE YEARS
 
     JOHN A. GEORGES, 64, chief executive officer and chairman of the board of
directors of the Company since 1985.
 
     JOHN T. DILLON, 56, executive vice president-packaging since 1987.
 
     JAMES P. MELICAN, 54, executive vice president-legal and external affairs
and general counsel. He was elected senior vice president and general counsel in
1987 and assumed the position of executive vice president-legal and external
affairs in 1991. In 1994 he assumed the general counsel position.
 
     C. WESLEY SMITH, 55, executive vice president-printing papers. He was
elected president-International Paper Europe in 1989 and assumed his present
position in 1992.
 
     MARK A. SUWYN, 52, executive vice president-distribution, forest and
specialty products. He was senior vice president-imaging systems, medical
products and corporate marketing with E.I. DuPont De Nemours & Company from 1990
to 1991. He joined the Company in his present position in 1992.
 
     ROBERT C. BUTLER, 64, senior vice president and chief financial officer
since 1988.
 

     ROBERT M. BYRNES, 57, senior vice president-human resources since 1989.
 
     ANDREW R. LESSIN, 52, controller since 1990.
------------------
* Officers of International Paper are elected to hold office until the next
  annual meeting of the board of directors following the annual meeting of
  shareholders and until election of successors, subject to removal by the
  board.
 


                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS.
 
     Dividend per share data on the Company's common stock and the high and low
sale prices for the Company's common stock for each of the four quarters in 1994
and 1993 are set forth on page 60 of the Annual Report and are incorporated
herein by reference.
 
     As of March 24, 1995, there were 29,226 holders of record of the Company's
common stock.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
 
     The comparative columnar table showing selected financial data for the
Company is set forth on pages 58 and 59 of the Annual Report and is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.
 
     Management's review and comments on the consolidated financial statements
are set forth on pages 28 through 42 of the Annual Report and are incorporated
herein by reference.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
 
     The Company's consolidated financial statements, the notes thereto and the
reports of the independent public accountants and Company management are set
forth on pages 45 through 57 of the Annual Report and are incorporated herein by
reference.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
     None.
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
 
     The directors of the Company and their business experience are set forth on
pages 7 through 10 of the Company's Notice of 1995 Annual Meeting and Proxy
Statement, dated March 31, 1995 (the 'Proxy Statement') and are incorporated
herein by reference. The discussion of executive officers of the Company is
included in Part I under 'Executive Officers of the Company.'
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
     A description of the compensation of the Company's executive officers is
set forth on pages 11, 12 and 14 through 17 of the Proxy Statement and is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

 
     The Company knows of no one owning beneficially more than five percent (5%)
of the Company's common stock other than the State Street Bank and Trust Co.,
N.A., as Trustee of the Company's Salaried Savings Plan and Retirement Savings
Plan, respectively, which in the aggregate own 8.30% of the Company's shares of
common stock as of December 31, 1994. State Street Bank and Trust Co., N.A.
holds 9.10% of the Company's common stock and disclaims beneficial ownership of
the 8.30% which it holds as Trustee for the Company's benefit plans. The table
showing ownership of the Company's common stock by directors and by directors
and executive officers as a group is set forth on pages 5 and 6 of the Proxy
Statement, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     In 1989, the Company announced that it had authorized the purchase, from
time to time, of additional shares of its common stock for use in the Company's
benefit and shareholder plans and for general corporate purposes. As of December
31, 1994, 4.9 million common shares may be repurchased under this program.
 

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
 
     None, other than those described under Item 11.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
EXHIBITS:



------------------
* Previously filed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended
  December 31, 1992.
 

REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     Current Reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company on October 17, 1994,
December 6, 1994, January 13, 1995, January 17, 1995 and March 6, 1995.
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
     The consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 1994 and 1993 and the
related consolidated statements of earnings, cash flows and common shareholders'
equity for each of the three years ended December 31, 1994 and the related Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements, together with the report thereon of Arthur
Andersen LLP, dated February 9, 1995, appearing on pages 45 through 57 of the
Annual Report, are incorporated herein by reference. With the exception of the
aforementioned information and the information incorporated by reference in
Items 1, 2 and 5 through 8, the Annual Report is not to be deemed filed as part
of this report. The following additional financial data should be read in
conjunction with the financial statements in the Annual Report. Schedules not
included with this additional financial data have been omitted because they are
not applicable, or the required information is shown in the financial statements
or notes thereto.
 

                           ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL DATA
                              1994, 1993 AND 1992
 

 

                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
                        ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 
TO INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY:
 
     We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the consolidated financial statements included in the Company's 1994 Annual
Report to Shareholders incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, and have
issued our report thereon dated February 9, 1995. Our audits were made for the
purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole. The schedule
listed in the accompanying index is the responsibility of the Company's
management and is presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and
Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of the basic financial statements.
The schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the
audits of the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in
all material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.

 
                                          ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
 
New York, N.Y.
February 9, 1995
 


                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 
           INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                 (IN MILLIONS)

 



 
------------------
(A) Primarily write-offs, less recoveries, of accounts determined to be
    uncollectible.
 


                                   SIGNATURES
 
     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                          INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY
 
                                          By:           JAMES W. GUEDRY         
                                             -----------------------------------
                                                 JAMES W. GUEDRY, SECRETARY
 
March 31, 1995
 
     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED:
 

 


 


                                                                      APPENDIX I
 
1994 LISTING OF FACILITIES
 
PRINTING PAPERS
PULP, COATED AND UNCOATED
  PAPERS AND BRISTOLS
  Domestic:
     Mobile, Alabama
     Selma, Alabama
       (Riverdale Mill)
     Camden, Arkansas
     Pine Bluff, Arkansas
     Bastrop, Louisiana
       (Louisiana Mill)
     Springhill, Louisiana
     Jay, Maine
       (Androscoggin Mill)
     Miller Falls, Massachusetts
     Westfield, Massachusetts
     West Springfield,
       Massachusetts
     Woronoco, Massachusetts
     Moss Point, Mississippi
     Natchez, Mississippi
     Corinth, New York
       (Hudson River Mill)
     Ticonderoga, New York
     Hamilton, Ohio
     Erie, Pennsylvania
     Lock Haven, Pennsylvania
     Georgetown, South Carolina
  International:
     Cali, Colombia
     Coloto, Colombia
     Strasbourg, France
       (La Robertsau Mill)
     Clermont-Ferrand, France
       (Corimex Mill)
     Saillat, France
     Grenoble, France
       (Lancey and
       Pont De Claix Mills)
     Maresquel, France
     Saint Die, France
       (Anould Mill)
     Bergisch Gladbach, Germany
       (Gorhrsmuhle Mill)
     Duren, Germany
       (Reflex Mill)
     Kwidzyn, Poland
 
PACKAGING

CONTAINERBOARD
  Domestic:
     Mansfield, Louisiana
     Pineville, Louisiana
     Vicksburg, Mississippi
     Oswego, New York
     Gardiner, Oregon
  International:
     Arles, France
 
CORRUGATED CONTAINER
  Domestic:
     Mobile, Alabama
     Russellville, Arkansas
     Carson, California
     Modesto, California
     San Jose, California
     Stockton, California
     Putnam, Connecticut
     Auburndale, Florida
     Chicago, Illinois
     Shreveport, Louisiana
     Springhill, Louisiana
     Detroit, Michigan
     Minneapolis, Minnesota
     Geneva, New York
     Tallman, New York
     Statesville, North Carolina
     Cincinnati, Ohio
     Wooster, Ohio
     Mount Carmel, Pennsylvania
     Georgetown, South Carolina
     Nashville, Tennessee
     Dallas, Texas
     Edinburg, Texas
     El Paso, Texas
     Delevan, Wisconsin
     Fond du Lac, Wisconsin
  International:
     Las Palmas, Canary Islands
     Arles, France
     Chalon-sur-Saone, France
     Chantilly, France
     Creil, France
     LePuy, France
     Mortagne, France
     Guadeloupe, French West
       Indies
     Bellusco, Italy
     Catania, Italy
     Pedemonte, Italy
     Pomezia, Italy
     San Felice, Italy

     Barcelona, Spain
     Bilbao, Spain
     Valladolid, Spain
     Winsford, United Kingdom
 
BLEACHED BOARD
     Pine Bluff, Arkansas
     Moss Point, Mississippi
     Georgetown, South
       Carolina
     Texarkana, Texas
 
LIQUID PACKAGING
  Domestic:
     Turlock, California
     Plant City, Florida
     Atlanta, Georgia
     Cedar Rapids, Iowa
     Kansas City, Kansas
     Framingham, Massachusetts
     Kalamazoo, Michigan
     Raleigh, North Carolina
     Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
  International:
     Edmonton, Alberta, Canada
     London, Ontario, Canada
     Longueil, Quebec, Canada
     Santiago, Dominican Republic
     Tel Aviv, Israel
     Perugia, Italy
     Kingston, Jamaica
     Tokyo, Japan
     Seoul, Korea
     Taipei, Taiwan
     Caracas, Venezuela
 
FOLDING CARTON
     Clinton, lowa
     Hopkinsville, Kentucky
     Cincinnati, Ohio
     Richmond, Virginia
 
LABEL
     Commerce, California
     Peoria, Illinois
     Bowling Green, Kentucky
 
KRAFT PAPER
     Mobile, Alabama
     Camden, Arkansas
 
                                      A-1

GROCERY BAGS & SACKS

     Mobile, Alabama
     Jackson, Tennessee
 
MULTIWALL BAGS
     Camden, Arkansas
     Pittsburg, Kansas
     Wilmington, Ohio
ENVELOPES
     Glendale, California
     San Francisco, California
 
DISTRIBUTION
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DISTRIBUTION
(283 distribution branches)
 ResourceNet International
  Domestic:
     Arvey Paper and Office Products
       Chicago, Illinois
       23 locations nationwide
     Dillard Paper
       Greensboro, North Carolina
       84 branches in the Middle
       Atlantic States and
       Southeast
     Dixon Paper Company
       Denver, Colorado
       23 branches in the West and
       Midwest
     Industrial Materials
       Distributors
       Erlanger, Kentucky
       13 branches in New England,
       and Middle Atlantic States,
       Midwest, South and West
     Ingram Paper
       City of Industry, California
       7 locations in the
       Southwest and Hawaii
     Kirk Paper Company
       Downey, California
       26 locations in the
       West, Southwest,
       and Northwest
     Leslie Paper
       Minneapolis, Minnesota
       15 locations in the
       Midwest
     Northeast Region
       Erlanger, Kentucky
       39 branches in New England,
       Middle Atlantic States,
       Midwest and
       District of Columbia
     Western Pacific

       Portland, Oregon
       3 locations in the Northwest
     Western Paper Company
       Overland Park, Kansas
       43 branches in the West,
       Midwest and South
 
  International:
     Plastic & Paper Sales, Ltd.
       Toronto, Ontario, Canada
     Chihuahua, Chihuahua, Mexico
       3 locations
  Other International:
     Aussedat Rey France
       Distribution S.A., Pantin,
          France
     Scaldia Papier BV,
       Nijmegen, Netherlands
     Aalbers Paper Products
       Veenendaal, Netherlands
FOREST PRODUCTS
FORESTLANDS
  Approximately 6.1 million
     acres in the South, Northeast
     and Northwest
 
WOOD PRODUCTS
  Domestic:
     Maplesville, Alabama
     Tuscaloosa, Alabama
     Gurdon, Arkansas
     Leola, Arkansas
     Whelen Springs, Arkansas
     DeRidder, Louisiana
     Springhill, Louisiana
     Morton, Mississippi
     Wiggins, Mississippi
     Joplin, Missouri
     Pleasant Hill, Missouri
     Madison, New Hampshire
     Sampit, South Carolina
     Henderson, Texas
     Mineola, Texas
     Nacogdoches, Texas
     New Boston, Texas
     Building Products
       Ukiah, California
       Lisbon Falls, Maine
       Laurel, Mississippi
       Towanda, Pennsylvania
     Fiberboard
       Spring Hope, North Carolina
       Pilot Rock, Oregon

       Marion, South Carolina
     Particleboard
       Danville, Virginia
       Stuart, Virginia
       Waverly, Virginia
     Slaughter
       Dallas, Texas
       2 branches in the Southwest
       and Northwest
     McEwen Lumber Company
       High Point, North Carolina
       14 branches in the Southeast
  International:
     INTAMASA
       Cella, Spain
     Masonite Africa Limited
       Estcourt Plant
REALTY PROJECTS
  Haig Point Plantation
     Daufuskie Island, South Carolina
 
SPECIALTY PRODUCTS
NONWOVEN PRODUCTS
  Domestic:
     Athens, Georgia
     Griswoldville, Massachusetts
     Walpole, Massachusetts
     Lewisburg, Pennsylvania
     Bethune, South Carolina
     Green Bay, Wisconsin
  International:
     Liege, Belgium
     Toronto, Ontario, Canada
     Yokohama, Japan
     San Jose Ituebide, Mexico
IMAGING PRODUCTS
  Domestic:
     Jacksonville, Florida
     Holyoke, Massachusetts
     Binghamton, New York
  International:
     Melbourne, Australia
     Saint-Priest, France
     Munich, Germany
     Mobberley, Great Britain
     Morley, Great Britain
     Fribourg, Switzerland
 
                                      A-2

CHEMICAL PRODUCTS
  Domestic:
     Panama City, Florida

     Pensacola, Florida
     Port St. Joe, Florida
     Oakdale, Louisiana
     Springhill, Louisiana
     Gulfport, Mississippi
     Picayune, Mississippi
  International:
     Sandarne, Sweden
     Greaker, Norway
MINERALS
  Alvin, Texas
  Houston, Texas
  Midland, Texas
SPECIALTY PANELS AND LAMINATED
PRODUCTS
  Domestic:
     Chino, California
     Ukiah, California
     Cordele, Georgia
     Glasgow, Kentucky
     Louisville, Kentucky
     Monticello, Kentucky (2 plants)
     Odenton, Maryland
     Laurel, Mississippi
     Statesville, North Carolina
     Tarboro, North Carolina
     Towanda, Pennsylvania
     Portland, Tennessee
     Waverly, Virginia
     Oshkosh, Wisconsin
  International:
     Pori, Finland
     Bergerac, France (Couze Mill)
     Ussel, France
     Barcelona, Spain (Durion Mill)
 
INDUSTRIAL AND PACKAGING PAPERS
  Thilmany Pulp & Paper Company
     Knoxville, Tennessee
     Kaukauna, Wisconsin
  Nicolet Paper Company
     De Pere, Wisconsin
  Jay, Maine
     (Androscoggin Mill)
  Akrosil
       Domestic:
          Menasha, Wisconsin
          Lancaster, Ohio
       International:
          Limburg, Netherlands
 
                                      A-3



                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

------------------
* Previously filed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended
  December 31, 1992.


