
10-K
10-K


                 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                        WASHINGTON D.C. 20549
                              FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[ X ]     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 
          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996

          OR

[   ]     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 
          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Commission file number 0-12477

                             AMGEN INC.
       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
        Delaware                                       95-3540776
 (State or other jurisdiction of                  (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)                   Identification No.)

1840 DeHavilland Drive, Thousand Oaks, California          91320-1789
(Address of principal executive offices)                   (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including  area code:    805-447-1000

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
   Common stock, $.0001 par value, Common shares purchase rights,
                Contractual contingent payment rights
                          (Title of class)

Indicate by  check mark  whether the  registrant  (1) has  filed  all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of  1934 during the  preceding 12 months   (or for  such
shorter  period  that  the  registrant  was  required  to  file  such
reports), and (2) has  been subject to  such filing requirements  for
the past 90 days.        Yes  X  No   
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is  not contained herein, and will not  be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy
or information statements  incorporated by reference  in Part III  of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

The approximate aggregate market value of  voting stock held by  non-
affiliates of the registrant was  $15,957,482,000 as of February  28,
1997 (A)
                             265,393,070
  (Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of February 28, 1997)

Documents incorporated by reference:
                Document                             Form 10-K Parts
Definitive 1997 Proxy Statement, to be filed within 120 days of
  December 31, 1996 (specified portions)                      III

(A) Excludes  4,329,964 shares of common stock held by directors  and
officers, and any stockholders  whose ownership exceeds five  percent
of the shares outstanding, at February 28, 1997.  Exclusion of shares
held by any  person should  not be  construed to  indicate that  such
person possesses  the power,  directly or  indirectly, to  direct  or
cause the direction of the management or policies of the  registrant,
or that such person is controlled by or under common control with the
registrant.

                               PART I


Item 1.   BUSINESS

Overview

     Amgen Inc. ("Amgen" or the "Company") is a global  biotechnology
company that  discovers,  develops, manufactures  and  markets  human
therapeutics based on advances in cellular and molecular biology.

     The Company  manufactures  and  markets  two  human  therapeutic
products, NEUPOGEN(R)  (Filgrastim)  and  EPOGEN(R)  (Epoetin  alfa).
NEUPOGEN(R) selectively stimulates the production of neutrophils, one
type of white  blood cell.   The Company markets  NEUPOGEN(R) in  the
United States, countries  of the  European Union  ("EU"), Canada  and
Australia for  use  in  decreasing  the  incidence  of  infection  in
patients undergoing  myelosuppressive  chemotherapy.    In  addition,
NEUPOGEN(R) is  marketed  in  most of  these  countries  for  use  in
reducing  the  duration  of   neutropenia  for  patients   undergoing
myeloablative therapy followed  by bone  marrow transplantation,  for
treating patients  with severe  chronic  neutropenia and  to  support
peripheral   blood   progenitor   cell   ("PBPC")   transplantations.
EPOGEN(R) stimulates  the  production  of  red  blood  cells  and  is
marketed by Amgen in  the United States for  the treatment of  anemia
associated with chronic renal failure in patients on dialysis.

     The Company  focuses  its  research  on  biological  cell/tissue
events and its development efforts on human therapeutics in the areas
of hematopoiesis, neurobiology, endocrinology, inflammation and  soft
tissue repair and regeneration.  The Company has research  facilities
in the United States and Canada and has clinical development staff in
the United States, the  EU, Canada, Australia,  Japan and Hong  Kong.
To augment internal research and development efforts, the Company has
established external research collaborations and has acquired certain
product and technology rights.

     Amgen operates  commercial manufacturing  facilities located  in
the United States and  Puerto Rico.  A  sales and marketing force  is
maintained in the United  States, the EU, Canada  and Australia.   In
addition,  Amgen  has   entered  into   licensing  and   co-promotion
agreements to market NEUPOGEN(R) and EPOGEN(R) in certain  geographic
areas.

     The Company  was  incorporated in  California  in 1980  and  was
merged into  a  Delaware  corporation in  1987.    Amgen's  principal
executive offices  are located  at 1840  DeHavilland Drive,  Thousand
Oaks, California 91320-1789.

Products

  Recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor

     NEUPOGEN(R) (proper name - Filgrastim) is Amgen's trademark  for
its recombinant human methionyl granulocyte colony-stimulating factor
("G-CSF"),  a  protein  that  selectively  stimulates  production  of
certain white blood cells known as neutrophils.  Neutrophils are  the
body's first  defense  against  infection.   Treatments  for  various
diseases and diseases themselves can result in extremely low  numbers


of neutrophils,  a condition  called neutropenia.    Myelosuppressive
chemotherapy, one  treatment  option  for  individuals  with  cancer,
targets  cell  types  which  grow  rapidly,  such  as  tumor   cells,
neutrophils and other types of blood cells.  Providing NEUPOGEN(R) as
an adjunct to myelosuppressive  chemotherapy can reduce the  duration
of neutropenia and thereby reduce the potential for infection.

     Congenital  neutropenia   is  an   example  of   disease-related
neutropenia.    In   congenital  neutropenia,  the   body  fails   to
manufacture  sufficient  neutrophils.    Chronic  administration   of
NEUPOGEN(R) has been shown  to reduce the  incidence and duration  of
neutropenia-related consequences  such  as fever  and  infections  in
patients with congenital neutropenia.

     Patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation are treated with
NEUPOGEN(R)  to   accelerate   recovery  of   neutrophils   following
chemotherapy and bone  marrow infusion.   NEUPOGEN(R)  also has  been
shown to induce  immature blood cells  (progenitor cells) to  migrate
(mobilize) from the  bone marrow into  the blood circulatory  system.
When these progenitor cells are collected from the blood, stored  and
re-infused after chemotherapy (transplanted), recovery of  platelets,
red blood cells and neutrophils is accelerated.  PBPC transplantation
is becoming an alternative to autologous bone marrow  transplantation
for some patients.

     The Company began  selling NEUPOGEN(R) in  the United States  in
February 1991 (see "Joint Ventures and Business Relationships - Kirin
Brewery Company, Limited").   NEUPOGEN(R) was initially indicated  to
decrease  the  incidence  of  infection  as  manifested  by   febrile
neutropenia for  patients  with non-myeloid  malignancies  undergoing
myelosuppressive chemotherapy.  Subsequently, the U.S. Food and  Drug
Administration  ("FDA")  cleared  NEUPOGEN(R)  for  three  additional
indications: (1) to reduce the  duration of neutropenia for  patients
with  non-myeloid  malignancies   undergoing  myeloablative   therapy
followed by bone marrow transplantation, (2) to reduce the  incidence
and  duration  of  neutropenia-related  consequences  in  symptomatic
patients  with   congenital   neutropenia,  cyclic   neutropenia   or
idiopathic neutropenia, and (3) for use  in mobilization of PBPC  for
stem cell transplantation.

     In the EU, Canada and Australia,  NEUPOGEN(R) is marketed as  an
adjunct to chemotherapy and as a  treatment for patients with  severe
chronic  neutropenia.    NEUPOGEN(R)   is  also  marketed  in   these
geographic areas for use in reducing the duration of neutropenia  for
patients undergoing  myeloablative therapy  followed by  bone  marrow
transplantation and to support PBPC  transplantations.  Amgen and  F.
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. ("Roche") jointly market NEUPOGEN(R) in the EU
under a co-promotion agreement (see "Marketing").

     In March 1996, NEUPOGEN(R)  was approved for  use in the  United
Kingdom (the "UK") as  a supportive therapy  to treat neutropenia  in
people with advanced HIV infection.  The initial submission to the UK
was made as part of the EU mutual recognition procedure that  enables
companies to  seek approvals  in  other EU  countries.   Due  to  the
completion of a randomized trial in 1996 that served as the basis for
the FDA submission,  the Company intends  to supplement the  original


filing in Europe by submitting these additional data, again using the
mutual recognition procedure.  To  facilitate this procedure, it  was
necessary for the Company to request in February 1997 the  withdrawal
of the original approval in the UK.

     In Japan,  Taiwan  and  Korea, Kirin  Brewery  Company,  Limited
("Kirin"),  was  granted  rights  to  market  G-CSF  under  licensing
agreements with Kirin-Amgen, Inc. ("Kirin-Amgen").  Kirin-Amgen is  a
joint venture between the Company and Kirin (see "Joint Ventures  and
Business Relationships  - Kirin  Brewery Company,  Limited").   Kirin
markets its  G-CSF product  in these  countries under  the  trademark
GRAN(R).

     The Company is pursuing additional indications with NEUPOGEN(R).
Clinical trials were completed examining NEUPOGEN(R) as an adjunct to
chemotherapy in  patients with  acute myelogenous  leukemia  ("AML").
License applications  for marketing  clearance of  this  supplemental
indication  were  submitted  to  the  U.S.,  European,  Canadian  and
Australian regulatory authorities in 1996.  In addition, a trial  for
the treatment of neutropenia in HIV-infected patients was  completed,
and  a  supplemental  licensing  application  for  approval  of  this
indication was submitted to the FDA  in 1996. Later stage trials  are
examining NEUPOGEN(R) as an adjunct to dose-intensified  chemotherapy
in patients with various tumor types.  The Company is also continuing
to investigate  NEUPOGEN(R)'s  potential  benefits  for  patients  in
severe infectious disease settings.

     In December 1996, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office issued to
the Company a  patent covering  product rights  to recombinant  human
methionyl G-CSF  or  NEUPOGEN(R).   The  patent  provides  protection
against unauthorized making, importation, use or sale of  recombinant
G-CSF in the United  States until 2013.   Also in December 1996,  the
U.S. Patent  and Trademark  Office issued  to  the Company  a  patent
covering methods  of using  recombinant G-CSF.   This  patent may  be
enforced in the United States until 2013.  Previously issued  patents
cover aspects of DNA, vectors and processes related to recombinant G-
CSF.

     For the years ended December 31,  1996, 1995 and 1994, sales  of
NEUPOGEN(R)  accounted   for   approximately  45%,   48%   and   50%,
respectively, of total revenues.

  Recombinant human erythropoietin

     EPOGEN(R) (proper name - Epoetin alfa) is Amgen's trademark  for
its  recombinant  human  erythropoietin   product,  a  protein   that
stimulates red  blood cell  production.   Red blood  cells  transport
oxygen to  all  cells of  the  body.   Without  adequate  amounts  of
erythropoietin,  the  red  blood   cell  count  is  reduced   thereby
diminishing the ability of the blood to deliver sufficient amounts of
oxygen to the body, resulting in  anemia.  People with chronic  renal
failure suffer from  anemia because  they do  not produce  sufficient
amounts of erythropoietin.  EPOGEN(R)  is effective in the  treatment
of anemia  associated  with chronic  renal  failure for  patients  on
dialysis and is indicated to elevate  or maintain the red blood  cell
level (as manifested by hematocrit or hemoglobin determinations)  and
to decrease the need for blood transfusions in these patients.


     In the  United  States,  Amgen  was  granted  rights  to  market
recombinant human  erythropoietin under  a licensing  agreement  with
Kirin-Amgen (see "Joint Ventures  and Business Relationships -  Kirin
Brewery Company, Limited").  The  Company began selling EPOGEN(R)  in
1989 when the  FDA gave  clearance for its  use in  the treatment  of
anemia associated with  chronic renal  failure.   The FDA  designated
EPOGEN(R) as an orphan  drug, and such  designation expired in  1996.
In 1994, the  FDA cleared a  supplement to the  Epoetin alfa  product
license which  included  an  expanded  target  hematocrit  range  for
patients with  chronic  renal failure.    The target  hematocrit,  or
percentage of red blood cells,  was expanded to a  range of 30 to  36
percent from the previously indicated range of 30 to 33 percent.

     The Company filed an additional license supplement with the  FDA
for the use of EPOGEN(R) in pediatric dialysis patients in 1996. Also
during 1996, the Company discontinued the EPOGEN(R) Normal Hematocrit
study.  In this study, patients  with symptomatic heart disease  were
randomized to a control group targeted at a hematocrit of 30  percent
or an intervention group targeted toward  a hematocrit of 42  percent
(the average  hematocrit  level  of people  not  undergoing  dialysis
treatment). In the 631 patient control group, 185 died compared  with
221 of  634 in  the intervention  group.   Subsequently, the  Company
revised  the  EPOGEN(R)  package   insert  to  incorporate   language
pertaining to the related mortality  risks in dialysis patients  with
heart disease  being treated  with EPOGEN(R).   The  revised  package
insert states that hemodialysis patients with heart disease receiving
EPOGEN(R) should have  their hematocrit maintained  carefully not  to
exceed 36 percent.

     The Company has retained exclusive rights to market EPOGEN(R) in
the United States  for dialysis patients.   Amgen  has granted  Ortho
Pharmaceutical  Corporation,  a  subsidiary  of  Johnson  &  Johnson,
hereafter referred to  as "Johnson &  Johnson", a  license to  pursue
commercialization of  recombinant  human erythropoietin  as  a  human
therapeutic in the United States in  all markets other than  dialysis
and diagnostics.  See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
- - "Product sales" and Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
- - "Johnson & Johnson arbitrations".

     In Japan, Kirin was granted  rights to market recombinant  human
erythropoietin under  a  licensing agreement  with  Kirin-Amgen  (see
"Joint Ventures and Business  Relationships - Kirin Brewery  Company,
Limited").    Kirin  markets  its  recombinant  human  erythropoietin
product under the trademark ESPO(R).

     In countries other than the  United States (except as  described
above), the People's Republic of China  and Japan, Johnson &  Johnson
was granted rights to pursue the commercialization of  erythropoietin
as a human therapeutic under a licensing agreement with  Kirin-Amgen.
Affiliates of Johnson &  Johnson market erythropoietin for  treatment
of anemia associated with chronic  renal failure under the  trademark
EPREX(R) in several countries.


     In August 1996, the U.S. Patent  and Trademark Office issued  to
the Company a  patent covering  product rights  to erythropoietin  or
EPOGEN(R).     This   patent  provides   broad   protection   against
unauthorized making, importation,  use or sale  of erythropoietin  in
the United  States  until  2013.   Previously  issued  patents  cover
aspects of  DNA and  host cells  and  the manufacturing  process  for
erythropoietin.

     For the years ended December 31,  1996, 1995 and 1994, sales  of
EPOGEN(R) accounted for approximately 48%, 46% and 44%, respectively,
of total revenues.

Product Candidates

  Consensus interferon

     Interferons are  a class  of naturally  occurring proteins  with
anti-viral and  anti-tumor activity  that  also modulate  the  immune
system.  INFERGEN(R)  (proper name -  Interferon alfacon-1),  Amgen's
consensus interferon,  is  a  non-naturally  occurring  protein  that
combines structural features of many interferon sub-types.  A Phase 3
clinical trial for treatment of chronic hepatitis C with INFERGEN(R),
completed in  1995,  indicated  that  INFERGEN(R)  may  be  safe  and
effective in treating this disease.  Hepatitis C viral infection is a
potentially  deadly  disease  that,  if  not  treated,  may  lead  to
cirrhosis  and  hepatocellular  carcinoma.     Amgen  filed   license
applications  in  1996   with  the  U.S.   and  Canadian   regulatory
authorities  requesting  clearance  for  marketing  INFERGEN(R)   for
treatment of  hepatitis  C virus.    The Company  expects  to  launch
INFERGEN(R) following  regulatory  approval.   Also  in  1996,  Amgen
licensed to Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Co.,  Ltd. of Tokyo the  rights
to  develop,   manufacture   and  commercialize   Amgen's   consensus
interferon for all indications around the world except in the  United
States and Canada.  (See "Joint Ventures and Business Relationships -
Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.").  Amgen has the right to market
INFERGEN(R) in these two countries.

  Hematopoietic growth factors

     Hematopoietic  growth  factors  are  proteins  which   influence
growth, migration, and  maturation of certain  types of blood  cells.
Stem cell  factor  ("SCF")  or  STEMGEN(TM),  one  of  the  Company's
hematopoietic  growth  factors,  has  been  shown  to  influence  the
production, mobilization, and maturation of progenitor cells.   Human
clinical trials have been completed which investigated the utility of
SCF in  combination with  NEUPOGEN(R)  for improved  mobilization  of
progenitor cells  prior  to  PBPC transplantation  in  patients  with
breast cancer.  License applications  for marketing clearance of  SCF
in this  indication  are  expected  to  be  submitted  to  the  U.S.,
European, Canadian and Australian regulatory authorities in 1997.

     The  Company's  novel  platelet  growth  factor,  MGDF,  another
hematopoietic growth factor, has been shown in preclinical and  early
clinical research  to  be  a promising  agent  for  ameliorating  the
thrombocytopenia caused  by  intensive chemotherapy  or  irradiation.
Thrombocytopenia, or severely depressed platelet numbers, can  result


in severe internal bleeding.  The Company expanded its  investigation
of MGDF in 1996 to include several cancer-support treatments and into
a setting where normal platelet  donors receive MGDF before  platelet
donation.   The initial  clinical trial  in AML  demonstrated  modest
benefit, and the  Company is engaged  in ongoing trials  in this  and
other indications.  The Company  is collaborating in the  development
of MGDF with Kirin (see "Joint Ventures and Business Relationships  -
Kirin Brewery  Company,  Limited"),  and human  clinical  testing  is
ongoing.  In  1995, Amgen, Kirin,  and Kirin-Amgen signed  agreements
with Novo  Nordisk A/S  and certain  of its  subsidiaries  (including
ZymoGenetics, Inc.) for rights  to thrombopoietin, a protein  hormone
that stimulates  the  production of  platelets  in the  blood.    The
acquisition of these rights complements the development of MGDF.

     Another hematopoietic growth factor  in development at Amgen  is
novel erythropoiesis stimulating  protein ("NESP").   Human  clinical
trials for NESP in the treatment  of anemia in patients with  chronic
renal failure began in January 1997.  The Company has entered into an
agreement with Kirin to jointly develop  and market NESP through  its
joint  venture,  Kirin-Amgen  (see   "Joint  Ventures  and   Business
Relationships - Kirin Brewery Company, Limited").

  Neurobiology

     The Company has extensive discovery programs in neurological and
neuroendocrine disorders.   Neurotrophic factors  are proteins  which
play a role in nerve cell  protection and regeneration and which  may
therefore be useful in treating a variety of neurological  disorders,
including neurodegenerative diseases  of the  central and  peripheral
nervous systems, and also  nerve injury or trauma.   Glial cell  line
derived neurotrophic  factor  ("GDNF")  is in  clinical  studies  for
possible use in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and  amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis ("ALS" or Lou Gehrig's disease). GDNF was added  to
the Company's neurobiology research  program through the  acquisition
of Synergen,  Inc.  ("Synergen")  (see Note  1  to  the  Consolidated
Financial Statements - "Research and development costs").

     Human   clinical   testing   of   two   neurotrophic    factors,
neurotrophin-3  ("NT-3")   and  brain-derived   neurotrophic   factor
("BDNF"),  is  currently  being   conducted  in  collaboration   with
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals,  Inc. ("Regeneron")  (see "Joint  Ventures
and Business Relationships - Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.").  NT-3
is  being  investigated  as   a  potential  treatment  for   diabetic
neuropathy. The  Phase 3  clinical trial  of BDNF  with  subcutaneous
delivery for  the  treatment  of ALS  did  not  demonstrate  clinical
efficacy in the  endpoints measured  in patients  with this  disease.
The trial showed no statistically significant or clinically  relevant
difference in breathing  capacity or survival  between treatment  and
placebo groups.  No further development of subcutaneous delivery  for
ALS  is  planned.    Small,  early  stage  clinical  trials  of  BDNF
investigating intrathecal  administration  for ALS  and  subcutaneous
delivery for diabetic neuropathy are in progress.


  Endocrinology

     Leptin is the protein produced by the obesity gene which is made
in fat  cells and  is believed  to help  regulate the  amount of  fat
stored by  the body.   This  protein  has been  shown in  some  early
preclinical animal models to produce a  reduction in body weight  and
body fat.  In 1995, The Rockefeller University granted to the Company
an exclusive license  which allows  the Company  to develop  products
based  on  the  obesity  gene  (see  "Joint  Ventures  and   Business
Relationships -  Other business  relationships").   A human  clinical
trial of  leptin  was begun  in  1996.   Amgen  also plans  to  begin
clinical trials  to study  leptin in  non-insulin dependent  type  II
diabetes within the next 12 months.  The Company also entered into  a
licensing agreement in 1996  with Progenitor, Inc., a  majority-owned
subsidiary  of   Interneuron  Pharmaceuticals,   Inc.,  for   certain
exclusive  rights  for  the  development  and  commercialization   of
products using Progenitor Inc.'s leptin receptor technology.

     Primary hyperparathyroidism ("HPT")  is a  disorder that  causes
excessive secretion  of  parathyroid  hormone  from  the  parathyroid
gland, leading  to  elevated  serum  calcium,  called  hypercalcemia.
Symptoms may  include bone  loss, gastrointestinal  distress,  muscle
weakness, depression  and  forgetfulness.   This  disorder  currently
lacks effective  treatment  other than  surgery.   Secondary  HPT  is
commonly seen as a result of kidney failure, affecting as much as  80
percent of  dialysis  patients.   The  Company has  entered  into  an
agreement with NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("NPS") for Amgen to develop
and commercialize NPS's calcimimetic  small molecules based on  NPS's
proprietary calcium receptor technology for the treatment of HPT (see
"Joint  Ventures  and   Business  Relationships   -  Other   business
relationships").   The  first  product candidate  in  this  class  of
compounds is  being  investigated in  a  human clinical  trial  as  a
treatment for secondary HPT.

  Inflammation

     The inflammatory  response  is  essential  for  defense  against
harmful micro-organisms and for the repair  of damaged tissues.   The
failure of  the  body's control  mechanisms  regulating  inflammatory
response occurs  in conditions  such as  rheumatoid arthritis,  acute
respiratory distress  syndrome and  asthma.   Tumor  necrosis  factor
binding protein ("TNFbp") and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist ("IL-
1ra") are two product candidates added to the Company's  inflammation
research  program  through  the  acquisition  of  Synergen.     First
generation molecules of TNFbp and Il-1ra have been in human  clinical
trials. A human clinical trial for  TNFbp was completed for  possible
use in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.  A human clinical trial
for  IL-1ra  in  combination  with  methotrexate  for  treatment   of
rheumatoid arthritis is ongoing.   (See "Joint Ventures and  Business
Relationships -  Synergen  Clinical  Partners.")    The  Company  has
developed second generation molecules as a potential replacement  for
TNFbp and as  a sustained delivery  formulation for  IL-1ra, both  of
which  have  demonstrated  some  additional  benefit  in  preclinical
studies over the  first generation product  candidates. Although  the
Company does not  intend to  pursue further  clinical development  of
first generation TNFbp, it plans to continue clinical development  of
first generation IL-1ra.  The Company is also conducting research  to
discover  and   develop  other   molecules  for   the  treatment   of
inflammtory diseases.



  Soft tissue repair and regeneration

     Soft tissue  growth  factors are  believed  to play  a  role  in
accelerating or improving tissue regeneration and wound healing.   In
some cases, these agents may also protect tissues from injuries  such
as irradiation, chemotherapy,  and hyperoxia.   These growth  factors
likely  regulate  a  broad  range  of  cellular  activities.    Amgen
currently is  conducting research  on certain  tissue growth  factors
including keratinocyte growth factor ("KGF").  Human clinical  trials
for KGF were initiated in 1996 for the treatment of mucositis, a side
effect often experienced by patients undergoing chemotherapy.

  Cell therapy

     Cell selection technology complements the Company's research and
development efforts in hematopoiesis.   Amgen's hematopoietic  growth
factors, together  with  selected  hematopoietic  cells,  enable  the
Company to  pursue  the investigation  of  new and  potentially  more
effective cancer  therapy  protocols.   In  1994, Amgen  acquired  an
equity interest in AmCell Inc. ("AmCell"), a U.S. company which plans
to manufacture cell selection  and characterization devices based  on
the technology of  Miltenyi Biotec GmbH.   Amgen  and AmCell  entered
into an agreement whereby AmCell has the right to manufacture certain
cell selection  devices  for  Amgen,  and  Amgen  has  the  right  to
clinically  develop  and  commercialize  these  devices  (see  "Joint
Ventures and Business Relationships - AmCell Inc.").  Amgen conducted
clinical trials in cell selection in Europe in 1996.  The development
of future clinical strategies is ongoing.

Joint Ventures and Business Relationships

     The Company intends to self-market its products where  possible.
From time  to time  it  may supplement  this  effort by  using  joint
ventures and  other  business  relationships  to  provide  additional
marketing and  product development  capabilities.   The Company  also
supplements  its  internal  research  and  development  efforts  with
acquisitions of product and  technology rights and external  research
collaborations.  Amgen  has established  the relationships  described
below and may establish others in the future.

  F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.

     Amgen and Roche  entered into a  co-promotion agreement in  1988
for the  sale of  NEUPOGEN(R) (Filgrastim)  in the  EU.   Under  this
agreement, Amgen and Roche share the clinical development, regulatory
and  commercialization  responsibilities  for  the  product.    Amgen
manufactures NEUPOGEN(R), and the two companies share in the  profits
from sales of NEUPOGEN(R)  in the EU.   This agreement allowed  Amgen
the option to regain complete control for marketing the product.  The
Company exercised this option and has informed Roche that it  intends
to assume complete distribution responsibilities beginning in 1998.

     In 1989,  Amgen  and Roche  entered  into another  agreement  to
commercialize NEUPOGEN(R) in certain  European countries not  located
within the EU.   Under this agreement,  Roche markets NEUPOGEN(R)  in
these countries and pays a royalty to Amgen on these sales.


  Johnson & Johnson

     Amgen  granted   Johnson  &   Johnson   a  license   to   pursue
commercialization of  recombinant  human erythropoietin  as  a  human
therapeutic in the United States in  all markets other than  dialysis
and diagnostics.  The Company  is engaged in arbitration  proceedings
regarding this agreement.  For a complete discussion of this  matter,
see Note  4 to  the Consolidated  Financial Statements  - "Johnson  &
Johnson arbitrations".   In countries  other than  the United  States
(except as  described  above), the  People's  Republic of  China  and
Japan,  Johnson  &   Johnson  was  granted   rights  to  pursue   the
commercialization of erythropoietin  as a human  therapeutic under  a
licensing agreement with Kirin-Amgen.

  Kirin Brewery Company, Limited

     The Company has a 50-50 joint venture (Kirin-Amgen) with  Kirin.
Kirin-Amgen was formed in 1984  to develop and commercialize  certain
of the Company's technologies.  Amgen and Kirin have been exclusively
licensed by Kirin-Amgen to  manufacture and market recombinant  human
erythropoietin in the United States and Japan, respectively.   Kirin-
Amgen has also granted Amgen an exclusive license to manufacture  and
market G-CSF in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia and  New
Zealand.  Kirin has been licensed by Kirin-Amgen with similar  rights
for G-CSF  in Japan,  Taiwan and  Korea.   Kirin markets  recombinant
human granulocyte  colony-stimulating  factor and  recombinant  human
erythropoietin in the People's  Republic of  China under  a  separate
agreements.

     In 1994, Kirin-Amgen licensed to Amgen  and Kirin the rights  to
develop and market  MGDF, and in  1996, to develop  and market  NESP.
Amgen has  been  granted an  exclusive  license from  Kirin-Amgen  to
manufacture and market  these two  product candidates  in the  United
States, the EC countries, Canada, Australia, Mexico and New  Zealand.
In addition, for NESP, Amgen's license extends to certain Central and
South American countries.   Kirin  has been  licensed by  Kirin-Amgen
with similar rights for  these two product  candidates in Japan,  the
People's Republic of China, Taiwan, Korea and certain other countries
in Southeast Asia.

     Pursuant to the  terms of  agreements entered  into with  Kirin-
Amgen,  the  Company  conducts   certain  research  and   development
activities on behalf of Kirin-Amgen and is paid for such services  at
a negotiated rate.  Included in  revenues from corporate partners  in
the Company's Consolidated Financial  Statements for the years  ended
December 31, 1996, 1995  and 1994, are  $79.9 million, $72.6  million
and $58.6 million, respectively, related to these agreements.

     In connection with its various agreements with Kirin-Amgen,  the
Company  has  been  granted  sole  and  exclusive  licenses  for  the
manufacture and  sale of  certain  products in  specified  geographic
areas of the world.   In return for  such licenses, the Company  paid
Kirin-Amgen stated amounts  upon the receipt  of the licenses  and/or


pays Kirin-Amgen royalties based  on sales.   During the years  ended
December 31, 1996, 1995 and  1994, Kirin-Amgen earned royalties  from
Amgen  of   $86.2  million,   $74.2   million  and   $67.5   million,
respectively, under such agreements.

  Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.

     In June 1996, Amgen  licensed to Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical  Co.,
Ltd.  ("Yamanouchi")  of   Tokyo,  Japan  the   rights  to   develop,
manufacture and commercialize a  potential product for the  treatment
of hepatitis C and any additional indications around the world except
in the United  States and Canada.   Amgen will  market the  potential
product in these  countries.  Amgen  earned $15  million on  signing,
will earn additional  amounts if certain  milestones are achieved  by
Yamanouchi and  will  receive royalties  on  sales.   Yamanouchi  has
granted to Amgen K.K., the Company's Japanese subsidiary, certain co-
development and  co-promotion/co-marketing rights  in Japan  and  has
granted to  Amgen Greater  China, Ltd.,  Amgen's subsidiary  in  Hong
Kong, certain co-development and  co-promotion rights in China,  Hong
Kong and Taiwan.

  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

     In 1990, the Company entered into a collaboration agreement with
Regeneron to co-develop and commercialize BDNF and NT-3 in the United
States.  In addition, Regeneron licensed these potential products  to
Amgen for development in certain other countries.  To facilitate this
collaboration,  the  Company  and  Regeneron  formed  Amgen-Regeneron
Partners, a 50-50  partnership.   Amgen-Regeneron Partners  commenced
operations with respect  to BDNF and  NT-3 in June  1993 and  January
1994, respectively.

  AmCell Inc.

     During 1994,  Amgen acquired  an equity  interest in  AmCell,  a
company   which   plans   to    manufacture   cell   selection    and
characterization devices based on  the technology of Miltenyi  Biotec
GmbH ("Miltenyi").   Amgen  has an  exclusive license  to  clinically
develop and commercialize selected  products of AmCell  incorporating
Miltenyi technology in exchange for development funding and milestone
payments.

  Synergen Clinical Partners

     Synergen Clinical Partners, L.P. ("SCP"), a limited partnership,
was formed to  fund development  and commercialization  of IL-1ra  in
certain geographic areas.  The general  partner of SCP was a  wholly-
owned subsidiary of Synergen and is now a wholly-owned subsidiary  of
the Company.  This wholly-owned subsidiary would be obligated to  pay
SCP royalties on sales of such products and a milestone payment  upon
receiving the first FDA marketing approval of an IL-1ra product.   In
connection with the formation of SCP, Synergen was granted options to
purchase all  of the  limited partners'  interests  in SCP  upon  the
occurrence of  certain  future  events  for  a  specified  amount  of
consideration.  See Item 3. Legal Proceedings - "Synergen  ANTRIL(TM)
litigation".


  Other business relationships

     In 1995,  the Company  obtained an  exclusive license  from  The
Rockefeller University which allows  the Company to develop  products
based on the  obesity gene.   Amgen made a  $20 million payment  upon
signing the  agreement  and will  make  payments for  milestones  and
royalties on  sales of  any resulting  products.   The  Company  also
entered into an agreement with NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for Amgen to
develop and commercialize calcimimetic small molecules based on NPS's
proprietary technology.    Under this  agreement,  Amgen made  a  $10
million signing payment and will make milestone payments and  royalty
payments on sales of  any resulting products.   In addition to  these
agreements, the Company  has an extensive  number of other  corporate
and academic research collaborations.

Marketing

     In the  United States,  the Company's  sales force  markets  its
products  to  physicians  and  pharmacists  primarily  in  hospitals,
dialysis centers and clinics.   The Company has  chosen to use  major
wholesale distributors of  pharmaceutical products  as the  principal
means  of  distributing  EPOGEN(R)  (Epoetin  alfa)  and  NEUPOGEN(R)
(Filgrastim) to clinics, hospitals and  pharmacies.  Sales to  Bergen
Brunswig   Corporation   and   Cardinal   Distribution,   two   major
distributors of these products,  accounted for 24%  and 14%, 21%  and
15%, and 22% and  16% respectively, of total  revenues for the  years
ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

     NEUPOGEN(R) is reimbursed by both public and private payors, and
changes in coverage and reimbursement policies of these payors  could
have a material adverse effect on sales of NEUPOGEN(R).  EPOGEN(R) is
primarily reimbursed by the Federal Government through the End  Stage
Renal Disease Program ("ESRD Program") of Medicare.  The ESRD Program
reimburses approved providers for 80% of allowed dialysis costs;  the
remainder is  paid  by  other sources,  including  Medicaid,  private
insurance, and to  a lesser  extent, state  kidney patient  programs.
The reimbursement rate is established by Congress and is monitored by
the Health Care Financing Administration.  The reimbursement rate for
EPOGEN(R) is  subject to  yearly review.    Changes in  coverage  and
reimbursement policies  could  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on
EPOGEN(R) sales.

     Except for purchases pursuant to a contract with the  Department
of Veterans Affairs, including  purchases by Veterans  Administration
hospitals and the Department of Defense, the Company does not receive
any payments directly from the Federal  Government, nor does it  have
any  significant  supply  contracts  with  the  Federal   Government.
However, the use of NEUPOGEN(R) and EPOGEN(R) by hospitals,  clinics,
and  physicians  may  be  impacted  by  the  amount  and  methods  of
reimbursement that they receive from the Federal Government.

     In  the  EU,  Amgen   and  Roche  share  clinical   development,
regulatory and  commercialization  responsibilities  for  NEUPOGEN(R)
under a co-promotion  agreement   (See "Joint  Ventures and  Business
Relationships -  F. Hoffmann-La  Roche Ltd.").   In  addition,  Amgen
manufactures NEUPOGEN(R) for sale  in the EU,  and the two  companies


share in  the profits  from sales  of the  product.   NEUPOGEN(R)  is
distributed to  wholesalers  and/or  hospitals in  all  EU  countries
depending upon the distribution practice of hospital products in each
country.  Patients receiving NEUPOGEN(R) for approved indications are
covered by  government  health care  programs.   The  consumption  of
NEUPOGEN(R) is affected by government budget issues and cost controls
in the EU countries, and to a lesser extent, competition.

     NEUPOGEN(R) sales volumes in both  the United States and  Europe
are influenced by a number of factors including underlying demand and
wholesaler inventory  management  practices.    Wholesaler  inventory
reductions tend to  reduce domestic  NEUPOGEN(R) sales  in the  first
quarter of each year.  In addition, the discretionary aspects of some
cancer chemotherapy administration has  had a slight seasonal  effect
on NEUPOGEN(R) sales.

     In Canada and Australia, NEUPOGEN(R) is marketed by the  Company
directly  to   hospitals,  pharmacies   and  medical   practitioners.
Distribution is handled by third party contractors.

Competition

     Competition is intense among  companies that develop and  market
products based on  advances in  cellular and  molecular biology.  For
products  which  the  Company  manufactures  and  markets,  it  faces
significant competition from  biotechnology and pharmaceutical  firms
in the  United  States, Europe  and  elsewhere, some  of  which  have
greater  resources   than   the   Company.      Certain   specialized
biotechnology firms have also  entered into cooperative  arrangements
with  major  companies  for  development  and  commercialization   of
products, creating an additional source of competition.

     Any products or technologies  that successfully address  anemias
could  negatively   impact   the   market   for   recombinant   human
erythropoietin.    Similarly,  any  products  or  technologies   that
successfully address  the  causes  or  incidence  of  low  levels  of
neutrophils could  negatively impact  the market  for G-CSF.    These
include products that could receive approval for indications  similar
to those  for  which  NEUPOGEN(R)  (Filgrastim)  has  been  approved,
development of chemotherapy treatments that are less myelosuppressive
than  existing  treatments   and  the   development  of   anti-cancer
modalities that reduce the need for myelosuppressive chemotherapy.

     NEUPOGEN(R) currently faces market competition from a  competing
CSF product, granulocyte  macrophage colony-stimulating factor  ("GM-
CSF") and from the chemoprotectant, amifostine (WR-2721).   Potential
future sources  of competition  include other  GM-CSF products,  PGG-
glucan, FLT-3 ligand and IL-11, among others.

     Chugai Pharmaceuticals  Co.,  Ltd. ("Chugai")  markets  a  G-CSF
product in Japan as an adjunct to chemotherapy and as a treatment for
bone marrow transplant  patients. In  early 1994,  Chugai and  Rhone-
Poulenc Rorer  Inc. began  marketing a  G-CSF product  in certain  EU
countries as an adjunct  to chemotherapy and as  a treatment in  bone
marrow transplant  settings.   Chugai, through  its licensee,  AMRAD,
markets this G-CSF product in Australia as an adjunct to chemotherapy


and as a  treatment for patients  receiving bone marrow  transplants.
Under an agreement with Amgen, Chugai  is precluded from selling  its
G-CSF product in the United States, Canada and Mexico.

     Immunex Corp. markets two formulations  of GM-CSF in the  United
States for bone marrow transplant and PBPC transplant patients and as
an adjunct  to  chemotherapy  treatments  for  acute  non-lymphocytic
leukemia ("ANLL")  and AML.   Immunex  Corp. is  also pursuing  other
indications for its  GM-CSF product  including use  in treating  HIV-
infected patients, other  infectious diseases  and as  an adjunct  to
chemotherapy outside the  limited setting of  ANLL.  Behringwerke  AG
markets this GM-CSF product in Europe in similar settings.   Novartis
(Sandoz Ltd.) markets another GM-CSF product  for use in bone  marrow
transplant patients, as an adjunct to chemotherapy and as an  adjunct
to gancyclovir  treatment  of HIV-infected  patients  in the  EU  and
certain other  countries.   This GM-CSF  product is  currently  being
developed for similar indications in the United States and Canada.

     Alpha Beta Technologies is  developing PGG-glucan in the  United
States for  the  treatment  of certain  infectious  diseases,  as  an
adjunct to chemotherapy and for use in PBPC transplantation.

     Other products which address potential markets for G-CSF may  be
identified and developed by competitors in the future.  Such products
could  also  present  competition  in  potential  markets  for   SCF.
Research and  development  of  other  hematopoietic  growth  factors,
including those that  may compete with  MGDF, is  being conducted  by
several companies including Genentech, Inc., Immunex Corp.,  Novartis
(Sandoz Ltd.) and Genetics Institute, Inc.

     Although not approved or promoted for use in the United  States,
the  Company  believes  that   approximately  20%  of  its   domestic
NEUPOGEN(R) sales are  from off-label use  as supportive therapy  for
various  AIDS-related  treatments.    Changes  in  AIDS   treatments,
including therapies  that may  be less  myelosuppressive, may  affect
such sales.

     INFERGEN(R) will  face competition  from interferons  and  other
related products,  several of  which are  in  development or  on  the
market.   Schering-Plough  Corp. and  Roche  are major  suppliers  of
interferons.  Interferon Sciences could be a potential competitor  in
this arena.  (See "Item 3.  Legal Proceedings - Consensus  interferon
litigation").

     Several companies are developing neurotrophic factors  including
Cephalon Inc., Genentech, Inc. and Regeneron.

     Many companies currently market or are believed to be developing
obesity  treatments.    Wyeth  Ayerst  (American  Hospital  Products)
currently has the  greatest market share  in obesity treatments  with
Redux (co-developed  and  marketed with  Interneuron)  and  Pondimen.
Other potential competitors include Millennium Pharmaceuticals,  Inc.
(in collaboration  with  Roche),  Progenitor Inc.  (a  subsidiary  of
Interneuron Pharmaceuticals  Inc.), Neurogen  Inc. (in  collaboration
with Pfizer), Bristol  Myers Squibb, Novartis,  Eli Lilly and  Merck.


Knoll/BASF and  Roche are  expected to  launch new  therapeutics  for
obesity in the next few years.

     Calcimimetic small  molecules  would  face  competition  from  a
product  currently  marketed  by  Abbott  Laboratories  which  treats
secondary HPT.   In  addition, other  products to  treat primary  and
secondary HPT are currently  being developed by Abbott  Laboratories,
Lunar, GelTex, and Chugai.

     The Company faces competition from a number of companies in  the
inflammation disease  arena,  particularly for  rheumatoid  arthritis
treatments.    Current  anti-arthritic  treatments  include   generic
methotrexate and  other  products  marketed  by  Sanofi-Winthrop  and
Novartis (Sandoz  Ltd.).   In addition,  a number  of companies  have
cytokine inhibitors in development including Immunex Corp., Centocor,
Inc. and Roche.

     Companies  believed  to  be  developing  certain  tissue  growth
factors  include  Creative  Biomolecules,  Inc.,  Chiron  Corp.   (in
collaboration with  Johnson  &  Johnson),  Genentech,  Inc.,  Immunex
Corp., Scios Nova Inc. and ZymoGenetics, Inc.

     The Company  faces competition  from  several companies  in  the
development and utilization  of cell  selection and  characterization
devices.  Companies involved in the development of these devices  and
ex-vivo cell expansion with growth factors are Baxter, Cellpro, Rhone
Poulenc Rorer Inc./Applied Immune Sciences, Systemix in collaboration
with  Novartis  (Sandoz  Ltd.)   and  Aastrom  Biosciences  Inc.   in
collaboration with COBE BCT.

Research and Development

     The Company's two primary sources of new product candidates  are
internal research and development and acquisition and licensing  from
third parties.   Research  and  development expense,  which  includes
technology license fees paid  to third parties,  for the years  ended
December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 were $528.3 million, $451.7  million
and $323.6  million, respectively.   The  amount for  the year  ended
December 31, 1994 excludes a  $116.4 million write-off of  in-process
technology purchased in connection with the acquisition of  Synergen.
See Note 1 to the Consolidated  Financial Statements - "Research  and
development costs".


Government Regulation

     Regulation by governmental authorities in the United States  and
other countries  is  a  significant  factor  in  the  production  and
marketing of  the Company's  products and  its ongoing  research  and
development activities.  In order to clinically test, manufacture and
market products  for therapeutic  use, Amgen  must satisfy  mandatory
procedures and  safety standards  established by  various  regulatory
bodies.

     In  the  United  States,  the  Company's  products  and  product
candidates are  regulated primarily  on a  product by  product  basis
under  federal  law  and  are   subject  to  rigorous  FDA   approval
procedures.  After purification,  laboratory analysis and testing  in
animals, an investigational  new drug application  is filed with  the
FDA to begin  human testing.   A three-phase  human clinical  testing
program must then be undertaken.   In Phase 1, studies are  conducted
to determine the safety and optimal dosage for administration of  the
product.   In Phase  2, studies  are  conducted to  gain  preliminary
evidence of the  efficacy of the  product.  In  Phase 3, studies  are
conducted to provide  sufficient data  for the  statistical proof  of
safety and efficacy.  The time  and expense required to perform  this
clinical testing can far exceed the time and expense of the  research
and development initially required to create the product.  No  action
can be taken to market any  therapeutic product in the United  States
until an appropriate license application has been cleared by the FDA.
Even after initial FDA clearance  has been obtained, further  studies
are required  to  provide additional  data  on safety  and  would  be
required to gain clearance  for the use of  a product as a  treatment
for clinical indications  other than  those initially  approved.   In
addition, use of products during testing and after initial  marketing
could reveal  side  effects  that  could  delay,  impede  or  prevent
marketing approval,  limit  uses or  expose  the Company  to  product
liability claims.

     In  addition  to  human  clinical  testing,  the  FDA   inspects
equipment and facilities  prior to  providing clearance  to market  a
product.   If, after  receiving clearance  from the  FDA, a  material
change is  made  in  manufacturing equipment,  location  or  process,
additional regulatory review may be needed.

     In  the   EU  countries,   Canada  and   Australia,   regulatory
requirements and approval processes are similar in principle to those
in the United States.

     Amgen's research and manufacturing  activities are conducted  in
voluntary  compliance  with   the  National   Institutes  of   Health
Guidelines for Recombinant DNA Research.   The Company's present  and
future business has been and will  continue to be subject to  various
other  laws  and  regulations,   including  environmental  laws   and
regulations.


Patents and Trademarks

     Patents are  very  important  to  the  Company  in  establishing
proprietary rights to the products it has developed.  The Company has
filed applications for a  number of patents and  it has been  granted
patents  relating   to  recombinant   human  erythropoietin,   G-CSF,
consensus interferon and various potential products.  The Company has
obtained licenses from and  pays royalties to  third parties.   Other
companies have filed patent applications or have been granted patents
in areas of interest to the Company.   There can be no assurance  any
licenses required under such patents  would be available for  license
on reasonable terms or at all.  The Company is engaged in arbitration
proceedings with  Johnson &  Johnson and  various patent  litigation.
For a discussion  of these  matters see  Note 4  to the  Consolidated
Financial Statements - "Johnson &  Johnson arbitrations" and Item  3,
"Legal Proceedings".

     The Company  has obtained  U.S. registration  of its  EPOGEN(R),
NEUPOGEN(R)  and  INFERGEN(R)   trademarks.     In  addition,   these
trademarks have been registered in several other countries.   Amgen's
trademark for its stem cell factor product is STEMGEN(TM).

Human Resources

     As of  December 31,  1996, the  Company had  4,646 employees  of
which 2,527 were  engaged in research  and development  and 878  were
engaged in  sales and  marketing, and  1,241  were engaged  in  other
areas.  There can be  no assurance that the  Company will be able  to
continue attracting and retaining  qualified personnel in  sufficient
numbers to  meet its  needs.   None of  the Company's  employees  are
covered by a  collective bargaining  agreement, and  the Company  has
experienced no work  stoppages.  The  Company considers its  employee
relations to be excellent.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The  executive  officers  of  the  Company,  their  ages  as  of
February 28, 1997 and positions are as follows:

     Mr. Gordon M. Binder,  age 61, has served  as a director of  the
Company since October 1988.   He joined the Company  in 1982 as  Vice
President-Finance and  was  named Senior  Vice  President-Finance  in
February 1986.    In  October 1988,  Mr.  Binder  was  elected  Chief
Executive Officer.  In July 1990,  Mr. Binder became Chairman of  the
Board.

     Dr. N.  Kirby  Alton,  age 46,  became  Senior  Vice  President,
Development,  in  August  1992,  having  served  as  Vice  President,
Therapeutic Product Development, Responsible Head, from October  1988
to August 1992.  Dr. Alton previously served as Director, Therapeutic
Product Development, from February 1986 to October 1988.

     Dr. Bruce W. Altrock, age 49, became Vice President ,  Research,
in October  1996,  having  served  as  Vice  President,  Biology  and
Biochemistry, since October 1988.  Dr. Altrock previously had  served
as Director, Biology and Biochemistry, since 1985.

     Mr. Robert  S.  Attiyeh,  age 62,  has  served  as  Senior  Vice
President, Finance  and  Corporate  Development,  since  joining  the
Company in July  1994.   Prior to  joining the  Company, Mr.  Attiyeh
served as a director of McKinsey & Company, a consulting firm, in its
Los Angeles, Japan and Scandinavian offices from 1967 to 1994.

     Mr. Stanley  M.  Benson.  age 45,  has  served  as  Senior  Vice
President, Sales and  Marketing, since  joining the  Company in  June
1995.  Prior  to joining  the Company, Mr.  Benson held  a number  of
executive management  positions  at  Pfizer  Inc.,  a  pharmaceutical
company, from 1987 to 1995.

     Dr. Dennis  M. Fenton,  age 45,  became Senior  Vice  President,
Operations, in January 1995, having served as Senior Vice  President,
Sales and Marketing,  since August 1992,  and having  served as  Vice
President,  Process   Development,   Facilities   and   Manufacturing
Services, from July 1991 to August  1992.  Dr. Fenton previously  had
served  as  Vice  President,  Pilot  Plant  Operations  and  Clinical
Manufacturing, from October 1988 to July 1991, and as Director, Pilot
Plant Operations, from 1985 to October 1988.

     Mr. Daryl D. Hill, age 51, became Senior Vice President, Quality
and Compliance,  in  January  1997,  having  served  as  Senior  Vice
President, Asia Pacific, from January 1994 to January 1997.  Mr. Hill
previously had  served as  Vice  President, Quality  Assurance,  from
October 1988 to January  1994, and as  Director of Quality  Assurance
from January 1984 to October 1988.

     Mr. Larry  A.  May, age  47,  became Vice  President,  Corporate
Controller and  Chief  Accounting  Officer in  October  1991,  having
served as  Corporate Controller  and  Chief Accounting  Officer  from
October 1988 to October 1991, and as Controller from January 1983  to
October 1988.

     Mr. Kevin W.  Sharer, age 48,  has served as  a director of  the
Company since November  1992.  He  also has served  as President  and
Chief Operating Officer  since October 1992.   Prior  to joining  the
Company, Mr.  Sharer  served as  President  of the  Business  Markets
Division of  MCI  Communications  Corporation,  a  telecommunications
company, from  April 1989  to October  1992, and  served in  numerous
executive capacities at General  Electric Company from February  1984
to March  1989.   Mr. Sharer  also serves  as  a director  of  Geotek
Communications, Inc.

     Mr. George  A.  Vandeman, age  57,  has served  as  Senior  Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary since joining the Company in
June 1995.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Vandeman was a  partner
of Latham &  Watkins, an international  law firm, from  June 1966  to
July 1995.


Geographic Area Financial Information

     For financial   information concerning the  geographic areas  in
which the Company operates see Note 11 to the Consolidated  Financial
Statements.


Item 2.   PROPERTIES

     Amgen's principal  executive  offices  and  a  majority  of  its
administrative, manufacturing and research and development facilities
are located in 35 buildings in Thousand Oaks, California.  Thirty  of
the buildings  are owned  and five  are leased.   Adjacent  to  these
facilities are five buildings that  are under construction and  other
property acquired in anticipation of future expansion.  The  Thousand
Oaks, California facilities include manufacturing plants licensed  by
various regulatory  bodies  that  produce  commercial  quantities  of
Epoetin alfa and NEUPOGEN(R) (Filgrastim).

     Elsewhere  in  North  America,  Amgen  owns  nine  buildings  in
Boulder, Colorado housing research facilities and a pilot plant.  The
Company  is building a new EPOGEN(R) manufacturing plant in Longmont,
Colorado, on a  site which can  accommodate additional  manufacturing
capacity for new products.  The Company owns a distribution center in
Louisville,   Kentucky   and   leases   a   research   facility   and
administrative offices in Toronto,  Canada, an administrative  office
in Washington, D.C. and five regional sales offices in the U.S.

     Outside North America, the Company has a formulation,  fill-and-
finish facility in  Juncos, Puerto Rico  which has  been licensed  by
various regulatory bodies.  The Company leases facilities in thirteen
European countries,  Australia, Japan,  Hong  Kong and  the  People's
Republic of  China for  administration,  marketing and  research  and
development.  In addition, the Company has started construction of  a
European distribution center in Breda, the Netherlands.

     Amgen believes  that  its current  facilities  plus  anticipated
additions are  sufficient to  meet its  needs  for the  next  several
years.


Item 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is  engaged in arbitration  proceedings with one  of
its licensees.  For a complete  discussion of this matter see Note  4
to  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  -  "Johnson  &  Johnson
arbitrations".  Other legal proceedings  are discussed below.   While
it is impossible to predict accurately  or to determine the  eventual
outcome of these matters, except with respect to the False Claims Act
matter, the Company  believes that the  outcome of these  proceedings
will not have a material adverse  effect on the financial  statements
of the Company.


Synergen ANTRIL(TM) litigation

     Lawsuits have  been  filed  against Synergen,  Inc.  (now  Amgen
Boulder Inc.)  alleging  misrepresentations in  connection  with  its
research and development of ANTRIL(TM) for the treatment of sepsis.

     In Johnson  v.  Amgen  Boulder Inc.,  et  al.,  suits  filed  on
February 14, 1995 in the Superior Court for the State of  Washington,
King County (the "Superior Court") and in the United States  District
Court  for  the  Western  District  of  Washington,  plaintiff  seeks
rescission of  certain payments  made to  one of  the defendants  (or
unspecified compensatory  damages not  less than  $52.0 million)  and
treble damages.    The Superior  Court  action has  been  removed  to
federal court  and consolidated  with the  suit filed  in the  United
States  District  Court  for  the  Western  District  of  Washington.
Plaintiff, a limited partner of defendant Synergen Clinical Partners,
L.P.  (the  "Partnership"),  represents  a  class  of  other  limited
partners.   The complaints  allege violations  of federal  and  state
securities laws,  violations of  other  federal and  state  statutes,
fraud,  misrepresentation  and  breach   of  fiduciary  duty.     The
defendants include  Synergen, the  Partnership, Synergen  Development
Corporation and  former  officers and  directors  of Synergen.    The
lawsuit has been  certified as a  class action lawsuit.  On June  25,
1996, the  plaintiff  in  this  suit  also  filed  a  second  amended
complaint alleging violations of federal securities laws.  Amgen Inc.
has answered the complaint and the second amended complaint,  denying
plaintiffs' claims and  asserting various affirmative  defenses.   In
August and September 1996 the parties filed cross motions for summary
judgment.  The Court heard argument on November 1, 1996.  Since then,
the parties'  representatives  have reached  a  tentative  settlement
agreement which is  subject to final  approval by the  Court and  the
approval of  the limited  partners of  the  Partnership.   Under  its
terms, the plaintiffs,  who include present  limited partners of  the
Partnership, will receive $14.5 million in exchange for the  transfer
of ownership  of  their  units;  the  suit  will  be  dismissed  with
prejudice and the parties will exchange mutual releases.

     Susquehanna Investment Group, et al. v. Amgen Boulder, Inc.,  et
al., was  filed  in  the United  States  District  Court  in  Denver,
Colorado against  Synergen and  certain of  its former  officers  and
directors.  The  suit, filed  on May 19,  1995, has  been brought  by
broker-dealers who acted as market makers  in Synergen options.   The
plaintiffs claim  in excess  of $3.2  million  in trading  losses  on
option positions as the result of alleged misrepresentations.

     On August 6, 1996, the District Court for the State of  Colorado
dismissed one  of these  lawsuits without  prejudice for  failure  to
prosecute an  action  brought  by three  Synergen  stockholders  that
alleged   violations   of   state   securities   laws,   fraud    and
misrepresentation and sought  an unspecified  amount to  compensatory
damages and punitive damages.


Elanex Pharmaceuticals litigation

     In October  1993,  the  Company filed  a  complaint  for  patent
infringement  against   defendants   Elanex   Pharmaceuticals,   Inc.
("Elanex"), Laboratorios Elanex De Costa Rica, S.A., Bio Sidus  S.A.,
Merckle GmbH, Biosintetica  S.A. and other  unknown defendants.   The
complaint, filed in the United States District Court for the  Western
District of  Washington  in  Seattle,  seeks  injunctive  relief  and
damages for Elanex's  infringement of  the Company's  patent for  DNA
sequences  and   host   cells   useful   in   producing   recombinant
erythropoietin.    The  complaint  also  alleges  that  the   foreign
defendants entered  into  agreements  with  Elanex  relating  to  the
production or  sale of  recombinant erythropoietin  and thereby  have
induced Elanex's infringement.

     In December 1993, Elanex responded to the complaint denying  the
material allegations  thereof, and  filed  a counterclaim  seeking  a
declaratory judgment that  the Company's patent  is invalid and  that
Elanex's recombinant erythropoietin technology does not infringe  any
valid claims of the Company's patent.  The counterclaim also seeks an
award of reasonable attorneys'  fees and other  costs of defense  but
does not seek damages against the Company.  The case is currently  in
discovery.  In  February 1996, Merckle  GmbH was  dismissed from  the
case.

Genetics Institute litigation

     On June 21, 1994,  Genetics Institute filed  suit in the  United
States District Court  for the  District of  Delaware in  Wilmington,
against Johnson & Johnson, a licensee and distributor of the Company,
seeking damages for  the alleged  infringement of  a recently  issued
U.S. Patent 5,322,837  relating to Johnson  & Johnson's  manufacture,
use, and sale of erythropoietin.

     On September  12, 1994,  the Company  filed suit  in the  United
States District Court  for the District  of Massachusetts in  Boston,
against Genetics Institute,  seeking declaratory  judgment of  patent
non-infringement, invalidity  and unenforceability  against  Genetics
Institute in respect  to U. S.  Patent 5,322,837  issued to  Genetics
Institute, which  relates to  homogeneous erythropoietin.    Genetics
Institute answered the complaint and filed a counterclaim against the
Company alleging infringement of  the same patent.   On February  14,
1995,  the  United  States  District   Court  for  the  District   of
Massachusetts granted Amgen's motion for a summary judgment enforcing
a prior  judgment against  Genetics  Institute and  barring  Genetics
Institute from asserting its U.  S. Patent 5,322,837 against  Amgen's
recombinant erythropoietin.   On March 13,  1995, Genetics  Institute
filed notice of appeal  with the United States  Court of Appeals  for
the Federal  Circuit.   On  October  25, 1996,  the  Federal  Circuit
affirmed the District  Court's ruling that  Genetics Institute  could
not assert the  U.S. Patent  5,322,837 patent  claim against  Amgen's
recombinant erythropoietin.    The Federal  Circuit  denied  Genetics
Institute's request for a rehearing on January 3, 1997.


Biogen litigation

     On March 10,  1995, Biogen Inc.  ("Biogen"), filed  suit in  the
United States  District  Court  for  the  District  of  Massachusetts
alleging infringement by the Company of certain claims of U.S. Patent
4,874,702 (the  "`702 Patent"),  relating to  vectors for  expressing
cloned genes.  Biogen alleges that Amgen has infringed its patent  by
manufacturing and selling  NEUPOGEN(R).   On March  28, 1995,  Biogen
filed an amended complaint further alleging that the Company is  also
infringing the claims of two additional patents allegedly assigned to
Biogen, U.S. Patent 5,401,642 and U.S. Patent No. 5,401,658, relating
to vectors, methods for making  vectors and expressing cloned  genes.
The  amended   complaint   seeks   injunctive   relief,   unspecified
compensatory damages  and treble  damages.   On April  24, 1995,  the
Company answered  Biogen's amended  complaint, denying  its  material
allegations and pleading  counterclaims for  declaratory judgment  of
non-infringement, patent invalidity and unenforceability.  On January
19, 1996, the Court decided, upon Biogen's motion to dismiss  certain
of Amgen's counterclaims, that it will exert jurisdiction over claims
9  and  17  of  the  `702  Patent,  and  dismissed  all  claims   and
counterclaims relating to any other claims of the `702 Patent.  Amgen
has moved for summary judgment of  invalidity of claim 9 of the  `702
Patent.  This  matter was heard  on February 6,  1997.  Discovery  is
ongoing.

Consensus interferon litigation

     On June 15, 1994, Biogen filed suit in the Tokyo District  Court
in Japan, against Amgen  K.K., a subsidiary  of the Company,  seeking
injunctive relief  for  the  alleged  infringement  of  two  Japanese
patents  relating  to  alpha-interferon   by  the  clinical  use   of
INFERGEN(R), the Company's consensus interferon product.  Amgen  K.K.
has  answered  the  complaint  and  has  denied  the  allegations  of
infringement. The case is ongoing.

     On December 20, 1995, Roche Holding A.G., parent corporation  of
F. Hoffmann-La Roche and  Company, filed suit  in the Tokyo  District
Court in  Japan, against  Amgen K.K.,  a subsidiary  of the  Company,
seeking injunctive relief  for the alleged  infringement of a  patent
relating to alpha-interferon by the clinical use of INFERGEN(R),  the
Company's consensus  interferon product.   The  Company  subsequently
answered the complaint, denying allegations of infringement.

     On December 3, 1996, Schering Corporation filed suit in the U.S.
District Court  for  the District  of  Delaware against  the  Company
alleging  infringement  of  U.S.  Patent  No.  4,530,901  (the  "`901
Patent") by  the  manufacture  and use  of  the  Company's  consensus
interferon product,  INFERGEN(R).   The complaint  seeks  unspecified
damages and injunctive relief.  The Company filed a motion to dismiss
the action on  January 24, 1997.   On January  22, 1997, the  Company
filed an action for declaratory relief in the United States  District
Court for the Central  District of California  in Los Angeles  naming
Biogen Inc. and Schering Corporation as parties.  The action seeks  a
declaration that the `901  Patent is not  infringed by the  Company's
use of INFERGEN(R) and/or that the `901 Patent is invalid.


Genentech litigation

     On October 16, 1996, Genentech, Inc. ("Genentech") filed suit in
the United  States  District  Court  for  the  Northern  District  of
California seeking  an unspecified  amount of  compensatory  damages,
treble damages and injunctive relief  on its U.S. Patents  4,704,362,
5,221,619 and 4,342,832 (the "`362, `619 and `832 Patents"), relating
to vectors  for expressing  cloned genes  and  the methods  for  such
expression.  Genentech alleges that  Amgen has infringed its  patents
by manufacturing and selling NEUPOGEN(R).  On December 2, 1996, Amgen
was served  with this  lawsuit.   On January  21, 1997,  the  Company
answered  the  complaint  and  asserted  counterclaims  relating   to
invalidity and non-infringement of the patents-in-suit.  On  February
10, 1997, Genentech served Amgen with a reply to the counterclaim and
an additional counterclaim  asserting U.S.  Patent 5,583,013,  issued
December 10,  1996, seeking  relief similar  to that  sought for  the
`362, `619 and `832 Patents.

Foxmeyer Health Corporation

     On January 10, 1997, FoxMeyer Health Corporation ("FMHC")  filed
suit in the District Court of Dallas County, Dallas, Texas,  alleging
that  defendant   McKesson   Corporation  defrauded   FMHC,   misused
confidential information  received from  FMHC about  subsidiaries  of
FMHC   (FoxMeyer   Corporation   and   FoxMeyer   Drug   Corporation,
collectively  the   "FoxMeyer   Subsidiaries"),  and   attempted   to
monopolize the  market for  pharmaceutical  and health  care  product
distribution  by  attempting  to  injure  or  destroy  the   FoxMeyer
Subsidiaries.  The Company  is  named as one of twelve  "Manufacturer
Defendants" alleged to  have conspired with  McKesson Corporation  in
doing, among other things, the above and (i) inducing FMHC to refrain
from seeking other suitable purchasers for the FoxMeyer  Subsidiaries
and (ii)  causing  FMHC  to believe  that  McKesson  Corporation  was
serious about purchasing FMHC's assets at fair value, when, in  fact,
McKesson Corporation  was  not.   The  Manufacturer Defendants    and
McKesson Corporation  are  also  alleged to  have  intentionally  and
tortiously interfered  with a  number  of business  expectancies  and
opportunities.  The complaint seeks from the Manufacturer  Defendants
and McKesson  Corporation  compensatory  damages  of  at  least  $400
million and punitive  damages in an  unspecified amount,  as well  as
FMHC's costs and attorney's fees.   On January 31, 1997, the  Company
filed an answer denying FMHC's allegations.   On February 4, 1997,  a
notice of removal was filed in the Federal District Court for Dallas,
Texas (the  "District Court"),  which was  referred by  the  District
Court  to   the   Federal   Bankruptcy  Court   in   Dallas,   Texas.
Subsequently, on February  7, 1997, a  motion to  transfer venue  was
filed in the  Federal Bankruptcy Court  in Dallas, Texas,  requesting
that this matter be  transferred to the  Federal Bankruptcy Court  in
Delaware, where  the  FoxMeyer Subsidiaries'  Chapter  XI  bankruptcy
action is pending.   The  Company is  a creditor  in such  bankruptcy
proceeding.


False Claims Act matter

     Amgen has been  advised that it  and certain  purchasers of  its
products have been named as defendants  in a civil lawsuit  initiated
by a former employee of Amgen in the United States District Court for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.  This suit was filed under  the
qui tam provisions of the Federal False Claims Act (the "Act")  which
permit an individual to bring suit  in the name of the United  States
and share in  any recovery.   The suit alleges,  among other  things,
that Amgen individually and in conspiracy with some of its  customers
violated the Act as  a result of certain  of its sales and  reporting
practices relating to its  products.  Under  the law, the  government
must investigate the allegations and  determine whether it wishes  to
intervene and take responsibility for  the lawsuit. The lawsuit  will
remain under seal  until the government  completes its  investigation
and determines whether  to intervene.   However, permission from  the
Court has been obtained  by Amgen to  make the disclosures  contained
herein.  The Complaint  seeks an order requiring  Amgen to cease  and
desist from  such allegedly  improper practices,  as well  as  treble
damages in an  unspecified amount plus  a civil penalty  of not  less
than $5,000 and not more than  $10,000 for each alleged violation  of
the Act.  If the government does not intervene, the plaintiff has the
right to continue  to pursue the  claim on  the government's  behalf.
Amgen is fully cooperating with the government's investigation and is
engaged in  ongoing discussions  with it  regarding the  allegations.
Amgen has advised the government that it disputes and will vigorously
contest the allegations in the Complaint.   Although it is too  early
in this action  for Amgen  to fully  assess this  matter or  reliably
predict its outcome, an unfavorable result in this matter could  have
a material adverse effect on the  Company's results of operations  in
that period.


Item 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were submitted  to a vote  of the Company's  security
holders  during  the   last  quarter   of  its   fiscal  year   ended
December 31, 1996.


                               PART II


Item 5.   MARKET  FOR   REGISTRANT'S   COMMON  EQUITY   AND   RELATED
          STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Price Range of Common Stock

     The Company's common  stock trades  on The  Nasdaq Stock  Market
under  the  symbol  AMGN.     As  of   March 13,  1997,  there   were
approximately 14,000 holders of record of the Company's common stock.
No cash dividends have been paid on the common stock to date, and the
Company currently intends to retain  any earnings for development  of
the Company's business and for repurchases of its common stock.

     The  following  table  sets   forth,  for  the  fiscal   periods
indicated, the range  of high  and low  closing sales  prices of  the
common stock as quoted on The Nasdaq Stock Market for the years  1996
and 1995:

                                         High         Low
       1996                            -------      -------
       4th Quarter .................   $64          $54-3/8
       3rd Quarter .................    63-3/8       51-1/2
       2nd Quarter .................    61           52-3/8
       1st Quarter .................    65-1/2       52-3/4

       4th Quarter .................   $59-3/8      $43-1/2
       3rd Quarter .................    52           39-1/4
       2nd Quarter .................    40-7/32      33-1/16
       1st Quarter .................    35-3/8       28-1/4

Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities

     In connection with the Company's stock repurchase program, Amgen
sold put warrants on its common stock (see Note 6 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements - "Stock repurchase program").  Each put warrant
entitles the holder to sell one  share of Amgen Inc. common stock  to
the Company at a specified price on its maturity date.  During  1996,
the Company sold 2.7  million put warrants for  $10.8 million in  six
separate transactions to Goldman Sachs and Co.  The put warrants  had
terms ranging from approximately eight to eleven months and  exercise
prices ranging from $52.00 to $58.80 per share.

     The Company believes  that the  sales of  these securities  were
exempt from  registration  under  the  Securities  Act  of  1933,  as
amended, pursuant to Section 4(2) thereof.


Item 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL  DATA  (in millions,  except  per  share
data)

                                       Years Ended December 31,
                               1992     1993     1994     1995    1996
                               ----     ----     ----     ----    ----
Consolidated Statement of
  Operations Data:
Revenues:
 Product sales ..............$1,050.7 $1,306.3$1,549.6 $1,818.6 $2,088.2
 Other revenues .............    42.3     67.5    98.3    121.3    151.6
Total revenues............... 1,093.0  1,373.8 1,647.9  1,939.9  2,239.8
Research and development
  expenses ..................   182.3    255.3   323.6    451.7    528.3
Write-off of in-process
  technology purchased ......      -         -   116.4        -        -
Marketing and selling
  expenses ..................  184.5     214.1   236.9    272.9    310.1
General and administrative
  expenses ..................  107.7     114.3   122.9    145.5    160.5
Legal award..................  (77.1)    (13.9)      -        -        -
Net income(1)................  357.6     383.3   319.7    537.7    679.8
Primary earnings per            1.21      1.33    1.14     1.92     2.42
  share(1) ..................
Cash dividends declared per
  share .....................      -        -        -        -       -


                                           At December 31,
                               1992     1993     1994     1995    1996
                               ----     ----     ----     ----    ----
Consolidated Balance Sheet
  Data:
Total assets.................$1,374.3 $1,765.5 $1,994.1$2,432.8 $2,765.6
Long-term debt...............   129.9    181.2    183.4   177.2     59.0
Stockholders' equity.........   933.7  1,172.0  1,274.3 1,671.8  1,906.3



(1)  Includes an increase to net income of $8.7 million, or $.03  per
     share,  to  reflect  the  cumulative  effect  of  a  change   in
     accounting principle to adopt Statement of Financial  Accounting
     Standards No. 109 in 1993.   Also includes the write-off of  in-
     process technology  purchased of  $116.4  million, or  $.42  per
     share, associated with the acquisition of Synergen in 1994  (see
     Note 1 to Consolidated Financial Statements).


ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
          AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Liquidity and Capital Resources

     Cash provided by operating activities  has been and is  expected
to continue to be  the Company's primary source  of funds.  In  1996,
operations   provided   $822.6 million   of   cash   compared    with
$773.2 million in 1995.  The Company  had cash, cash equivalents  and
marketable  securities  of  $1,077 million  at  December  31,   1996,
compared with $1,050.3 million at December 31, 1995.

     Capital expenditures  totaled  $266.9 million in  1996  compared
with $162.7 million in 1995.   Over the next  few years, the  Company
expects to  spend  approximately  $350 million per  year  on  capital
projects and equipment to expand the Company's global operations.

     In April 1996, the Company invested  $48 million in a  corporate
partner, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., to acquire 3 million shares
of common stock  along with warrants  to purchase  an additional  0.7
million shares.

     The Company receives  cash from the  exercise of employee  stock
options.   In 1996,  stock options  and  their related  tax  benefits
provided $162.1 million of cash compared with $145.5 million in 1995.
Proceeds from the  exercise of stock  options and  their related  tax
benefits have varied and are expected to continue to vary from period
to period based upon, among other factors, fluctuations in the market
value of the Company's stock relative  to the exercise price of  such
options.

     The Company  has  a  stock  repurchase  program  to  offset  the
dilutive effect  of  its  employee benefit  stock  option  and  stock
purchase plans.  Shares repurchased  exceeded  the number  of  option
grants for 1995 and 1996.  In 1996, the Company purchased 7.7 million
shares of common stock  at a cost of  $450 million, and in 1995,  the
Company purchased  7.3 million shares  at a  cost of  $285.7 million.
The Company expects to spend up to $450 million on stock  repurchases
in 1997.    To partially  hedge  the  cost of  its  stock  repurchase
program, the Company sold put warrants and purchased call options  in
1996 (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

     To provide for  financial flexibility  and increased  liquidity,
the Company has established several sources  of debt financing.   The
Company has $100 million available under its $213 million debt  shelf
registration.  The shelf registration  was increased in January  1997
from  $200   million  to   $213  million.     At   December 31, 1996,
$109 million of debt securities were outstanding and bear interest at
fixed rates  averaging  5.8%.   The  current portion  of  these  debt
securities is $50 million, and  the remaining debt securities  mature
in two to seven years.   The Company has $68.2 million of  promissory
notes maturing in  1997.   The Company  also has  a commercial  paper
program which provides for short-term  borrowings up to an  aggregate
face amount of  $200 million.  As  of December 31, 1996, the  Company
had no  outstanding  commercial  paper.    The  Company  also  has  a


$150 million revolving  line  of  credit,  on  which  there  were  no
borrowings outstanding at December 31, 1996.

     The primary objectives  for the  Company's investment  portfolio
are liquidity  and safety  of principal.    Investments are  made  to
achieve the highest rate  of return to  the Company, consistent  with
these  two  objectives.    The  Company's  investment  policy  limits
investments to certain  types of instruments  issued by  institutions
with investment  grade  credit  ratings and  places  restrictions  on
maturities and concentration by type and issuer.  The Company invests
its excess  cash  in  securities  with  varying  maturities  to  meet
projected cash needs.

     The Company believes  that existing funds,  cash generated  from
operations and existing  sources of  debt financing  are adequate  to
satisfy its working capital and capital expenditure requirements  for
the foreseeable future, as  well as to  support its stock  repurchase
program.  However, the Company may raise additional capital from time
to time to take advantage of  favorable conditions in the markets  or
in connection with the Company's corporate development activities.

Results of Operations

  Product sales

     Product sales increased $269.6 million or  15% in 1996 over  the
prior year.   In 1995, product  sales increased  $269 million or  17%
over the prior year.

  NEUPOGEN(R) (Filgrastim)

     The Company's worldwide NEUPOGEN(R) sales were  $1,016.3 million
in 1996, an increase of $80.3 million or 9% over the prior year.   In
1995, sales were  $936 million, an  increase of  $107 million or  13%
over the prior year.

     Domestic sales of  NEUPOGEN(R) were $731.6 million  in 1996,  an
increase of $69.8 million or 11% over the prior year due primarily to
growth in demand  and a  price increase which  was in  line with  the
Consumer Price Index.  In  1995, domestic sales were  $661.8 million,
an increase of $44.6 million or 7% over the prior year due  primarily
to the increased usage of NEUPOGEN(R) and price increases.

     Quarterly NEUPOGEN(R)  sales  volume  in the  United  States  is
influenced by a  number of  factors including  underlying demand  and
wholesaler inventory  management  practices.    Wholesaler  inventory
reductions tend to  reduce domestic  NEUPOGEN(R) sales  in the  first
quarter each year.   In addition, the  discretionary aspects of  some
cancer chemotherapy administration has  had a slight seasonal  effect
on NEUPOGEN(R) sales.

     Cost containment pressures in  the health care marketplace  have
contributed to the  slowing of growth  in domestic NEUPOGEN(R)  usage
over the  past  several  years.   These  pressures  are  expected  to
continue to influence such growth for the foreseeable future.


     Despite these pressures, the  Company believes that  NEUPOGEN(R)
sales have continued to grow in 1996 because the Company focused  its
marketing  efforts  on  specific  tumor  types  and  on  the  ability
NEUPOGEN(R) to  partially  offset its  own  costs by  decreasing  the
likelihood of infections requiring hospitalization.  The introduction
and use of new myelosuppressive chemotherapy agents and the  approval
of  NEUPOGEN(R)  for   use  in  peripheral   blood  progenitor   cell
transplants is also believed to have contributed to sales growth.

     International sales of  NEUPOGEN(R), primarily  in Europe,  were
$284.7 million in 1996, an increase  of $10.5 million or 4% over  the
prior year.  Unit demand accounted for most of this increase but  was
partially offset by the  weakening of foreign  currencies.  In  1995,
international sales of NEUPOGEN(R)  were $274.2 million, an  increase
of $62.4 million or  29% over the  prior year.   Three factors,  each
contributing approximately one third, accounted for this increase  in
1995:  (1) strong unit demand growth, (2) the inclusion of sales from
three additional  countries  as the  result  of Austria,  Sweden  and
Finland joining the European Union ("EU") on January 1, 1995, and (3)
the favorable effects of strengthened  foreign currencies.  Prior  to
the entry of the three additional countries into the EU, F.  Hoffmann
La Roche paid the Company royalties on sales in these countries under
a license agreement.

     The Company's  overall share  of the  colony stimulating  factor
("CSF") market in the EU in which NEUPOGEN(R) competes has  continued
to decrease since the introduction in 1994 of a competing granulocyte
CSF product.  The Company does  not expect the competitive  intensity
to subside in the near future.  While sales in the EU have  continued
to increase, government  budget issues  and cost  controls have  also
slowed the growth of the CSF market in the EU.

  EPOGEN(R) (Epoetin alfa)

     EPOGEN(R) sales were  $1,071.9 million in  1996, an increase  of
$189.3 million or 21% over the prior year.  In 1995, EPOGEN(R)  sales
were $882.6 million,  an increase  of $162 million  or 22%  over  the
prior year.  These increases were  primarily due to increases in  the
U.S. dialysis  patient population  and the  administration of  higher
doses, and to a lesser extent, increased penetration of the  dialysis
market.

     Increases in  both  the  U.S. dialysis  patient  population  and
dosing are  expected to  continue to  drive EPOGEN(R)  sales.   These
drivers remained strong  throughout 1996 as  the Company focused  its
marketing efforts on the benefits of increasing patients'  hematocrit
levels.    However,  the  Company  believes  that  as  more  dialysis
patients' hematocrits  reach  target levels,  dosing  increases  will
diminish.

  Cost of sales

     Cost of sales as a percentage of product sales was 13.6%,  15.0%
and 15.4%  for  the years  ended  December 31, 1996, 1995  and  1994,
respectively.    The  improvement   in  the  current  year   reflects
efficiencies from the  Company's fill-and-finish  facility in  Puerto
                               

Rico.  In 1997,  cost of sales  as a percentage  of product sales  is
expected to be in the range of 13%  to 14% as a result of  continuing
efficiencies in the Puerto Rico facility.

  Research and development

     In 1996 and  1995, research and  development expenses  increased
$76.6 million  or  17%  and  $128.1 million  or  40%,   respectively,
compared with  the  respective prior  years.   These  increases  were
primarily due  to  staff-related  expenses  and  external  costs  for
clinical and  preclinical  activities necessary  to  support  ongoing
product  development  activities.    In  1997,  annual  research  and
development expenses  are expected  to increase  at a  rate  slightly
exceeding the  Company's product  sales  growth rate.  Increases  are
planned for internal  efforts on development  of product  candidates,
for discovery and for licensing efforts.

  Write-off of in-process technology purchased

     In  December   1994,  the   Company  acquired   Synergen,   Inc.
("Synergen"), a biotechnology  company engaged in  the discovery  and
development of protein-based pharmaceuticals.  Synergen was  acquired
for $254.5 million in cash, including related acquisition costs.  The
purchase price was assigned to  the acquired tangible and  intangible
assets  based  on  their  estimated  fair  values  at  the  date   of
acquisition.    The  value  assigned  to  in-process  technology   of
$116.4 million   was    expensed    during    the    quarter    ended
December 31, 1994.

  Marketing and selling/general and administrative

     In 1996  and  1995,  marketing and  selling  expenses  increased
$37.2 million or 14% and  $36 million or 15%, respectively,  compared
with the respective prior years.   These increases primarily  reflect
market  research  activities,  efforts  to  increase  the  number  of
patients receiving NEUPOGEN(R) and  to bring more patients  receiving
EPOGEN(R) within the target hematocrit range.

     In 1996 and 1995, general and administrative expenses  increased
$15 million or 10% and  $22.6 million or 18%, respectively,  compared
with the respective prior years.   These increases are primarily  due
to staff-related expenses.

     In 1997, marketing  and selling expenses  combined with  general
and administrative expenses are expected to have an aggregate  annual
growth rate that approximates the  anticipated 1997 annual growth  in
product sales.

  Interest and other income

     In 1996, interest and other income decreased $2.5 million or  4%
compared with  the prior  year.   This decrease  resulted from  lower
interest rates  and  lower capital  gains  related to  the  Company's
investment portfolio, partially offset by  higher cash balances.   In
1995, interest and other income increased $44.6 million or 207%  over
the prior year.   This increase  was primarily due  to capital  gains


realized in  the Company's  investment  portfolio during  1995  while
capital losses were incurred in 1994  and from higher interest  rates
and cash balances compared with the  prior year.  Interest and  other
income is  expected  to  continue  to  vary  from  period  to  period
primarily  due  to  changes  in  cash  balances,  timing  of  capital
gains/losses and fluctuations in interest rates.

  Income taxes

     The Company's tax rate was 29.4%, 32.3% and 45.7% for the  years
ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and  1994, respectively.  The  decrease
in 1996 is primarily the result  of a favorable ruling received  from
the Puerto Rican government with respect to tollgate taxes applicable
to earnings in Puerto  Rico.   The  decrease in 1995  was due to  tax
benefits from the sale  of products manufactured  in the Puerto  Rico
fill-and-finish facility which  began in the  first quarter of  1995.
The tax rate in 1994  was higher than the  statutory rate due to  the
write-off of in-process technology  purchased in connection with  the
Synergen  acquisition,  which  was  not  deductible  for  income  tax
purposes.   In  1997,  the  tax  rate  is  expected  to  decrease  to
approximately 28%.  In 1998, the tax rate is expected to increase  to
approximately 31%-32% due  to a change  in the U.S.  federal tax  law
which limits the tax  benefits from manufacturing  in Puerto Rico  to
1995 levels.

  Foreign currency transactions

     The Company  has a  program to  manage certain  portions of  its
exposure to fluctuations in  foreign currency exchange rates  arising
from international  operations.   The  Company generally  hedges  the
receivables and  payables with  foreign currency  forward  contracts,
which typically mature within six months.   The Company uses  foreign
currency option and forward  contracts which generally expire  within
12 months to hedge certain anticipated future sales and expenses.  At
December 31, 1996, outstanding  foreign currency  option and  forward
contracts totaled $39.7 million and $93 million, respectively.

Financial Outlook

     Worldwide NEUPOGEN(R) (Filgrastim) sales  for 1997 are  expected
to grow  at  a  rate  lower  than  the  1996  growth  rate.    Future
NEUPOGEN(R) sales  increases  are dependent  primarily  upon  further
penetration of existing markets, the timing and nature of  additional
indications for which the product may be approved and the effects  of
competitive products. Although  not approved or  promoted for use  in
the United States, the Company believes that approximately 20% of its
domestic NEUPOGEN(R) sales  are from  off-label use  as a  supportive
therapy  for  various  AIDS-related  treatments.    Changes  in  AIDS
therapies, including therapies that may be less myelosuppressive, may
affect such sales.  NEUPOGEN(R) usage  is expected to continue to  be
affected by  cost  containment  pressures on  health  care  providers
worldwide.    In  addition,  international  NEUPOGEN(R)  sales   will
continue to be subject to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

     EPOGEN(R) (Epoetin alfa) sales for  1997 are expected to  remain
strong but grow  at a  rate lower  than the  1996 growth  rate.   The

Company anticipates that increases in both the U.S. dialysis  patient
population and dosing will  continue to drive  EPOGEN(R) sales.   The
Company believes that, as  more dialysis patients' hematocrits  reach
target levels, the  contribution of  dosing to  sales increases  will
diminish.  Patients receiving treatment  for end stage renal  disease
are covered primarily under medical programs provided by the  federal
government.   Therefore,  EPOGEN(R) sales  may  also be  affected  by
future changes in reimbursement rates or the basis for  reimbursement
by the federal government.

     The Company anticipates  that total product  sales and  earnings
will grow at double digit rates  in 1997, but these growth rates  are
expected to be  lower than 1996  growth rates.   Estimates of  future
product sales and earnings,  however, are necessarily speculative  in
nature and are difficult to predict with accuracy.

     Except for  the  historical information  contained  herein,  the
matters discussed in  this Annual Report  on Form 10-K  are by  their
nature forward-looking.  For the reasons stated in this Annual Report
or in the Company's other Securities and Exchange Commission filings,
or for  various  unanticipated  reasons, actual  results  may  differ
materially.

Legal Matters

     The Company is  engaged in arbitration  proceedings with one  of
its licensees and various  other legal proceedings.   For a  complete
discussion of these matters, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Factors That May Affect Future Results

     Amgen operates in a rapidly changing environment that involves a
number of risks, some of which are beyond the Company's control.  The
following discussion highlights some of  these risks, and others  are
discussed elsewhere  herein  and  in other  documents  filed  by  the
Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

  Product development

     The  Company   intends  to   continue  an   aggressive   product
development  program.     Successful  product   development  in   the
biotechnology industry is highly uncertain, and only a small minority
of  research  and  development  programs  ultimately  result  in  the
commercialization  of  a  product.    Of  the  candidates  that   are
commercialized, all  may not  be  commercially successful.    Product
candidates that appear promising in  the early phases of  development
may fail to reach the market for numerous reasons, including, without
limitation, results indicating lack of effectiveness or harmful  side
effects in  clinical  or  preclinical  testing,  failure  to  receive
necessary regulatory approvals, uneconomical manufacturing costs, the
existence of  third  party proprietary  rights,  failure to  be  cost
effective in light of existing therapeutics or other factors.   There
can be no assurance that the  Company will be able to produce  future
products that have commercial potential.


     Additionally, success in preclinical  and early clinical  trials
does not ensure that large scale clinical trials will be  successful.
Clinical   results    are   frequently    susceptible   to    varying
interpretations which may  delay, limit or  prevent further  clinical
development or regulatory approvals.  The length of time necessary to
complete clinical trials and  receive approval for product  marketing
by  regulatory  authorities  varies  significantly  by  product   and
indication and  is often  difficult to  predict.   See  "--Regulatory
approvals."

  Regulatory approvals

     The Company's  research  and development,  preclinical  testing,
clinical trials,  facilities,  manufacturing  and  marketing  of  its
products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental
authorities in  the U.S.  and other  countries.  The success  of  the
Company's current products and future product candidates will  depend
in part upon obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval to  market
products in  approved indications.  Even  if regulatory  approval  is
obtained, a  marketed product  and its  manufacturer are  subject  to
continued review.   Later  discovery of  previously unknown  problems
with a product  or manufacturer may  result in  restrictions on  such
product or manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the
market.  Failure to obtain  necessary approvals, or the  restriction,
suspension or revocation of  any approvals or  the failure to  comply
with regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect  on
the Company.

  Reimbursement; Third party payors

     In both domestic  and foreign  markets, sales  of the  Company's
products are dependent in part  on the availability of  reimbursement
from third party  payors such  as governments  and private  insurance
plans.   In  certain foreign  markets  pricing and  profitability  of
prescription pharmaceuticals are subject to government controls.   In
the United States, there has been,  and the Company expects there  to
continue to be, a number of state and federal proposals to  implement
price controls.  In addition, an increasing emphasis on managed  care
in the United States has and  will continue to increase the  pressure
on  pharmaceutical   pricing  and   usage.     Further,   significant
uncertainties exist as to the reimbursement status of newly  approved
therapeutic products, and current reimbursement policies for existing
products may change.  Changes in  reimbursement or failure to  obtain
reimbursement may  reduce  the  demand for,  or  the  price  of,  the
Company's products which could have a material adverse effect on  the
Company including results of  operations.  Specifically, patients  in
the U.S. receiving  EPOGEN(R) in  connection with  treatment for  end
stage renal  disease are  covered  primarily under  medical  programs
provided by the federal government.   Therefore, EPOGEN(R) sales  may
be affected by future changes in reimbursement rates or the basis for
reimbursement by the federal government.

  Guidelines

     In addition to government  agencies that promulgate  regulations
and guidelines directly applicable to  the Company and its  products,


private health/science  foundations  and  organizations  involved  in
various diseases may also publish, from  time to time, guidelines  or
recommendations to  the healthcare  and patient  communities.   These
private organizations may make recommendations that affect the  usage
of certain therapies,  drugs or procedures,  including the  Company's
products.  Such recommendations may relate to such matters as  usage,
dosage, route  of administration  and use  of concomitant  therapies.
Recommendations or  guidelines  that  are followed  by  patients  and
healthcare  providers  and  that  result  in,  among  other   things,
decreased use of the Company's products could have a material adverse
effect on  the  Company.   In  addition,  the  perception  that  such
recommendations or guidelines will be followed could adversely affect
prevailing market prices for the Company's common stock.

  Intellectual property and legal matters

     The  patent  positions   of  pharmaceutical  and   biotechnology
companies  can  be  highly  uncertain  and  involve  complex   legal,
scientific and  factual questions.   To  date  there has  emerged  no
consistent  policy  regarding  breadth  of  claims  allowed  in  such
companies' patents.   Accordingly,  there can  be no  assurance  that
patents and patent  applications relating to  the Company's  products
and technologies will not be challenged, invalidated or  circumvented
or will afford protection  against competitors with similar  products
or technology.    Patent  disputes  are  frequent  and  can  preclude
commercialization of products.  The Company currently is, and may  in
the future be, involved  in patent litigation.   Such litigation,  if
decided  adversely,  could   subject  the   Company  to   significant
liabilities, cause  the Company  to obtain  third party  licenses  or
cease using the technology or product in dispute.  However, there can
be no  assurance  that  such licenses  will  be  available  on  terms
acceptable to the Company, or at all.

     The Company  is currently  involved in  arbitration  proceedings
with Ortho  Pharmaceutical Corporation,  a  subsidiary of  Johnson  &
Johnson ("Johnson & Johnson"), relating to  a license granted by  the
Company to Johnson & Johnson for sales of Epoetin alfa in the  United
States for all human uses except dialysis and diagnostics.  See  Note
4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Contingencies -  Johnson
& Johnson arbitrations."

  Competition

     Amgen operates in a highly competitive environment.  The Company
competes with  pharmaceutical and  biotechnology companies,  some  of
which may have technical or competitive advantages, for, among  other
things, the  development  of  technologies and  processes    and  the
acquisition of  technology  from  academic  institutions,  government
agencies and other private and public research organizations.   There
can be  no assurance  that the  Company will  be able  to produce  or
acquire rights to products that have  commercial potential.  Even  if
the Company  achieves  product  commercialization, there  can  be  no
assurance that one or more of the Company's competitors will not: (1)
achieve product  commercialization  earlier  than  the  Company,  (2)
receive patent  protection that  dominates or  adversely affects  the


Company's activities  or  (3) have  significantly  greater  marketing
capabilities.

  Fluctuations in operating results

     The Company's  operating results  may fluctuate  from period  to
period for a number of reasons.  Historically the Company has planned
its operating expenses,  many of which  are relatively  fixed in  the
short term,  on  the  basis that  revenues  will  continue  to  grow.
Accordingly, even a  relatively small revenue  shortfall may cause  a
period's results to be  below Company expectations.   Such a  revenue
shortfall could arise from any number of factors, including,  without
limitation, lower than expected demand, changes in wholesaler  buying
patterns,  changes   in   product   pricing   strategies,   increased
competition from new and  existing products, fluctuations in  foreign
currency  exchange   rates,   changes  in   government   or   private
reimbursement, transit interruptions, overall economic conditions  or
natural  disasters  (including  earthquakes).     The  Company   also
experiences a degree of  seasonality in its  operating results.   See
"Results of Operations - Product sales - NEUPOGEN(R) (Filgrastim)."

  Rapid growth

     The Company has adopted an aggressive growth plan that  includes
substantial and increased investments in research and development and
investments  in  facilities   that  will  be   required  to   support
significant growth.   This plan carries  with it a  number of  risks,
including a higher  level of  operating expenses,  the difficulty  of
attracting and assimilating a large number of new employees, and  the
complexities associated  with managing  a larger  and faster  growing
organization.

  Stock price volatility

     The Company's  stock price,  like  that of  other  biotechnology
companies, is subject to significant volatility.  The stock price may
be affected by, among other things, clinical trial results and  other
product  development   related   announcements  by   Amgen   or   its
competitors, regulatory matters, announcements in the scientific  and
research community, intellectual property and legal matters,  changes
in reimbursement policies  or medical practices  or broader  industry
and market  trends  unrelated  to  the  Company's  performance.    In
addition, if revenues  or earnings in  any quarter fail  to meet  the
investment community's  expectations,  there could  be  an  immediate
adverse impact on the Company's stock price.


Item 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The information required by this item is incorporated herein  by
reference to the financial statements listed in Item 14(a) of Part IV
of this Form 10-K Annual Report.


Item 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
          AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.


                              PART III


Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information  concerning  the   directors  of   the  Company   is
incorporated by  reference  to  the  section  entitled  "Election  of
Directors" in the Company's  definitive Proxy Statement with  respect
to the Company's 1997 Annual Meeting to be filed with the  Securities
and Exchange Commission  within 120 days  of December  31, 1996  (the
"Proxy  Statement").    For  information  concerning  the   executive
officers of the  Company see  Item 1.  - "Executive  Officers of  the
Registrant".


Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The section labeled  "Executive Compensation"  appearing in  the
Company's Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference, except
for such information as need not  be incorporated by reference  under
rules promulgated by the Securities Exchange Commission.


Item 12.  SECURITY  OWNERSHIP  OF   CERTAIN  BENEFICIAL  OWNERS   AND
          MANAGEMENT

     The  section  labeled  "Security  Ownership  of  Directors   and
Executive Officers and  Certain Beneficial Owners"  appearing in  the
Company's Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.


Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The section  labeled  "Certain Transactions"  appearing  in  the
Company's Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.


                                 PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM
          8-K

(a)  1. Index to Financial Statements

     The following Financial Statements are included herein:

                                                                  Page
                                                                 Number

  Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors .................F-1
  Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three
     years in the period ended December 31, 1996.....................F-2
  Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1996 and 1995 .........F-3
  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for each of
     the three years in the period ended December 31, 1996...........F-4
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three
     years in the period ended December 31, 1996...............F-5 - F-6
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements .................F-7 - F-26

(a)  2. Index to Financial Statement Schedules

     The following  Schedules are  filed as  part of  this Form  10-K
Annual Report:

                                                                  Page
                                                                 Number

     II  Valuation Accounts ......................................F-27

     All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable,
or not required, or because the  required information is included  in
the consolidated statements or notes thereto.

(a)  3. Exhibits

Exhibit No.                     Description

   3.1       Restated Certificate of Incorporation. (6)
   3.2       Certificate  of  Amendment  to  Restated  Certificate  of
             Incorporation, effective as of July 24, 1991. (11)
   3.3       Amended and Restated Bylaws. (22)
   4.1       Indenture dated January  1, 1992 between the Company  and
             Citibank N.A., as trustee. (12)
   4.2       Forms of Commercial Paper Master Note Certificates. (15)
   4.3       First Supplement  to Indenture, dated  February 26,  1997
             between the Company and Citibank N.A., as trustee.(23)
+*10.1       Company's  Amended  and Restated  1991  Equity  Incentive
             Plan.
 +10.2       Company's Amended  and Restated 1984  Stock Option  Plan.
             (22)
  10.3       Shareholder's Agreement  of Kirin-Amgen, Inc., dated  May
             11, 1984, between the Company and Kirin Brewery  Company,


             Limited  (with certain  confidential information  deleted
             therefrom). (1)
  10.4       Amendment Nos.  1, 2, and 3,  dated March 19, 1985,  July
             29,  1985 and  December 19,  1985, respectively,  to  the
             Shareholder's Agreement  of Kirin-Amgen, Inc., dated  May
             11, 1984  (with certain confidential information  deleted
             therefrom). (3)
  10.5       Product License Agreement, dated September 30, 1985,  and
             Technology License  Agreement, dated, September 30,  1985
             between the Company and Ortho Pharmaceutical  Corporation
             (with    certain   confidential    information    deleted
             therefrom). (2)
  10.6       Product License Agreement, dated September 30, 1985,  and
             Technology License  Agreement, dated  September 30,  1985
             between  Kirin-Amgen,   Inc.  and  Ortho   Pharmaceutical
             Corporation   (with  certain   confidential   information
             deleted therefrom). (3)
 +10.7       Company's Amended  and Restated  Employee Stock  Purchase
             Plan. (22)
  10.8       Research, Development  Technology Disclosure and  License
             Agreement PPO,  dated January  20, 1986,  by and  between
             the Company and Kirin Brewery Co., Ltd. (4)
  10.9       Amendment  Nos.   4  and  5,   dated  October  16,   1986
             (effective July 1, 1986) and December 6, 1986  (effective
             July  1,   1986),  respectively,   to  the   Shareholders
             Agreement of Kirin-Amgen,  Inc. dated May 11, 1984  (with
             certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (5)
  10.10      Assignment  and  License  Agreement,  dated  October  16,
             1986,  between the  Company and  Kirin-Amgen, Inc.  (with
             certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (5)
  10.11      G-CSF  European  License Agreement,  dated  December  30,
             1986,  between Kirin-Amgen,  Inc. and  the Company  (with
             certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (5)
  10.12      Research  and   Development  Technology  Disclosure   and
             License Agreement: GM-CSF, dated March 31, 1987,  between
             Kirin  Brewery Company,  Limited  and the  Company  (with
             certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (5)
+*10.13      Company's  Amended  and Restated  1987  Directors'  Stock
             Option Plan.
 +10.14      Company's  Amended and  Restated 1988  Stock Option  Plan
             (22).
 +10.15      Company's  Amended and  Restated Retirement  and  Savings
             Plan. (22)
  10.16      Amendment,   dated   June   30,   1988,   to    Research,
             Development,    Technology   Disclosure    and    License
             Agreement:  GM-CSF dated  March 31, 1987,  between  Kirin
             Brewery Company, Limited and the Company. (6)
  10.17      Agreement on G-CSF  in the EU, dated September 26,  1988,
             between  Amgen  Inc.  and  F.  Hoffmann-La  Roche  &  Co.
             Limited  Company (with  certain confidential  information
             deleted therefrom). (8)
  10.18      Supplementary  Agreement to  Agreement dated  January  4,
             1989 to  Agreement on G-CSF  in the  EU, dated  September
             26, 1988, between the Company and F. Hoffmann-La Roche  &
             Co.   Limited   Company,   (with   certain   confidential
             information deleted therefrom). (8)


  10.19      Agreement on G-CSF  in Certain European Countries,  dated
             January 1,  1989, between Amgen  Inc. and F.  Hoffmann-La
             Roche &  Co. Limited Company  (with certain  confidential
             information deleted therefrom). (8)
  10.20      Rights Agreement, dated  January 24, 1989, between  Amgen
             Inc.  and  American Stock  Transfer  and  Trust  Company,
             Rights Agent. (7)
  10.21      First Amendment  to Rights Agreement,  dated January  22,
             1991, between Amgen Inc. and American Stock Transfer  and
             Trust Company, Rights Agent. (9)
  10.22      Second  Amendment to  Rights  Agreement, dated  April  2,
             1991, between Amgen Inc. and American Stock Transfer  and
             Trust Company, Rights Agent. (10)
  10.23      Agency Agreement, dated November 21, 1991, between  Amgen
             Manufacturing,  Inc.  and  Citicorp  Financial   Services
             Corporation. (13)
  10.24      Agency  Agreement,  dated May  21,  1992,  between  Amgen
             Manufacturing,  Inc.  and  Citicorp  Financial   Services
             Corporation. (13)
  10.25      Guaranty, dated  July 29, 1992, by  the Company in  favor
             of Merck Sharp & Dohme Quimica de Puerto Rico, Inc. (14)
  10.26      936  Promissory Note  No. 01,  dated December  11,  1991,
             issued by Amgen Manufacturing, Inc. (13)
  10.27      936  Promissory Note  No. 02,  dated December  11,  1991,
             issued by Amgen Manufacturing, Inc. (13)
  10.28      936 Promissory Note No. 001, dated July 29, 1992,  issued
             by Amgen Manufacturing, Inc. (13)
  10.29      936 Promissory Note No. 002, dated July 29, 1992,  issued
             by Amgen Manufacturing, Inc. (13)
  10.30      Guaranty,  dated November  21, 1991,  by the  Company  in
             favor of Citicorp Financial Services Corporation. (13)
  10.31      Partnership  Purchase Agreement,  dated March  12,  1993,
             between  the  Company,  Amgen  Clinical  Partners,  L.P.,
             Amgen  Development  Corporation,  the  Class  A   limited
             partners and the Class B limited partner. (14)
 +10.32      Amgen Supplemental  Retirement Plan dated  June 1,  1993.
             (16)
  10.33      Promissory Note  of Mr. Kevin  W. Sharer,  dated June  4,
             1993. (16)
  10.34      Promissory Note of  Mr. Larry A. May, dated February  24,
             1993. (25)
+*10.35      Amgen Performance Based Management Incentive Plan.
  10.36      Agreement and  Plan of Merger, dated  as of November  17,
             1994,  among Amgen  Inc., Amgen  Acquisition  Subsidiary,
             Inc. and Synergen, Inc. (17)
  10.37      Third  Amendment  to   Rights  Agreement,  dated  as   of
             February 21, 1995, between Amgen Inc. and American  Stock
             Transfer Trust and Trust Company (18)
  10.38      Credit Agreement, dated as of June 23, 1995, among  Amgen
             Inc.,  the  Borrowing  Subsidiaries  named  therein,  the
             Banks named therein, Swiss Bank Corporation and ABN  AMRO
             Bank N.V., as Issuing Banks, and Swiss Bank  Corporation,
             as Administrative Agent. (19)
  10.39      Promissory  Note  of   Mr.  George  A.  Vandeman,   dated
             December 15, 1995. (20)


  10.40      Promissory  Note  of   Mr.  George  A.  Vandeman,   dated
             December 15, 1995. (20)
  10.41      Promissory  Note of  Mr.  Stan Benson,  dated  March  19,
             1996. (20)
 +10.42      Amendment No.  1 to  the Company's  Amended and  Restated
             Retirement and Savings Plan. (22)
+*10.43      Amendment Number 5 to the Company's Amended and  Restated
             Retirement and Savings Plan dated January 1, 1993.
+*10.44      Amendment Number 2 to the Company's Amended and  Restated
             Retirement and Savings Plan dated April 1, 1996.
 *10.45      First  Amendment  to   Credit  Agreement,  dated  as   of
             December 12,  1996,  among  Amgen  Inc.,  the   Borrowing
             Subsidiaries named  therein, and  Swiss Bank  Corporation
             as Administrative Agent.
  10.46      Fourth Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated February  18,
             1997 between Amgen  Inc. and American Stock Transfer  and
             Trust Company, Rights Agent. (24)
  10.47      Preferred  Share  Rights Agreement,  dated  February  18,
             1997, between Amgen Inc. and American Stock Transfer  and
             Trust Company, Rights Agent. (24)
+*10.48      Consulting Agreement,  dated November  15, 1996,  between
             the Company and Daniel Vapnek.
+*10.49      Agreement, dated  May 30, 1995,  between the Company  and
             George A. Vandeman.
 *11         Computation of per share earnings.
 *21         Subsidiaries of the Company.
  23         Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.   The
             consent set  forth as page 44  is incorporated herein  by
             reference.
  24         Power of  Attorney.  The Power  of Attorney set forth  on
             page 43 is incorporated herein by reference.
 *27         Financial Data Schedule.
- ----------------
* Filed herewith.
+ Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

(1)  Filed as an exhibit  to the Annual Report  on Form 10-K for  the
     year ended  March 31,  1984 on  June 26,  1984 and  incorporated
     herein by reference.
(2)  Filed as an  exhibit to Quarterly  Report on Form  10-Q for  the
     quarter ended  September  30,  1985 on  November  14,  1985  and
     incorporated herein by reference.
(3)  Filed as an  exhibit to Quarterly  Report on Form  10-Q for  the
     quarter  ended  December  31,  1985  on  February  3,  1986  and
     incorporated herein by reference.
(4)  Filed as an exhibit to Amendment No. 1 to Form S-1  Registration
     Statement (Registration  No.  33-3069)  on March  11,  1986  and
     incorporated herein by reference.
(5)  Filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-K Annual Report for the  year
     ended March 31, 1987 on May 18, 1987 and incorporated herein  by
     reference.
(6)  Filed as an exhibit to Form  8 amending the Quarterly Report  on
     Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1988 on August 25, 1988
     and incorporated herein by reference.
(7)  Filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K Current Report dated January
     24, 1989 and incorporated herein by reference.

(8)  Filed as an exhibit  to the Annual Report  on Form 10-K for  the
     year ended  March 31,  1989 on  June 28,  1989 and  incorporated
     herein by reference.
(9)  Filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K Current Report dated January
     22, 1991 and incorporated herein by reference.
(10) Filed as an exhibit to the  Form 8-K Current Report dated  April
     12, 1991 and incorporated herein by reference.
(11) Filed as an exhibit  to the Form 8-K  Current Report dated  July
     24, 1991 and incorporated herein by reference.
(12) Filed as an  exhibit to  Form S-3  Registration Statement  dated
     December 19, 1991 and incorporated herein by reference.
(13) Filed as an exhibit  to the Annual Report  on Form 10-K for  the
     year ended December 31, 1992 on March 30, 1993 and  incorporated
     herein by reference.
(14) Filed as an  exhibit to the  Form 8-A dated  March 31, 1993  and
     incorporated herein by reference.
(15) Filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
     31, 1993 on May 17, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference.
(16) Filed as  an exhibit  to the  Form 10-Q  for the  quarter  ended
     September 30, 1993 on November 12, 1993 and incorporated  herein
     by reference.
(17) Filed as  an  exhibit  to the  Form  8-K  Current  Report  dated
     November 18, 1994 on December 2, 1994 and incorporated herein by
     reference.
(18) Filed as  an  exhibit  to the  Form  8-K  Current  Report  dated
     February 21, 1995 on  March 7, 1995  and incorporated herein  by
     reference.
(19) Filed as  an exhibit  to the  Form 10-Q  for the  quarter  ended
     June 30, 1995  on August  11, 1995  and incorporated  herein  by
     reference.
(20) Filed as an exhibit  to the Annual Report  on Form 10-K for  the
     year ended December 31, 1995 on March 29, 1996 and  incorporated
     herein by reference.
(21) Filed as  an exhibit  to the  Form 10-Q  for the  quarter  ended
     June 30, 1996  on August  12, 1996  and incorporated  herein  by
     reference.
(22) Filed as  an exhibit  to the  Form 10-Q  for the  quarter  ended
     September 30, 1996 on November  5, 1996 and incorporated  herein
     by reference.
(23) Filed as an exhibit to the  Form 8-K Current Report dated  March
     14, 1997 on March 14, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.
(24) Filed as  an  exhibit  to the  Form  8-K  Current  Report  dated
     February 18, 1997 on February  28, 1997 and incorporated  herein
     by reference.
(25) Filed as an exhibit to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
     ended December 31, 1993 on March 25, 1994 and incorporated herein 
     by reference.

(b)     Reports on Form 8-K

     No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company during the
three months ended December 31, 1996.


                             SIGNATURES


     Pursuant to the requirements of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this Annual Report to be  signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                             Amgen Inc.
                                             (Registrant)



Date:       3/24/97                  By:     /s/ ROBERT S. ATTIYEH
                                             ------------------------
                                             Robert S. Attiyeh
                                             Senior Vice President,
                                             Finance and Corporate 
                                             Development, and
                                             Chief Financial Officer










                          POWER OF ATTORNEY

     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature
appears below constitutes and appoints Robert S. Attiyeh and Larry A.
May, or either of them, his attorney-in-fact, each with the power  of
substitution, for  him  in  any  and  all  capacities,  to  sign  any
amendments to  this  Report, and  to  file the  same,  with  exhibits
thereto  and  other  documents  in  connection  therewith,  with  the
Securities and Exchange Commission,  hereby ratifying and  confirming
all that  each  of  said  attorneys-in-fact,  or  his  substitute  or
substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

     Pursuant to the requirements of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934, this report has been signed  below by the following persons  on
behalf of  the registrant  and in  the capacities  and on  the  dates
indicated:

/s/GORDON M. BINDER          3/24/97 /s/WILLIAM K. BOWES, JR.    3/24/97
- ----------------------------         --------------------------- 
Gordon M. Binder                     William K. Bowes, Jr.
Chairman of the Board                Director
Chief Executive Officer and
Director
(Principal Executive Officer)        /s/FRANKLIN P. JOHNSON,JR.  3/24/97
                                     --------------------------
                                     Franklin P. Johnson, Jr.
                                     Director
/s/KEVIN W. SHARER           3/24/97
- ----------------------------
Kevin W. Sharer
President, Chief Operating           /s/STEVEN LAZARUS           3/24/97
Officer and Director                 --------------------------
                                     Steven Lazarus
                                     Director

/s/ROBERT S. ATTIYEH         3/24/97
- ----------------------------
Robert S. Attiyeh                    /s/EDWARD J. LEDDER         3/24/97
Senior Vice President,               ---------------------------
Finance and Corporate                Edward J. Ledder
Development, and                     Director
Chief Financial Officer

                                     /s/GILBERT S. OMENN         3/24/97
                                     ---------------------------
                                     Gilbert S. Omenn
/s/LARRY A. MAY              3/24/97 Director
- ----------------------------
Larry A. May
Vice President,
Corporate Controller and             /s/JUDITH C. PELHAM         3/24/97
Chief Accounting Officer             --------------------------- 
                                     Judith C. Pelham
                                     Director

/s/RAYMOND F. BADDOUR        3/24/97
- ----------------------------
Raymond F. Baddour
Director


                                                           EXHIBIT 23


         CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


     We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-5111) pertaining to the 1984 Stock  Option
Plan, 1981 Incentive Stock Option Plan and Nonqualified Stock  Option
Plan of Amgen Inc., in the  Registration Statement (Form S-8 No.  33-
24013) pertaining to the Amended and Restated 1988 Stock Option  Plan
of Amgen Inc., in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No.  33-39183)
pertaining to the Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase  Plan,
in the Registration Statement (Form  S-8 No. 33-39104) pertaining  to
the Amended and Restated  Amgen Retirement and  Savings Plan, in  the
Registration Statements (Form S-3/S-8 No.  33-29791 and Form S-8  No.
33-42501) pertaining  to the  Amended  and Restated  1987  Directors'
Stock Option Plan, in  the Registration Statement  (Form S-8 No.  33-
42072) pertaining to the Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 1991  Equity
Incentive Plan, in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-47605)
pertaining to the Retirement and Savings Plan for Amgen Puerto  Rico,
Inc. and in the Registration Statements (Form S-3 No. 33-22544,  Form
S-3 No. 33-44454 and Form S-3 No. 333-19931) of Amgen Inc. and in the
related Prospectuses  of  our  report dated  January  22,  1997  with
respect  to  the  consolidated  financial  statements  and  financial
statement schedule of Amgen Inc. included in this Annual Report (Form
10-K) for the year ended December 31, 1996.




                                               /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
Los Angeles, California
March 24, 1997

          REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


The Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Amgen Inc.


We have  audited  the accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets of
Amgen Inc.  as  of  December 31,  1996  and  1995,  and the  related
consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash
flows for each of the  three years in the  period ended December 31,
1996.   Our audits  also included  the financial  statement schedule
listed in the Index  at Item 14(a).   These financial statements and
schedule are the  responsibility of  the Company's management.   Our
responsibility  is  to   express  an  opinion   on  these  financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted
auditing standards.    Those  standards  require  that we  plan  and
perform the audit to  obtain reasonable assurance  about whether the
financial statements are  free of  material misstatement.   An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting  principles used and  significant estimates
made by  management, as  well  as evaluating  the  overall financial
statement presentation.    We  believe  that  our audits  provide  a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial statements  referred to
above present  fairly, in  all material  respects,  the consolidated
financial position of Amgen Inc. at December  31, 1996 and 1995, and
the consolidated results  of its operations  and its cash  flows for
each of the three  years in the  period ended December  31, 1996, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting  principles.  Also, in
our  opinion,  the   related  financial  statement   schedule,  when
considered in relation to the basic  financial statements taken as a
whole, presents fairly in all material  respects the information set
forth therein.



                                               /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
Los Angeles, California
January 22, 1997

                               F-1

                             AMGEN INC.

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

            Years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                (In millions, except per share data)

                                      1996        1995        1994

                                    --------    --------    --------
Revenues:
  Product sales .................   $2,088.2    $1,818.6    $1,549.6
  Corporate partner revenues ....      109.9        85.2        70.4
  Royalty income ................       41.7        36.1        27.9
                                    --------    --------    --------
    Total revenues ..............    2,239.8     1,939.9     1,647.9
                                    --------    --------    --------
Operating expenses:
  Cost of sales .................      283.2       272.9       238.1
  Research and development ......      528.3       451.7       323.6
  Write-off of in-process
    technology purchased ........          -           -       116.4
  Marketing and selling .........      310.1       272.9       236.9
  General and administrative ....      160.5       145.5       122.9
  Loss of affiliates, net .......       52.8        53.3        31.2
                                    --------    --------    --------
    Total operating expenses ....    1,334.9     1,196.3     1,069.1
                                    --------    --------    --------

Operating income ................      904.9       743.6       578.8

Other income (expense):
  Interest and other income .....       63.6        66.1        21.5
  Interest expense, net .........       (6.2)      (15.3)      (12.0)
                                    --------    --------    --------
    Total other income (expense).       57.4        50.8         9.5
                                    --------    --------    --------
Income before income taxes ......      962.3       794.4       588.3

Provision for income taxes ......      282.5       256.7       268.6
                                    --------    --------    --------
Net income ......................   $  679.8    $  537.7    $  319.7
                                    ========    ========    ========

Earnings per share:
  Primary .......................      $2.42       $1.92       $1.14
  Fully diluted .................      $2.42       $1.88       $1.13

Shares used in calculation of:
  Primary earnings per share ....      280.7       280.7       279.6
  Fully  diluted earnings per         
    share .......................      280.9       285.3       282.2
 

                       See accompanying notes.

                               F-2

                              AMGEN INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                     December 31, 1996 and 1995
                (In millions, except per share data)

                                             1996       1995
                                           --------   --------
                            ASSETS
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents ..........     $  169.3   $   66.7
  Marketable securities ..............        907.7      983.6
  Trade  receivables, net of allowance
     for doubtful accounts of $11.8 in
     1996 and $13.8 in 1995...........        225.4      199.3
  Inventories ........................         97.4       88.8
  Other current assets ...............        102.8      115.7
                                           --------   --------
     Total current assets.............      1,502.6    1,454.1

Property, plant and equipment at cost,
  net ................................        910.5      743.8
Investments in affiliated companies...        109.6       95.7
Other assets..........................        242.9      139.2
                                           --------   --------
                                           $2,765.6   $2,432.8
                                           ========   ========

             LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
  Accounts payable ...................     $   75.0   $   54.4
  Accrued liabilities ................        449.7      459.7
  Current portion of long-term debt ..        118.2          -
  Commercial paper ...................            -       69.7
                                           --------   --------
     Total current liabilities........        642.9      583.8

Long-term debt........................         59.0      177.2
Put warrants..........................        157.4          -
Contingencies

Stockholders' equity:
  Common stock and additional
     paid-in capital; $.0001 par value;
     750 shares authorized; outstanding
     - 264.7 shares in 1996 and 265.7
     shares in 1995...................      1,026.9      864.8
  Retained earnings ..................        879.4      807.0
                                           --------   --------
     Total stockholders' equity.......      1,906.3    1,671.8
                                           --------   --------
                                           $2,765.6   $2,432.8
                                           ========   ========

                       See accompanying notes.

                               F-3

                             AMGEN INC.

           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

            Years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                            (In millions)

                                                Common
                                                 stock
                                                  and
                                       Number additional
                                         of     paid-in   Retained
                                       shares   capital   earnings
                                       ------ ----------  --------
  Balance at December 31, 1993 .......  268.4  $  636.2    $535.8
  Issuance of  common  stock upon  the
    exercise  of stock options and  in
    connection with  an employee stock
    purchase plan ....................    5.7      44.8         -
  Issuance of  common  stock upon  the
    exercise of warrants  ............    3.5      15.3         -
  Tax benefits related to stock           
    options ..........................      -      23.0         -  
  Repurchases of common stock ........  (12.9)        -    (300.5)
  Net income .........................      -         -     319.7
                                        -----  --------    ------

  Balance at December 31, 1994 .......  264.7     719.3     555.0
  Issuance of common stock upon the
    exercise of stock options and in
    connection with an employee stock
    purchase plan ....................    8.3     102.7         -
  Tax benefits related to stock    
    options ..........................      -      42.8         -
  Repurchases of common stock ........   (7.3)        -    (285.7)
  Net income .........................      -         -     537.7
                                        -----  --------    ------

  Balance at December 31, 1995 .......  265.7     864.8     807.0
  Issuance of  common  stock upon  the
    exercise  of stock options and  in
    connection with  an employee stock
    purchase plan ....................    6.7     113.5         -
  Tax benefits related to stock           
    options ..........................      -      48.6         -
  Reclassification of put warrant
    obligation .......................      -         -    (157.4)
  Repurchases of common stock ........   (7.7)        -    (450.0)
  Net income .........................      -         -     679.8
                                        -----  --------    ------

  Balance at December 31, 1996 .......  264.7  $1,026.9    $879.4
                                        =====  ========    ======

                       See accompanying notes.

                               F-4

                              AMGEN INC.

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

            Years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                            (In millions)

                                        1996      1995        1994
                                      --------  -------    ---------

Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net income .......................  $ 679.8   $  537.7     $319.7
  Write-off of in-process
    technology purchased ...........        -          -      116.4
  Depreciation and amortization ....    100.3       84.3       77.3
  Deferred income taxes ............     25.6       23.9        2.4  
  Loss of affiliates, net ..........     52.8       53.3       31.2
  Cash provided by (used in):
    Trade receivables, net .........    (26.1)      (4.6)     (30.4)
    Inventories ....................     (8.6)       9.2      (23.3)
    Other current assets ...........    (11.8)      (8.0)       1.8
    Accounts payable ...............     20.6       23.9        4.6
    Accrued liabilities ............    (10.0)      53.5       32.2
                                      -------    -------    -------
       Net cash provided by
         operating activities ......    822.6      773.2      531.9
                                      -------    -------    -------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Purchases of property, plant and
    equipment ......................   (266.9)    (162.7)    (130.8)
  Proceeds from maturities of
    marketable securities ..........    168.3      129.6       87.7
  Proceeds from sales of marketable
    securities .....................    762.4    1,018.8    1,505.8
  Purchases of marketable
    securities .....................   (854.8)  (1,646.6)  (1,395.1)
  Cost to acquire company, net of
    cash acquired ..................        -          -     (240.8)
  Increase in investments in
    affiliated companies ...........    (14.6)     (19.5)     (21.8)
  (Increase) decrease in other
    assets .........................   (104.6)     (13.7)       4.0
                                      -------   --------   --------
       Net cash used in investing
         activities ................  $(310.2)  $ (694.1)  $ (191.0)
                                      -------   --------   --------

                       See accompanying notes.
                      (Continued on next page)

                               F-5

                             AMGEN INC.

          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Continued)

            Years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                            (In millions)

                                        1996       1995       1994
                                      --------   --------   --------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Decrease in commercial paper .....   $(69.7)    $(30.0)    $(10.1)
  Repayment of long-term debt ......        -       (6.2)     (12.0)
  Proceeds from issuance of long-
    term debt ......................        -          -       12.5
  Net proceeds from issuance of
    common stock upon the exercise
    of stock options and in
    connection with an employee
    stock purchase plan ............    113.5      102.7       44.8
  Tax benefits related to stock
    options ........................     48.6       42.8       23.0
  Net proceeds from issuance of
    common stock upon the exercise
    of warrants ....................        -          -       15.3
  Repurchases of common stock ......   (450.0)    (285.7)    (300.5)
  Other ............................    (52.2)     (47.3)     (31.1)
                                     --------   --------   --------
       Net cash used in financing
         activities ................   (409.8)    (223.7)    (258.1)
                                     --------   --------   --------
Increase (decrease) in cash and cash
  equivalents ......................    102.6     (144.6)      82.8
Cash and cash equivalents at
  beginning of period ..............     66.7      211.3      128.5
                                     --------   --------   --------
Cash and cash equivalents at end of
  period ...........................   $169.3     $ 66.7     $211.3
                                     ========   ========   ========

                       See accompanying notes.

                               F-6

                             AMGEN INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                          December 31, 1996


1.   Summary of significant accounting policies

  Business


     Amgen Inc. ("Amgen" or the "Company") is a global  biotechnology
company that  discovers,  develops, manufactures  and  markets  human
therapeutics based on advances in cellular and molecular biology.

  Principles of consolidation

     The consolidated financial  statements include  the accounts  of
the Company and its wholly owned  subsidiaries as well as  affiliated
companies for which the Company has a controlling financial  interest
and exercises  control over  their operations  ("majority  controlled
affiliates").  All  material intercompany  transactions and  balances
have been  eliminated in  consolidation.   Investments in  affiliated
companies which are 50% or less owned and where the Company exercises
significant influence  over operations  are accounted  for using  the
equity method.  All other equity investments are accounted for  under
the cost  method.   The caption  "Loss of  affiliates, net"  includes
Amgen's equity in the operating  results of affiliated companies  and
the minority interest others hold in the operating results of Amgen's
majority controlled affiliates.

  Cash equivalents and marketable securities

     The  Company  considers  cash  equivalents  to  be  only   those
investments which are highly liquid, readily convertible to cash  and
which mature within three months from date of purchase.

     The Company  considers its  investment portfolio  available-for-
sale as  defined  in  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards
("SFAS") No. 115.  There were no material unrealized gains or  losses
nor any material  differences between the  estimated fair values  and
costs of securities in the investment portfolio at  December 31, 1996
and 1995.  For the year  ended December 31, 1996, realized gains  and
losses totaled $4.4 million  and $3 million,  respectively.  For  the
year ended December 31, 1995,  realized gains and  losses totaled  $8
million and $3.1 million, respectively.  For the year ended  December
31, 1994,  realized gains  and losses  totaled $5  million and  $21.1
million, respectively.  The cost of  securities sold is based on  the
specific identification method.  The cost of the investment portfolio
by type of security, contractual  maturity and its classification  in
the balance sheet is as follows (in millions):

                               F-7


                                                    December 31,
                                                1996       1995
                                              --------   --------
 Type of security:

 Corporate debt securities .................  $  656.2   $  486.8
 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of
   U.S. government agencies ................     209.7      459.3
 Other interest bearing securities .........     222.3       81.3
                                              --------   --------
                                              $1,088.2   $1,027.4
                                              ========   ========

 Contractual maturity:

 Maturing in one year or less ..............  $  610.8   $  219.4
 Maturing after one year through three years     351.3      569.4
 Maturing after three years ................     126.1      238.6
                                              --------   --------
                                              $1,088.2   $1,027.4
                                              ========   ========

 Classification in balance sheet:

 Cash and cash equivalents .................  $  169.3   $   66.7
 Marketable securities .....................     907.7      983.6
 Other assets - noncurrent .................      40.0          -
                                              --------   --------
                                               1,117.0    1,050.3
 Less cash .................................     (28.8)     (22.9)
                                              --------   --------
                                              $1,088.2   $1,027.4
                                              ========   ========

     The primary objectives  for the  Company's investment  portfolio
are liquidity  and safety  of principal.    Investments are  made  to
achieve the highest rate  of return to  the Company, consistent  with
these  two  objectives.    The  Company's  investment  policy  limits
investments to certain  types of instruments  issued by  institutions
with investment  grade credit  ratings,  and places  restrictions  on
maturities and concentration by type and issuer.  The Company invests
its excess  cash  in  securities  with  varying  maturities  to  meet
projected cash needs.

  Inventories

     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.  Cost  is
determined in  a manner  which approximates  the first-in,  first-out
(FIFO) method.  Inventories are shown net of applicable reserves  and
allowances.  Inventories consisted of the following (in millions):

                               F-8

                                                 December 31,
                                              1996         1995 
                                             -----        -----
        Raw materials...................     $15.9        $11.8
        Work in process.................      56.2         45.9
        Finished goods..................      25.3         31.1
                                             -----        -----
                                             $97.4        $88.8
                                             =====        =====


  Depreciation and amortization

     Depreciation of buildings and  equipment is provided over  their
estimated  useful  lives  on   a  straight-line  basis.     Leasehold
improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the  shorter
of their estimated  useful lives  or lease  terms, including  periods
covered by options which are expected to be exercised.  Useful  lives
by asset category are as follows:

                   Asset Category               Years
                   --------------               -----
         Buildings .....................       10 - 20
         Manufacturing equipment .......          5
         Laboratory equipment ..........          5
         Furniture and office equipment         3 - 10

  Product sales

     Product sales consist of two products, EPOGEN(R) (Epoetin  alfa)
and NEUPOGEN(R) (Filgrastim).

     Quarterly NEUPOGEN(R)  sales  volume  in the  United  States  is
influenced by a  number of  factors including  underlying demand  and
wholesaler inventory  management  practices.    Wholesaler  inventory
reductions tend to  reduce domestic  NEUPOGEN(R) sales  in the  first
quarter each year.   In addition, the  discretionary aspects of  some
cancer chemotherapy administration has  had a slight seasonal  effect
on NEUPOGEN(R) sales.

     The Company has  the exclusive right  to sell  Epoetin alfa  for
dialysis, diagnostics and  all non-human uses  in the United  States.
The Company sells Epoetin alfa under the brand name EPOGEN(R).  Amgen
has granted  to Ortho  Pharmaceutical  Corporation, a  subsidiary  of
Johnson &  Johnson  ("Johnson  & Johnson"),  a  license  relating  to
Epoetin alfa for sales in the United States for all human uses except
dialysis and diagnostics.  Pursuant to  this license, Amgen does  not
recognize product sales it makes into the exclusive market of Johnson
& Johnson and  does recognize  the product  sales made  by Johnson  &
Johnson into  Amgen's exclusive  market.   These sales  amounts,  and
adjustments thereto, are derived  from third-party data on  shipments
to end users and their usage (see Note 4, "Contingencies - Johnson  &
Johnson arbitrations").

                               F-9

     Research and development costs

     Research  and  development  costs  are  expensed  as   incurred.
Payments related to the acquisition  of technology rights, for  which
development  work  is  in-process,  are  expensed  and  considered  a
component of research and development costs.

     In December 1994, the Company acquired the outstanding stock  of
Synergen, Inc. ("Synergen"),  a publicly  held biotechnology  company
engaged  in   the   discovery  and   development   of   protein-based
pharmaceuticals.  Synergen was acquired for $254.5 million, including
related  acquisition  costs.    The  value  assigned  to   in-process
technology acquired of $116.4 million was expensed on the acquisition
date.  This business combination was accounted for using the purchase
method, and therefore, operating results of Synergen are included  in
the  accompanying  consolidated  financial  statements  beginning  in
December 1994.

  Foreign currency transactions

     The Company has a program to  manage foreign currency risk.   As
part of this program,  it has purchased  foreign currency option  and
forward contracts to hedge against  possible reductions in values  of
certain anticipated  foreign currency  cash flows  over the  next  12
months,  primarily  resulting   from  its  sales   in  Europe.     At
December 31, 1996, the Company had  net option and forward  contracts
to exchange foreign currencies for U.S. dollars of $39.7 million  and
$44.6 million, respectively,  all having  maturities of  one year  or
less.  The option contracts are designated and effective as hedges of
anticipated foreign  currency  transactions for  financial  reporting
purposes, and  accordingly,  the  net gains  on  such  contracts  are
deferred and will  be recognized  in the  same period  as the  hedged
transactions.  The  forward contracts do  not qualify  as hedges  for
financial reporting purposes,  and accordingly, are  marked-to-market
with changes in market values reflected directly in income.

     The Company has additional foreign currency forward contracts to
hedge certain exposures to  foreign currency fluctuations of  certain
receivables and  payables  denominated  in foreign  currencies.    At
December 31, 1996, the  Company  had forward  contracts  to  exchange
foreign currencies,  primarily  Swiss  francs, for  U.S.  dollars  of
$48.4 million, all having maturities of five  months or less.   These
contracts are designated  and effective as  hedges, and  accordingly,
gains and losses  on these forward  contracts are  recognized in  the
same period  the offsetting  gains and  losses of  hedged assets  and
liabilities are realized and recognized.

  Interest

     Interest costs are  expensed as incurred,  except to the  extent
such interest is related to construction  in progress, in which  case
interest is capitalized.   Interest costs  capitalized for the  years
ended  December 31, 1996,   1995   and   1994,   were   $4.2 million,
$4.7 million and $3.7 million, respectively.

                               F-10

  Stock option and purchase plans

     The Company's stock option and purchase plans are accounted  for
under Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, "Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees" (see Note 7).

  Earnings per share

     Earnings per share are computed in accordance with the  treasury
stock method.  Primary and fully diluted earnings per share are based
upon the weighted average number of common shares and dilutive common
stock equivalents during the period  in which they were  outstanding.
Common  stock  equivalents  include  outstanding  options  under  the
Company's stock  option plans  and outstanding  warrants to  purchase
shares of the Company's common stock.  Put warrants on the  Company's
common stock may also  be dilutive under  the reverse treasury  stock
method.

  Use of estimates

     The preparation  of  financial  statements  in  conformity  with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to  make
estimates and assumptions  that affect  the amounts  reported in  the
financial statements  and accompanying  notes.   Actual  results  may
differ from those estimates.

  Reclassification

     Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform  to
the current year presentation.


2.   Related party transactions

     The Company owns  a 50% interest  in Kirin-Amgen, Inc.  ("Kirin-
Amgen"), a  corporation  formed  in  1984  for  the  development  and
commercialization   of   certain    products   based   on    advanced
biotechnology.  Pursuant to the terms of agreements entered into with
Kirin-Amgen, the Company  conducts certain  research and  development
activities on behalf of Kirin-Amgen and is paid for such services  at
negotiated rates.  Included in  revenues from corporate partners  for
the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, are  $79.9 million,
$72.6 million and  $58.6  million,  respectively,  related  to  these
agreements.

     In connection with its various agreements with Kirin-Amgen,  the
Company  has  been  granted  sole  and  exclusive  licenses  for  the
manufacture and  sale of  certain  products in  specified  geographic
areas of the world.   In return for  such licenses, the Company  paid
Kirin-Amgen stated amounts  upon the receipt  of the licenses  and/or
pays Kirin-Amgen royalties based  on sales.   During the years  ended
December 31, 1996, 1995 and  1994, Kirin-Amgen earned royalties  from
Amgen  of   $86.2  million,   $74.2   million  and   $67.5   million,
respectively, under such  agreements, which are  included in cost  of
sales in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

                               F-11

     At   December 31, 1996,   Amgen's    share   of    Kirin-Amgen's
undistributed retained earnings was approximately $63.1 million.

3.   Debt

     The Company has  a commercial paper  program which provides  for
unsecured short-term borrowings up  to an aggregate of  $200 million.
At December 31, 1996,  the  Company  had  no  outstanding  commercial
paper.  At December 31, 1995,  $69.7 million of commercial paper  was
outstanding at effective interest rates averaging 5.8% and maturities
of less than three months.

     Long-term debt consisted of the following (in millions):

                                                December 31,
                                              1996         1995
                                            -------      -------
       Debt securities ..................    $109.0       $109.0
       Promissory notes .................      68.2         68.2
                                             ------       ------
                                              177.2        177.2
       Less current portion .............    (118.2)           -
                                             ------       ------
                                             $ 59.0       $177.2
                                             ======       ======


     The  Company  has  a  shelf  registration  under  which  it  has
registered $213 million of debt  securities.  The shelf  registration
was increased in January 1997 from $200 million to $213 million.   At
December 31,  1996,  $87  million  was  available  under  this  shelf
registration, and in January 1997, this amount was increased to  $100
million.  At December 31, 1996, $109 million of debt securities  were
outstanding.   The  debt  securities bear  interest  at  fixed  rates
averaging 5.8%.  The current portion of these debt securities is  $50
million, and the  remaining debt securities  mature in  two to  seven
years.  The Company may offer and issue these securities from time to
time with terms determined by market conditions.  Under the terms  of
these securities, the  Company is required  to meet  certain debt  to
tangible net  asset  ratios.   In  addition, these  securities  place
limitations on liens and sale/leaseback transactions.

     The Company's  promissory  notes,  which mature  in  1997,  were
issued  to   assist  in   financing  the   acquisition  and   related
construction of a manufacturing facility in Puerto Rico.  These notes
bear interest, which is payable quarterly, at a rate reset quarterly,
equal to  81% of  a Eurodollar  base rate,  not to  exceed 12%.    At
December 31, 1996, the  effective interest  rate on  these notes  was
approximately 4.5%.

     The Company  has  an  unsecured  credit  facility  (the  "credit
facility") that includes a commitment expiring  on June 23, 2000  for
up to $150 million  of borrowings under  a revolving  line of  credit
(the "revolving  line  commitment")  and  a  commitment  expiring  on
December 5, 1997 for up  to an additional  $73 million of letters  of
credit.  As  of December 31, 1996, $150 million  was available  under
the revolving  line  commitment  for borrowing  and  to  support  the
         
                                 F-12

Company's commercial paper program.   Also, as of  December 31, 1996,
letters of credit totaling $72.4 million were issued and  outstanding
to  secure  the  Company's  promissory  notes  and  accrued  interest
thereon.    Borrowings  under  the  revolving  line  commitment  bear
interest at various rates which are  a function of, at the  Company's
option, either the prime rate of a major bank, the federal funds rate
or a Eurodollar base rate.   Under the terms of the credit  facility,
the Company is required to meet a minimum interest coverage ratio and
maintain a minimum  level of tangible  net worth.   In addition,  the
credit  facility  contains  limitations  on  investments,  liens  and
sale/leaseback transactions.

     The aggregate stated maturities of all long-term obligations due
subsequent to  December 31, 1996,  are as  follows:  $118.2 million -
1997; $30  million - 1998;  $6 million - 1999;  none - 2000;  none -
2001; and $23 million thereafter.


4.   Contingencies

  Johnson & Johnson arbitrations

     In September  1985,  the Company  granted  Johnson &  Johnson  a
license relating to certain patented  technology and know-how of  the
Company to sell  a genetically engineered  form of recombinant  human
erythropoietin, called Epoetin alfa, throughout the United States for
all human uses except  dialysis and diagnostics.   Johnson &  Johnson
sells Epoetin alfa under the brand name PROCRIT(R).

     A number of  disputes have arisen  between Amgen  and Johnson  &
Johnson as  to  their respective  rights  and obligations  under  the
various agreements between them, including the agreement granting the
license (the  "License Agreement").   These  disputes have  been  the
subject of arbitration  proceedings before  Judicial Arbitration  and
Mediation Services, Inc. in  Chicago, Illinois commencing in  January
1989.  A dispute that has not yet been resolved and is the subject of
the current arbitration proceeding  relates to the audit  methodology
currently employed  by  the Company  for  Epoetin alfa  sales.    The
Company and Johnson & Johnson are  required to compensate each  other
for Epoetin  alfa  sales which  either  party makes  into  the  other
party's exclusive  market.    The  Company  has  established  and  is
employing an audit  methodology to assign  the proceeds  of sales  of
EPOGEN and  PROCRIT in  Amgen's and  Johnson &  Johnson's  respective
exclusive markets.  Based upon this audit methodology, the Company is
seeking payment of approximately  $12.6 million (excluding  interest)
from Johnson  & Johnson  for the  period  1991 to  1994.   Johnson  &
Johnson has disputed this methodology and is proposing an alternative
methodology for adoption by  the arbitrator pursuant  to which it  is
seeking payment  of approximately  $423 million  (including  interest
through December 1996)  for the period  1989 through 1994.   If as  a
result of the  arbitration proceeding, a  methodology different  from
that currently employed by  the Company is  instituted to assign  the
proceeds of sales between the parties, it may yield results that  are
different  from  the  results  of  the  audit  methodology  currently
employed by  the Company.   As  a result  of the  arbitration, it  is
possible that the Company would recognize a different level of EPOGEN
sales than  is  currently being  recognized.    As a  result  of  the
arbitration,  the  Company   may  be  required   to  pay   additional

                               F-13

compensation to Johnson & Johnson for sales during prior periods,  or
Johnson & Johnson may be required to pay compensation to the  Company
for such  prior period  sales.   While it  is impossible  to  predict
accurately or  determine  the  outcome of  these  proceedings,  based
primarily upon  the  merits of  its  claims and  based  upon  certain
liabilities established  due  to  the  inherent  uncertainty  of  any
arbitrated result, the  Company believes  that the  outcome of  these
proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on its  financial
statements.  A  trial commenced in  March 1996,  regarding the  audit
methodologies and compensation  for sales by  Johnson & Johnson  into
Amgen's exclusive market and sales by Amgen into Johnson &  Johnson's
exclusive market.   In December  1996, testimony  in the  arbitration
ended.

     The Company has filed a demand  in the arbitration to  terminate
Johnson & Johnson's rights under the License Agreement and to recover
damages for  breach of  the License  Agreement.   A hearing  on  this
demand will  be scheduled  following the  adjudication of  the  audit
methodologies for  Epoetin alfa  sales.   On  October 27,  1995,  the
Company filed  a  complaint in  the  Circuit Court  of  Cook  County,
Illinois, which is now  pending in the  United States District  Court
for the Northern  District of Illinois,  seeking an order  compelling
Johnson & Johnson  to arbitrate the  Company's claim for  termination
before the arbitrator.  The Company is unable to predict at this time
the outcome  of  the  demand  for termination  or  when  it  will  be
resolved.

     On October  2, 1995,  Johnson &  Johnson filed  a demand  for  a
separate arbitration  proceeding  against  the Company    before  the
American  Arbitration  Association  ("AAA")  in  Chicago,   Illinois.
Johnson &  Johnson  alleges  in this  demand  that  the  Company  has
breached the License Agreement.  The demand also includes allegations
of various antitrust violations.  In  this demand, Johnson &  Johnson
seeks an  injunction,  declaratory relief,  unspecified  compensatory
damages, punitive damages and costs.  The Company has filed a  motion
to  stay  the  arbitration  pending  the  outcome  of  the   existing
arbitration proceedings  before  Judicial Arbitration  and  Mediation
Services, Inc. discussed above.  The Company has also filed an answer
and counterclaim denying  that the AAA  has jurisdiction  to hear  or
decide the claims stated  in the demand,  denying the allegations  in
the demand and counterclaiming for certain unpaid invoices.

  Synergen ANTRIL (TM) litigation

     Lawsuits have  been  filed against  the  Company's  wholly-owned
subsidiary, Amgen Boulder  Inc. (formerly  Synergen, Inc.),  alleging
misrepresentations  in  connection   with  Synergen's  research   and
development of ANTRIL (TM)  for the treatment of  sepsis.  One  suit,
filed by  a  limited partner  of  the partnership  with  which  Amgen
Boulder Inc. is  affiliated, has been  certified as  a class  action.
That suit seeks rescission  of certain payments  made by the  limited
partners to the partnership (or unspecified damages not less than $52
million) and  treble  damages  based  on  a  variety  of  allegations
relating to state  and federal law  claims.  The  plaintiffs in  that
suit also have filed a  second amended complaint alleging  violations
of federal  securities  laws.   In  August and  September  1996,  the
parties filed cross-motions for summary  judgement.  The Court  heard
argument  on   November  1,   1996.     Since  then,   the   parties'

                               F-14

representatives have reached a  tentative settlement agreement  which
is subject to  final approval by  the Court and  the approval of  the
limited  partners  of  the  partnership.     Under  its  terms,   the
plaintiffs, who include present limited partners of the  partnership,
will receive $14.5 million in exchange for the transfer of  ownership
of their units;  the suit will  be dismissed with  prejudice and  the
parties will exchange  mutual releases.   In a  separate matter,  two
broker dealers who acted as market  makers in Synergen, Inc.  options
have also filed a suit claiming in excess of $3.2 million in  trading
losses.

  FoxMeyer Health Corporation

     On January 10, 1997, FoxMeyer Health Corporation ("FMHC")  filed
suit alleging  that defendant  McKesson Corporation  defrauded  FMHC,
misused   confidential   information   received   from   FMHC   about
subsidiaries  of  FMHC  (FoxMeyer   Corporation  and  FoxMeyer   Drug
Corporation, collectively the "FoxMeyer Subsidiaries"), and attempted
to monopolize the market for  pharmaceutical and health care  product
distribution  by  attempting  to  injure  or  destroy  the   FoxMeyer
Subsidiaries.  The Company  is  named as one of twelve  "Manufacturer
Defendants" alleged to  have conspired with  McKesson Corporation  in
doing, among other things, the above and (i) inducing FMHC to refrain
from seeking other suitable purchasers for the FoxMeyer  Subsidiaries
and (ii)  causing  FMHC  to believe  that  McKesson  Corporation  was
serious about purchasing FMHC's assets at  fair value, when in  fact,
McKesson Corporation  was  not.    The  Manufacturer  Defendants  and
McKesson Corporation  are  also  alleged to  have  intentionally  and
tortiously interfered  with a  number  of business  expectancies  and
opportunities.  The complaint seeks from the Manufacturer  Defendants
and McKesson  Corporation  compensatory  damages  of  at  least  $400
million and punitive  damages in an  unspecified amount,  as well  as
FMHC's costs and attorney's  fees. On January  31, 1997, the  Company
filed an answer denying FMHC's allegations.   On February 4, 1997,  a
notice of removal was filed in the Federal District Court for Dallas,
Texas (the  "District Court"),  which was  referred by  the  District
Court  to   the   Federal   Bankruptcy  Court   in   Dallas,   Texas.
Subsequently, on February  7, 1997, a  motion to  transfer venue  was
filed in the  Federal Bankruptcy Court  in Dallas, Texas,  requesting
that this matter be  transferred to the  Federal Bankruptcy Court  in
Delaware, where  the  FoxMeyer Subsidiaries'  Chapter  XI  bankruptcy
action is pending.   The  Company is  a creditor  in such  bankruptcy
proceeding.

  False Claims Act matter

     Amgen has been  advised that it  and certain  purchasers of  its
products have been named as defendants  in a civil lawsuit  initiated
by a former employee of Amgen in the United States District Court for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.  This suit was filed under  the
qui tam provisions of the Federal False Claims Act (the "Act")  which
permit an individual to bring suit  in the name of the United  States
and share in  any recovery.   The suit alleges,  among other  things,
that Amgen individually and in conspiracy with some of its  customers
violated the Act as  a result of certain  of its sales and  reporting
practices relating to its  products.  Under  the law, the  government
must investigate the allegations and  determine whether it wishes  to
intervene and take responsibility for  the lawsuit. The lawsuit  will

                               F-15

remain under seal  until the government  completes its  investigation
and determines whether  to intervene.   However, permission from  the
Court has been obtained  by Amgen to  make the disclosures  contained
herein.  The Complaint  seeks an order requiring  Amgen to cease  and
desist from  such allegedly  improper practices,  as well  as  treble
damages in an  unspecified amount plus  a civil penalty  of not  less
than $5,000 and not more than  $10,000 for each alleged violation  of
the Act.  If the government does not intervene, the plaintiff has the
right to continue  to pursue the  claim on  the government's  behalf.
Amgen is fully cooperating with the government's investigation and is
engaged in  ongoing discussions  with it  regarding the  allegations.
Amgen has advised the government that it disputes and will vigorously
contest the allegations in the Complaint.   Although it is too  early
in this action  for Amgen  to fully  assess this  matter or  reliably
predict its outcome, an unfavorable result in this matter could  have
a material adverse effect on the  Company's results of operations  in
that period.

     While it is not possible to predict accurately or determine  the
eventual outcome  of the  above described  legal matters  or  various
other legal proceedings (including patent disputes) involving  Amgen,
except with  respect to  the False  Claims  Act matter,  the  Company
believes that  the  outcome of  these  proceedings will  not  have  a
material adverse effect on its financial statements.


5.   Income taxes

     The provision  for  income  taxes  includes  the  following  (in
millions):

                                       Years ended December 31,
                                       1996       1995      1994
                                      --------  --------  --------
    Current provision:
       Federal (including U.S.
         possessions) ..............   $240.4     $211.5    $231.3
       State .......................     16.6       21.3      34.9
                                       ------     ------    ------
         Total current provision ...    257.0      232.8     266.2
                                       ------     ------    ------
    Deferred provision (benefit):
       Federal (including U.S.
         possessions) ..............     24.1       25.1       0.5
       State .......................      1.4       (1.2)      1.9
                                       ------     ------    ------
         Total deferred provision ..     25.5       23.9       2.4
                                       ------     ------    ------
                                       $282.5     $256.7    $268.6
                                       ======     ======    ======

     Deferred income  taxes  reflect  the  net  tax  effects  of  net
operating loss carryforwards  and temporary  differences between  the
carrying amounts of  assets and liabilities  for financial  reporting
purposes and the amounts used for  income tax purposes.   Significant
components of the Company's deferred  tax assets and liabilities  are
as follows (in millions):

                               F-16

                                                December 31,

                                              1996        1995
                                           --------     --------
  Deferred tax assets:
     Net operating loss carryforwards ...    $ 83.3      $ 81.1
     Expense accruals ...................      55.9        61.0
     Research collaboration expenses ....      19.0        17.4
     Fixed assets .......................      12.9        23.2
     Royalty obligation buyouts .........      11.0        11.2
     Other ..............................       9.5        12.4
                                             ------      ------
       Total deferred tax assets ........     191.6       206.3

  Valuation allowance ...................     (82.6)      (86.2)
                                             ------      ------
       Net deferred tax assets ..........     109.0       120.1
                                             ------      ------
  Deferred tax liabilities:
     Purchase of technology rights ......     (45.0)      (29.7)
     Other ..............................      (2.7)       (3.7)
                                             ------      ------
       Total deferred tax liabilities ...     (47.7)      (33.4)
                                             ------      ------
                                             $ 61.3      $ 86.7
                                             ======      ======

     The net  change  in the  valuation  allowance for  deferred  tax
assets during  the year  ended December 31, 1996  was a  $3.6 million
reduction.

     At   December 31, 1996,   the   Company   had   operating   loss
carryforwards available to reduce future federal taxable income which
expire as follows (in millions):

                  1997 - 2002 .......    $  0.9
                  2003 - 2006 .......      19.9
                  2007 ..............      26.7
                  2008 ..............      81.2
                  2009 ..............      81.9
                                         ------
                                         $210.6
                                         ======

     These operating loss carryforwards relate to the acquisition  of
Synergen (see Note 1, "Research and development costs").  Utilization
of these  operating loss  carryforwards is  limited to  approximately
$16 million per year.

                               F-17

     The provision for income taxes varies from income taxes provided
based on the federal statutory rate as follows:

                                         Years ended December 31,
                                       1996       1995        1994
                                      ------     ------      ------
Statutory rate applied to income
  before income taxes .............    35.0%      35.0%      35.0%
State income taxes, net of federal
  income tax benefit ..............     1.2%       1.6%       4.1%
Benefit of Puerto Rico operations,
  net of Puerto Rico income taxes .    (6.8)%     (3.5)%        -
Write-off of in-process technology
  purchased, not deductible .......       -          -        6.9%
Other, net ........................       -       (0.8)%     (0.3)%
                                       -----      -----      -----
                                       29.4%      32.3%      45.7%
                                       =====      =====      =====

     Income taxes paid during the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995
and 1994,  totaled $246 million,  $100.8 million and  $234.2 million,
respectively.


6.   Stockholders' equity

  Stockholder Rights agreement

     On January 24, 1989, the Company's Board of Directors declared a
dividend of  one  common  share purchase  right  ("Right")  for  each
outstanding  share  of  common  stock.     The  Rights  will   become
exercisable 10 days after a person acquires 10% or more of the common
stock, or 10 days after a person announces a tender offer which would
result in such  person acquiring  10% or  more of  the common  stock.
Subject to  certain conditions,  the Rights  may be  redeemed by  the
Board of  Directors.   The current  redemption  price is  $.0008  per
Right,  subject  to   adjustment.     The  Rights   will  expire   on
January 24, 1999.

     Under certain  circumstances, if  an acquirer  purchases 10%  or
more of  the Company's  outstanding  common stock,  each  Rightholder
(other than the acquirer) is entitled  for a specified period to  buy
shares of common  stock of  the Company at  50% of  the then  current
market price.  The number of shares which a holder may purchase  upon
exercise will be  determined by a  formula which  includes a  current
exercise price  of $80  per  share, subject  to  adjustment.   If  an
acquirer purchases at least  10% of the  Company's common stock,  but
has not  achieved a  50% stake,  the Board  may exchange  the  Rights
(other than the acquirer's Rights) for one share of common stock  per
Right.  In addition, under certain  circumstances, if the Company  is
involved in a merger  or other business combination  where it is  not
the surviving corporation,  a Rightholder  may buy  shares of  common
stock of the  acquiring company  at 50%  of the  then current  market
value.

                               F-18

  Stock repurchase program

     The Company  has  a  stock  repurchase  program  to  offset  the
dilutive effect  of  its  employee benefit  stock  option  and  stock
purchase plans.  Stock repurchased under the program is retired.   As
of December 31, 1996, the Company was authorized to repurchase up  to
$450 million of its stock during 1997.

     In connection with the  Company's stock repurchase program,  put
warrants were sold to an independent  third party in 1996.  Each  put
warrant entitles the holder  to sell one share  of Amgen Inc.  common
stock to the Company at a specified price.  On December 31, 1996, 2.7
million put warrants  were outstanding with  exercise prices  ranging
from $52.00 to $58.80  per share.  The  put warrants are  exercisable
only at  maturity and  expire at  various dates  from April  1997  to
August 1997.   In  the  event the  put  warrants are  exercised,  the
Company may elect to  pay the holder in  cash the difference  between
the exercise price and the market  price of the Company's shares,  in
lieu of repurchasing  the stock.   The  maximum potential  repurchase
obligation of $157.4 million has been reclassified from stockholders'
equity to put warrants as of December 31, 1996.  In the event the put
warrants expire  unexercised,  the liability  associated  with  these
instruments is extinguished.

     Additionally during  1996, the  Company purchased  call  options
from an  independent third  party.   Each  call option  entitles  the
Company to buy one  share of Amgen Inc.  common stock at a  specified
price.    At  December  31,  1996,  1.3  million  call  options  were
outstanding, with exercise prices ranging  from $58.00 to $61.90  per
share.  The call options are exercisable only at maturity and  expire
at various dates from April  1997 to August 1997.   In the event  the
call options are exercised, the Company may elect to receive cash for
the difference between the exercise price and the market price of the
Company's shares, in lieu  of repurchasing the  stock.  The  premiums
received from the sale of the put warrants offset in full the cost of
the call options.

  Other

     In addition to  common stock, the  Company's authorized  capital
includes 5 million shares of preferred  stock, $.0001 par value.   At
December 31, 1996, no  shares  of  preferred  stock  were  issued  or
outstanding.

     At December 31, 1996,  the  Company had  reserved  379.8 million
shares of its  common stock  which may  be issued  through its  stock
option  and  stock  purchase  plans   and  in  connection  with   the
stockholder Rights agreement.

     In connection with the sale of limited partnership interests  in
Amgen Clinical  Partners,  L.P. (the  "Limited  Partnership"),  Amgen
issued warrants  to the  limited  partners to  purchase  36.3 million
shares of its common  stock in exchange for  options to purchase  the
limited   partners'   interests    in   the   Limited    Partnership.
Substantially all warrants were  exercised prior to their  expiration
on June 30, 1994.

                                F-19

7.   Stock option and purchase plans

     The Company's  stock  option  plans provide  for  option  grants
designated as either  nonqualified or incentive  stock options.   The
options generally vest over a three to five year period and generally
expire seven  years from  the  date of  grant.   Most  employees  are
eligible to receive a  grant of stock  options periodically with  the
number of shares generally determined by the employee's salary grade,
performance  level  and  the  stock  price.    In  addition,  certain
management and professional level employees normally receive a  stock
option grant upon  hire.  As  of December 31,  1996, the Company  had
22.2 million shares of common stock available for future grant  under
its stock option plans.

     Stock option information  with respect to  all of the  Company's
stock option plans follows (shares in millions):

                                               Exercise Price

                                        ----------------------------
                                                           Weighted-
                              Shares      Low      High     Average
                              ------      ---      ----    --------
Balance December 31, 1993,
  unexercised ..............    33.1    $ 1.76    $38.88    $13.72
    Granted ................     8.5    $17.68    $29.50    $22.07
    Exercised ..............    (5.6)   $ 1.93    $28.00    $ 6.95
    Forfeited ..............    (1.0)   $ 3.69    $37.38    $21.92
                                ----
Balance December 31, 1994,
  unexercised ..............    35.0    $ 1.76    $38.88    $16.58
    Granted ................     7.1    $28.94    $58.88    $39.62
    Exercised ..............    (8.1)   $ 1.93    $38.88    $12.87
    Forfeited ..............    (1.0)   $ 2.25    $39.88    $19.86
                                ----
Balance December 31, 1995,
  unexercised ..............    33.0    $ 1.76    $58.88    $22.35
    Granted ................     4.6    $51.50    $64.13    $56.00
    Exercised ..............    (6.6)   $ 2.25    $55.75    $14.92
    Forfeited ..............     (.5)   $ 3.69    $61.88    $32.48
                                ----
Balance December 31, 1996,
  unexercised ..............    30.5    $ 1.76    $64.13    $29.00
                                ====

     At December 31, 1996, 1995 and  1994, stock options to  purchase
15.7 million, 15.7 million and  17.7 million shares were  exercisable
at  weighted-average   prices   of   $20.53,   $15.71   and   $12.44,
respectively.

     The Company  has an  employee stock  purchase plan  whereby,  in
accordance with Section  423 of the  Internal Revenue Code,  eligible
employees may  authorize payroll  deductions of  up to  10% of  their
salary to purchase shares of the Company's common stock at the  lower
of 85% of the fair market value of common stock on the first or  last
day of  the  offering  period.    During  each  of  the  years  ended
December 31, 1996, 1995 and  1994, approximately  0.2 million  shares
were purchased by employees at prices of approximately $46.22, $24.76

                               F-20

and $20.88  per  share,  respectively.    At  December 31, 1996,  the
Company had 4.9 million  shares available for  future issuance  under
this plan.

  Fair value disclosures

     Stock option  grants  are  set  at  the  closing  price  of  the
Company's common stock on the date of grant and the related number of
shares granted are fixed at that point in time.  Therefore under  the
principles of  APB Opinion  No. 25,  the Company  does not  recognize
compensation expense  associated with  the  grant of  stock  options.
SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," requires the
use of option  valuation models to  provide supplemental  information
regarding  options  granted  after  1994.    Pro  forma   information
regarding  net  income  and  earnings  per  share  shown  below   was
determined as if  the Company had  accounted for  its employee  stock
options and shares sold under its stock purchase plan under the  fair
value method of that statement.

     The fair value of the options was estimated at the date of grant
using  a  Black-Scholes  option  pricing  model  with  the  following
weighted-average assumptions for 1996  and 1995, respectively:  risk-
free interest rates of 6.4% and  5.9%; dividend yields of 0% and  0%;
volatility factors  of the  expected market  price of  the  Company's
common stock of 34% and 33%; and expected life of the options of  3.4
years and 3.4 years.  These assumptions resulted in  weighted-average
fair values of $18.25 and $12.40 per share for stock options  granted
in 1996 and 1995, respectively.

     The Black-Scholes option valuation  model was developed for  use
in estimating  the  fair value  of  traded options.    The  Company's
employee stock options  have characteristics significantly  different
from those  of  traded  options  such  as  vesting  restrictions  and
extremely limited transferability.  In addition, the assumptions used
in  option  valuation  models  (see  above)  are  highly  subjective,
particularly the expected  stock price volatility  of the  underlying
stock.  Because  changes in  these subjective  input assumptions  can
materially affect the fair  value estimate, in management's  opinion,
the existing models do not provide  a reliable single measure of  the
fair value of its employee stock options.

     For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair  value
of the options is amortized over  the options' vesting periods.   The
pro  forma  effect  on   net  income  for  1996   and  1995  is   not
representative of the pro forma effect on net income in future  years
because it does  not take into  consideration pro forma  compensation
expense related to grants made prior to 1995.  Pro forma  information
in future years will reflect the  amortization of a larger number  of
stock options granted in several succeeding years.  The Company's pro
forma information  is  as  follows (in  millions,  except  per  share
information):

                               F-21

                                     Years ended December 31,
                                        1996        1995
                                       ------      ------
        Pro forma net income ........  $631.5      $517.6

        Pro forma earnings per share:
          Primary ...................   $2.26       $1.85
          Fully diluted .............   $2.26       $1.82

     Information  regarding   stock   options   outstanding   as   of
December 31, 1996 is as follows (options in millions):

                                                       Options
                       Options Outstanding           Exercisable
                 ------------------------------  -------------------
                                     Weighted-
                          Weighted-   Average             Weighted-
                           Average   Remaining             Average
                          Exercise  Contractual           Exercise
   Price Range    Shares     Price     Life       Shares     Price
 ---------------- ------  --------- -----------  -------- ---------
  Under $20.00       8.5    $12.00   2.56 years      7.0     $11.17
  $20.00 - $40.00   16.9    $29.54   4.30 years      8.5     $27.68
  Over $40.00        5.1    $55.26   6.39 years      0.2     $51.76


8.   Balance sheet accounts

     Property, plant  and equipment  consisted of  the following  (in
millions):

                                               December 31,
                                           1996         1995
                                         --------     --------
   Land................................  $   62.6     $   59.1
   Buildings...........................     425.5        404.5
   Manufacturing equipment.............      63.0         59.2
   Laboratory equipment................     174.9        148.9
   Furniture and office equipment......     266.2        200.4
   Leasehold improvements..............      56.5         55.7
   Construction in progress............     252.5        105.6
                                         --------     --------
                                          1,301.2      1,033.4
   Less accumulated depreciation and
     amortization .....................    (390.7)      (289.6)
                                         --------     --------
                                         $  910.5     $  743.8
                                         ========     ========

                               F-22

     Accrued liabilities consisted of the following (in millions):

                                               December 31,

                                            1996         1995
                                          --------     --------
   Income taxes........................    $ 86.8       $124.4
   Employee compensation and benefits..      83.4         70.8
   Due to affiliated companies and
     corporate partners ...............      79.8         76.0
   Sales incentives, royalties and
     allowances .......................      79.7         65.5
   Deferred revenue....................      41.4         39.2
   Other...............................      78.6         83.8
                                           ------       ------
                                           $449.7       $459.7
                                           ======       ======


9.   Fair values of financial instruments

     The following is information concerning the fair values of  each
class of financial instruments:

  Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities

     The carrying amounts  of cash, cash  equivalents and  marketable
securities approximate  their  fair  values.   Fair  values  of  cash
equivalents and  marketable securities  are  based on  quoted  market
prices.

  Debt

     The carrying  values of  commercial paper,  debt securities  and
promissory notes approximate their fair values.  The fair values were
estimated based on quoted market  rates for instruments with  similar
terms and remaining maturities.

  Foreign currency contracts

     The fair values  of the foreign  currency forward contracts  and
purchased foreign  currency  option contracts  were  not  significant
based on quoted market rates.


10.  Major customers

     Amgen uses wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical products  as
the  principal  means  of  distributing  the  Company's  products  to
clinics,  hospitals  and  pharmacies.    The  Company  monitors   the
financial condition of its larger distributors and limits its  credit
exposure  by  setting   appropriate  credit   limits  and   requiring
collateral from  certain  of its  customers.   For  the  years  ended
December 31, 1996, 1995  and  1994,  sales  to  two  large  wholesale
distributors as a percentage of total revenues were 24% and 14%,  21%
and 15%, and 22% and 16%, respectively.

                               F-23

11.  Geographic information

     Information about the Company's operations in the United  States
and its possessions, Europe,  and other international markets,  which
include Canada, Australia and Japan is as follows (in millions):

                                        Years ended December 31,
                                     1996         1995        1994
                                  ----------  ----------   ----------
Sales to unaffiliated customers:
 United States and possessions .  $1,803.5     $1,546.1    $1,333.8
 Europe ........................     257.6        254.7       193.0
 Other .........................      27.1         17.8        22.8
Transfers between geographic
 areas:
  United States and possessions.      24.5         12.6        15.7
Other revenue ..................     151.6        121.3        98.3
Adjustments and eliminations ...     (24.5)       (12.6)      (15.7)
                                  --------     --------    --------
Total revenues .................  $2,239.8     $1,939.9    $1,647.9
                                  ========     ========    ========


                                        Years ended December 31,
                                     1996         1995        1994
                                  ----------   --------     --------
Operating profit (loss):
 United States and possessions .  $  980.0       $801.7      $624.0
 Europe ........................      71.4         75.7        50.3
 Other .........................     (34.8)       (33.1)      (25.6)
Adjustments and eliminations ...      (5.7)        (1.7)       (2.8)
                                  --------       ------      ------
Total operating profit .........   1,010.9        842.6       645.9
Interest and other income, net .      57.4         50.8         9.5
Loss of affiliates, net ........     (52.8)       (53.3)      (31.2)
General corporate expenses .....     (53.2)       (45.7)      (35.9)
                                  --------       ------      ------
Income before income taxes .....  $  962.3       $794.4      $588.3
                                  ========       ======      ======

     Operating  profit  (loss)  represents  revenue  less   operating
expenses directly related to each geographic area.  Operating  profit
(loss) excludes interest  and other income,  loss of affiliates,  net
and other expenses attributable to general corporate operations.

     Included in the operating profit for  the United States and  its
possessions is  a write-off  of  in-process technology  purchased  of
$116.4 million  for  the  year  ended  December 31, 1994.    Loss  of
affiliates,  net  includes  the  minority  interest  in  earnings  of
majority   controlled   European    affiliates   of    $55.3 million,
$50.7 million    and    $30.9 million    for    the    years    ended
December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

                               F-24

     Information about  the  Company's identifiable  assets  in  each
geographic area is as follows (in millions):

                                               December 31,
                                             1996         1995
                                         ----------   ----------
   Identifiable assets:
     United States and possessions ....   $1,127.0     $  964.0
     Europe ...........................      123.5         70.5
     Other ............................       23.1         16.3
   Adjustments and eliminations .......       (6.2)         1.7
                                          --------     --------
   Total identifiable assets ..........    1,267.4      1,052.5
   Corporate assets including equity
     method investments ...............    1,498.2      1,380.3
                                          --------     --------
   Total assets .......................   $2,765.6     $2,432.8
                                          ========     ========

     Identifiable assets are  those assets  of the  Company that  are
identified with the  operations in  each geographic  area.   Europe's
identifiable assets  include  accounts  receivable  of  approximately
$44.2 million and $54.7  million as of  December 31,  1996 and  1995,
respectively, denominated in foreign  currencies.  Corporate  assets,
which  are  excluded  from   identifiable  assets,  are   principally
comprised of cash,  cash equivalents and  marketable securities.   At
December 31, 1996 and  1995, total international assets  approximated
$207.3  million   and  $124.6   million,  respectively,   and   total
international  liabilities  approximated  $68.1  million  and   $22.2
million, respectively.


12.  Quarterly financial  data (unaudited,  in millions,  except  per
     share data):

1996 Quarter Ended   Dec. 31      Sept. 30      June 30       Mar. 31
- ------------------   -------      --------      -------       -------
Product sales.......  $559.1       $533.3        $518.9        $476.9
Gross margin from
  product sales ....   484.2        460.2         450.6         410.0
Net income..........   178.0        179.5         178.7         143.6
Earnings per
  share:
  Primary ..........     .64          .64           .64           .51
  Fully diluted ....     .64          .64           .64           .51

1995 Quarter Ended   Dec. 31      Sept. 30      June 30       Mar. 31
- ------------------   -------      --------      -------       -------
Product sales.......  $484.2       $460.6        $462.6        $411.2
Gross margin from
  product sales ....   418.4        396.5         386.2         344.6
Net income..........   145.6        145.8         137.7         108.6
Earnings per
  share:
  Primary ..........     .52          .52           .49           .39
  Fully diluted ....     .51          .51           .49           .39


                               F-25

13.  Subsequent event (unaudited)

     On February  18, 1997,  the Board  of Directors  of the  Company
redeemed the Rights under the Company's common stock rights plan at a
redemption price  of  $.0008 per  Right  (or an  aggregate  price  of
approximately $0.2 million) and  declared and distributed a  dividend
of one preferred share purchase right  (a "New Right") for each  then
outstanding share  of common stock of the Company and authorized  the
distribution of  one  New Right  with  respect to  each  subsequently
issued share of  common stock.   The  New Rights  and the  redemption
price are payable to stockholders of record on March 21, 1997.

     Each New  Right  will  entitle  stockholders  to  buy  one  one-
thousandth of  a share  of Series  A Junior  Participating  Preferred
Stock of the Company at  an exercise price of  $225.  The New  Rights
will expire on March 21, 2007.

     Under certain  circumstances, if  an acquiring  person or  group
acquires 10% or more  of the Company's  outstanding common stock,  an
exercisable New  Right  will  entitle  its  holder  (other  than  the
acquirer) to  buy shares  of common  stock of  the Company  having  a
market value  of two  times  the exercise  price  of one  New  Right.
However, in limited circumstances  approved by the outside  directors
of the Board, a stockholder who enters into an acceptable  standstill
agreement may acquire  up to 20%  of the  outstanding shares  without
triggering the New Rights.  If an acquirer acquires at least 10%, but
less than 50%, of the Company's common stock, the Board may  exchange
each New Right (other  than those of the  acquirer) for one share  of
common  stock   per  New   Right.     In  addition,   under   certain
circumstances, if  the  Company is  involved  in a  merger  or  other
business combination where  it is not  the surviving corporation,  an
exercisable New Right will entitle its holder to buy shares of common
stock of the acquiring company having a market value of two times the
exercise price of  one New  Right.  The  Company may  redeem the  New
Rights at  $.001  per New  Right  at any  time  prior to  the  public
announcement that a 10% position has been acquired.

                               F-26


                                                          SCHEDULE II
                             AMGEN INC.

                         VALUATION ACCOUNTS

            Years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                           (In  millions)


                                         Additions
                               Balance    Charged            Balance
                                  at     to Costs             at End
                              Beginning     and                 of
                              Of Period  Expenses Deductions  Period
                              ---------  -------- ---------- -------
Year ended December 31, 1996:
  Allowance for doubtful
    accounts ................   $13.8       $2.9     $4.9     $11.8

Year ended December 31, 1995:
  Allowance for doubtful
    accounts ................   $13.3       $5.4     $4.9     $13.8

Year ended December 31, 1994:
  Allowance for doubtful                      
    accounts ................   $12.2       $1.5     $0.4     $13.3

                               F-27                                 


