
10-K
10-K


                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
     (Mark One)
     [ X ]     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
               OR
     [   ]     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
     Commission file number 0-12477

                                   AMGEN INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
             Delaware                                       95-3540776
     (State or other jurisdiction of                    (I.R.S. Employer
     incorporation or organization)                    Identification No.)

     One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California           91320-1789
      (Address of principal executive offices)                   (Zip Code)

     Registrant's telephone number, including area code:       805-447-1000

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
          Common stock, $.0001 par value, Common shares purchase rights,
                     Contractual contingent payment rights
                                (Title of class)

     Indicate by  check  mark whether  the  registrant (1)  has  filed  all
     reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
     Exchange Act of  1934 during  the preceding 12  months   (or for  such
     shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
     and (2) has been subject to  such filing requirements for the past  90
     days.     Yes  X  No
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant  to
     Item 405 of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein, and will not  be
     contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive  proxy
     or information statements  incorporated by  reference in  Part III  of
     this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

     The approximate aggregate market value of voting and non-voting  stock
     held by non-affiliates  of the  registrant was  $13,380,017,000 as  of
     February 28, 1998 (A)
                                     255,754,703
     (Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of February 28, 1998)

     Documents incorporated by reference:
                     Document                             Form 10-K Parts
     Definitive 1998 Proxy Statement, to be filed within
     120 days of December 31, 1997 (specified portions)          III

     (A) Excludes 3,895,561 shares  of common stock  held by directors  and
       officers, and any stockholders whose ownership exceeds five  percent
       of  the shares  outstanding, at  February 28,  1998.   Exclusion  of
       shares held by any person  should not be construed to indicate  that
       such person possesses  the power, directly or indirectly, to  direct
       or  cause  the  direction of  the  management  or  policies  of  the
       registrant, or  that such person  is controlled by  or under  common
       control with the registrant.
                        
                                     PART I


     Item 1.   BUSINESS

     Overview

          Amgen Inc. ("Amgen" or the  "Company") is a global  biotechnology
     company that  discovers,  develops,  manufactures  and  markets  human
     therapeutics based on advances in cellular and molecular biology.

          The Company  manufactures  and markets  three  human  therapeutic
     products,  NEUPOGEN(R)  (Filgrastim),  EPOGEN(R)  (Epoetin  alfa)  and
     INFERGEN(R)   (Interferon   alfacon-1).      NEUPOGEN(R)   selectively
     stimulates the  production of  neutrophils, one  type of  white  blood
     cell.  The Company markets NEUPOGEN(R) in the United States, countries
     of the  European  Union  ("EU"),  Canada  and  Australia  for  use  in
     decreasing  the  incidence   of  infection   in  patients   undergoing
     myelosuppressive chemotherapy.  In  addition, NEUPOGEN(R) is  marketed
     in most  of  these countries  for  use  in reducing  the  duration  of
     neutropenia for patients undergoing myeloablative therapy followed  by
     bone marrow transplantation,  for reducing symptoms  in patients  with
     severe chronic neutropenia and to support peripheral blood  progenitor
     cell ("PBPC") transplantations.   In 1997,  regulatory authorities  in
     Australia and Canada approved NEUPOGEN(R) to treat neutropenia in  HIV
     patients   receiving   antiviral    and/or   other    myelosuppressive
     medications.  EPOGEN(R) stimulates the  production of red blood  cells
     and is marketed  by Amgen in  the United States  for the treatment  of
     anemia associated with chronic renal failure in patients on  dialysis.
     INFERGEN(R) is  a  non-naturally  occurring  type-1  interferon  which
     stimulates the immune system to fight  viral infections.  The  Company
     began marketing INFERGEN(R) in the United  States in October 1997  for
     the treatment of chronic hepatitis C viral infection.

          The Company  focuses its  research  efforts on  secreted  protein
     therapeutics, neuroscience and cancer therapeutics and its development
     efforts on human  therapeutics in the  areas of hematology,  oncology,
     infectious disease,  neurobiology,  endocrinology,  and  inflammation.
     The Company has research  facilities in the  United States and  Canada
     and has  clinical development  staff in  the  United States,  the  EU,
     Canada, Australia,  Japan,  Hong Kong  and  the People's  Republic  of
     China.   To augment  internal research  and development  efforts,  the
     Company has  established  external  research  collaborations  and  has
     acquired certain product and technology rights.

          Amgen operates commercial manufacturing facilities located in the
     United States, Puerto Rico and The Netherlands.  A sales and marketing
     force  is  maintained  in  the  United  States,  the  EU,  Canada  and
     Australia.   In addition,  Amgen has  entered into  licensing and  co-
     promotion agreements to market NEUPOGEN(R), EPOGEN(R) and  INFERGEN(R)
     in certain geographic areas.

          The Company was incorporated in California in 1980 and was merged
     into a  Delaware corporation  in 1987.   Amgen's  principal  executive
     offices  are  located  at  One  Amgen  Center  Drive,  Thousand  Oaks,
     California 91320-1789. 

      
     Products

       Recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor

          NEUPOGEN(R) (proper  name  - Filgrastim)  is  Amgen's  registered
     trademark for  its  recombinant human  methionyl  granulocyte  colony-
     stimulating factor ("G-CSF"),  a protein  that selectively  stimulates
     production  of  certain  white  blood  cells  known  as   neutrophils.
     Neutrophils  are   the  body's   first  defense   against   infection.
     Treatments for various diseases and diseases themselves can result  in
     extremely low numbers of neutrophils, a condition called  neutropenia.
     Myelosuppressive chemotherapy,  one treatment  option for  individuals
     with cancer,  targets cell  types which  grow rapidly,  such as  tumor
     cells,  neutrophils  and  other  types  of  blood  cells.    Providing
     NEUPOGEN(R) as an adjunct to myelosuppressive chemotherapy can  reduce
     the duration  of  neutropenia and  thereby  reduce the  potential  for
     infection.

          Severe chronic  neutropenia  is  an  example  of  disease-related
     neutropenia.   In  severe  chronic  neutropenia,  the  body  fails  to
     manufacture  sufficient  neutrophils.     Chronic  administration   of
     NEUPOGEN(R) has been  shown to reduce  the incidence  and duration  of
     neutropenia-related consequences  such  as  fever  and  infections  in
     patients with severe chronic neutropenia.

          Patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation are treated  with
     NEUPOGEN(R)  to   accelerate   recovery   of   neutrophils   following
     chemotherapy and  bone marrow  infusion.   NEUPOGEN(R) also  has  been
     shown to induce  immature blood  cells (progenitor  cells) to  migrate
     (mobilize) from the  bone marrow  into the  blood circulatory  system.
     When these  progenitor  cells (PBPC)  are  collected from  the  blood,
     stored and  re-infused after  high dose  chemotherapy  (transplanted),
     recovery of platelets, red blood cells and neutrophils is accelerated.
     PBPC transplantation  is becoming  an alternative  to autologous  bone
     marrow transplantation for some patients.

          In the  United States,  NEUPOGEN(R)  was initially  indicated  to
     decrease  the  incidence  of   infection  as  manifested  by   febrile
     neutropenia for  patients  with  non-myeloid  malignancies  undergoing
     myelosuppressive chemotherapy.  Subsequently,  the U.S. Food and  Drug
     Administration  ("FDA")  approved  NEUPOGEN(R)  for  three  additional
     indications: (1) to  reduce the duration  of neutropenia for  patients
     with  non-myeloid   malignancies  undergoing   myeloablative   therapy
     followed by bone marrow transplantation;  (2) to reduce the  incidence
     and  duration  of  neutropenia-related  consequences  in   symptomatic
     patients with congenital neutropenia, cyclic neutropenia or idiopathic
     neutropenia (collectively, severe  chronic neutropenia);  and (3)  for
     use in mobilization of PBPC for stem cell transplantation.  In the EU,
     Canada and  Australia, NEUPOGEN(R)  is marketed  for these  same  four
     indications.  Also, in 1997,  regulatory authorities in Australia  and
     Canada approved  NEUPOGEN(R)  to  treat neutropenia  in  HIV  patients
     receiving antiviral and/or other myelosuppressive medications.

          The Company is pursuing additional indications with  NEUPOGEN(R).
     Clinical trials were completed examining NEUPOGEN(R) as an adjunct  to
     chemotherapy in  patients  with acute  myelogenous  leukemia  ("AML").
     License applications for approval of this supplemental indication were
     submitted  to  the  U.S.,  EU,  Canadian  and  Australian   regulatory
     
     authorities in  1996.   The Company  is in  discussions with  the  FDA
     regarding this submission.  In addition, a trial for the treatment  of
     neutropenia in HIV infected patients was completed and a  supplemental
     licensing application for approval of this indication was submitted to
     the FDA  in 1996.   The  FDA has  raised concerns  about whether  this
     submission is approvable; the Company is  in discussions with the  FDA
     and cannot  predict the  outcome of  these discussions.   Later  stage
     trials  examining  NEUPOGEN(R)  as  an  adjunct  to   dose-intensified
     chemotherapy in patients with  various tumor types  are ongoing.   The
     Company is also  continuing to investigate  the potential benefits  of
     NEUPOGEN(R) for patients in severe pneumonia settings.

          In March 1996,  NEUPOGEN(R) was approved  for use  in the  United
     Kingdom (the "UK")  as a supportive  therapy to  treat neutropenia  in
     people with advanced HIV infection.  The initial submission to the  UK
     was made as part of the  EU mutual recognition procedure that  enables
     companies to  seek  approvals in  other  EU  countries.   Due  to  the
     completion of a randomized trial in 1996 that served as the basis  for
     an  FDA  submission  in  this  indication,  the  Company  intends   to
     supplement  the  original  filing   in  Europe  by  submitting   these
     additional data.  To facilitate this  procedure, it was necessary  for
     the Company to request in February 1997 the withdrawal of the original
     approval in the UK.

          The Company began  selling NEUPOGEN(R)  in the  United States  in
     February 1991 pursuant to a licensing agreement with Kirin-Amgen, Inc.
     ("Kirin-Amgen"),  a  joint  venture  between  Kirin  Brewery  Company,
     Limited ("Kirin")  and  Amgen.    Kirin  markets  GRAN(R),  its  G-CSF
     product, in Japan, the  People's Republic of  China, Taiwan and  Korea
     under licensing agreements with  Kirin-Amgen (see "Joint Ventures  and
     Business Relationships - Kirin Brewery Company, Limited").  In the EU,
     NEUPOGEN(R) is commercialized  by Amgen  and F.  Hoffman-La Roche  Ltd
     ("Roche") under  a co-promotion  agreement  (see "Joint  Ventures  and
     Business Relationships -  F. Hoffman-La  Roche Ltd").   In  geographic
     areas of the world other than  those above, Roche markets  NEUPOGEN(R)
     under licenses from  Amgen and  Kirin-Amgen (see  "Joint Ventures  and
     Business Relationships -  Kirin Brewery Company,  Limited" and  "Joint
     Ventures and Business Relationships - F. Hoffman La Roche Ltd").

          For the years ended  December 31, 1997, 1996  and 1995, sales  of
     NEUPOGEN(R)  accounted   for   approximately   44%,   45%   and   48%,
     respectively, of total revenues.

       Recombinant human erythropoietin

          EPOGEN(R) (proper  name -  Epoetin  alfa) is  Amgen's  registered
     trademark for its recombinant human erythropoietin product, a  protein
     that stimulates red blood cell production.  Red blood cells  transport
     oxygen to  all  cells  of  the body.    Without  adequate  amounts  of
     erythropoietin,  the  red  blood   cell  count  is  reduced,   thereby
     diminishing the ability of the blood to deliver sufficient amounts  of
     oxygen to the body,  resulting in anemia.   People with chronic  renal
     failure suffer  from anemia  because they  do not  produce  sufficient
     amounts of  erythropoietin,  which  is normally  produced  in  healthy
     kidneys.  EPOGEN(R) is effective in the treatment of anemia associated
     with chronic renal failure for patients  on dialysis and is  indicated
     to elevate or  maintain the  red blood  cell level  (as manifested  by 

     
     hematocrit or hemoglobin determinations) and to decrease the need  for
     blood transfusions in these patients.

          In  the  United  States,  Amgen  was  granted  rights  to  market
     recombinant human  erythropoietin  under a  licensing  agreement  with
     Kirin-Amgen (see "Joint  Ventures and Business  Relationships -  Kirin
     Brewery Company, Limited").   The Company  began selling EPOGEN(R)  in
     1989 when  the  FDA  approved  its use  in  the  treatment  of  anemia
     associated with chronic  renal failure.   In 1994, the  FDA cleared  a
     supplement to  the  Epoetin alfa  product  license which  included  an
     expanded target  hematocrit  range  for patients  with  chronic  renal
     failure.  The target hematocrit, or percentage of red blood cells, was
     expanded to a range of 30 to 36 percent from the previously  indicated
     range of 30 to 33 percent.

          The Company has retained exclusive rights to market EPOGEN(R)  in
     the United  States for  dialysis patients.   Amgen  has granted  Ortho
     Pharmaceutical  Corporation,  a  subsidiary  of  Johnson  &   Johnson,
     hereafter referred  to as  "Johnson &  Johnson", a  license to  pursue
     commercialization of  recombinant  human  erythropoietin  as  a  human
     therapeutic in the United  States in all  markets other than  dialysis
     and diagnostics.  See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
     "Summary of significant accounting policies - Product sales" and  Note
     4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Contingencies - Johnson &
     Johnson arbitrations".   In  countries other  than the  United  States
     (except as described above), the People's Republic of China and Japan,
     Johnson & Johnson was granted  rights to pursue the  commercialization
     of erythropoietin as a human  therapeutic under a licensing  agreement
     with Kirin-Amgen.   Affiliates of  Johnson &  Johnson manufacture  and
     market erythropoietin for treatment of anemia associated with  chronic
     renal failure under the trademark EPREX(R) in several countries.   See
     "Joint Ventures and Business Relationships - Johnson & Johnson".

          In Japan and the  People's Republic of  China, Kirin was  granted
     rights to market  recombinant human erythropoietin  under a  licensing
     agreement  with  Kirin-Amgen   (see  "Joint   Ventures  and   Business
     Relationships - Kirin Brewery Company,  Limited").  Kirin markets  its
     recombinant human erythropoietin product under the trademark ESPO(R).

          For the years ended  December 31, 1997, 1996  and 1995, sales  of
     EPOGEN(R) accounted for approximately 48%, 48% and 46%,  respectively,
     of total revenues.

       Other products

          INFERGEN(R) (proper  name  -  Interferon  alfacon-1)  is  Amgen's
     registered trademark for its recombinant consensus interferon, a  non-
     naturally occurring protein that combines structural features of  many
     interferon sub-types. Interferons are natural proteins produced by the
     body which  stimulate the  immune system  to fight  viral  infections.
     Hepatitis C viral infection is a  potentially deadly disease that,  if
     not treated, may  lead to cirrhosis  and hepatocellular carcinoma,  or
     liver cancer.    In October  1997,  Amgen received  FDA  approval  and
     launched INFERGEN(R) for the 24-week treatment of chronic hepatitis  C
     virus.  The  24-week treatment  includes newly  diagnosed hepatitis  C
     virus  patients  as  well  as  patients  whose  prior  treatment  with
     interferon  failed  and  are  candidates  for  subsequent   treatment.
     Results from a  48-week retreatment trial  with INFERGEN(R) have  been
     
     submitted and  are  under  review  by the  FDA.    Retreatment  is  an
     important part  of interferon  therapy since  many hepatitis  C  virus
     patients fail initial treatment with interferon therapies.  Amgen also
     filed a  license  application  with  Canadian  regulatory  authorities
     requesting  clearance  for  marketing  INFERGEN(R)  for  treatment  of
     hepatitis  C  virus.     In   1996,  Amgen   licensed  to   Yamanouchi
     Pharmaceutical  Co.,  Ltd.  of  Tokyo  ("Yamanouchi")  the  rights  to
     develop, manufacture  and commercialize  Amgen's consensus  interferon
     for all indications around the world  except in the United States  and
     Canada.  Yamanouchi granted  rights to the  Company to co-develop  and
     market Interferon alfacon-1 in Japan, the People's Republic of  China,
     Hong Kong and Taiwan (see "Joint Ventures and Business Relationships -
     Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.").

     Product Candidates

       Hematology/Oncology/Infectious disease

          Hematopoietic growth factors are proteins which influence growth,
     migration, and maturation of certain types of blood cells.  STEMGEN(R)
     (proper name -  Ancestim), one of  the Company's hematopoietic  growth
     factors, has been shown to influence the production, mobilization, and
     maturation of  progenitor  cells.   Human  clinical trials  have  been
     completed which investigated the utility of STEMGEN(R) in  combination
     with NEUPOGEN(R) for improved  mobilization of progenitor cells  prior
     to PBPC  transplantation  in patients  with  breast cancer.    License
     applications for marketing clearance of STEMGEN(R) in this  indication
     were submitted to  the U.S.,  EU, Canadian  and Australian  regulatory
     authorities in  1997.   The Company  expects to  launch STEMGEN(R)  if
     approved by regulatory authorities.

          The Company is developing a  sustained duration version of  G-CSF
     to provide  less  frequent,  potentially  once-per-cycle,  dosing  and
     thereby potentially improve compliance  and patient satisfaction.   In
     1997, Amgen began a human clinical trial of this second generation  G-
     CSF product; this trial is ongoing.

          The Company's novel platelet growth factor, Megakaryocyte  Growth
     and Development Factor ("MGDF"), another hematopoietic growth  factor,
     has been shown  in preclinical  and early  clinical research  to be  a
     promising  agent  for  ameliorating  the  thrombocytopenia  caused  by
     intensive chemotherapy or irradiation.  Thrombocytopenia, or  severely
     depressed platelet numbers, can result in severe internal bleeding. In
     1997, Amgen began a phase 3  clinical trial to treat  thrombocytopenia
     resulting from bone marrow transplant procedures in the breast  cancer
     treatment  setting.     In   addition,   the  Company   is   currently
     investigating MGDF in several other cancer-support treatment  settings
     and in  a setting  where normal  platelet donors  receive MGDF  before
     platelet donation.  The Company is collaborating in the development of
     MGDF with  Kirin (see  "Joint Ventures  and Business  Relationships  -
     Kirin Brewery Company, Limited").  In  1995, Amgen, Kirin, and  Kirin-
     Amgen signed  agreements with  Novo Nordisk  A/S  and certain  of  its
     subsidiaries   (including   ZymoGenetics,   Inc.)   for   rights    to
     thrombopoietin, a protein  hormone that stimulates  the production  of
     platelets.    The   acquisition  of  these   rights  complements   the
     development of MGDF.   


     
          Another hematopoietic growth  factor in development  at Amgen  is
     novel erythropoiesis  stimulating protein  ("NESP").   Human  clinical
     trials for NESP in  the treatment of anemia  in patients with  chronic
     renal failure began in January 1997 and are currently ongoing.   Early
     clinical data suggests that NESP may permit less frequent dosing  than
     Epoetin alfa.  The Company has entered into an agreement with Kirin to
     jointly develop and market NESP through its joint venture, Kirin-Amgen
     (see "Joint  Ventures  and  Business  Relationships  -  Kirin  Brewery
     Company, Limited" and Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial  Statements
     - "Contingencies - Johnson & Johnson arbitrations").

          Soft tissue  growth  factors  are believed  to  play  a  role  in
     accelerating or improving tissue regeneration  and wound healing.   In
     some cases, these agents may also  protect tissues from injuries  such
     as  those  associated  with  irradiation  and  chemotherapy.     Amgen
     currently  is  conducting  research  on  keratinocyte  growth   factor
     ("KGF").    Human  clinical  trials  for  KGF  for  the  treatment  of
     mucositis, a  side effect  often  experienced by  patients  undergoing
     radiation  therapy  and  chemotherapy,  are  ongoing.    Mucositis  is
     characterized as the  irritation or ulceration  of the  lining of  the
     gastrointestinal tract.

          In 1997, Amgen announced that it had ceased active  participation
     in further device development  with AmCell, Inc. ("AmCell"),  although
     the Company continues to have an interest in cell selection technology
     by AmCell and  other companies  operating in  the field.   See  "Joint
     Ventures and Business Relationships - Other business relationships".

       Endocrinology/Neurobiology

          The  Company  has   discovery  programs   in  endocrinology   and
     neurological disorders.  In the area of endocrinology, the Company  is
     currently developing leptin.   Leptin is the  protein produced by  the
     obesity gene.  Leptin  is made in  fat cells and  is believed to  help
     regulate the amount of fat stored by the body.  This protein has  been
     shown in some preclinical animal models to produce a reduction in body
     weight and body fat.  In  1995, The Rockefeller University granted  to
     the Company an exclusive license which  allows the Company to  develop
     products based on the obesity gene.  In 1996, Amgen commenced clinical
     trials with leptin and in June 1997, announced that early, preliminary
     data suggested that  there was  a dose range  at which  leptin had  an
     acceptable safety profile and induced weight loss.  Additional studies
     will be required before these conclusions  can be confirmed.   Ongoing
     clinical trials are evaluating the effect  of leptin in patients  with
     non-insulin dependent type II  diabetes and obesity.   To address  the
     poor solubility  of  leptin seen  at  higher doses,  Amgen  has  begun
     development of second-generation alternate leptin molecules.  In 1998,
     a clinical trial with  a second-generation leptin molecule  commenced.
     Additionally, Amgen entered into a license agreement with  Progenitor,
     Inc. which  grants  the  Company  certain  exclusive  rights  for  the
     development  and  commercialization  of  products  using  Progenitor's
     leptin receptor technology.

          Another focus of the Company's effort in endocrinology is in  the
     area of hyperparathyroidism.  Primary hyperparathyroidism ("HPT") is a
     disorder that causes excessive  secretion of parathyroid hormone  from
     the parathyroid  gland,  leading  to elevated  serum  calcium,  called
     hypercalcemia.   This  disorder currently  lacks  effective  treatment
     
     other than surgery.   Secondary HPT  is commonly seen  as a result  of
     kidney failure, affecting as many as 80 percent of dialysis  patients.
     Symptoms of hyperparathyroidism  include bone  loss, muscle  weakness,
     depression and forgetfulness.  The Company has entered into a  license
     agreement with NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("NPS") for Amgen to  develop
     and commercialize NPS's  calcimimetic small molecules  based on  NPS's
     proprietary calcium receptor technology for the treatment of HPT.   In
     1997, Amgen  completed a  clinical trial  in  secondary HPT  with  the
     initial calcimimetic product candidate,  R-568.  As  a result of  more
     favorable  metabolic   and   kinetic   profiles,   second   generation
     calcimimetic compounds were screened and evaluated.  A clinical  trial
     in normal volunteers  with a second  generation calcimimetic  compound
     began in 1997 and is ongoing.

          Neurotrophic factors are proteins which play a role in nerve cell
     protection and  regeneration  and which  may  therefore be  useful  in
     treating   a    variety   of    neurological   disorders,    including
     neurodegenerative diseases  of  the  central  and  peripheral  nervous
     systems,  nerve   injury  and   trauma.     Glial  cell-line   derived
     neurotrophic factor ("GDNF") is in  clinical studies for possible  use
     in the  treatment of  Parkinson's  disease.   GDNF  was added  to  the
     Company's neurobiology  research program  through the  acquisition  of
     Synergen,  Inc.  ("Synergen")  (see   "Joint  Ventures  and   Business
     Relationships - Other business relationships").

          Human  clinical  testing  of  brain-derived  neurotrophic  factor
     ("BDNF"), is currently being conducted in collaboration with Regeneron
     Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("Regeneron") (see "Joint Ventures and  Business
     Relationships -  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals,  Inc.").   A small,  early
     stage clinical trial of BDNF investigating intrathecal  administration
     for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ("ALS"  or Lou Gehrig's disease)  is
     currently  in  progress.  A  Phase  3  clinical  trial  of  BDNF  with
     subcutaneous delivery for  the treatment  of ALS  did not  demonstrate
     clinical efficacy  in the  endpoints measured  in patients  with  this
     disease.  Regeneron continues to investigate  BDNF in ALS patients  on
     behalf of  the collaboration  with  the Company.    On behalf  of  the
     collaboration with the Company, Regeneron  will undertake a number  of
     small clinical  studies with  Neurotrophin-3 ("NT-3").   During  1997,
     Amgen announced the collaboration will not pursue additional trials of
     NT-3 in diabetic neuropathy or chemotherapy-induced neuropathy because
     initial results were not sufficiently promising.

          In 1997, Amgen acquired the rights from Guilford  Pharmaceuticals
     Inc. ("Guilford") for a novel class of small molecule,  orally-active,
     neurotrophic  agents  called  FKBP-neuroimmunophilin  compounds   (see
     "Joint  Ventures   and  Business   Relationships  -   Other   business
     relationships").  The  FKBP-neuroimmunophilin   compounds  are   being
     developed   to   promote    nerve   regeneration    and   repair    in
     neurodegenerative   disorders.      In   preclinical   models,   FKBP-
     neuroimmunophilin compounds  have been  shown to  promote recovery  in
     models of nerve injury and Parkinson's disease.

       Inflammation

          The  inflammatory  response  is  essential  for  defense  against
     harmful micro-organisms and for  the repair of  damaged tissues.   The
     failure of  the  body's  control  mechanisms  regulating  inflammatory
     response occurs  in conditions  such  as rheumatoid  arthritis,  acute
     
     respiratory distress  syndrome  and  asthma.   Tumor  necrosis  factor
     binding protein ("TNFbp") and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist  ("IL-
     1ra") were two product candidates added to the Company's  inflammation
     research program  through  the  acquisition of  Synergen  (see  "Joint
     Ventures and Business Relationships - Other business  relationships").
     First generation  molecules of  TNFbp and  Il-1ra have  been in  human
     clinical trials.  A human clinical  trial for TNFbp was completed  for
     possible use in  the treatment of  rheumatoid arthritis.   Because  of
     potential issues with immunogenicity, a second generation molecule  is
     being developed, and  the Company does  not intend  to pursue  further
     development of  the first  generation TNFbp.   The  second  generation
     molecule of TNFbp, known as soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor  1,
     is in  preclinical studies.   A  human clinical  trial for  IL_1ra  in
     combination with methotrexate for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis is
     ongoing.  The Company is developing  second generation molecules as  a
     sustained delivery  formulation for  IL-1ra, which  have  demonstrated
     some  additional  benefit  in  preclinical  studies  over  the   first
     generation product candidate.  The Company is also conducting research
     to  discover  and  develop  other  molecules  for  the  treatment   of
     inflammatory diseases.  In 1997, Amgen announced that it is seeking  a
     corporate  partner  for  its  inflammation  research  and  development
     program  (see  "Item  7.  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis   of
     Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Outlook").

     Joint Ventures and Business Relationships

          The Company generally intends to self-market its products.   From
     time to time it may supplement this effort by using joint ventures and
     other business  relationships  to  provide  additional  marketing  and
     product development capabilities.   The Company  also supplements  its
     internal research and development efforts with acquisitions of product
     and technology rights and external research collaborations.  Amgen has
     established the relationships described below and may establish others
     in the future.

       F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd

          Amgen and Roche have entered into a long term agreement providing
     for the  commercialization  of  NEUPOGEN(R) (Filgrastim)  in  the  EU.
     Under this  agreement, the  companies collaborate  in  the EU  on  the
     commercialization and further clinical development of the product  and
     share in related  costs and profits  from sales.   Amgen has  recently
     assumed  from  Roche  most  of  the  responsibilities  for  marketing,
     promotion, distribution and  other key functions  relating to  product
     sales, and the  Company is  now distributing  the product  in most  EU
     countries from its European  Logistics Center.   Amgen and Roche  will
     also collaborate  on  the development  of  a second  generation  G-CSF
     product for the EU.

          Amgen  and  Roche  have  also   entered  into  an  agreement   to
     commercialize NEUPOGEN(R) in  certain European  countries not  located
     within the EU.   Under this  agreement, Roche  markets NEUPOGEN(R)  in
     these countries and pays a royalty to Amgen on these sales.

       Johnson & Johnson

          Amgen  granted   Johnson   &   Johnson  a   license   to   pursue
     commercialization of  recombinant  human  erythropoietin  as  a  human
     
     therapeutic in the United  States in all  markets other than  dialysis
     and diagnostics.   The Company is  engaged in arbitration  proceedings
     regarding this license.  For a complete discussion of this matter  see
     Note 4  to the  Consolidated  Financial Statements,  "Contingencies  -
     Johnson & Johnson arbitrations".  In  countries other than the  United
     States (except as described above), the People's Republic of China and
     Japan,  Johnson  &   Johnson  was   granted  rights   to  pursue   the
     commercialization of  human erythropoietin  as a  therapeutic under  a
     licensing agreement with Kirin-Amgen.

       Kirin Brewery Company, Limited

          The Company has a 50-50  joint venture (Kirin-Amgen) with  Kirin.
     Kirin-Amgen, which  was formed  in 1984,  develops and  commercializes
     certain of  the Company's  and Kirin's  technologies which  have  been
     transferred to this  joint venture.   Kirin-Amgen has given  exclusive
     licenses to Amgen and Kirin  to manufacture and market  erythropoietin
     in the United  States and Japan,  respectively.  Kirin-Amgen  licensed
     Johnson & Johnson rights to erythropoietin in certain geographic areas
     of the  world (see  "-  Johnson &  Johnson").   Kirin-Amgen  has  also
     granted Amgen an exclusive license to manufacture and market G-CSF  in
     the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia and New Zealand.   Kirin-
     Amgen has  licensed Kirin  similar rights  with  respect to  G-CSF  in
     Japan, Taiwan and Korea.  Kirin markets recombinant human  granulocyte
     colony-stimulating factor and recombinant human erythropoietin in  the
     People's Republic of  China under a  separate agreement.   Kirin-Amgen
     and Roche have entered into an agreement to commercialize  NEUPOGEN(R)
     in  certain  territories  not  covered  by  the  various   Amgen/Roche
     agreements (see "- F. Hoffman-La Roche  Ltd").  Under this  agreement,
     Roche markets NEUPOGEN(R)  in these countries  and pays  a royalty  to
     Kirin-Amgen on these sales.

          In 1994, Kirin-Amgen licensed  to Amgen and  Kirin the rights  to
     develop and market MGDF, and in 1996, to develop and market NESP  (see
     Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial  Statements - "Johnson &  Johnson
     arbitrations").  Amgen has been granted an exclusive license by Kirin-
     Amgen to manufacture and  market these two  product candidates in  the
     United States, all European  countries, Canada, Australia, Mexico  and
     New Zealand.   In  addition, with  respect  to NESP,  Amgen's  license
     extends to all Central and South  American countries.  Kirin has  been
     licensed by  Kirin-Amgen with  similar rights  for these  two  product
     candidates in Japan, the People's Republic of China, Taiwan, Korea and
     certain other countries in Southeast Asia.

          Pursuant to  the terms  of agreements  entered into  with  Kirin-
     Amgen,  the  Company   conducts  certain   research  and   development
     activities on behalf of Kirin-Amgen and  is paid for such services  at
     negotiated rates.  Included in revenues from corporate partners in the
     Company's  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for  the  years  ended
     December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, are $87.9 million, $79.9 million and
     $72.6 million, respectively, related to these agreements.

          In connection with its  various agreements with Kirin-Amgen,  the
     Company  has  been  granted  sole  and  exclusive  licenses  for   the
     manufacture and sale of certain products in specified geographic areas
     of the world.   In return for such  licenses, the Company paid  Kirin-
     Amgen stated  amounts upon  the receipt  of the  licenses and/or  pays
     Kirin-Amgen royalties based on sales.  During the years ended December
     
     31, 1997, 1996 and  1995, Kirin-Amgen earned  royalties from Amgen  of
     $91.4 million, $86.2  million and $74.2  million, respectively,  under
     such agreements.

       Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.

          In 1996,  Amgen licensed  to Yamanouchi  the rights  to  develop,
     manufacture and commercialize Interferon  alfacon-1 for the  treatment
     of hepatitis C and any additional indications around the world  except
     in the United States and Canada.   Amgen markets Interferon  alfacon-1
     under the  trademark INFERGEN(R)  in the  United  States.   Amgen  has
     earned and  will earn  additional amounts  if certain  milestones  are
     achieved  by  Yamanouchi   and  will  receive   royalties  on   sales.
     Yamanouchi  has  granted  to   Amgen  K.K.,  the  Company's   Japanese
     subsidiary,  certain   co-development  and   co-promotion/co-marketing
     rights in Japan and has granted to Amgen Greater China, Ltd.,  Amgen's
     subsidiary in  Hong  Kong,  certain  co-development  and  co-promotion
     rights in the People's Republic of China, Hong Kong and Taiwan.

       Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

          In 1990, the Company entered into a collaboration agreement  with
     Regeneron to co-develop and commercialize BDNF and NT-3 in the  United
     States.  To facilitate this  collaboration, the Company and  Regeneron
     formed Amgen-Regeneron Partners,  a 50-50 partnership.   In  addition,
     Regeneron licensed these potential  products to Amgen for  development
     in certain other countries.

       Other business relationships

          In 1994, Amgen acquired an equity  interest in AmCell, a  company
     which plans to manufacture cell selection and characterization devices
     based on  the technology  of Miltenyi  Biotec GmbH.   In  1997,  Amgen
     ceased active participation in further device development with AmCell.
     AmCell has full responsibility for the commercialization of the device
     and may be required to make certain royalty payments to Amgen.

          In December 1994, the Company acquired Synergen, a  biotechnology
     company engaged  in the  discovery  and development  of  protein-based
     pharmaceuticals.  With the acquisition of Synergen, Amgen  principally
     added  GDNF  and  Synergen's  inflammation  program  to  its   product
     candidate pipeline.

          Synergen Clinical Partners, L.P. ("SCP"), the general partner  of
     which was a subsidiary of Synergen, was formed to fund development and
     commercialization of IL-1ra in certain geographic areas.  As a  result
     of the  acquisition of  Synergen,  the general  partner  of SCP  is  a
     subsidiary of Amgen.   In connection  with the  settlement of  certain
     litigation relating  to  Synergen  and SCP,  Amgen  acquired  all  the
     limited  partnership  units  of  SCP  and,  under  the  terms  of  the
     settlement, Amgen may be required to pay future additional amounts  to
     the former limited partners that are  members of the plaintiff  class,
     other members of  the plaintiff  class and  their counsel  if the  FDA
     should grant approval to market  IL-1ra (as more specifically  defined
     in the related settlement agreement) and certain product revenues  are
     realized.   See  "Item  3. Legal  Proceedings  -  Synergen  ANTRIL(TM)
     litigation".           

     
          In 1997, Amgen  and Guilford entered  into an agreement  granting
     Amgen   worldwide   rights   for   Guilford's   FKBP-neuroimmunophilin
     compounds, a novel  class of small  molecule neurotrophic agents  that
     may represent a  new approach  in the  treatment of  neurodegenerative
     disorders.   Under the  terms of  the  agreement, Amgen  will  receive
     worldwide rights  to FKBP-neuroimmunophilin  compounds for  all  human
     therapeutic and diagnostic applications.   Amgen will conduct and  pay
     for all  clinical development  and manufacturing  of products,  market
     products worldwide and pay royalties to Guilford on such sales.  Also,
     in connection with  this agreement, Amgen  made a  $20 million  equity
     investment in Guilford.

          In December 1997,  Amgen and  SangStat entered  into a  licensing
     agreement  for  the  registration,  marketing,  and  distribution   of
     SangStat's   proprietary    CYCLOSPORINE   product    candidate,    an
     immunosuppressive  drug  used  in  transplantation  to  prevent  graft
     rejection.   Under  the  terms  of  the  agreement,  Amgen  will  have
     exclusive rights to market CYCLOSPORINE, under SangStat's trademark in
     Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong, the People's Republic of China  and
     Taiwan.

     Marketing

          In the  United  States, the  Company's  sales force  markets  its
     products  to  physicians  and  pharmacists  primarily  in   hospitals,
     dialysis centers and  clinics.  The  Company has chosen  to use  major
     wholesale distributors  of pharmaceutical  products as  the  principal
     means  of   distributing   EPOGEN(R)   (Epoetin   alfa),   NEUPOGEN(R)
     (Filgrastim),  and  INFERGEN(R)  (Interferon  alfacon-1)  to  clinics,
     hospitals and pharmacies.   Sales to  Bergen Brunswig Corporation  and
     Cardinal Distribution,  two  major  distributors  of  these  products,
     accounted for 24% and 14%, 24% and 14%, and 21% and 15%, respectively,
     of total revenues  for the  years ended  December 31,  1997, 1996  and
     1995, respectively.

          Dialysis providers are primarily reimbursed for EPOGEN(R) by  the
     federal government through the End Stage Renal Disease Program  ("ESRD
     Program") of Medicare.  The ESRD Program reimburses approved providers
     for 80% of  allowed dialysis  costs; the  remainder is  paid by  other
     sources, including  Medicaid,  private  insurance,  and  to  a  lesser
     extent, state kidney patient programs. The ESRD Program  reimbursement
     rate is established by  Congress and is monitored  by the Health  Care
     Financing  Administration   ("HCFA").   In  1997,   HCFA   implemented
     reimbursement changes that affected what reimbursement claims would be
     paid to  dialysis providers  by fiscal  intermediaries under  contract
     with HCFA.  These  changes had an adverse  impact on EPOGEN(R)  sales.
     See  "Item  7.  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial
     Condition and Results of Operations -  Results of Operation -  Product
     sales - EPOGEN(R) (Epoetin alfa)".  In March 1998, HCFA announced  the
     easing of restrictions on reimbursement  that had been implemented  in
     1997.   HCFA issued  two revisions  to the  1997 policy  in a  program
     memorandum.  The first  revision provides that, for  a month in  which
     the three  month "rolling  average" hematocrit  exceeds 36.5  percent,
     HCFA will pay the lower of 100%  of the actual dosage billed for  that
     month, or 80% of  the prior month's allowable  EPOGEN(R) dosage.   The
     second  revision  reestablishes  authorization  to  make  payment  for
     EPOGEN(R)  when  a  patient's  hematocrit  exceeds  36  percent   when
     accompanied by  documentation  establishing medical  necessity.    The
     
     Company cannot currently predict what effect the changes will have  on
     EPOGEN(R) sales.  As previously announced, in 1997, the Office of  the
     Inspector General issued a report recommending a 10% reduction in  the
     Medicare reimbursement rate for EPOGEN(R).   The Company believes  the
     recommendation would primarily affect  dialysis providers and that  it
     is difficult to predict the impact  on Amgen.  The reimbursement  rate
     for EPOGEN(R) is subject  to yearly review.   Changes in coverage  and
     reimbursement  policies  could  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on
     EPOGEN(R) sales.

          NEUPOGEN(R) is reimbursed by both private and public payors,  and
     changes in coverage and reimbursement  policies of these payors  could
     have a material adverse effect on sales of NEUPOGEN(R).

          Except for purchases pursuant to  a contract with the  Department
     of Veterans Affairs,  including purchases  by Veterans  Administration
     hospitals and the Department of Defense, the Company does not  receive
     any payments directly from  the federal government,  nor does it  have
     any  significant  supply  contracts   with  the  federal   government.
     However, the use of NEUPOGEN(R)  and EPOGEN(R) by hospitals,  clinics,
     and  physicians  may  be  impacted  by  the  amount  and  methods   of
     reimbursement that they receive from the federal government.

          In   the   EU,   Amgen   and   Roche   share    commercialization
     responsibilities for NEUPOGEN(R) under  a co-promotion agreement  (see
     "Joint Ventures  and Business  Relationships  - F.  Hoffmann-La  Roche
     Ltd").  NEUPOGEN(R) is  principally distributed to wholesalers  and/or
     hospitals in all EU countries depending upon the distribution practice
     of hospital  products  in  each  country.    Most  patients  receiving
     NEUPOGEN(R) for approved indications are covered by government  health
     care programs.  The  use of NEUPOGEN(R) is  affected by EU  government
     pressures on physician  prescribing practices in  response to  ongoing
     government initiatives to  reduce health care  expenditures, and to  a
     lesser extent, competition.

          In Canada and Australia, NEUPOGEN(R)  is marketed by the  Company
     directly  to   hospitals,   pharmacies  and   medical   practitioners.
     Distribution is handled by third party contractors.

          INFERGEN(R) reimbursement  is  through both  private  and  public
     sources, with  primary  reimbursement  through private  payors.    The
     current coverage and  reimbursement for interferons  has evolved  with
     health care reform and  is based upon the  payor's experience.   Since
     INFERGEN(R) is a new type of interferon, private and public payors may
     take time to evaluate the clinical  efficacy, dosing regimen and  cost
     of the drug in order to formulate coverage and reimbursement policies.
     For payors with formularies, formulary committees  may take up to  six
     months  to  evaluate  new  products  before  formulary  acceptance  or
     approval.

     Competition

          Competition  among   biotechnology,  pharmaceutical   and   other
     companies   that    research,   develop,    manufacture   or    market
     pharmaceuticals is intense and is expected to increase.  See  "Factors
     That May  Affect  the  Company  -  Competition".    Some  competitors,
     principally large pharmaceutical corporations, have greater  clinical,
     research, regulatory and marketing  resources and experience than  the
     
     Company.  In  addition, certain specialized  biotechnology firms  have
     entered  into  cooperative  arrangements  with  major  companies   for
     development and commercialization of products, creating an  additional
     source of competition. The Company  faces competition with respect  to
     products which it manufactures  and markets from  firms in the  United
     States,  countries  of  the  EU,  Canada,  Australia  and   elsewhere.
     Additionally,   some   of   the   Company's   competitors,   including
     biotechnology and pharmaceutical  companies, are  actively engaged  in
     the research and development of products in areas where the Company is
     also developing product candidates, as more fully discussed below.

          The introduction  of  new  products or  the  development  of  new
     processes by competitors  or new information  about existing  products
     may result  in  product replacements  or  price reductions,  even  for
     products protected by patents.  In addition, the timing of entry of  a
     new product into the market can be an important factor in  determining
     the product's eventual  success and  profitability.   Early entry  may
     have important  advantages in  gaining product  acceptance and  market
     share.  Accordingly,  the relative speed  with which  the Company  can
     develop products, complete the testing and approval process and supply
     commercial quantities of the product to  the market is expected to  be
     important  to  Amgen's  competitive   position.    Competition   among
     pharmaceutical products approved for sale also may be based on,  among
     other things, patent position, product efficacy, safety,  reliability,
     availability and price.

          A significant amount of research and development in biotechnology
     is conducted by small biotechnology companies, academic  institutions,
     governmental  agencies   and  other   public  and   private   research
     organizations.  These  entities may seek  patent protection and  enter
     into licensing arrangements to collect royalties for use of technology
     they have developed.  Amgen also may face competition in its licensing
     or acquisition  activities  from pharmaceutical  companies  and  large
     biotechnology companies that  also seek to  acquire technologies  from
     these  entities.    Accordingly,  the  Company  may  have   difficulty
     acquiring technology on acceptable  terms.  Additionally, the  Company
     competes with  these  entities and  pharmaceutical  and  biotechnology
     companies  with  respect   to  attracting   and  retaining   qualified
     scientific and technical personnel.

          Any products  or technologies  that  are directly  or  indirectly
     successful in addressing anemia could negatively impact the market for
     recombinant human erythropoietin or NESP.   Hoechst Marion Roussel  is
     currently conducting clinical trials on gene-activated  erythropoietin
     for the  treatment  of  anemia  (see  "Item  3.  Legal  Proceedings  -
     Transkaryotic Therapies and Hoechst litigation").

          Similarly, any  products or  technologies  that are  directly  or
     indirectly successful in  addressing the  causes or  incidence of  low
     levels of neutrophils  could negatively impact  the market for  G-CSF.
     These include  products that  could receive  approval for  indications
     similar to those for which NEUPOGEN(R) (Filgrastim) has been approved,
     development of chemotherapy treatments that are less  myelosuppressive
     than existing treatments and the development of anti-cancer modalities
     that reduce the need  for myelosuppressive chemotherapy.   NEUPOGEN(R)
     currently faces  market  competition  from a  competing  CSF  product,
     granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating  factor ("GM-CSF") and  from
     the  chemoprotectant,  amifostine.     Potential  future  sources   of
     
     competition include other GM-CSF  products, PGG-glucan, FLT-3  ligand,
     lisofylline, IL-11, myelopoietin, promegapoietin, and  progenipoietin,
     among others.

          Chugai Pharmaceuticals  Co.,  Ltd.  ("Chugai")  markets  a  G-CSF
     product in Japan as an adjunct to chemotherapy and as a treatment  for
     bone marrow transplant  patients.  In  early 1994,  Chugai and  Rhone-
     Poulenc Rorer  Inc. began  marketing a  G-CSF  product in  certain  EU
     countries as an  adjunct to chemotherapy  and as a  treatment in  bone
     marrow transplant  settings.   Chugai,  through its  licensee,  AMRAD,
     markets this G-CSF product in Australia as an adjunct to  chemotherapy
     and as a  treatment for  patients receiving  bone marrow  transplants.
     Under an agreement with Amgen, Chugai is precluded from selling its G-
     CSF product in the United States, Canada and Mexico.

          Immunex Corp. markets  two formulations of  GM-CSF in the  United
     States for bone marrow transplant and PBPC transplant patients and  as
     an  adjunct  to  chemotherapy  treatments  for  acute  non-lymphocytic
     leukemia ("ANLL")  and AML.   Immunex  Corp.  is also  pursuing  other
     indications for  its GM-CSF  product including  use in  treating  HIV-
     infected patients,  other infectious  diseases and  as an  adjunct  to
     chemotherapy outside the  limited setting of  ANLL.  Novartis  markets
     another GM-CSF product for use in bone marrow transplant patients,  as
     an adjunct to chemotherapy and as an adjunct to gancyclovir  treatment
     of HIV-infected patients in the EU and certain other countries.   This
     GM-CSF product is currently being developed for similar indications in
     the United States and Canada.

          Other products which address potential  markets for G-CSF may  be
     identified and developed by competitors in the future.  Such  products
     could also present competition in potential markets for STEMGEN(R) and
     a sustained duration version  of G-CSF.   Research and development  of
     other hematopoietic growth factors,  including those that may  compete
     with  MGDF,  is  being   conducted  by  several  companies   including
     Genentech, Inc.  (in collaboration  with  Pharmacia &  Upjohn,  Inc.),
     Immunex Corp., Novartis, G.D. Searle &  Co. (a subsidiary of  Monsanto
     Company), U.S. Bioscience, Inc. and Genetics Institute, Inc.

          Although not approved or promoted for  use in the United  States,
     the  Company  believes  that   approximately  10%  of  its   worldwide
     NEUPOGEN(R) sales are  from off-label  use as  supportive therapy  for
     various  AIDS-related  treatments.     Changes  in  AIDS   treatments,
     including therapies that may be less myelosuppressive, may affect such
     sales.

          INFERGEN(R) faces competition from other interferons and  related
     products, several  of  which are  in  development or  on  the  market.
     Schering-Plough Corp. and  Roche are major  suppliers of  interferons.
     Interferon Sciences,  Inc. could  be a  potential competitor  in  this
     arena.  (See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings - INFERGEN(R) litigation").

          Many  companies  are  developing  products  that  promote   wound
     healing, soft  tissue regeneration,  and chemoprotection.    Companies
     such as  Human  Genome Sciences,  Inc.,  Cell Therapeutics,  Inc.  and
     Genetics Institute, Inc. are currently  among many companies that  are
     developing products which could be potential competitors for KGF.   


     
          Many companies currently market or are believed to be  developing
     obesity treatments. Potential future  competitors of the Company  with
     respect  to  leptin  include  Millennium  Pharmaceuticals,  Inc.   (in
     collaboration  with  Roche),   Progenitor,  Inc.   (a  subsidiary   of
     Interneuron Pharmaceuticals  Inc.),  Neurogen Inc.  (in  collaboration
     with Pfizer Inc.), Bristol Myers  Squibb Company, Novartis, Eli  Lilly
     and Company and Merck & Co., Inc.  Knoll/BASF and Roche launched a new
     therapeutic for obesity in 1997.

          Calcimimetic  small  molecules  would  face  competition  from  a
     product  currently  marketed  by  Abbott  Laboratories  which   treats
     secondary HPT.   In  addition, other  products  to treat  primary  and
     secondary HPT are  currently being developed  by Abbott  Laboratories,
     Lunar Corporation, GelTex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Chugai.

          Several companies are  developing neurotrophic factors  including
     Cephalon Inc., Genentech, Inc. and Regeneron.

          The Company would face competition from a number of companies  in
     the inflammation disease arena, particularly for rheumatoid  arthritis
     treatments.    Current   anti-arthritic  treatments  include   generic
     methotrexate  and  other  products  marketed  by  Sanofi-Winthrop  and
     Novartis.  In addition, a number of companies have cytokine inhibitors
     in development including Immunex Corp., Centocor, Inc. and Roche.

     Research and Development

          The Company's two primary sources  of new product candidates  are
     internal research and development  and acquisition and licensing  from
     third parties.   Amgen's  internal  research capabilities  include  an
     expertise in secreted  protein therapeutics whereby  cloned genes  are
     inserted into living cells to  investigate therapeutic utility of  the
     proteins produced.    Additionally,  the Company  has  emerging  small
     molecule capabilities that include combinatorial chemistry and the use
     of high  throughput screening  to  potentially develop  novel,  orally
     available therapeutic  product candidates.   Amgen's  capabilities  in
     these areas complement its human genome program.  The Company's  human
     genome program may yield  genes that both lead  to the development  of
     secreted  protein  therapeutics  and  provide  targets  for   diseases
     requiring orally available small molecules.  Research and  development
     expense, which includes technology license fees paid to third parties,
     for the  years ended  December 31,  1997, 1996  and 1995  were  $630.8
     million, $528.3 million and $451.7 million, respectively.

     Government Regulation

          Regulation by governmental authorities  in the United States  and
     other  countries  is  a  significant  factor  in  the  production  and
     marketing of  the  Company's products  and  its ongoing  research  and
     development activities.

          In order to clinically test, manufacture and market products  for
     therapeutic use, Amgen  must satisfy mandatory  procedures and  safety
     standards established  by various  regulatory  bodies. In  the  United
     States, the federal Food, Drug and  Cosmetic Act, as amended, and  the
     regulations  promulgated  thereunder,  and  other  federal  and  state
     statutes and  regulations govern,  among  other things,  the  testing,
     manufacture, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval,  advertising
     
     and promotion of the Company's products on a product-by-product basis.
     Product development and approval within this regulatory framework take
     a  number  of  years  and  involve  the  expenditure  of   substantial
     resources.  After preclinical  manufacturing, laboratory analysis  and
     testing in animals, an investigational  new drug application is  filed
     with the FDA  to begin human  testing.  A  three-phase human  clinical
     testing program must  then be  undertaken.   In Phase  1, studies  are
     conducted to determine the safety  for administration of the  product.
     In Phase 2, studies  are conducted to  assess safety, acceptable  dose
     and gain preliminary  evidence of  the efficacy  of the  product.   In
     Phase 3,  studies are  conducted to  provide sufficient  data for  the
     statistical proof  of  safety and  efficacy.   The  time  and  expense
     required to  perform  this  clinical  testing  can  vary  and  can  be
     substantial.  No action can be taken to market any therapeutic product
     in the United States until an appropriate license application has been
     approved by  the  FDA.   Even  after  initial FDA  approval  has  been
     obtained, further studies may be  required to provide additional  data
     on safety and would  be required to  gain clearance for  the use of  a
     product as  a  treatment for  clinical  indications other  than  those
     initially approved.  In addition, use  of products during testing  and
     after initial marketing  could reveal side  effects that could  delay,
     impede or prevent marketing approval, limit uses or expose the Company
     to product liability claims.

          In addition to  regulating clinical  testing in  humans, the  FDA
     inspects equipment and  facilities used in  the manufacturing of  such
     products prior to providing  approval to market a  product.  If  after
     receiving clearance  from  the  FDA, a  material  change  is  made  in
     manufacturing equipment,  location or  process, additional  regulatory
     review may be required.  The Company also must adhere to current  Good
     Manufacturing Practices and biologics-specific regulations enforced by
     the FDA through its facilities inspection  program.  The FDA  conducts
     regular,  periodic  visits  to  re-inspect  equipment  and  facilities
     following the initial approval.  If, as a result of these inspections,
     the FDA determines that the Company's equipment and facilities do  not
     comply with applicable FDA regulations,  the FDA may impose  penalties
     on Amgen, including suspending the Company's manufacturing operations.

          In the EU countries, Canada and Australia regulatory requirements
     and approval processes are substantially similar in principle to those
     in the  United States.   Additionally,  in  the EU,  the  registration
     procedure  for  biotechnology  products  is  through  a   "centralized
     procedure".  This procedure leads to the granting of a single  license
     that is valid  for the entire  EU but requires  that all EU  countries
     approve the submission first.

          The Company is  also subject to  various federal  and state  laws
     pertaining to health care  "fraud and abuse", including  anti-kickback
     laws and false claims laws.  Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for  a
     prescription drug manufacturer to solicit,  offer, receive or pay  any
     remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of  business,
     including the  purchase or  prescription of  a particular  drug.   The
     federal government  has  published  regulations  that  identify  "safe
     harbors" or exemptions  for certain payment  arrangements that do  not
     violate the anti-kickback statutes.  The Company seeks to comply  with
     the safe harbors where possible.  Due to the breadth of the  statutory
     provisions and the absence of guidance  in the form of regulations  or
     court decisions  addressing some  of the  Company's practices,  it  is
     
     possible that the Company's practices might be challenged under  anti-
     kickback or  similar laws.   False  claims laws  prohibit anyone  from
     knowingly and willingly  presenting, or  causing to  be presented  for
     payment to third party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid) claims
     for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent,  claims
     for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically
     unnecessary items or  services.   Amgen's activities  relating to  the
     sale and marketing of  its products may be  subject to scrutiny  under
     these laws.  Violations of fraud  and abuse laws may be punishable  by
     criminal and/or civil  sanctions, including fines  and civil  monetary
     penalties.   The  Company  believes its  sales,  marketing  and  other
     activities comply  with  all  such  laws  although  there  can  be  no
     assurance that  the  Company's  activities  will  not  be  subject  to
     challenge for the reasons discussed above  and due to the broad  scope
     of these laws and the increasing attention being given to them by  law
     enforcement authorities.

          Since 1991, the Company has  participated in the Medicaid  rebate
     program established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of  1990,
     and under  amendments  of that  law  that became  effective  in  1993,
     participation has included  extending comparable  discounts under  the
     Public Health Service ("PHS")  pharmaceutical pricing program.   Under
     the Medicaid rebate program, the Company  pays a rebate for each  unit
     of its product reimbursed by Medicaid.   The amount of the rebate  for
     each product  is  set  by  law  as a  minimum  15.1%  of  the  average
     manufacturer price ("AMP") of that product,  or if it is greater,  the
     difference between AMP and the best  price available from the  Company
     to any  customer.    The rebate  amount  also  includes  an  inflation
     adjustment if AMP increases  faster than inflation.   The PHS  pricing
     program extends  discounts  comparable to  the  Medicaid rebate  to  a
     variety of community  health clinics and  other entities that  receive
     health services  grants from  the Public  Health Service,  as well  as
     hospitals that serve  a disproportionate  share of  poor Medicare  and
     Medicaid beneficiaries.   The  rebate amount  payable to  Medicaid  is
     recomputed each quarter based on the Company's reports of its  current
     average manufacturer price and best price for each of its products  to
     HCFA.  The terms of the Company's participation in the program  impose
     an obligation to correct the prices reported in previous quarters,  as
     may be necessary.  Any such corrections could result in an overage  or
     underage  in  the  Company's  rebate  liability  for  past   quarters,
     depending on  the  direction  of  the  correction.    In  addition  to
     retroactive rebates (and interest, if any), if the Company were  found
     to have knowingly  submitted false information  to the government,  in
     addition to other penalties available  to the government, the  statute
     provides for civil monetary  penalties in the  amount of $100,000  per
     item of false information.

          The Company also makes its products available to authorized users
     of the  Federal  Supply  Schedule  ("FSS")  of  the  General  Services
     Administration.  Since 1993, as a  result of the Veterans Health  Care
     Act of 1992 (the "VHC Act"), federal law has required that FSS  prices
     available for purchased by the Veterans Administration, the Department
     of Defense, Coast Guard and the  Public Health Service (including  the
     Indian Health Service) be  discounted by a minimum  of 24 percent  off
     the average  manufacturer price  to  non-federal customers  (the  non-
     federal  average  manufacturer  price,  "non-FAMP").    The  Company's
     computation and report of non-FAMP is used in establishing the  price,
     and the  accuracy of  the  reported non-FAMP  may  be audited  by  the
     
     government under  applicable  federal  procurement laws.    Among  the
     remedies available to the government for infractions of these laws  is
     recoupment of any overages paid by FSS users during the audited years.
     In addition, if the  Company were found to  have knowingly reported  a
     false non-FAMP, the VHC Act provides  for civil monetary penalties  of
     $100,000 per item that is incorrect.

          Amgen is also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety
     and Health  Act,  the  Toxic  Substances  Control  Act,  the  Resource
     Conservation and Recovery Act and  other current and potential  future
     federal, state  or  local regulations.    The Company's  research  and
     development  activities  involve  the  controlled  use  of   hazardous
     materials, chemicals,  biological  materials and  various  radioactive
     compounds.  The Company believes that  its procedures comply with  the
     standards prescribed  by state  or federal  regulations; however,  the
     risk of  injury  or  accidental  contamination  cannot  be  completely
     eliminated.  Amgen's  research and manufacturing  activities also  are
     conducted in  voluntary compliance  with  the National  Institutes  of
     Health Guidelines for Recombinant DNA Research.

          Additionally, the U.S.  Foreign Corrupt Practices  Act, to  which
     the Company is  also subject, prohibits  corporations and  individuals
     from engaging in certain activities to obtain or retain business or to
     influence a person working in an official capacity.  It is illegal  to
     pay, offer to pay,  or authorize the payment  of anything of value  to
     any foreign government  official, government  staff member,  political
     party or  political  candidate  in an  attempt  to  obtain  or  retain
     business or to  otherwise influence a  person working  in an  official
     capacity.  The Company's present and future business has been and will
     continue to be subject to various other laws and regulations.

     Patents and Trademarks

          Patents  are  very  important  to  the  Company  in  establishing
     proprietary rights  to the  products it  has  developed.   The  patent
     positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including the
     Company, can be  uncertain and involve  complex legal, scientific  and
     factual questions.    See  "Factors That  May  Affect  the  Company  -
     Intellectual property and legal matters".

          The Company has filed  applications for a  number of patents  and
     has been  granted  patents  relating  to  its  erythropoietin,  G-CSF,
     consensus interferon and  various potential products.   In the  United
     States, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (the "USPTO") has  issued
     to the Company patents relating to  erythropoietin that cover DNA  and
     host cells (issued 1987); processes for making erythropoietin  (issued
     1995 and 1997); and certain  product rights to erythropoietin  (issued
     1996 and 1997).   The last to issue  erythropoietin patents expire  in
     2013; all other  patents expire  prior to then.   The  USPTO has  also
     issued to the Company  patents relating to  aspects of DNAs,  vectors,
     cells and processes relating to recombinant G-CSF (issued 1989); other
     aspects of DNAs, vectors, cells and processes relating to  recombinant
     G-CSF (issued 1991); G-CSF polypeptides (issued 1996); and methods  of
     treatment using G-CSF polypeptides (issued 1996).   The last to  issue
     G-CSF patents expire in 2013; all other patents expire prior to then.

          There can be no assurance that Amgen's patents will afford  legal
     protection against  competitors  or  provide  significant  proprietary
     
     protection or  competitive advantage.  In addition,  there can  be  no
     assurance  that  Amgen's   patents  will  not   be  held  invalid   or
     unenforceable by a court, infringed or circumvented by others or  that
     others will not obtain patents that the Company would need to  license
     or circumvent.   Competitors or potential  competitors may have  filed
     patent applications  or received  patents, and  may obtain  additional
     patents and  proprietary rights  relating  to proteins,  compounds  or
     processes competitive with those of the Company.

          In general,  the  Company  has  obtained  licenses  from  various
     parties  which  it  deems  to  be  necessary  or  desirable  for   the
     manufacture, use or sale  of its products.   These licenses  generally
     require Amgen to pay  royalties to the parties  on product sales.   In
     addition, other companies have filed patent applications or have  been
     granted patents in areas of interest to the Company.  There can be  no
     assurance any licenses required under  such patents will be  available
     for licenses on acceptable terms or at all.  The Company is engaged in
     various legal proceedings  relating to certain  of its  patents.   See
     "Item 3. Legal Proceedings".

          Trade secret  protection  for  its  unpatented  confidential  and
     proprietary information is important to Amgen.   To protect its  trade
     secrets, the Company  generally requires its  employees, and  material
     consultants, scientific  advisors  or  parties  to  collaboration  and
     licensing agreements to  execute confidentiality  agreements upon  the
     commencement  of  employment,  the  consulting  relationship  or   the
     collaboration or licensing arrangement with the Company.  There can be
     no  assurance,   however,  that   others  will   not  either   develop
     independently the  same or  similar information  or obtain  access  to
     Amgen's proprietary information.

          The Company   has obtained  U.S. registration  of its  EPOGEN(R),
     NEUPOGEN(R), INFERGEN(R)  and  STEMGEN(R) trademarks.    In  addition,
     these trademarks have been registered in several other countries.

     Raw Materials

          Certain raw  materials  necessary for  the  Company's  commercial
     manufacturing of  its  products  are  proprietary  products  of  other
     companies,  and  in   some  cases,  such   proprietary  products   are
     specifically cited in the Company's drug application with the FDA such
     that they  must be  obtained from  that specific,  sole source.    The
     Company currently attempts  to manage  the risk  associated with  such
     sole sourced  raw materials  by active  inventory management.    Amgen
     attempts  to  remain  apprised  of  the  financial  condition  of  its
     suppliers, their ability to supply the Company's needs and the  market
     conditions for  these  raw  materials.    Also,  certain  of  the  raw
     materials required in  the commercial manufacturing  of the  Company's
     products are derived from biological sources.  Biological sources  may
     be  subject  to   contamination  and/or  recall.     The  Company   is
     investigating screening procedures with respect to certain  biological
     sources and  alternatives  to them.    However, a  material  shortage,
     contamination and/or recall could adversely impact or disrupt  Amgen's
     commercial manufacturing of its products.                           




     
     Human Resources

          As of December 31, 1997, the Company had 5,308 employees of which
     2,888 were engaged in  research and development,  999 were engaged  in
     sales and marketing and 1,421 were engaged in other areas.  There  can
     be no assurance that the Company  will be able to continue  attracting
     and retaining qualified  personnel in sufficient  numbers to meet  its
     needs.  None of  the Company's employees are  covered by a  collective
     bargaining  agreement,  and  the  Company  has  experienced  no   work
     stoppages.  The Company considers its employee relations to be good.

     Executive Officers of the Registrant

          The executive officers of the Company, their ages as of  February
     28, 1998 and positions are as follows:

          Mr. Gordon M.  Binder, age 62,  has served as  a director of  the
     Company since October  1988.  He  joined the Company  in 1982 as  Vice
     President-Finance and  was  named  Senior  Vice  President-Finance  in
     February 1986.   Mr.  Binder was  elected Chief  Executive Officer  in
     October 1988 and Chairman of the Board in July 1990.

          Mr. Kevin W.  Sharer, age  49, has served  as a  director of  the
     Company since November  1992.   He also  has served  as President  and
     Chief Operating  Officer since  October 1992.   Prior  to joining  the
     Company, Mr.  Sharer  served  as President  of  the  Business  Markets
     Division  of  MCI  Communications  Corporation,  a  telecommunications
     company, from  April 1989  to October  1992,  and served  in  numerous
     executive capacities at General Electric Company from February 1984 to
     March  1989.    Mr.  Sharer  also  serves  as  a  director  of  Unocal
     Corporation.

          Dr. N.  Kirby  Alton,  age  47,  became  Senior  Vice  President,
     Development,  in  August  1992,  having  served  as  Vice   President,
     Therapeutic Product Development, Responsible  Head, from October  1988
     to August 1992.  Dr. Alton previously served as Director,  Therapeutic
     Product Development, from February 1986 to October 1988.

          Mr. Robert  S.  Attiyeh,  age  63,  has  served  as  Senior  Vice
     President,  Finance  and  Corporate  Development,  since  joining  the
     Company in  July 1994.   Prior  to joining  the Company,  Mr.  Attiyeh
     served as a director of McKinsey & Company, a consulting firm, in  its
     Los Angeles, Japan and Scandinavian offices from 1967 to 1994.

          Mr. Stanley  M.  Benson,  age  46,  has  served  as  Senior  Vice
     President, Sales  and Marketing,  since joining  the Company  in  June
     1995.   Prior to  joining the  Company, Mr.  Benson held  a number  of
     executive  management  positions  at  Pfizer  Inc.,  a  pharmaceutical
     company, from 1987 to 1995.

          Ms. Kathryn E. Falberg, age 37, became Vice President,  Corporate
     Controller and Chief Accounting Officer in June 1997, having served as
     Vice President and Treasurer since December 1996, and having served as
     Treasurer from January 1995  to December 1996.   Prior to joining  the
     Company, Ms. Falberg had been Vice President, Chief Financial  Officer
     and Treasurer for  Applied Magnetics Corporation,  since May 1993  and
     had been its Treasurer from 1991 to May 1993. 

     
          Dr. Dennis  M.  Fenton, age  46,  became Senior  Vice  President,
     Operations, in January 1995, having  served as Senior Vice  President,
     Sales and  Marketing, since  August 1992,  and having  served as  Vice
     President, Process Development, Facilities and Manufacturing Services,
     from July 1991 to  August 1992.  Dr.  Fenton previously had served  as
     Vice President,  Pilot Plant  Operations and  Clinical  Manufacturing,
     from  October  1988  to  July  1991,  and  as  Director,  Pilot  Plant
     Operations, from 1985 to October 1988.

          Mr. Edward  F.  Garnett, age  50,  became Vice  President,  Human
     Resources, in  October  1994, having  served  as Director,  Sales  and
     Marketing Operations, since March 1994.   Previously, Mr. Garnett  had
     served as Director, Logistics, from April 1990 to March 1994.

          Mr. Daryl D. Hill, age 52, became Senior Vice President,  Quality
     and  Compliance,  in  January  1997,  having  served  as  Senior  Vice
     President, Asia Pacific, from January 1994 to January 1997.  Mr.  Hill
     previously had  served  as  Vice President,  Quality  Assurance,  from
     October 1988 to  January 1994, and  as Director  of Quality  Assurance
     from January 1984 to October 1988.

          Dr. George  Morstyn,  age  47, became  Vice  President,  Clinical
     Development and Chief Medical Officer in September 1993, having served
     as Vice  President, Clinical  and Medical  Affairs from  July 1991  to
     September 1993.

          Mr. Steven M. Odre, age  48, became Vice President,  Intellectual
     Property, and  Associate  General  Counsel, in  October  1988,  having
     served as Associate General Counsel since  March 1988.  From May  1986
     to March 1988, he served as Director of Intellectual Property.

          Dr. Lawrence  M. Souza,  age 44,  became Senior  Vice  President,
     Research, in May  1997, having served  as Vice President,  Exploratory
     Research, since October  1988.  Previously,  Dr. Souza  had served  as
     Director, Exploratory Research, from February 1986 to October 1988.

          Mr. George  A.  Vandeman,  age 58,  has  served  as  Senior  Vice
     President, General Counsel and Secretary since joining the Company  in
     June 1995.  Prior to joining  the Company, Mr. Vandeman was a  partner
     of Latham & Watkins, an international law firm, from June 1966 to July
     1995.

     Geographic Area Financial Information

          For financial  information  concerning the  geographic  areas  in
     which the Company operates see Note  11 to the Consolidated  Financial
     Statements.

     Factors That May Affect the Company

          Amgen operates in a rapidly changing environment that involves  a
     number of risks, some of which are beyond the Company's control.   The
     following discussion highlights  some of  these risks  and others  are
     discussed elsewhere herein.                   




     
       Product development

          The Company intends to continue an aggressive product development
     program.  Successful product development in the biotechnology industry
     is highly  uncertain,  and  only a  small  minority  of  research  and
     development programs ultimately result  in the commercialization of  a
     product.  Of the candidates that are selected for product development,
     all will not be successfully commercialized.  Product candidates  that
     appear promising in the early phases of development may fail to  reach
     the  market  for  numerous  reasons,  including,  without  limitation,
     results indicating lack  of effectiveness or  harmful side effects  in
     clinical  or  preclinical  testing,   failure  to  receive   necessary
     regulatory approvals, uneconomical manufacturing costs, the  existence
     of third party  proprietary rights, failure  to be  cost effective  in
     light of existing  therapeutics, or other  factors.  There  can be  no
     assurance that the  Company will be  able to  produce future  products
     that have commercial potential.  Additionally, success in  preclinical
     and early clinical trials  does not ensure  that large scale  clinical
     trials will be successful.   For example,  the Company has  previously
     announced product development  failures in connection  with BDNF  (for
     subcutaneous injection  for ALS),  a product  candidate that  did  not
     produce acceptable clinical  results in a  specific indication with  a
     specific route of  administration after  a Phase  III trial;  although
     this product  candidate had  demonstrated acceptable  preclinical  and
     earlier clinical trial results sufficient to warrant advancement to  a
     later stage clinical trial.  Further, clinical results are  frequently
     susceptible to  varying  interpretations  which may  delay,  limit  or
     prevent further  clinical development  or regulatory  approvals.   The
     length of  time  necessary to  complete  clinical trials  and  receive
     approval  for  product  marketing  by  regulatory  authorities  varies
     significantly by  product and  indication and  is often  difficult  to
     predict.  See "- Regulatory approvals".

       Regulatory approvals

          The Company's  research  and  development,  preclinical  testing,
     clinical trials,  facilities, manufacturing,  pricing, and  sales  and
     marketing of  its  products are  subject  to extensive  regulation  by
     numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the U.S.,  such
     as the FDA, HCFA, as well  as by foreign countries, including the  EU.
     The success  of  the Company's  current  products and  future  product
     candidates  will  depend  in  part  upon  obtaining  and   maintaining
     regulatory approval to market products  in approved indications.   The
     regulatory approval process can  be both a  long and complex  process,
     both in the U.S. and in foreign countries, including countries in  the
     EU.  Even if regulatory approval  is obtained, a marketed product  and
     its manufacturer are subject to continued review.  Later discovery  of
     previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer may  result
     in restrictions on such product or manufacturer, including  withdrawal
     of  the  product  from  the  market.    Failure  to  obtain  necessary
     approvals,  or  the  restriction,  suspension  or  revocation  of  any
     approvals or the failure to comply with regulatory requirements  could
     have a material adverse effect on the Company.

       Reimbursement; Third party payors

          In both  domestic and  foreign markets,  sales of  the  Company's
     products are dependent  in part on  the availability of  reimbursement
     
     from third party  payors such as  state and  federal governments  (for
     example, under Medicare  and Medicaid programs  in the United  States)
     and private insurance plans.  In certain foreign markets, pricing  and
     profitability  of   prescription   pharmaceuticals  are   subject   to
     government controls.  In the United  States, there have been, and  the
     Company expects there to continue to be, a number of state and federal
     proposals to implement  price controls.   In  addition, an  increasing
     emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to
     increase the pressure on pharmaceutical  pricing and usage.   Further,
     significant uncertainties  exist as  to  the reimbursement  status  of
     newly approved therapeutic products and current reimbursement policies
     for existing products may change.  Changes in reimbursement or failure
     to obtain reimbursement may  reduce the demand for,  or the price  of,
     the Company's products which could have  a material adverse effect  on
     the Company including results of operations.  For example, patients in
     the U.S.  receiving EPOGEN(R)  in connection  with treatment  for  end
     stage renal  disease  are  covered primarily  under  medical  programs
     provided by the federal government.  Therefore, EPOGEN(R) sales may be
     affected by future  changes in reimbursement  rates or  the basis  for
     reimbursement by the  federal government.   As the Company  previously
     announced, in early 1997, HCFA  instituted a reimbursement change  for
     EPOGEN(R) which has adversely affected the Company's EPOGEN(R)  sales.
     See  "Item  7.  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial
     Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations -  Product
     Sales - EPOGEN(R) (Epoetin alfa)".

       Guidelines

          In addition to  government agencies  that promulgate  regulations
     and guidelines directly  applicable to the  Company and its  products,
     professional   societies,   practice   management   groups,    private
     health/science  foundations  and  organizations  involved  in  various
     diseases  may  also  publish,  from   time  to  time,  guidelines   or
     recommendations to the  health care  and patient  communities.   These
     organizations may  make  recommendations  that  affect  the  usage  of
     certain  therapies,  drugs  or  procedures,  including  the  Company's
     products.  Such recommendations may relate  to such matters as  usage,
     dosage, route  of administration  and  use of  concomitant  therapies.
     Recommendations or guidelines that are followed by patients and health
     care providers and that result in,  among other things, decreased  use
     of the Company's products could have a material adverse effect on  the
     Company's results of  operations.   In addition,  the perception  that
     such recommendations or  guidelines will be  followed could  adversely
     affect prevailing market prices for the Company's common stock.

       Intellectual property and legal matters

          The  patent   positions  of   pharmaceutical  and   biotechnology
     companies can be  highly uncertain  and often  involve complex  legal,
     scientific and  factual questions.   To  date,  there has  emerged  no
     consistent  policy  regarding  breadth  of  claims  allowed  in   such
     companies' patents.    Accordingly, there  can  be no  assurance  that
     patents and patent applications relating to the Company's products and
     technologies will not  be challenged, invalidated  or circumvented  or
     will afford protection  against competitors with  similar products  or
     technology.     Patent  disputes   are  frequent   and  can   preclude
     commercialization of products.  The Company  currently is, and may  in
     the future be,  involved in patent  litigation.   Such litigation,  if
     
     decided adversely,  could subject  the Company  to competition  and/or
     significant liabilities, could require the Company to enter into third
     party  licenses  or  could  cause  the  Company  to  cease  using  the
     technology or  product in  dispute.   In  addition,  there can  be  no
     assurance that such licenses will be available on terms acceptable  to
     the Company, or at all.

          The Company is currently involved in arbitration proceedings with
     Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation,  a subsidiary of  Johnson &  Johnson
     ("Johnson & Johnson"), relating to a license granted by the Company to
     Johnson & Johnson for sales of  Epoetin alfa in the United States  for
     all human uses  except dialysis and  diagnostics.  See  Note 4 to  the
     Consolidated Financial Statements, "Contingencies - Johnson &  Johnson
     arbitrations".

       Competition

          Amgen operates in a highly competitive environment.  The  Company
     competes with  pharmaceutical  and biotechnology  companies,  some  of
     which may have  technical or competitive  advantages for, among  other
     things,  the  development  of  technologies  and  processes  and   the
     acquisition  of  technology  from  academic  institutions,  government
     agencies and other private and  public research organizations.   There
     can be  no assurance  that the  Company  will be  able to  produce  or
     acquire rights to products  that have commercial  potential.  Even  if
     the Company  achieves  product  commercialization,  there  can  be  no
     assurance that  one or  more of  the  Company's competitors  will  not
     achieve product commercialization  earlier than  the Company,  receive
     patent protection that  dominates or adversely  affects the  Company's
     activities, or have significantly greater marketing capabilities.

       Fluctuations in operating results

          The Company's  operating results  may  fluctuate from  period  to
     period for a number of reasons.  Historically the Company has  planned
     its operating  expenses, many  of which  are relatively  fixed in  the
     short term,  on  the  basis  that  revenues  will  continue  to  grow.
     Accordingly, even a  relatively small  revenue shortfall  may cause  a
     period's results to  be below Company  expectations.   Such a  revenue
     shortfall could arise from any  number of factors, including,  without
     limitation, lower than expected  demand, changes in wholesaler  buying
     patterns, changes in product pricing strategies, increased competition
     from new  and  existing  products, fluctuations  in  foreign  currency
     exchange  rates,  changes  in  government  or  private  reimbursement,
     transit  interruptions,   overall  economic   conditions  or   natural
     disasters (including earthquakes).

       Rapid growth

          The Company has adopted an  aggressive growth plan that  includes
     substantial and increased investments in research and development  and
     investments in facilities that will be required to support significant
     growth.  This  plan carries  with it a  number of  risks, including  a
     higher level  of operating  expenses and  the complexities  associated
     with managing a larger and faster growing organization.



     
       Stock price volatility

          The Company's  stock  price,  like that  of  other  biotechnology
     companies, is subject to significant volatility.  The stock price  may
     be affected by, among other things,  clinical trial results and  other
     product development related announcements by Amgen or its competitors,
     regulatory matters,  announcements  in  the  scientific  and  research
     community,  intellectual  property  and  legal  matters,  changes   in
     reimbursement policies or  medical practices or  broader industry  and
     market trends unrelated to the Company's performance.  In addition, if
     revenues or  earnings  in  any period  fail  to  meet  the  investment
     community's expectations, there could  be an immediate adverse  impact
     on the Company's stock price.


     Item 2.   PROPERTIES

          Amgen's  principal  executive  offices  and  a  majority  of  its
     administrative, manufacturing and research and development  facilities
     are located in 36 buildings in Thousand Oaks, California.   Thirty-one
     of the buildings  are owned and  five are leased.   Adjacent to  these
     buildings are five  facilities that are  under construction and  other
     property acquired in anticipation of  future expansion.  The  Thousand
     Oaks, California facilities include  manufacturing plants licensed  by
     various  regulatory  bodies  that  produce  commercial  quantities  of
     Epoetin  alfa,  NEUPOGEN(R)  (Filgrastim)  and  INFERGEN   (Interferon
     alfacon-1).

          Elsewhere  in  North  America,  Amgen  owns  eight  buildings  in
     Boulder, Colorado housing research facilities and a pilot plant.   The
     Company also owns  a distribution center  in Louisville, Kentucky  and
     leases a  research facility  and  administrative offices  in  Toronto,
     Canada, an administrative office in Washington, D.C. and five regional
     sales offices  in  the  U.S.    Amgen  is  building  a  new  EPOGEN(R)
     manufacturing plant, utility plant  and a research and  administrative
     facility on  a site  in  Longmont, Colorado.    In 1997,  the  Company
     entered into  an  agreement  to acquire  approximately  159  acres  of
     undeveloped  land  adjacent  to   this  site  to  accommodate   future
     expansion.  The  Company also  owns land  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts
     which can accommodate the construction of a research facility.

          Outside North America, the  Company has a formulation,  fill-and-
     finish facility in Juncos,  Puerto Rico and  a European packaging  and
     distribution center in Breda, The Netherlands which have been licensed
     by various  regulatory  bodies.   The  Company  leases  facilities  in
     thirteen European countries, Australia,  Japan, Taiwan, Hong Kong  and
     the People's  Republic  of  China for  administration,  marketing  and
     research and development.

          Amgen believes  that  its  current  facilities  plus  anticipated
     additions are sufficient to meet its needs for the next several years.


     Item 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

          Certain of the  Company's legal proceedings  are discussed  below
     and  in  the  Note  4   to  the  Consolidated  Financial   Statements,
     "Contingencies".  While it is impossible  to predict accurately or  to
     
     determine the eventual outcome of  these matters the Company  believes
     that the outcome of these proceedings will not have a material adverse
     effect on the annual financial statements of the Company.

     Elanex Pharmaceuticals litigation

          In October  1993,  the  Company  filed  a  complaint  for  patent
     infringement   against   defendants   Elanex   Pharmaceuticals,   Inc.
     ("Elanex"), Laboratorios Elanex De Costa  Rica, S.A., Bio Sidus  S.A.,
     Merckle GmbH, Biosintetica  S.A. and  other unknown  defendants.   The
     complaint, filed in the United States  District Court for the  Western
     District of Washington in Seattle, seeks injunctive relief and damages
     for Elanex's infringement  of the Company's  patent for DNA  sequences
     and host cells  useful in producing  recombinant erythropoietin.   The
     complaint also  alleges  that  the  foreign  defendants  entered  into
     agreements  with  Elanex  relating  to  the  production  or  sale   of
     recombinant  erythropoietin   and   thereby  have   induced   Elanex's
     infringement.

          In December 1993, Elanex responded  to the complaint denying  the
     material allegations  thereof,  and  filed a  counterclaim  seeking  a
     declaratory judgment that  the Company's  patent is  invalid and  that
     Elanex's recombinant erythropoietin technology  does not infringe  any
     valid claims of the Company's patent.  The counterclaim also seeks  an
     award of reasonable  attorneys' fees and  other costs  of defense  but
     does not seek damages against the  Company.  The case is currently  in
     discovery.   In February  1996, Merckle  GmbH was  dismissed from  the
     case.

     Biogen litigation

          On March 10,  1995, Biogen Inc.  ("Biogen"), filed  suit in  the
     United States  District  Court  for  the  District  of  Massachusetts
     alleging infringement by the Company of certain claims of U.S. Patent
     4,874,702 (the  "`702 Patent"),  relating to  vectors for  expressing
     cloned genes.  Biogen alleges that Amgen has infringed its patent  by
     manufacturing and selling  NEUPOGEN(R).   On March  28, 1995,  Biogen
     filed an amended complaint further alleging that the Company is  also
     infringing the claims of two additional patents allegedly assigned to
     Biogen, U.S. Patent 5,401,642 (the "`642 Patent") and U.S. Patent No.
     5,401,658 (the  "`658  Patent"),  relating to  vectors,  methods  for
     making vectors and  expressing cloned genes.   The amended  complaint
     seeks injunctive relief, unspecified compensatory damages and  treble
     damages.  On April  24, 1995, the  Company answered Biogen's  amended
     complaint,   denying   its   material   allegations   and    pleading
     counterclaims for  declaratory judgment  of non-infringement,  patent
     invalidity and  unenforceability.   On January  19, 1996,  the  Court
     decided,  upon  Biogen's  motion   to  dismiss  certain  of   Amgen's
     counterclaims, that it will exert jurisdiction  over claims 9 and  17
     of the  `702  Patent,  and dismissed  all  claims  and  counterclaims
     relating to any  other claims of  the `702 Patent.   Amgen moved  for
     summary judgment of  invalidity of claim  9 of the  `702 Patent.   On
     July 7, 1997, the Company's summary  judgment motion was denied.   On
     August 14,  1997, Amgen  filed a  Motion for  Reconsideration of  the
     Courts ruling  on invalidity  of claim  9  of the  `702 patent.    On
     October 20, 1997,  the Motion  for Reconsideration  was also  denied.
     These denials are not dispositive of the case, and the effect of  the
     ruling is to reserve certain issues for trial.  On October 22,  1997,
     
     Amgen moved for summary judgment of invalidity of the certain  claims
     of the  `702 and  `658 Patents  based  on prior  public uses  of  the
     claimed subject  matter.   Amgen  concurrently  moved for  a  partial
     interpretation of the claims at issue.   In addition, on October  24,
     1997, Amgen  filed a  motion for  summary judgment  of invalidity  of
     particular claims of the patents-in-suit based on abandonment of  the
     invention.  Amgen  also concurrently filed  a motion  to dismiss  the
     lawsuit in its entirety based on  Biogen's lack of standing to  bring
     the lawsuit in view of Biogen's lack of ownership of the  patents-in-
     suit.  Both parties have submitted claim construction briefs with the
     court.  On January 15, 1998,  Amgen filed a second motion to  dismiss
     for lack  of subject  matter jurisdiction  and  standing in  view  of
     Biogen's lack of necessary  ownership rights in the  patents-in-suit.
     On March 20, 1998, the court held a claim construction hearing.   The
     court heard oral argument and  took the submission under  advisement;
     no  decision  has  been  issued  yet.    Discovery  in  the  case  is
     substantially completed.  A trial date has not been set.

          In a separate matter, on July 30, 1997, Biogen filed a complaint
     in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts
     in Boston alleging that Amgen infringes  claims 9 and 17 of the  `702
     Patent, and the `642 Patent and  `658 Patent by making and using  the
     claimed subject matter  in the United  States in  the manufacture  of
     INFERGEN(R),  the  Company's  consensus   interferon  product.     On
     September 17,  1997, Amgen  responded to  the Complaint  by filing  a
     motion to dismiss the  case in its entirety  due to Biogen's lack  of
     standing to bring the lawsuit in  view of Biogen's lack of  ownership
     of the  patents-in-suit.   Amgen  also  filed a  motion  for  summary
     judgment of patent invalidity of particular claims of the patents-in-
     suit  due  to  abandonment  of  the  invention.    Biogen  moved   to
     consolidate  this  case  with  above-described  case  pertaining   to
     NEUPOGEN(R); on November 16, 1997 the Court denied Biogen's motion to
     consolidate.  The Court has ordered the Company to file an answer  to
     Biogen's complaint but has stayed all discovery in this matter  until
     certain discovery  in  the  NEUPOGEN(R)  matter  described  above  is
     completed.  The Company has filed  a motion to dismiss the  complaint
     on the grounds that the Court  lacks jurisdiction over the matter  as
     Biogen lacks the necessary ownership rights to afford it standing.  A
     trial date has not been set.

     INFERGEN(R) litigation

          On June 15, 1994, Biogen filed  suit in the Tokyo District  Court
     in Japan, against  Amgen K.K., a  subsidiary of  the Company,  seeking
     injunctive relief for the alleged infringement of two Japanese patents
     relating to alpha-interferon by the  clinical use of INFERGEN(R),  the
     Company's consensus interferon product.   Amgen K.K. has answered  the
     complaint and has denied the allegations of infringement.  On  January
     30, 1998,  Biogen  withdrew  its  complaint  thereby  terminating  the
     action.

          On December 20, 1995, Roche  Holding A.G., parent corporation  of
     F. Hoffmann-La Roche  and Company, filed  suit in  the Tokyo  District
     Court in  Japan, against  Amgen K.K.,  a  subsidiary of  the  Company,
     seeking injunctive relief  for the  alleged infringement  of a  patent
     relating to alpha-interferon by the clinical use of INFERGEN(R).   The
     Company subsequently answered  the complaint,  denying allegations  of
     infringement.  On February  9, 1998, the  Tokyo District Court  issued
     
     its decision to dismiss the action due  to a lack of legal or  factual
     basis supporting the requested relief.

          On December 3, 1996, Schering Corporation filed suit in the  U.S.
     District Court for  the District  of Delaware  (the "Delaware  Court")
     against the Company alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 4,530,901
     (the "`901 Patent") by  the manufacture and use  of INFERGEN(R).   The
     complaint seeks  unspecified  damages  and  injunctive  relief.    The
     Company filed a motion to dismiss (the "Motion to Dismiss") the action
     on January 24, 1997.  On January 22, 1997, the Company filed an action
     for declaratory relief  in the United  States District  Court for  the
     Central District of California in Los  Angeles naming Biogen Inc.  and
     Schering Corporation as parties.  The action seeks a declaration  that
     the `901 Patent is not infringed  by the Company's use of  INFERGEN(R)
     and/or that the  `901 Patent  is invalid.   By  agreement between  the
     parties, the Motion to Dismiss was withdrawn and a motion to  transfer
     the case to California was filed on March 10, 1997.  On June 24, 1997,
     the Delaware Court denied Amgen's motion  to transfer and the case  is
     now proceeding  in Delaware.   Pursuant  to an  agreement between  the
     parties, Amgen withdrew its complaint filed in California.  Biogen has
     been added  as a  plaintiff in  the Delaware  action.   The action  is
     ongoing and is in the discovery phase.

          See, also, "Biogen litigation", above.

     Genentech litigation

          On October 16, 1996,  Genentech, Inc. filed  suit in the  United
     States District Court for the Northern District of California seeking
     an unspecified  amount of  compensatory damages,  treble damages  and
     injunctive relief  on  its  U.S.  Patents  4,704,362,  5,221,619  and
     4,342,832 ( the "`362, `619 and  `832 Patents"), relating to  vectors
     for expressing  cloned genes  and the  methods for  such  expression.
     Genentech, Inc.  alleges  that Amgen  has  infringed its  patents  by
     manufacturing and selling  NEUPOGEN(R).  On  December 2, 1996,  Amgen
     was served  with this  lawsuit.   On January  21, 1997,  the  Company
     answered  the  complaint  and  asserted  counterclaims  relating   to
     invalidity and non-infringement of the patents-in-suit.  On  February
     10,  1997,  Genentech,  Inc.  served  Amgen  with  a  reply  to   the
     counterclaim and  an additional  counterclaim asserting  U.S.  Patent
     5,583,013 (the  "`013 Patent"),  issued  December 10,  1996,  seeking
     relief similar to that  sought for the `362,  `619 and `832  Patents.
     On  March  31,  1997,  Amgen  answered  this  pleading  and  asserted
     counterclaims relating to invalidity and non-infringement of the `013
     Patent.  Discovery  is currently  ongoing.   The parties  are in  the
     process of  exchanging papers  pertaining  to interpretation  of  the
     patent claims.

     Transkaryotic Therapies and Hoechst litigation

          On April 15, 1997, Amgen filed suit in the United States District
     Court in  Boston Massachusetts  against Transkaryotic  Therapies  Inc.
     ("TKT") and Hoechst  Marion Roussel alleging  infringement of  several
     U.S. patents owned by Amgen that  claim an erythropoietin product  and
     processes for making  erythropoietin.   The suit  seeks an  injunction
     preventing the  defendants from  making, importing,  using or  selling
     erythropoietin in the U.S.   On July 9,  1997, the Court denied  TKT's
     motion to dismiss the lawsuit on the pleadings.  On January 27,  1998,
     
     a hearing was held on the  defendants' motion for summary judgment  to
     dismiss the  lawsuit  based  on the  clinical  trial  exemption;  also
     pending before  the  court was  Amgen's  summary judgment  motion  for
     infringement.  The court heard oral  argument and took the  submission
     under advisement; no decision has been  issued yet.  Discovery in  the
     case is ongoing.

     FoxMeyer Health Corporation

          On January 10, 1997, FoxMeyer  Health Corporation, now known  as
     Avatex Corporation ("Avatex"), filed suit (the "FoxMeyer Lawsuit") in
     the District Court  of Dallas  County, Dallas,  Texas, alleging  that
     defendant McKesson Corporation ("McKesson") defrauded Avatex, misused
     confidential information received from  Avatex about subsidiaries  of
     Avatex  (FoxMeyer   Corporation   and  FoxMeyer   Drug   Corporation,
     collectively  the   "FoxMeyer   Subsidiaries"),  and   attempted   to
     monopolize the  market for  pharmaceutical  and health  care  product
     distribution  by  attempting  to  injure  or  destroy  the   FoxMeyer
     Subsidiaries.  The Company  is  named as one of twelve  "Manufacturer
     Defendants" alleged to  have conspired with  McKesson Corporation  in
     doing, among  other things,  the above  and  (i) inducing  Avatex  to
     refrain from  seeking  other  suitable purchasers  for  the  FoxMeyer
     Subsidiaries and (ii)  causing Avatex  to believe  that McKesson  was
     serious about  purchasing Avatex's  assets at  fair value,  when,  in
     fact, McKesson was not.  The Manufacturer Defendants and McKesson are
     also alleged to have intentionally  and tortiously interfered with  a
     number of  business expectancies  and opportunities.   The  complaint
     seeks from  the  Manufacturer Defendants  and  McKesson  compensatory
     damages  of  at  least  $400  million  and  punitive  damages  in  an
     unspecified amount, as  well as Avatex's  costs and attorney's  fees.
     The Company has filed  an answer denying  Avatex's allegations.   The
     matter has  been  transferred  to the  Federal  Bankruptcy  Court  in
     Dallas, Texas  (the  "Texas  Bankruptcy Court").    The  Manufacturer
     Defendants subsequently sought to transfer the matter to the  Federal
     Bankruptcy Court in Delaware (the "Delaware Bankruptcy Court"), where
     the FoxMeyer Subsidiaries'  Chapter 7 bankruptcy  action is  pending.
     On August 27, 1997, the Texas  Bankruptcy Court denied the motion  to
     transfer venue to the Delaware Bankruptcy Court, but decided that  it
     would adhere to any  decision made by  the Delaware Bankruptcy  Court
     regarding, among  other  things,  ownership  of  claims  asserted  by
     Avatex, as described below.  McKesson and the Manufacturer Defendants
     have intervened in an action brought by the Chapter 7 trustee in  the
     Delaware Bankruptcy Court that seeks  to enjoin the FoxMeyer  Lawsuit
     and have  moved  for partial  summary  judgment in  that  proceeding,
     asserting that  Avatex is  not the  owner of  the alleged  causes  of
     action.    On  November  3,  1997,  McKesson  and  the   Manufacturer
     Defendants moved  for summary  judgment  in the  Delaware  Bankruptcy
     Court to preclude Avatex and the Chapter 7 trustee from litigating in
     Delaware the  claims brought  in the  Texas Bankruptcy  Court.   This
     motion has been fully briefed in the Delaware Bankruptcy Court and is
     awaiting decision.  On January 9, 1998, the Delaware Bankruptcy Court
     judge informed the  parties that she  will not rule  on this  pending
     summary judgment motion before  she retires from  the bench and  that
     the motion will have to be  reassigned; since then, an interim  judge
     has been appointed.  To date, no discovery has occurred in either the
     Texas  Bankruptcy  Court  adversary   proceedings  or  the   Delaware
     Bankruptcy Court adversary proceedings.                

     
     Synergen ANTRIL(TM) litigation

          Johnson v. Amgen Boulder Inc. (formerly Synergen Inc.), et  al.,
     began as two suits filed in  February 1995 in the Superior Court  for
     the State  of  Washington,  King County  and  in  the  United  States
     District Court for the Western  District of Washington (the  "Court")
     related to the development of ANTRIL(TM) (Synergen Inc.'s trade  name
     for IL-1ra) for the treatment of sepsis in which the plaintiffs  seek
     rescission of  certain payments  made to  one of  the defendants  (or
     unspecified compensatory  damages  not  less than  $52  million)  and
     treble damages.   The two cases  were consolidated into  one case  in
     Court and  the consolidated  case was  certified  as a  class  action
     lawsuit.  Plaintiff, a limited partner of defendant Synergen Clinical
     Partners, L.P.  (the  "Partnership"),  represents a  class  of  other
     limited partners.   The consolidated complaint,  and as  subsequently
     amended, alleges  violations of  federal and  state securities  laws,
     violations   of   other   federal   and   state   statutes,    fraud,
     misrepresentation and  breach  of  fiduciary duty.    The  defendants
     include  Amgen   Boulder  Inc.,   the  Partnership,   Amgen   Boulder
     Development Corporation (formerly  Synergen Development  Corporation)
     and certain  officers  and  directors of  the  former  Synergen  Inc.
     Defendants answered the  complaint, as  amended, denying  plaintiffs'
     claims and asserting  various affirmative  defenses.   In August  and
     September 1996, the parties filed cross motions for summary judgment.
     The Court heard arguments on November 1, 1996, but did not rule.   On
     February 7,  1997,  the  Court preliminarily  approved  a  settlement
     between the class and the defendants.  Following an objection to  the
     settlement by a member of the  class, on December 2, 1997, the  class
     and the defendants entered into a supplement to the settlement.   The
     settlement, as supplemented, provides that the plaintiff class, which
     includes certain of  the limited  partners of  the Partnership,  will
     receive an initial cash payment of $16.5 million (including up to  $3
     million as  payment  to  plaintiffs' counsel)  in  exchange  for  the
     transfer of ownership  of their partnership  units, dismissal of  the
     suit with  prejudice  and  the exchange  by  the  parties  of  mutual
     releases.  In addition,  if the FDA should  grant approval to  market
     IL-1ra (as  more  specifically  defined  in  the  related  settlement
     agreement) in  the U.S.,  up to  an additional  $10 million  will  be
     payable to  the class  (including  up to  $1  million as  payment  to
     plaintiffs' counsel), and  if product  revenues for  IL-1ra (as  more
     specifically defined in the related settlement agreement) exceed $650
     million by December 31, 2020, up to an additional $55 million will be
     payable to  the class  (including  up to  $5  million as  payment  to
     plaintiffs' counsel).  On January 16,  1998, the Court granted  final
     approval of  the  settlement  and  entered  judgment  dismissing  the
     action.  That judgment and the settlement have become final.

     Johnson & Johnson arbitrations

          The Company is engaged in arbitration proceedings with one of its
     licensees.   See  Note 4  to  the Consolidated  Financial  Statements,
     "Contingencies - Johnson & Johnson arbitrations".    






     
     Item 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

          No matters were  submitted to a  vote of  the Company's  security
     holders during the last quarter of its fiscal year ended December  31,
     1997.


                                       PART II


     Item 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED 
               STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

          The Company's  common stock  trades on  The Nasdaq  Stock  Market
     under the symbol AMGN.  As of March 11, 1998, there were approximately
     14,000 holders  of record  of the  Company's common  stock.   No  cash
     dividends have been paid on the common stock to date, and the  Company
     currently intends  to  retain  any earnings  for  development  of  the
     Company's business and for repurchases of its common stock.

          The following table sets forth, for the fiscal periods indicated,
     the range of high and low closing sales prices of the common stock  as
     quoted on The Nasdaq Stock Market for the years 1997 and 1996:

                                              High         Low
                                            -------      --------
            4th Quarter .................   $54-1/8      $45-15/16
            3rd Quarter .................    61-3/4       46-15/16
            2nd Quarter .................    68-3/8       55-7/8
            1st Quarter .................    63           53

            4th Quarter .................   $64          $54-3/8
            3rd Quarter .................    63-3/8       51-1/2
            2nd Quarter .................    61           52-3/8
            1st Quarter .................    65-1/2       52-3/4





















     
     Item 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
               (in million, except per share data)

                                       Years ended December 31,
                              1997     1996      1995      1994      1993
                              ----     ----      ----      ----      ----
    Consolidated Statement
      of Operations Data:
    Revenues:
      Product sales .......$2,219.8 $2,088.2  $1,818.6  $1,549.6  $1,306.3
      Other revenues ......   181.2    151.6     121.3      98.3      67.5
    Total revenues ........ 2,401.0  2,239.8   1,939.9   1,647.9   1,373.8
    Research and
      development expenses    630.8    528.3     451.7     323.6     255.3
    Write-off of in-
      process technology
      purchased ...........       -        -         -     116.4         -
    Marketing and selling
      expenses ............   302.0    310.1     272.9     236.9     214.1
    General and admini-
      strative expenses ...   181.8    160.5     145.5     122.9     114.3
    Legal
      assessment(award) ...   157.0        -         -         -     (13.9)
    Net income(1) .........   644.3    679.8     537.7     319.7     383.3
    Diluted earnings per
      share(1) ............    2.35     2.42      1.92      1.14      1.33
    Cash dividends
      declared per share ..       -        -         -         -         -


                                            At December 31,
                              1997     1996      1995      1994      1993
                              ----     ----      ----      ----      ----
    Consolidated Balance
       Sheet Data:
    Total assets ..........$3,110.2 $2,765.6  $2,432.8  $1,994.1  $1,765.5
    Long-term debt ........   229.0     59.0     177.2     183.4     181.2
    Stockholders' equity .. 2,139.3  1,906.3   1,671.8   1,274.3   1,172.0


     (1) Includes a legal assessment of $157  million, or $.35 per  share,
        related to arbitration proceedings with Johnson & Johnson in  1997
        (see  Note 4  to  the Consolidated  Financial Statements).    Also
        includes  the  write-off  of in-process  technology  purchased  of
        $116.4   million,  or  $.42   per  share,   associated  with   the
        acquisition  of Synergen in  1994.  Also  includes an increase  to
        net  income of $8.7  million, or $.03  per share,  to reflect  the
        cumulative  effect of a  change in accounting  principle to  adopt
        Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 in 1993.


     ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION 
               AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     Liquidity and Capital Resources

          Cash provided by operating activities has  been and is expected
     to continue to be the  Company's primary source of  funds.  In 1997,
     
     operations provided  $902.9  million of  cash  compared  with $822.6
     million in  1996.    The  Company  had  cash, cash  equivalents  and
     marketable securities  of  $1,026.5 million  at  December  31, 1997,
     compared with $1,077 million at December 31, 1996.

          Capital expenditures  totaled $387.8  million in  1997 compared
     with $266.9  million  in  1996.   The  Company  anticipates spending
     approximately $400  million  to  $500  million  in 1998  on  capital
     projects and equipment  to expand  the Company's  global operations.
     Thereafter, over the  next few  years, the Company  anticipates that
     capital expenditures  will average  in  excess of  $400  million per
     year.

          The Company receives cash  from the exercise  of employee stock
     options.   In 1997,  stock options  and  their related  tax benefits
     provided $189 million of cash compared  with $162.1 million in 1996.
     Proceeds from the  exercise of stock  options and their  related tax
     benefits have  varied  and are  expected  to continue  to  vary from
     period to period  based upon,  among other factors,  fluctuations in
     the market  value  of the  Company's  common stock  relative  to the
     exercise price of such options.

          The Company has a stock repurchase  program primarily to offset
     the dilutive effect of its employee  stock option and stock purchase
     plans.   In  both 1996  and  1997, shares  repurchased  exceeded the
     number of shares covered by options granted  in each of those years.
     In 1997, the Company  purchased 13.7 million shares  of common stock
     at a cost of $737.9 million, and in  1996, the Company purchased 7.7
     million shares  of common  stock  at a  cost  of $450  million.   In
     October 1997,  the  Board  of Directors  authorized  the  Company to
     repurchase up to  an additional $1  billion of common  stock through
     December 31, 1998.   At  December 31, 1997,  $712.1 million  of this
     authorization remained.

          To provide for  financial flexibility and  increased liquidity,
     the Company has established  several sources of debt  financing.  In
     November 1997,  the Company  established a  $500 million  debt shelf
     registration  statement.    In  December   1997,  pursuant  to  such
     registration statement,  the  Company issued  $100  million  of debt
     securities that bear interest at a fixed rate  of 6.5% and mature in
     10 years (the "Notes").   As of  December 31, 1997,  the Company had
     $259 million of unsecured debt securities  outstanding.  This amount
     includes the  Notes,  $59  million  of  debt  securities  that  bear
     interest at  fixed rates  averaging 5.8%  and mature  in one  to six
     years and $100  million of debt  securities that bear  interest at a
     fixed rate of  8.1% and mature  in 2097  which were issued  in April
     1997.   The  Company  also  has  a  commercial paper  program  which
     provides for short-term borrowings up to an aggregate face amount of
     $200 million.   The  Company has  a $150  million revolving  line of
     credit for borrowings and  to support the  commercial paper program.
     As of December  31, 1997, no  amounts were outstanding  under either
     source.

          The primary objectives  for the Company's  investment portfolio
     are liquidity  and safety  of principal.    Investments are  made to
     achieve the highest rate  of return to the  Company, consistent with
     these two  objectives.    The  Company's  investment  policy  limits
     investments to certain  types of instruments  issued by institutions
     
     with investment  grade  credit ratings  and  places  restrictions on
     maturities and  concentration  by  type  and  issuer.   The  Company
     invests its  excess cash  in securities  with varying  maturities to
     meet projected cash needs.

          The Company believes  that existing funds,  cash generated from
     operations and existing  sources of  debt financing are  adequate to
     satisfy its working capital and capital expenditure requirements for
     the foreseeable future, as  well as to support  its stock repurchase
     program.   However, the  Company may  raise additional  capital from
     time to time.

     Results of Operations

       Product sales

          Product sales  were $2,219.8  million in  1997, an  increase of
     $131.6 million or 6%  over the prior  year.  In  1996, product sales
     were $2,088.2 million, an increase of $269.6 million or 15% over the
     prior year.

          NEUPOGEN(R) (Filgrastim)

          Worldwide NEUPOGEN(R) sales  were $1,055.7 million  in 1997, an
     increase of $39.4 million or 4% over the  prior year.  This increase
     was primarily due to  demand growth and higher  prices.  Unfavorable
     foreign  currency  effects  and  European  Union  ("EU")  government
     initiatives to lower health  care expenditures reduced  growth in EU
     sales.  In addition,  the Company believes that  the use of protease
     inhibitors as a treatment for AIDS  has reduced sales of NEUPOGEN(R)
     for  off-label  use  as  a  supportive   therapy  in  this  setting.
     NEUPOGEN(R) is  not approved  or promoted  for  such use,  except in
     Australia and  Canada.   In 1996,  sales  were $1,016.3  million, an
     increase of $80.3 million or 9% over the  prior year.  This increase
     was primarily due to growth in demand and a price increase.

          Cost containment pressures in the  U.S. health care marketplace
     have contributed to  the slowing  of growth in  domestic NEUPOGEN(R)
     usage over the past several years.   These pressures are expected to
     continue to  influence  growth  for  the  foreseeable  future.    In
     addition, quarterly  NEUPOGEN(R)  sales volume  is  influenced  by a
     number  of  factors  including   underlying  demand  and  wholesaler
     inventory management practices.

          The growth of the  colony stimulating factor  ("CSF") market in
     the EU in which NEUPOGEN(R) competes  has slowed, principally due to
     EU  government  pressures  on  physician  prescribing  practices  in
     response to on-going  government initiatives  to reduce  health care
     expenditures.   Additionally,  the  Company  faces competition  from
     another granulocyte CSF product.  Amgen's CSF market share in the EU
     has remained relatively  constant over  the last year,  however, the
     Company does not expect the competitive  intensity to subside in the
     near future.

          EPOGEN(R) (Epoetin alfa)

          EPOGEN(R) sales were $1,160.7  million in 1997,  an increase of
     $88.8 million or  8% over  the prior year.   EPOGEN(R)  sales during
     
     this period benefited  from increases  in the U.S.  dialysis patient
     population, but  were  adversely affected  by  reimbursement changes
     implemented on  September  1,  1997  by  the Health  Care  Financing
     Administration  ("HCFA").      Prior   to   these  changes,   fiscal
     intermediaries under  contract  with  HCFA  were  authorized to  pay
     reimbursement claims for  patients whose  hematocrits were  above 36
     percent, the top  of the  suggested target  hematocrit range  in the
     Company's labeling, if  deemed medically  justified.  Under  the new
     rules, medical justification  is no  longer accepted for  payment of
     claims of hematocrits  that exceed  36 percent,  and if  the current
     month's hematocrit  is greater  than  36 percent  and  the patient's
     hematocrit exceeds  36.5 percent  on an  historical  90-day "rolling
     average" basis, reimbursement for the last 30 days will be denied in
     full.   Beginning in  the second  quarter of  1997, the  Company has
     experienced a  decline  in the  growth  rate of  EPOGEN(R)  sales as
     dialysis providers  attempt  to  lower  hematocrits  by lowering  or
     withholding EPOGEN(R)  doses in  order  to avoid  or  minimize claim
     denials under the  new HCFA  policy.   The Company  anticipates that
     dialysis providers  will  continue to  administer  lowered  doses or
     withhold doses to  maintain hematocrits at  a level which,  in their
     judgment, is sufficiently  low to  avoid or minimize  claim denials.
     It is difficult to predict EPOGEN(R)  usage under this reimbursement
     policy principally because individual patient hematocrit variability
     is high  and thus  difficult to  control  or maintain  at  a desired
     level, and the response by dialysis providers has varied.

          In 1996, EPOGEN(R) sales were $1,071.9  million, an increase of
     $189.3   million or  21% over  the prior  year.   This  increase was
     primarily  due  to  an   increase  in  the   U.S.  dialysis  patient
     population, the  administration of  higher  doses and,  to  a lesser
     extent, increased penetration of the dialysis market.

          Other product sales

          Sales of  INFERGEN(R)  (Interferon  alfacon-1),  the  Company's
     third product, were $3.4 million in 1997, much  of which was to fill
     distribution channels.  INFERGEN(R) was launched in October 1997 for
     the treatment  of chronic  hepatitis  C virus  infection.  There are
     existing treatments  for  this infection  against  which INFERGEN(R)
     competes, and the Company cannot predict the extent to which it will
     penetrate this market.

       Cost of sales

          Cost of sales as a percentage of product sales was 13.6%, 13.6%
     and 15.0%  for the  years ended  December 31,  1997, 1996  and 1995,
     respectively.  In  1998, cost  of sales as  a percentage  of product
     sales is expected to be slightly higher than 1997.

       Research and development

          In 1997 and  1996, research and  development expenses increased
     $102.5 million  or  19%  and  $76.6  million or  17%,  respectively,
     compared with  the  respective  prior years.    These  increases are
     primarily  due  to  higher   clinical  and  preclinical  activities,
     including  staff-related  expenses,  necessary  to  support  ongoing
     product development  activities.    In  1998,  annual  research  and
     development expenses are expected to increase but at a substantially
     
     lower rate  than  1997.    This  increase  is planned  for  internal
     development of product  candidates, and for  discovery and licensing
     efforts.

       Marketing and selling/general and administrative

          In 1997, marketing and selling  expenses decreased $8.1 million
     or 3% from the  prior year due to  lower European marketing expenses
     resulting from the  favorable effects  of foreign  currency exchange
     rates  and  lower  expenses   related  to  the   Johnson  &  Johnson
     arbitration.   These  reductions  were  partially  offset by  higher
     staff-related costs and higher outside marketing expenses.  In 1996,
     marketing and selling expenses  increased $37.2 million  or 14% over
     the prior year primarily due to  market research activities, efforts
     to increase the number of patients receiving NEUPOGEN(R) and efforts
     to  bring  more  patients  receiving  EPOGEN(R)  within  the  target
     hematocrit range.

          In 1997 and 1996, general and administrative expenses increased
     $21.3 million or 13% and $15  million or 10%, respectively, compared
     with the respective prior years.   These increases are primarily due
     to higher staff-related expenses and legal fees.

          In 1998, marketing  and selling expenses  combined with general
     and administrative expenses are expected to have little growth.

       Legal assessment

          During the three months  ended September 30,  1997, the Company
     recorded a pre-tax  charge of $157  million relating to  a spillover
     arbitration award  to  Johnson  &  Johnson.    See  Note  4  to  the
     Consolidated Financial  Statements  -  "Contingencies  -  Johnson  &
     Johnson arbitrations".

       Income taxes

          The Company's tax rate was 25.2%, 29.4% and 32.3% for the years
     ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and  1995, respectively.  The decrease
     in 1997 is primarily due to the effect of the legal assessment which
     reduced pre-tax  income  without a  corresponding  reduction  in tax
     benefits related to Puerto Rico operations and due to higher federal
     research and  experimentation tax  credits resulting  from favorable
     legislation extending  the credit  for the  entire year  as compared
     with only six months  for 1996.   The decrease in  1996 is primarily
     the result  of a  favorable ruling  received  from the  Puerto Rican
     government with respect to tollgate taxes  applicable to earnings in
     Puerto Rico.  The 1995 tax rate reflects  tax benefits from the sale
     of products manufactured in the Puerto Rico fill-and-finish facility
     which began in the first quarter of 1995.  For 1998, the tax rate is
     likely to increase to approximately 30% primarily due to a provision
     in the U.S. federal tax law which  caps tax benefits associated with
     the Company's Puerto Rico operations at the 1995 income level.

       Foreign currency transactions

          The Company has  a program  to manage  certain portions  of its
     exposure to fluctuations in foreign  currency exchange rates arising
     from international  operations.   The Company  generally  hedges the
     


     receivables and  payables with  foreign currency  forward contracts,
     which typically mature within six months.   The Company uses foreign
     currency option and forward contracts  which generally expire within
     12 months to hedge certain anticipated  foreign currency cash flows.
     At December  31,  1997,  outstanding  foreign  currency  option  and
     forward  contracts   totaled  $60.3   million  and   $69.6  million,
     respectively.

       Year 2000

          The Year 2000 issue results from  computer programs that do not
     differentiate between the year  1900 and the year  2000 because they
     were written  using  two  digits  rather  than  four to  define  the
     applicable year;  accordingly,  computer  systems  that  have  time-
     sensitive calculations  may not  properly recognize  the  year 2000.
     The Company has conducted an initial review of its computer systems,
     devices, applications  and  manufacturing  equipment  (collectively,
     "Computer Systems") to identify  those areas that  could be affected
     by Year 2000 noncompliance.  Additionally, the Company has appointed
     a  program  manager  for  Year  2000  compliance  and  is  presently
     assessing in detail the affected Computer  Systems and is developing
     plans to address the required modifications.   The Company presently
     intends to  utilize  internal and  external  resources  to identify,
     correct or reprogram  and test  its Computer  Systems for  Year 2000
     compliance.  The total cost associated  with Year 2000 compliance is
     not known at this time.  Although  the Company has communicated with
     all known  suppliers, service  providers,  distributors, wholesalers
     and other  entities  with  which  it  has  a  business  relationship
     (collectively, "Third Party  Businesses") regarding  compliance with
     Year 2000 requirements, the  Company has not  determined the impact,
     if any, on its  operations if Third Party  Businesses fail to comply
     with Year 2000 requirements.  While  the Company has developed plans
     to complete modifications of its  business critical Computer Systems
     prior to the year  2000, if modifications of  such business critical
     Computer Systems, or Computer Systems of  key Third Party Businesses
     are not completed in a timely manner, the Year 2000 issue could have
     a material adverse effect  on the operations  and financial position
     of the Company.

     Financial Outlook

          Future  NEUPOGEN(R)  (Filgrastim)  sales  growth  is  dependent
     primarily upon further  penetration of existing  markets, the timing
     and nature of  additional indications for  which the product  may be
     approved and  the effects  of  competitive products.    Although not
     approved or promoted for use in Amgen's domestic or foreign markets,
     except  for  Australia   and  Canada,  the   Company  believes  that
     approximately 10% of its  worldwide NEUPOGEN(R) sales  are from off-
     label use  as  a  supportive  therapy  to various  AIDS  treatments.
     Changes in AIDS therapies, including protease inhibitors that may be
     less myelosuppressive, are  believed to have  adversely affected and
     are  expected   to  continue   to  adversely   affect   such  sales.
     NEUPOGEN(R) usage is  expected to  continue to  be affected  by cost
     containment pressures  on  health  care  providers  worldwide.    In
     addition, reported NEUPOGEN(R) sales will continue to be affected by
     changes in foreign currency exchange rates and government budgets.
     
          The Company anticipates  a single  digit sales growth  rate for
     EPOGEN(R) (Epoetin  alfa) in  1998.   The  Company  also anticipates
     that,  without  any  modifications   to  the  reimbursement  changes
     implemented by HCFA, additional sales growth due to dose, if any, is
     likely to be minimal;  however, the Company  believes that increases
     in the  U.S.  dialysis  patient  population  will continue  to  grow
     EPOGEN(R) sales in the near term and  long term.  Patients receiving
     treatment for end  stage renal  disease are covered  primarily under
     medical programs  provided by  the federal  government.   Therefore,
     EPOGEN(R)  sales  may  also   be  affected  by   future  changes  in
     reimbursement rates or  the basis  for reimbursement by  the federal
     government.  The  previously disclosed report  of the Office  of the
     Inspector General has been  issued, recommending a  10% reduction in
     the Medicare reimbursement rate for EPOGEN(R).  The Company believes
     the recommendation  would  primarily affect  dialysis  providers and
     that it is difficult to predict the impact on Amgen.

          INFERGEN(R) (Interferon alfacon-1) was launched in October 1997
     for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus infection.  There are
     existing treatments  for  this infection  against  which INFERGEN(R)
     competes, and the Company cannot predict the extent to which it will
     penetrate this market.  The Company  is presently engaged in certain
     litigation related to  INFERGEN(R), as  described in "Item  3. Legal
     Proceedings - INFERGEN(R) litigation".

          The Company  anticipates  a single  digit  total  product sales
     growth rate  for 1998.   Without  giving  effect to  the  1997 legal
     assessment, earnings per share in 1998 is expected to grow at a rate
     between high  single and  low double  digits.   Estimates  of future
     product sales  and  earnings  per  share,  however, are  necessarily
     speculative in nature and are difficult to predict with accuracy.

          In October 1997,  the Company  announced that  it is  seeking a
     corporate partner  for  its  inflammation  research and  development
     program located  in Boulder,  Colorado, which  includes  the product
     candidates  IL-1ra   (interleukin-1  receptor   antagonist),  sTNFr1
     (soluble tumor  necrosis  factor  receptor  1)  and SLPI  (secretory
     leukocyte protease inhibitor).   However, there can  be no assurance
     that the  Company  will  be  successful  in  finding  an  acceptable
     corporate partner on acceptable business terms.

          Except for  the  historical information  contained  herein, the
     matters  discussed  herein  are  by  their  nature  forward-looking.
     Investors  are   cautioned   that   forward-looking  statements   or
     projections made  by  the  Company,  including  those made  in  this
     document, are  subject to  risks  and uncertainties  that  may cause
     actual results to differ materially from those projected.  Reference
     is  made  in  particular  to  forward-looking  statements  regarding
     product sales, earnings per share and expenses.  Amgen operates in a
     rapidly changing environment that  involves a number  of risks, some
     of which are beyond the Company's control.  Future operating results
     and the  Company's  stock  price may  be  affected  by  a number  of
     factors,  including,   without  limitation:   (i)  the   results  of
     preclinical  and  clinical  trials;  (ii)  regulatory  approvals  of
     product candidates,  new indications  and  manufacturing facilities;
     (iii) reimbursement for Amgen's products  by governments and private
     payors; (iv) health  care guidelines  relating to  Amgen's products;
     (v) intellectual  property  matters  (patents)  and  the results  of
     
     litigation;  (vi)  competition;  (vii)   fluctuations  in  operating
     results and (viii) rapid  growth of the Company.   These factors and
     others are discussed herein  and in the sections  appearing in "Item
     1. Business - Factors  that May Affect the  Company", which sections
     are incorporated herein by reference.

     Legal Matters

          The Company is engaged  in arbitration proceedings  with one of
     its licensees.  For a complete discussion of these matters, see Note
     4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


     Item 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

          Interest income earned on the Company's investment portfolio is
     affected by changes  in the  general level  of U.S.  interest rates.
     However, changes in  interest rates  do not affect  interest expense
     incurred  on  the  Company's  short-term  and  long-term  borrowings
     because they all bear interest at fixed  rates.  The following table
     provides information about the  Company's financial instruments that
     are sensitive  to  changes in  interest  rates.   For  the Company's
     investment  portfolio  and  debt  obligations,  the  table  presents
     principal cash flows and related weighted  average interest rates by
     expected maturity dates.  Additionally, the  Company has assumed its
     available-for-sale debt securities, comprised primarily of corporate
     debt instruments  and  treasury securities,  are  similar  enough to
     aggregate those securities for presentation purposes.

                           Interest Rate Sensitivity
                     Principal Amount by Expected Maturity
                             Average Interest Rate
                             (Dollars in millions)
                                                                      Fair
                                                    There-           Value
                    1998   1999   2000  2001   2002 after   Total   12/31/97
     Available-for-
      sale debt
      securities . $451.5 $268.2 $227.1 $65.2  $5.0   -    $1,017.0 $1,029.7
     Interest rate  6.5%   7.0%   6.9%  5.7%   6.3%   -

     Long-term debt
      (including
      current
      portion) ...  $30.0   $6.0    -     -      -  $223.0   $259.0   $276.3
     Interest rate   5.6%    5.5%   -     -      -   7.3%



     Item 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

          The information required by this  item is incorporated herein  by
     reference to the financial statements listed in Item 14(a) of Part  IV
     of this Form 10-K Annual Report. 



     
     
     Item 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING 
               AND FIANCIAL DISCLOSURES

          None.


                                      PART III


     Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

          Information  concerning   the  directors   of  the   Company   is
     incorporated  by  reference  to  the  section  entitled  "Election  of
     Directors" in the Company's definitive Proxy Statement with respect to
     the Company's 1998 Annual Meeting to be filed with the Securities  and
     Exchange Commission within 120 days of  December 31, 1997 (the  "Proxy
     Statement").  For information concerning the executive officers of the
     Company see "Item 1. Executive Officers of the Registrant".


     Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

          The section  labeled "Executive  Compensation" appearing  in  the
     Company's Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference,  except
     for such information as  need not be  incorporated by reference  under
     rules promulgated by the Securities Exchange Commission.


     Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND 
               MANAGMENT

          The  section  labeled  "Security   Ownership  of  Directors   and
     Executive Officers  and Certain  Beneficial Owners"  appearing in  the
     Company's Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.


     Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

          The section  labeled  "Certain  Transactions"  appearing  in  the
     Company's Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.    


















     
                                       PART IV

     Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 
               8-K

       (a)1.   Index to Financial Statements

          The following Financial Statements are included herein:

                                                                      Page
                                                                     Number

       Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors .............F-1
       Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the
          three years in the period ended December 31, 1997...........F-2
       Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1997 and 1996 .....F-3
       Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for each
          of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1997....F-4
       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the
          three years in the period ended December 31, 1997.....F-5 - F-6
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements .............F-7 - F-25

       (a)2.   Index to Financial Statement Schedules

          The following  Schedules are  filed as  part  of this  Form  10-K
     Annual Report:

                                                                      Page
                                                                     Number

       II      Valuation Accounts....................................F-26

          All other schedules are omitted because they are not  applicable,
     or not required, or  because the required  information is included  in
     the consolidated statements or notes thereto.

       (a)3.   Exhibits

     Exhibit No.                     Description

       3.1       Restated Certificate of Incorporation as amended. (19)
       3.2*      Amended and Restated Bylaws.
       4.1       Indenture dated January  1, 1992 between the Company  and
                 Citibank N.A., as trustee. (8)
       4.2       Forms of Commercial Paper Master Note Certificates. (10)
       4.3       First Supplement  to Indenture, dated  February 26,  1997
                 between the Company and Citibank N.A., as trustee. (16)
       4.4       Officer's Certificate  pursuant to Sections  2.1 and  2.3
                 of the Indenture, as supplemented, establishing a  series
                 of  securities "8-1/8%  Debentures  due April  1,  2097."
                 (18)
       4.5       8-1/8% Debentures due April 1, 2097. (18)
       4.6       Form  of stock  certificate  for the  common  stock,  par
                 value $.0001 of the Company. (19)
       4.7       Officer's Certificate  pursuant to Sections  2.1 and  2.3
                 of  the  Indenture,  dated as  of  January  1,  1992,  as
                 supplemented by  the First supplemental Indenture,  dated
                 as of  February 26, 1997,  each between  the Company  and
     
                 Citibank,  N.A., as  Trustee,  establishing a  series  of
                 securities entitled "6.50%  Notes Due December 1,  2007".
                 (22)
       4.8       6.50% Notes  Due December  1, 2007  described in  Exhibit
                 4.7. (22)
      10.1*+     Company's  Amended  and Restated  1991  Equity  Incentive
                 Plan.
      10.2+      Company's Amended  and Restated 1984  Stock Option  Plan.
                 (14)
      10.3       Shareholder's Agreement  of Kirin-Amgen, Inc., dated  May
                 11, 1984, between the Company and Kirin Brewery  Company,
                 Limited  (with certain  confidential information  deleted
                 therefrom). (1)
      10.4       Amendment Nos.  1, 2, and 3,  dated March 19, 1985,  July
                 29,  1985 and  December 19,  1985, respectively,  to  the
                 Shareholder's Agreement  of Kirin-Amgen, Inc., dated  May
                 11, 1984  (with certain confidential information  deleted
                 therefrom). (3)
      10.5       Product License Agreement, dated September 30, 1985,  and
                 Technology License  Agreement, dated, September 30,  1985
                 between the Company and Ortho Pharmaceutical  Corporation
                 (with    certain   confidential    information    deleted
                 therefrom). (2)
      10.6       Product License Agreement, dated September 30, 1985,  and
                 Technology License  Agreement, dated  September 30,  1985
                 between  Kirin-Amgen,   Inc.  and  Ortho   Pharmaceutical
                 Corporation   (with  certain   confidential   information
                 deleted therefrom). (3)
      10.7+      Company's Amended  and Restated  Employee Stock  Purchase
                 Plan. (14)
      10.8       Research, Development  Technology Disclosure and  License
                 Agreement PPO,  dated January  20, 1986,  by and  between
                 the Company and Kirin Brewery Co., Ltd. (4)
      10.9       Amendment  Nos.   4  and  5,   dated  October  16,   1986
                 (effective July 1, 1986) and December 6, 1986  (effective
                 July  1,   1986),  respectively,   to  the   Shareholders
                 Agreement of Kirin-Amgen,  Inc. dated May 11, 1984  (with
                 certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (5)
      10.10      Assignment  and  License  Agreement,  dated  October  16,
                 1986,  between the  Company and  Kirin-Amgen, Inc.  (with
                 certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (5)
      10.11      G-CSF  European  License Agreement,  dated  December  30,
                 1986,  between Kirin-Amgen,  Inc. and  the Company  (with
                 certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (5)
      10.12      Research  and   Development  Technology  Disclosure   and
                 License Agreement: GM-CSF, dated March 31, 1987,  between
                 Kirin  Brewery Company,  Limited  and the  Company  (with
                 certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (5)
      10.13+     Company's Amended  and Restated 1988  Stock Option  Plan.
                 (14)
      10.14+     Company's  Amended and  Restated Retirement  and  Savings
                 Plan. (14)
      10.15      Amendment,   dated   June   30,   1988,   to    Research,
                 Development,    Technology   Disclosure    and    License
                 Agreement:  GM-CSF dated  March 31, 1987,  between  Kirin
                 Brewery Company, Limited and the Company. (6)
      10.16      Agreement on G-CSF  in the EU, dated September 26,  1988,
                 between  Amgen  Inc.  and  F.  Hoffmann-La  Roche  &  Co.
     
                 Limited  Company (with  certain confidential  information
                 deleted therefrom). (7)
      10.17      Supplementary  Agreement to  Agreement dated  January  4,
                 1989 to  Agreement on G-CSF  in the  EU, dated  September
                 26, 1988, between the Company and F. Hoffmann-La Roche  &
                 Co.   Limited   Company,   (with   certain   confidential
                 information deleted therefrom). (7)
      10.18      Agreement on G-CSF  in Certain European Countries,  dated
                 January 1,  1989, between Amgen  Inc. and F.  Hoffmann-La
                 Roche &  Co. Limited Company  (with certain  confidential
                 information deleted therefrom). (7)
      10.19      Partnership  Purchase Agreement,  dated March  12,  1993,
                 between  the  Company,  Amgen  Clinical  Partners,  L.P.,
                 Amgen  Development  Corporation,  the  Class  A   limited
                 partners and the Class B limited partner. (9)
      10.20+     Amgen Supplemental  Retirement Plan dated  June 1,  1993.
                 (11)
      10.21      Promissory Note  of Mr. Kevin  W. Sharer,  dated June  4,
                 1993. (11)
      10.22+     Amgen Performance Based Management Incentive Plan. (17)
      10.23      Credit Agreement, dated as of June 23, 1995, among  Amgen
                 Inc.,  the  Borrowing  Subsidiaries  named  therein,  the
                 Banks named therein, Swiss Bank Corporation and ABN  AMRO
                 Bank N.V., as Issuing Banks, and Swiss Bank  Corporation,
                 as Administrative Agent. (12)
      10.24      Promissory  Note  of   Mr.  George  A.  Vandeman,   dated
                 December 15, 1995. (13)
      10.25      Promissory  Note  of   Mr.  George  A.  Vandeman,   dated
                 December 15, 1995. (13)
      10.26      Promissory  Note of  Mr.  Stan Benson,  dated  March  19,
                 1996. (13)
      10.27+     Amendment No.  1 to  the Company's  Amended and  Restated
                 Retirement and Savings Plan. (14)
      10.28+     Amendment Number 5 to the Company's Amended and  Restated
                 Retirement and Savings Plan dated January 1, 1993. (17)
      10.29+     Amendment Number 2 to the Company's Amended and  Restated
                 Retirement and Savings Plan dated April 1, 1996. (17)
      10.30      First  Amendment  to   Credit  Agreement,  dated  as   of
                 December 12,  1996,  among  Amgen  Inc.,  the   Borrowing
                 Subsidiaries named  therein, and  Swiss Bank  Corporation
                 as Administrative Agent. (17)
      10.31      Fourth Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated February  18,
                 1997 between Amgen  Inc. and American Stock Transfer  and
                 Trust Company, Rights Agent. (15)
      10.32      Preferred  Share  Rights Agreement,  dated  February  18,
                 1997, between Amgen Inc. and American Stock Transfer  and
                 Trust Company, Rights Agent. (15)
      10.33+     Consulting Agreement,  dated November  15, 1996,  between
                 the Company and Daniel Vapnek. (17)
      10.34+     Agreement, dated  May 30, 1995,  between the Company  and
                 George A. Vandeman. (17)
      10.35+     First  Amendment,  effective  January  1,  1998,  to  the
                 Company's Amended  and Restated  Employee Stock  Purchase
                 Plan. (20)
      10.36+     Third  Amendment,  effective  January  1,  1997,  to  the
                 Company's  Amended and  Restated Retirement  and  Savings
                 Plan dated April 1, 1996. (20)  

     
      10.37      Heads  of Agreement  dated April  10, 1997,  between  the
                 Company and  Kirin Amgen, Inc., on  the one hand, and  F.
                 Hoffmann-La Roche  Ltd, on the  other hand (with  certain
                 confidential information deleted therefrom). (20)
      10.38      Binding  Term  Sheet,  dated  August  20,  1997,  between
                 Guilford Pharmaceuticals  Inc. ("Guilford")  and GPI  NIL
                 Holdings,   Inc.,   and   Amgen   Inc.   (with    certain
                 confidential information deleted therefrom). (21)
      10.39*     Promissory Note  of Ms. Kathryn  E. Falberg, dated  April
                 7, 1995.
      10.40*     Promissory Note of Mr. Edward F. Garnett, dated July  18,
                 1997.
      10.41*+    Fourth Amendment  to the Company's  Amended and  Restated
                 Retirement  and  Savings Plan  as  amended  and  restated
                 effective April 1, 1996.
      10.42*+    Fifth  Amendment to  the Company's  Amended and  Restated
                 Retirement  and  Savings Plan  as  amended  and  restated
                 effective April 1, 1996.
      21*        Subsidiaries of the Company.
      23         Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.   The
                 consent set  forth as page 49  is incorporated herein  by
                 reference.
      24         Power of  Attorney.  The Power  of Attorney set forth  on
                 page 48 is incorporated herein by reference.
      27*        Financial Data Schedule.
     ----------------
     * Filed herewith.
     + Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

     (1)  Filed as an exhibit  to the Annual Report  on Form 10-K for  the
          year ended  March 31,  1984 on  June 26,  1984 and  incorporated
          herein by reference.
     (2)  Filed as an  exhibit to Quarterly  Report on Form  10-Q for  the
          quarter ended  September  30,  1985 on  November  14,  1985  and
          incorporated herein by reference.
     (3)  Filed as an  exhibit to Quarterly  Report on Form  10-Q for  the
          quarter  ended  December  31,  1985  on  February  3,  1986  and
          incorporated herein by reference.
     (4)  Filed as an exhibit to Amendment No. 1 to Form S-1  Registration
          Statement (Registration  No.  33-3069)  on March  11,  1986  and
          incorporated herein by reference.
     (5)  Filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-K Annual Report for the  year
          ended March 31, 1987 on May 18, 1987 and incorporated herein  by
          reference.
     (6)  Filed as an exhibit to Form  8 amending the Quarterly Report  on
          Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1988 on August 25, 1988
          and incorporated herein by reference.
     (7)  Filed as an exhibit  to the Annual Report  on Form 10-K for  the
          year ended  March 31,  1989 on  June 28,  1989 and  incorporated
          herein by reference.
     (8)  Filed as an  exhibit to  Form S-3  Registration Statement  dated
          December 19, 1991 and incorporated herein by reference.
     (9)  Filed as an  exhibit to the  Form 8-A dated  March 31, 1993  and
          incorporated herein by reference.
     (10) Filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
          31, 1993 on May 17, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference.  


     
     (11) Filed as  an exhibit  to the  Form 10-Q  for the  quarter  ended
          September 30, 1993 on November 12, 1993 and incorporated  herein
          by reference.
     (12) Filed as  an exhibit  to the  Form 10-Q  for the  quarter  ended
          June 30, 1995  on August  11, 1995  and incorporated  herein  by
          reference.
     (13) Filed as an exhibit  to the Annual Report  on Form 10-K for  the
          year ended December 31, 1995 on March 29, 1996 and  incorporated
          herein by reference.
     (14) Filed as  an exhibit  to the  Form 10-Q  for the  quarter  ended
          September 30, 1996 on November  5, 1996 and incorporated  herein
          by reference.
     (15) Filed as  an  exhibit  to the  Form  8-K  Current  Report  dated
          February 18, 1997 on February  28, 1997 and incorporated  herein
          by reference.
     (16) Filed as an exhibit to the  Form 8-K Current Report dated  March
          14, 1997 on March 14, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.
     (17) Filed as an exhibit  to the Annual Report  on Form 10-K for  the
          year ended December 31, 1996 on March 24, 1997 and  incorporated
          herein by reference.
     (18) Filed as an exhibit to the  Form 8-K Current Report dated  April
          8, 1997 on April 8, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.
     (19) Filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
          31, 1997 on May 13, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.
     (20) Filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  June
          30,  1997  on  August  12,  1997  and  incorporated  herein   by
          reference.
     (21) Filed as exhibit 10.47 to the  Guilford Form 8-K Current  Report
          dated August  20, 1997  on September  4, 1997  and  incorporated
          herein by reference.
     (22) Filed as an  exhibit to the  Form 8-K Current  Report dated  and
          filed on December 5, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.

       (b)     Reports on Form 8-K

          The Company  filed two  Current Reports  on Form  8-K during  the
     three months ended December 31, 1997.  The report filed on December 5,
     1997 reported  under  Item  5  that the  Company  had  filed  a  shelf
     registration statement (the "Shelf") related  to the issuance of  debt
     securities, a prospectus  supplement had  been filed  relating to  the
     issuance of  debt  securities  under the  Shelf  and  an  underwriting
     agreement had been  entered into relating  to the sale  of these  debt
     securities.   In addition,  a list  of related  exhibits was  reported
     under Item 7.

          The report filed on December 9,  1997 reported under Item 5  that
     the Company had filed a prospectus supplement relating to the issuance
     of additional  debt  securities under  the  Shelf and  a  distribution
     agreement had been  entered into relating  to the sale  of these  debt
     securities.   In addition,  a list  of related  exhibits was  reported
     under Item 7.   







     
                                     SIGNATURES


          Pursuant to the  requirements of the  Securities Exchange Act  of
     1934, the registrant has duly caused  this Annual Report to be  signed
     on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                                  Amgen Inc.
                                                  (Registrant)



     Date:       3/23/98                  By:     /s/ ROBERT S. ATTIYEH
                                                  Robert S. Attiyeh
                                                  Senior Vice President,
                                                  Finance and Corporate
                                                  Development, and
                                                  Chief Financial Officer







































     
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY

          KNOW ALL MEN AND WOMEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person  whose
     signature appears below constitutes and appoints Robert S. Attiyeh and
     Kathryn E. Falberg, or  either of them,  his or her  attorney-in-fact,
     each with the power  of substitution, for  him or her  in any and  all
     capacities, to sign  any amendments to  this Report, and  to file  the
     same,  with  exhibits  thereto  and  other  documents  in   connection
     therewith,  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission,   hereby
     ratifying and confirming all that  each of said attorneys-in-fact,  or
     his or her substitute or  substitutes, may do or  cause to be done  by
     virtue hereof.

          Pursuant to the  requirements of the  Securities Exchange Act  of
     1934, this report has  been signed below by  the following persons  on
     behalf of  the registrant  and  in the  capacities  and on  the  dates
     indicated:


     /s/GORDON M. BINDER         3/23/98 /s/FREDERICK W. GLUCK      3/23/98
     Gordon M. Binder                    Frederick W. Gluck
     Chairman of the Board,              Director
     Chief Executive Officer and
     Director
     (Principal Executive Officer)
                                         /s/FRANKLIN P. JOHNSON, JR.3/23/98
                                         Franklin P. Johnson, Jr.
     /s/KEVIN W. SHARER          3/23/98 Director
     Kevin W. Sharer
     President, Chief Operating
     Officer and Director
                                         /s/STEVEN LAZARUS          3/23/98
                                         Steven Lazarus
     /s/ROBERT S. ATTIYEH        3/23/98 Director
     Robert S. Attiyeh
     Senior Vice President,
     Finance and Corporate
     Development and                     /s/EDWARD J. LEDDER        3/23/98
     Chief Financial Officer             Edward J. Ledder
                                         Director
     /s/KATHRYN E. FALBERG       3/23/98
     Kathryn E. Falberg
     Vice President,                     /s/GILBERT S. OMENN        3/23/98
     Corporate Controller and            Gilbert S. Omenn
     Chief Accounting Officer            Director


    /s/WILLIAM K. BOWES, JR.     3/23/98 /s/JUDITH C. PELHAM        3/23/98
    William K. Bowes, Jr.                Judith C. Pelham
    Director                             Director








     
                                                                 EXHIBIT 23


                 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


          We consent to the incorporation by reference in the  Registration
     Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-5111) pertaining  to the 1984 Stock  Option
     Plan, 1981 Incentive Stock Option  Plan and Nonqualified Stock  Option
     Plan of Amgen Inc.,  in the Registration Statement  (Form S-8 No.  33-
     24013) pertaining to the Amended and  Restated 1988 Stock Option  Plan
     of Amgen Inc., in the Registration  Statement (Form S-8 No.  33-39183)
     pertaining to the Amended and  Restated Employee Stock Purchase  Plan,
     in the Registration  Statement (Form S-8  No. 33-39104) pertaining  to
     the Amended and  Restated Amgen Retirement  and Savings  Plan, in  the
     Registration Statements (Form  S-3/S-8 No. 33-29791  and Form S-8  No.
     33-42501) pertaining to the Amended and Restated 1987 Directors' Stock
     Option Plan,  in the  Registration  Statement (Form  S-8  No.33-42072)
     pertaining  to  the  Amgen  Inc.  Amended  and  Restated  1991  Equity
     Incentive Plan, in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No.  33-47605)
     pertaining to the Retirement and Savings  Plan for Amgen Puerto  Rico,
     Inc.,  in  the  Registration   Statement  (Form  S-8  No.   333-44727)
     pertaining to the Amgen Inc. 1997 Special Non-Officer Equity Incentive
     Plan and in  the Registration Statement  (Form S-3  No. 333-40405)  of
     Amgen Inc. and in the related Prospectuses of our report dated January
     21, 1998, with  respect to the  consolidated financial statements  and
     financial statement schedule  of Amgen  Inc. included  in this  Annual
     Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 1997.




                                                     /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
     Los Angeles, California
     March 23, 1998























     
              REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


     The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Amgen Inc.

     We have  audited  the accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets of
     Amgen Inc.  as  of  December 31,  1997  and  1996,  and the  related
     consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash
     flows for each of the  three years in the  period ended December 31,
     1997.   Our audits  also included  the financial  statement schedule
     listed in the Index  at Item 14(a).   These financial statements and
     schedule are the  responsibility of  the Company's management.   Our
     responsibility  is  to   express  an  opinion   on  these  financial
     statements and schedule based on our audits.

     We conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted
     auditing standards.    Those  standards  require  that we  plan  and
     perform the audit to  obtain reasonable assurance  about whether the
     financial statements are  free of  material misstatement.   An audit
     includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
     and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
     assessing the accounting  principles used and  significant estimates
     made by  management, as  well  as evaluating  the  overall financial
     statement presentation.    We  believe  that  our audits  provide  a
     reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the  financial statements referred  to above present
     fairly,  in  all  material   respects,  the  consolidated  financial
     position of  Amgen  Inc.  at December  31,  1997  and  1996 and  the
     consolidated results of its  operations and its cash  flows for each
     of the  three  years  in the  period  ended  December  31, 1997,  in
     conformity with generally accepted accounting  principles.  Also, in
     our  opinion,  the   related  financial  statement   schedule,  when
     considered in relation to the basic  financial statements taken as a
     whole, presents fairly in all material  respects the information set
     forth therein.



                                                    /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
     Los Angeles, California
     January 21, 1998                
                                     F-1
















     
                                  AMGEN INC.
                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                 Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
                     (In millions, except per share data)

                                          1997         1996        1995
                                        --------     --------    --------
    Revenues:
      Product sales ..................  $2,219.8     $2,088.2    $1,818.6
      Corporate partner revenues .....     125.9        109.9        85.2
      Royalty income .................      55.3         41.7        36.1
                                        --------     --------    --------
        Total revenues ...............   2,401.0      2,239.8     1,939.9
                                        --------     --------    --------
    Operating expenses:
      Cost of sales ..................     300.8        283.2       272.9
      Research and development .......     630.8        528.3       451.7
      Marketing and selling ..........     302.0        310.1       272.9
      General and administrative .....     181.8        160.5       145.5
      Loss of affiliates, net ........      36.1         52.8        53.3
      Legal assessment ...............     157.0            -           -
                                        --------     --------    --------
        Total operating expenses .....   1,608.5      1,334.9     1,196.3
                                        --------     --------    --------

    Operating income .................     792.5        904.9       743.6

    Other income (expense):
      Interest and other income ......      72.6         63.6        66.1
      Interest expense, net ..........      (3.7)        (6.2)      (15.3)
                                        --------     --------    --------
        Total other income (expense) .      68.9         57.4        50.8
                                        --------     --------    --------
    Income before income taxes .......     861.4        962.3       794.4

    Provision for income taxes .......     217.1        282.5       256.7
                                        --------     --------    --------
    Net income .......................  $  644.3     $  679.8    $  537.7
                                        ========     ========    ========
    Earnings per share:
      Basic ..........................     $2.44        $2.57       $2.03
      Diluted ........................     $2.35        $2.42       $1.92

    Shares used in calculation of
      earnings per share:
      Basic ..........................     264.1        264.9       265.0
      Diluted ........................     274.6        280.7       280.7

                           See accompanying notes.  
                                     F-2









     
                                  AMGEN INC.
                         CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                          December 31, 1997 and 1996
                     (In millions, except per share data)

                                                    1997        1996
                                                  --------    --------
                                   ASSETS
     Current assets:
      Cash and cash equivalents ...............   $  239.1    $  169.3
      Marketable securities ...................      787.4       907.7
      Trade receivables, net of allowance for
        doubtful accounts of $14.2 in 1997 and
        $11.8 in 1996 .........................      269.0       225.4
      Inventories .............................      109.2        97.4
      Other current assets ....................      138.8       102.8
                                                  --------    --------
        Total current assets ..................    1,543.5     1,502.6

     Property, plant and equipment at cost, net    1,186.2       910.5
     Investments in affiliated companies.......      116.9       109.6
     Other assets..............................      263.6       242.9
                                                  --------    --------
                                                  $3,110.2    $2,765.6
                                                  ========    ========
                    LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
     Current liabilities:
      Accounts payable ........................   $  103.9    $   75.0
      Accrued liabilities .....................      608.0       449.7
      Current portion of long-term debt .......       30.0       118.2
                                                  --------    --------
        Total current liabilities .............      741.9       642.9

     Long-term debt............................      229.0        59.0
     Put warrants..............................          -       157.4
     Contingencies
     Stockholders' equity:
      Preferred stock; $.0001 par value; 5
        shares authorized; none issued or
        outstanding ...........................          -           -
      Common stock and additional paid-in
        capital; $.0001 par value; 750 shares
        authorized; outstanding - 258.3 shares
        in 1997 and 264.7 shares in 1996 ......    1,196.1     1,026.9
      Retained earnings .......................      943.2       879.4
                                                  --------    --------
          Total stockholders' equity ..........    2,139.3     1,906.3
                                                  --------    --------
                                                  $3,110.2    $2,765.6
                                                  ========    ========
                           See accompanying notes.    
                                     F-3







     
                                  AMGEN INC.
               CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                 Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
                                (In millions)
                                                     Common
                                                    stock and
                                            Number additional
                                              of     paid-in   Retained
                                            shares   capital   earnings
                                            ------  --------   --------
  Balance at December 31, 1994 ............  264.7  $  719.3     $555.0
  Issuance of common stock upon the
    exercise of stock options and in
    connection with an employee stock
    purchase plan .........................    8.3     102.7          -
  Tax benefits related to stock options ...      -      42.8          -
  Repurchases of common stock .............   (7.3)        -     (285.7)
  Net income ..............................      -         -      537.7
                                             -----  --------     ------

  Balance at December 31, 1995 ............  265.7     864.8      807.0
  Issuance of common stock upon the
    exercise of stock options and in
    connection with an employee stock
    purchase plan .........................    6.7     113.5          -
  Tax benefits related to stock options ...      -      48.6          -
  Reclassification of put warrant
    obligation ............................      -         -     (157.4)
  Repurchases of common stock .............   (7.7)        -     (450.0)
  Net income ..............................      -         -      679.8
                                             -----  --------     ------

  Balance at December 31, 1996 ............  264.7   1,026.9      879.4
  Issuance of common stock upon the
    exercise of stock options and in
    connection with an employee stock
    purchase plan .........................    7.3     134.3          -
  Tax benefits related to stock options ...      -      54.7          -
  Reclassification of put warrant
    obligation ............................      -         -      157.4
  Repurchases of common stock .............  (13.7)        -     (737.9)
  Net income ..............................      -         -      644.3
  Cumulative translation adjustment and
    other .................................      -     (19.8)         -
                                             -----  --------     ------

  Balance at December 31, 1997 ............  258.3  $1,196.1     $943.2
                                             =====  ========     ======
                           See accompanying notes.    
                                     F-4








                                     
     
                                  AMGEN INC.
                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                 Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
                                (In millions)

                                             1997       1996       1995
                                           --------   --------   --------
    Cash flows from operating
      activities:
      Net income ........................  $ 644.3     $ 679.8   $  537.7
      Depreciation and amortization .....    117.1       100.3       84.3
      Deferred income taxes .............    (31.4)       25.6       23.9
      Loss of affiliates, net ...........     36.1        52.8       53.3
      Cash provided by (used in):
        Trade receivables, net ..........    (43.6)      (26.1)      (4.6)
        Inventories .....................    (11.8)       (8.6)       9.2
        Other current assets ............      5.0       (11.8)      (8.0)
        Accounts payable ................     28.9        20.6       23.9
        Accrued liabilities .............    158.3       (10.0)      53.5
                                           -------     -------   --------
          Net cash provided by operating
            activities ..................    902.9       822.6      773.2
                                           -------     -------   --------
    Cash flows from investing
      activities:
      Purchases of property, plant and
        equipment .......................   (387.8)     (266.9)    (162.7)
      Proceeds from maturities of
        marketable securities ...........    244.3       168.3      129.6
      Proceeds from sales of marketable
        securities ......................    647.1       762.4    1,018.8
      Purchases of marketable securities    (767.5)     (854.8)  (1,646.6)
      Increase in investments in
        affiliated companies ............     (3.3)      (14.6)     (19.5)
      Increase in other assets ..........    (35.0)     (104.6)     (13.7)
                                           -------     -------   --------
          Net cash used in investing
            activities ..................  $(302.2)    $(310.2)  $ (694.1)
                                           -------     -------   --------

                           See accompanying notes.
                           (Continued on next page)  
                                     F-5
















     
                                  AMGEN INC.
              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Continued)
                 Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
                                (In millions)

                                             1997       1996       1995
                                           --------   --------   --------
    Cash flows from financing
      activities:
      Decrease in commercial paper ......  $     -     $ (69.7)  $  (30.0)
      Repayment of long-term debt .......   (118.2)          -       (6.2)
      Proceeds from issuance of long-
        term debt .......................    200.0           -          -
      Net proceeds from issuance of
        common stock upon the exercise
        of stock options and in
        connection with an employee
        stock purchase plan .............    134.3       113.5      102.7
      Tax benefits related to stock
        options .........................     54.7        48.6       42.8
      Repurchases of common stock .......   (737.9)     (450.0)    (285.7)
      Other .............................    (63.8)      (52.2)     (47.3)
                                           -------     -------   --------
          Net cash used in financing
            activities ..................   (530.9)     (409.8)    (223.7)
                                           -------     -------   --------
    Increase (decrease) in cash and cash
      equivalents .......................     69.8       102.6     (144.6)

    Cash and cash equivalents at
      beginning of period ...............    169.3        66.7      211.3
                                           -------     -------   --------
    Cash and cash equivalents at end of
      period ............................  $ 239.1     $ 169.3   $   66.7
                                           =======     =======   ========

                           See accompanying notes.    
                                     F-6













                                

                                   





     
                                  AMGEN INC.

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                              December 31, 1997


     1.   Summary of significant accounting policies

       Business

          Amgen Inc. ("Amgen" or the "Company") is a global biotechnology
     company that  discovers,  develops, manufactures  and  markets human
     therapeutics based on advances in cellular and molecular biology.

       Principles of consolidation

          The consolidated financial  statements include the  accounts of
     the Company and its wholly owned  subsidiaries as well as affiliated
     companies in which the Company has  a controlling financial interest
     and exercises  control over  their operations  ("majority controlled
     affiliates").  All  material intercompany transactions  and balances
     have been eliminated  in consolidation.   Investments  in affiliated
     companies which  are  50%  or  less  owned  and  where  the  Company
     exercises significant  influence over  operations are  accounted for
     using the equity method.  All other equity investments are accounted
     for under the  cost method.   The caption "Loss  of affiliates, net"
     includes Amgen's  equity  in  the  operating  results of  affiliated
     companies and  the minority  interest others  hold in  the operating
     results of Amgen's majority controlled affiliates.

       Available-for-sale securities

          The  Company  considers  cash  equivalents  to  be  only  those
     investments which are highly liquid, readily convertible to cash and
     which mature within three months from date of purchase.

          The Company considers its investment  portfolio and cost method
     equity investments  available-for-sale  as defined  in  Statement of
     Financial Accounting  Standards  ("SFAS") No.  115  and accordingly,
     these investments are  recorded at fair  value (see Note  9).  There
     were no  material  unrealized  gains  or  losses  nor  any  material
     differences  between  the   estimated  fair  values   and  costs  of
     securities at December  31, 1997 and  1996.  There  were no material
     realized gains and  losses for  the years  ended December  31, 1997,
     1996 and 1995.  The cost of securities sold is based on the specific
     identification  method.    The   fair  value  of  available-for-sale
     investments  by   type   of  security,   contractual   maturity  and
     classification in the  balance sheet  are as follows  (in millions):
                                     F-7









                               
                                                        December 31,
                                                       1997       1996
                                                     --------   --------
      Type of security:

      Corporate debt securities ..................   $  597.2   $  656.2
      U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of
        U.S. government agencies .................      266.3      209.7
      Other interest bearing securities ..........      166.2      222.3
                                                     --------   --------
         Total debt securities ...................    1,029.7    1,088.2
      Equity securities ..........................       97.9       79.3
                                                     --------   --------
                                                     $1,127.6   $1,167.5
                                                     ========   ========

      Contractual maturity:

      Maturing in one year or less ...............   $  453.3   $  610.8
      Maturing after one year through three years       505.4      351.3
      Maturing after three years .................       71.0      126.1
                                                     --------   --------
         Total debt securities ...................    1,029.7    1,088.2
      Equity securities ..........................       97.9       79.3
                                                     --------   --------
                                                     $1,127.6   $1,167.5
                                                     ========   ========

      Classification in balance sheet:

      Cash and cash equivalents ..................   $  239.1   $  169.3
      Marketable securities ......................      787.4      907.7
      Other assets - noncurrent ..................      137.9      119.3
                                                     --------   --------
                                                      1,164.4    1,196.3
      Less cash ..................................      (36.8)     (28.8)
                                                     --------   --------
                                                     $1,127.6   $1,167.5
                                                     ========   ========

          The primary objectives  for the Company's  investment portfolio
     are liquidity  and safety  of principal.    Investments are  made to
     achieve the highest rate  of return to the  Company, consistent with
     these two  objectives.    The  Company's  investment  policy  limits
     investments to certain  types of instruments  issued by institutions
     with investment  grade  credit ratings  and  places  restrictions on
     maturities and  concentration  by  type  and  issuer.   The  Company
     invests its  excess cash  in securities  with varying  maturities to
     meet projected cash needs. 
                                     F-8









     
       Inventories

          Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.  Cost is
     determined in a  manner which  approximates the  first-in, first-out
     (FIFO) method.  Inventories are shown net of applicable reserves and
     allowances.  Inventories consisted of the following (in millions):

                                                December 31,
                                               1997      1996
                                              ------    ------
              Raw materials ..............    $ 18.7     $15.9
              Work in process ............      53.6      56.2
              Finished goods .............      36.9      25.3
                                              ------     -----
                                              $109.2     $97.4
                                              ======     =====

       Depreciation and amortization

          Depreciation of buildings and equipment  is provided over their
     estimated  useful  lives  on  a   straight-line  basis.    Leasehold
     improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter
     of their estimated  useful lives  or lease terms,  including periods
     covered by options which are expected to be exercised.  Useful lives
     by asset category are as follows:

                          Asset Category                Years
                          --------------                -----
              Buildings ...........................    10 - 30
              Manufacturing equipment .............       5
              Laboratory equipment ................       5
              Furniture and office equipment ......     3 - 10

       Product sales

          Product sales  consist  of three  products,  EPOGEN(R) (Epoetin
     alfa), NEUPOGEN(R) (Filgrastim) and INFERGEN(R) (Interferon alfacon-
     1).

          The Company has  the exclusive right  to sell Epoetin  alfa for
     dialysis, diagnostics and all  non-human uses in  the United States.
     The Company  sells  Epoetin  alfa under  the  brand  name EPOGEN(R).
     Amgen has granted to Ortho  Pharmaceutical Corporation, a subsidiary
     of Johnson &  Johnson ("Johnson &  Johnson"), a license  relating to
     Epoetin alfa  for sales  in the  United  States for  all  human uses
     except dialysis and  diagnostics.   Pursuant to this  license, Amgen
     does not recognize product sales it  makes into the exclusive market
     of Johnson &  Johnson and does  recognize the product  sales made by
     Johnson & Johnson into  Amgen's exclusive market.   Sales in Amgen's
     exclusive market and  adjustments thereto  are derived  from Company
     shipments and from  third-party data on  shipments to end  users and
     their  usage  (see  Note  4,  "Contingencies  -  Johnson  &  Johnson
     arbitrations").

       Research and development costs

          Research  and  development  costs  are  expensed  as  incurred.
     Payments related to the acquisition of  technology rights, for which
                                     F-9
     
     development work  is  in-process,  are  expensed  and  considered  a
     component of research and development costs.

       Foreign currency transactions

          The Company has a program to manage  foreign currency risk.  As
     part of this program,  it has purchased foreign  currency option and
     forward contracts to hedge against possible  reductions in values of
     certain anticipated foreign  currency cash flows  generally over the
     next 12 months,  primarily resulting from  its sales in  Europe.  At
     December 31, 1997, the  Company had option and  forward contracts to
     exchange foreign currencies  for U.S.  dollars of $60.3  million and
     $15.2 million, respectively, all having maturities  of ten months or
     less.  The option contracts, which have only nominal intrinsic value
     at the time of  purchase, are designated and  effective as hedges of
     anticipated foreign  currency transactions  for  financial reporting
     purposes and  accordingly,  the  net  gains  on such  contracts  are
     deferred  and  recognized   in  the   same  period  as   the  hedged
     transactions.  The  forward contracts do  not qualify as  hedges for
     financial reporting purposes and  accordingly, are marked-to-market.
     Net gains on option contracts (including option contracts for hedged
     transactions whose occurrence are no longer probable) and changes in
     market values of  forward contracts  are reflected in  "Interest and
     other income".  The  deferred premiums on option  contracts and fair
     values of forward contracts are included in "Other current assets".

          The Company has  additional foreign currency  forward contracts
     to hedge  exposures  to  foreign  currency  fluctuations of  certain
     receivables and  payables  denominated in  foreign  currencies.   At
     December 31,  1997, the  Company had  forward contracts  to exchange
     foreign currencies,  primarily  Swiss francs,  for  U.S.  dollars of
     $54.4 million, all having maturities of five  months or less.  These
     contracts are designated  and effective  as hedges  and accordingly,
     gains and losses  on these forward  contracts are recognized  in the
     same period the  offsetting gains  and losses  of hedged  assets and
     liabilities are realized  and recognized.   The  fair values  of the
     forward contracts are included in the  corresponding captions of the
     hedged  assets  and  liabilities.    Gains  and  losses  on  forward
     contracts, to  the  extent they  differ  in amount  from  the hedged
     receivables and  payables,  are  included  in  "Interest  and  other
     income".

       Interest

          Interest costs are expensed  as incurred, except  to the extent
     such interest is related to construction  in progress, in which case
     interest is capitalized.   Interest costs capitalized  for the years
     ended December 31,  1997, 1996  and 1995,  were $10.5  million, $4.2
     million and $4.7 million, respectively.

       Stock option and purchase plans

          The Company's stock option and purchase plans are accounted for
     under  Accounting   Principles   Board  ("APB")   Opinion   No.  25,
     "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (see Note 7). 
                                     F-10


     
     
       Earnings per share

          During the year  ended December  31, 1997, the  Company adopted
     SFAS No. 128, "Earnings  Per Share", which required  a change in the
     method used to compute earnings per share.  Under this new standard,
     primary and  fully diluted  earnings  per share  were  replaced with
     "Basic" and "Diluted" earnings per share.   Basic earnings per share
     amounts exclude the dilutive  effect of potential  common shares and
     are therefore  higher than  the primary  earnings per  share amounts
     previously presented.  For Amgen, diluted earnings per share amounts
     under the new  standard are the  same as primary  earnings per share
     amounts previously  presented.   As required  by  SFAS No.  128, all
     prior period  amounts  have  been restated  to  conform  to the  new
     presentation.

          Basic earnings  per share  is based  upon  the weighted-average
     number of common shares outstanding.   Diluted earnings per share is
     based upon the weighted-average number of common shares and dilutive
     potential common shares  outstanding.   Potential common  shares are
     outstanding options under the Company's stock option plans which are
     included under the treasury stock method.

          The following table  sets forth  the computation for  basic and
     diluted  earnings  per   share  (in   millions,  except   per  share
     information):

                                            Years ended December 31,
                                           1997        1996       1995
                                          ------      ------     ------
      Numerator for basic and diluted
        earnings per share - net
        income ........................   $644.3      $679.8     $537.7
                                          ======      ======     ======
      Denominator:
        Denominator for basic
          earnings per share -
          weighted-average shares......    264.1       264.9      265.0
        Effect of dilutive securities
          - employee stock options.....     10.5        15.8       15.7
                                          ------      ------     ------
        Denominator for diluted
          earnings per share - adjusted
          weighted-average shares......    274.6       280.7      280.7
                                          ======      ======     ======
      Basic earnings per share ........    $2.44       $2.57      $2.03
                                          ======      ======     ======
      Diluted earnings per share ......    $2.35       $2.42      $1.92
                                          ======      ======     ======

          Options to purchase 10.7  million, 0.2 million  and 0.4 million
     shares with exercise prices  greater than the  average market prices
     of common stock were outstanding during the years ended December 31,
     1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  These options were excluded from
     the respective computations  of diluted  earnings per  share because
     their effect would be anti-dilutive.
                                     F-11



     
       Use of estimates

          The preparation  of  financial  statements  in conformity  with
     generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
     estimates and assumptions  that affect  the amounts reported  in the
     financial statements  and accompanying  notes.   Actual  results may
     differ from those estimates.

       Reclassification

          Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to
     the current year presentation.


     2.   Related party transactions

          The Company owns a  50% interest in  Kirin-Amgen, Inc. ("Kirin-
     Amgen"), a  corporation  formed  in  1984  for the  development  and
     commercialization   of   certain   products    based   on   advanced
     biotechnology.   Pursuant to  the terms  of agreements  entered into
     with  Kirin-Amgen,  the   Company  conducts  certain   research  and
     development activities on behalf of Kirin-Amgen and is paid for such
     services at negotiated rates.   Included in  revenues from corporate
     partners for the years  ended December 31, 1997,  1996 and 1995, are
     $87.9  million,  $79.9  million  and  $72.6  million,  respectively,
     related to these agreements.

          In connection with its various agreements with Kirin-Amgen, the
     Company has  been  granted  sole  and  exclusive  licenses  for  the
     manufacture and  sale of  certain products  in  specified geographic
     areas of the world.   In return for such  licenses, the Company paid
     Kirin-Amgen stated amounts upon  the receipt of  the licenses and/or
     pays Kirin-Amgen royalties based  on sales.  During  the years ended
     December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995,  Kirin-Amgen earned royalties from
     Amgen  of   $91.4  million,   $86.2  million   and   $74.2  million,
     respectively, under such agreements, which are  included in "Cost of
     sales" in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

          At  December   31,   1997,  Amgen's   share   of  Kirin-Amgen's
     undistributed retained earnings was approximately $73.5 million.


     3.   Debt

          The Company has a  commercial paper program  which provides for
     unsecured short-term borrowings up to an  aggregate of $200 million.
     No commercial paper was outstanding at December 31, 1997 and 1996.
                                     F-12











     
          Long-term debt consisted of the following (in millions):

                                                  December 31,
                                                 1997       1996
                                                ------     ------
             Debt securities ................   $259.0     $109.0
             Promissory notes ...............        -       68.2
                                                ------     ------
                                                 259.0      177.2
             Less current portion ...........    (30.0)    (118.2)
                                                ------     ------
                                                $229.0     $ 59.0
                                                ======     ======

          In November 1997, the  Company established a  $500 million debt
     shelf registration statement.   In  December 1997, pursuant  to this
     registration statement,  the  Company issued  $100  million  of debt
     securities that bear interest at a fixed rate  of 6.5% and mature in
     10 years (the  "Notes") and established  a $400 million  medium term
     note program.   The Company  may offer and  issue medium  term notes
     from time to time with terms to be determined by market conditions.

          In  April  1997,  the  Company  issued  $100  million  of  debt
     securities that bear interest at a fixed rate  of 8.1% and mature in
     2097 (the "Century  Notes").   These securities  may be  redeemed in
     whole or  in  part  at  the  Company's  option  at  any time  for  a
     redemption price equal to the greater of  the principal amount to be
     redeemed or  the sum  of the  present  values of  the  principal and
     remaining interest payments discounted at a determined rate plus, in
     each case, accrued interest.

          In addition to the Notes and the Century Notes, debt securities
     outstanding at December 31,  1997 include $59 million  of notes that
     bear interest at fixed rates averaging 5.8% and mature in one to six
     years. The terms of the debt securities  require the Company to meet
     certain debt to tangible net asset  ratios and places limitations on
     liens and sale/leaseback  transactions and,  except with  respect to
     the Notes and  the Century  Notes, places limitations  on subsidiary
     indebtedness.

          The Company issued promissory notes to  assist in financing the
     acquisition and related construction of  a manufacturing facility in
     Puerto Rico.  These notes were repaid in 1997.

          The Company  has  an  unsecured  credit  facility (the  "credit
     facility") that includes a commitment expiring  on June 23, 2000 for
     up to $150  million of borrowings  under a revolving  line of credit
     (the "revolving line  commitment").  As  of December 31,  1997, $150
     million was  available  under  the  revolving  line  commitment  for
     borrowing.   Borrowings  under the  revolving  line  commitment bear
     interest at various rates which are a  function of, at the Company's
     option, either the  prime rate  of a major  bank, the  federal funds
     rate or  a Eurodollar  base rate.   Under  the  terms of  the credit
     facility, the  Company  is  required  to  meet  a  minimum  interest
     coverage ratio and maintain  a minimum level of  tangible net worth.
     In  addition,   the   credit   facility   contains  limitations   on
     investments, liens and sale/leaseback transactions. 
                                     F-13
     
          The aggregate  stated maturities  of all  long-term obligations
     due subsequent to December 31, 1997, are as follows:  $30 million in
     1998; $6 million in 1999; none in 2000; none  in 2001; none in 2002;
     and $223 million after 2002.


     4.   Contingencies

       Johnson & Johnson arbitrations

          Epoetin alfa

          In September  1985,  the  Company granted  Johnson  &  Johnson's
     affiliate, Ortho Pharmaceutical  Corporation, a  license relating  to
     certain patented technology  and know-how of  the Company  to sell  a
     genetically engineered  form  of  recombinant  human  erythropoietin,
     called Epoetin alfa, throughout the United States for all human  uses
     except dialysis and  diagnostics.   Johnson &  Johnson sells  Epoetin
     alfa under the  brand name  PROCRIT(R).   A number  of disputes  have
     arisen between Amgen  and Johnson &  Johnson as  to their  respective
     rights and  obligations under  the various  agreements between  them,
     including  the   agreement  granting   the  license   (the   "License
     Agreement").

          A dispute  between  Amgen and  Johnson  & Johnson  that  is  the
     subject of  a current  arbitration proceeding  relates to  the  audit
     methodology currently employed by the Company for Epoetin alfa sales.
     The Company and  Johnson & Johnson  are required  to compensate  each
     other for Epoetin alfa sales which either party makes into the  other
     party's exclusive  market.    The  Company  has  established  and  is
     employing an audit  methodology to assign  the proceeds  of sales  of
     EPOGEN(R) and  PROCRIT  in  the Company's  and  Johnson  &  Johnson's
     respective exclusive markets, sometimes  referred to as  "spillover".
     Spillover occurs when,  for example,  a hospital  or other  purchaser
     buys one brand for use in both dialysis and non-dialysis indications.
     On  September  12,   1997,  the  arbitrator   in  this  matter   (the
     "Arbitrator")  issued  an  opinion   adopting  the  Company's   audit
     methodology.  For the  free standing dialysis  center segment of  the
     Epoetin alfa  market,  which accounts  for  about two-thirds  of  the
     Company's EPOGEN sales, the Arbitrator ruled that the Company's audit
     accurately determined that  all Epoetin alfa  sales to free  standing
     dialysis centers are made  for dialysis.  For  the other segments  of
     the Epoetin  alfa  market, the  Arbitrator  ruled that  the  detailed
     methodology used by Amgen  accurately measured and allocated  Epoetin
     alfa sales for all  but the Hospital and  Home Health Care  segments,
     for which he ordered certain adjustments to the results of the  audit
     for the  1991-94 time  period.   The Arbitrator  also ruled  that  no
     payments are due for the 1989-90 period.  Subject to further guidance
     from the Arbitrator  to clarify  his opinion,  the Company  estimated
     that the effect of  the opinion would be  a net spillover payment  to
     Johnson & Johnson which, after benefit of income tax effects, was $78
     million for the  1991-94 period  and interest  in the  amount of  $18
     million after tax.  As a result  of the opinion,  the Company took  a
     charge of  $0.35 per  share in  the  third quarter  of 1997  for  the
     spillover payment and interest.

          A hearing before the Arbitrator was held on October 27, 1997  to
     clarify, among other issues,  the calculation for  the amount of  the
     spillover payment  due to  Johnson &  Johnson  for the  1991-94  time
                                     F-14
     
     period.   As  a result  of  that hearing,  the  Company will  pay  an
     additional amount to Johnson & Johnson  for the 1991-94 period  which
     is covered  by  amounts  previously  provided  for  by  the  Company.
     Further rulings clarifying  the Company's  entitlement to  attorneys'
     fees and  costs  and  audit  costs as  well  as  the  calculation  of
     spillover payments, if any, that may be due to the Company or Johnson
     & Johnson for  1995, 1996 and  1997 have been  sought by the  parties
     before a  final  order  is issued.    Pending  determination  by  the
     Arbitrator, the Company has  not taken any  benefit for the  possible
     recovery of attorneys' fees and costs or audit costs and has retained
     spillover reserves.   Johnson & Johnson  also disputes the  Company's
     entitlement to reimbursement for attorneys'  fees and costs or  audit
     costs.  Accordingly, there  can be no  assurance that the  Arbitrator
     will award such  reimbursement.   If, as  a result  of these  further
     arbitration rulings, any adjustments to the results of the  Company's
     audit yield results that are different from the results of the  audit
     currently employed by the Company, the Company may be required to pay
     additional compensation to Johnson &  Johnson for sales during  1995,
     1996  and  1997,  or  Johnson  &  Johnson  may  be  required  to  pay
     compensation to the Company for such prior period sales.

          The Company has filed a demand  in the arbitration to  terminate
     Johnson & Johnson's rights under the License Agreement and to recover
     damages for  breach of  the License  Agreement.   Johnson  &  Johnson
     disputes  the  Arbitrator's  jurisdiction  to  decide  the  Company's
     demand.  A hearing before the Arbitrator on the Company's demand will
     be  scheduled  following   his  final  adjudication   of  the   audit
     methodologies for Epoetin alfa sales.

          On October  2, 1995,  Johnson &  Johnson filed  a demand  for  a
     separate  arbitration  proceeding  against  the  Company  before  the
     American  Arbitration  Association  ("AAA")  in  Chicago,   Illinois.
     Johnson &  Johnson  alleges  in this  demand  that  the  Company  has
     breached the License Agreement.  The demand also includes allegations
     of various antitrust violations.  In  this demand, Johnson &  Johnson
     seeks an  injunction,  declaratory relief,  unspecified  compensatory
     damages, punitive  damages  and costs.    On October  27,  1995,  the
     Company filed  a  complaint in  the  Circuit Court  of  Cook  County,
     Illinois seeking an order compelling  Johnson & Johnson to  arbitrate
     the Company's claim for termination before the Arbitrator as well  as
     all related counterclaims asserted in Johnson & Johnson's October  2,
     1995 AAA arbitration  demand.  The  Company is unable  to predict  at
     this time the outcome of the  demand for termination or when it  will
     be resolved.    The  Company has  filed  a  motion to  stay  the  AAA
     arbitration  pending  the   outcome  of   the  existing   arbitration
     proceedings before the Arbitrator discussed  above.  The Company  has
     also  filed  an  answer  and   counterclaim  denying  that  AAA   has
     jurisdiction to  hear or  decide the  claims  stated in  the  demand,
     denying the  allegations  in  the demand  and  counter  claiming  for
     certain unpaid invoices.

          NESP

          On  June  5,  1997,  Johnson  &  Johnson  filed  a  demand   for
     arbitration against Kirin-Amgen,  Inc. ("Kirin-Amgen"), an  affiliate
     of the Company,  before the  AAA.   The demand  alleges that  Amgen's
     novel erythropoiesis  stimulating protein  ("NESP") is  covered by  a
     license granted by Kirin-Amgen to Johnson  & Johnson in 1985 for  the     
                                     F-15
     
     development,  manufacture  and  sale  of  Epoetin  alfa  in   certain
     territories outside  the United  States, Japan  and China  (the  "K-A
     License").  In 1996  Kirin-Amgen acquired exclusive worldwide  rights
     in NESP from Amgen.  Kirin-Amgen, in turn, transferred certain rights
     in NESP  to Kirin  and certain  rights to  Amgen. Johnson  &  Johnson
     alleges that the K-A License effectively grants Johnson & Johnson the
     same right to develop, manufacture and sell NESP as granted under the
     K-A License  with respect  to Epoetin  alfa.   Kirin-Amgen filed  its
     answer to Johnson & Johnson's complaint on January 12, 1998,  denying
     that Johnson & Johnson has rights to NESP.  Kirin-Amgen also asserted
     a counterclaim for  the recovery  of certain  royalty payments  which
     Kirin-Amgen asserts  were improperly  withheld.   The trial  in  this
     matter is scheduled to commence in July 1998.

          While it is not possible to predict accurately or determine  the
     eventual outcome  of the  above described  legal matters  or  various
     other legal proceedings (including patent disputes) involving  Amgen,
     the Company believes that the outcome  of these proceedings will  not
     have a material adverse effect on its annual financial statements.


     5.   Income taxes

          The provision  for  income  taxes  includes  the following  (in
     millions):

                                               Years ended December 31,
                                                1997      1996     1995
                                               ------    ------   ------
      Current provision:
        Federal (including U.S. possessions)   $227.2    $240.4   $211.5
        State ...............................    21.2      16.6     21.3
                                               ------    ------   ------
          Total current provision ...........   248.4     257.0    232.8
                                               ------    ------   ------
      Deferred provision (benefit):
        Federal (including U.S. possessions)    (25.6)     24.1     25.1
        State ...............................    (5.7)      1.4     (1.2)
                                               ------    ------   ------
          Total deferred provision (benefit)    (31.3)     25.5     23.9
                                               ------    ------   ------
                                               $217.1    $282.5   $256.7
                                               ======    ======   ======

          Deferred income  taxes  reflect  the  net  tax effects  of  net
     operating loss carryforwards  and temporary differences  between the
     carrying amounts of  assets and liabilities  for financial reporting
     purposes and the amounts used for  income tax purposes.  Significant
     components of the Company's deferred tax  assets and liabilities are
     as follows (in millions): 
                                     F-16

                                                                         
     



     

                                                      December 31,
                                                     1997       1996
                                                    ------     ------
         Deferred tax assets:
           Expense accruals ....................    $103.3     $ 55.9
           Net operating loss carryforwards ....      63.1       83.3
           Fixed assets ........................      25.4       12.9
           Research collaboration expenses .....      23.1       19.0
           Royalty obligation buyouts ..........       9.8       11.0
           Other ...............................       7.1        9.5
                                                    ------     ------
             Total deferred tax assets .........     231.8      191.6

         Valuation allowance ...................     (79.7)     (82.6)
                                                    ------     ------
             Net deferred tax assets ...........     152.1      109.0
                                                    ------     ------
         Deferred tax liabilities:
           Purchase of technology rights .......     (54.9)     (45.0)
           Other ...............................      (3.9)      (2.7)
                                                    ------     ------
             Total deferred tax liabilities ....     (58.8)     (47.7)
                                                    ------     ------
                                                    $ 93.3     $ 61.3
                                                    ======     ======

          The net  change in  the  valuation allowance  for  deferred tax
     assets during the  year ended December  31, 1997 was  a $2.9 million
     reduction.

          At  December  31,   1997,  the   Company  had   operating  loss
     carryforwards available to  reduce future federal  taxable income of
     which $80.2 million expire in 2008 and $81.9 million expire in 2009.
     These operating loss carryforwards relate to the 1994 acquisition of
     Synergen, Inc.,  a  biotechnology  company.    Utilization of  these
     operating loss carryforwards is limited to approximately $16 million
     per year.

          The  provision  for  income  taxes  varies  from  income  taxes
     provided based on the federal statutory rate as follows:

                                               Years ended December 31,
                                               1997      1996       1995
                                              ------    ------     ------
     Statutory rate applied to income
       before income taxes .................   35.0%     35.0%      35.0%
     Benefit of Puerto Rico operations, net
       of Puerto Rico income taxes .........   (7.3)%    (6.8)%     (3.5)%
     Utilization of tax credits, primarily
       research and experimentation ........   (2.9)%    (1.1)%     (0.8)%
     Other, net ............................    0.4%      2.3%       1.6%
                                              -----     -----      -----
                                               25.2%     29.4%      32.3%
                                              =====     =====      =====

          Income taxes  paid during  the years  ended December  31, 1997,
     1996 and  1995,  totaled  $176.1 million,  $246  million  and $100.8
     million, respectively.
                                     F-17
     
     6.   Stockholders' equity

       Stockholder Rights agreement

          On February 18,  1997, the  Board of  Directors of  the Company
     redeemed the rights under  the Company's former  common stock rights
     plan and declared and distributed a  dividend of one preferred share
     purchase right (a "Right") for each then outstanding share of common
     stock of the  Company and authorized  the distribution of  one Right
     with respect to each subsequently issued share of common stock.  The
     Rights and  the redemption  price  were payable  to  stockholders of
     record on March 21, 1997.

          Each Right entitles a stockholder to  buy one one-thousandth of
     a share  of Series  A Junior  Participating  Preferred Stock  of the
     Company at an  exercise price of  $225.   The Rights will  expire on
     March 21, 2007.

          Under certain circumstances,  if an  acquiring person  or group
     acquires 10% or more  of the Company's outstanding  common stock, an
     exercisable Right will entitle its holder  (other than the acquirer)
     to buy shares of common  stock of the Company  having a market value
     of two times the exercise  price of one Right.   However, in limited
     circumstances approved  by the  outside  directors of  the  Board, a
     stockholder who enters  into an acceptable  standstill agreement may
     acquire up to 20%  of the outstanding shares  without triggering the
     Rights.  If an acquirer acquires at least 10%, but less than 50%, of
     the Company's common stock, the Board may exchange each Right (other
     than those of the acquirer) for one share of common stock per Right.
     In addition, under certain circumstances, if the Company is involved
     in a  merger  or other  business  combination where  it  is  not the
     surviving corporation, an exercisable Right  will entitle its holder
     to buy  shares of  common stock  of the  acquiring company  having a
     market value of  two times  the exercise  price of  one Right.   The
     Company may redeem the Rights  at $.001 per Right  at any time prior
     to the public announcement that a 10% position has been acquired.

       Stock repurchase program

          The Company has a stock repurchase  program primarily to offset
     the dilutive effect of its employee  stock option and stock purchase
     plans.  Stock repurchased under the program  is retired.  In October
     1997, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up
     to $1 billion  of common  stock through  December 31,  1998.   As of
     December 31, 1997, $712.1 million was available for repurchase under
     the program.

          In connection with the Company's  stock repurchase program, put
     warrants were sold to an independent third  party during 1996.  Each
     put warrant  entitled the  holder to  sell one  share of  Amgen Inc.
     common stock  to the  Company at  a  specified price.    The maximum
     potential repurchase obligation outstanding  under these instruments
     was reclassified from  stockholders' equity  to "Put warrants".   No
     put warrants were outstanding at December  31, 1997.  The repurchase
     obligation for put warrants at December 31, 1996 was $157.4 million.

          Additionally during  1996, the  Company purchased  call options
     from an  independent third  party.   Each  call option  entitled the
     Company to buy one share  of Amgen Inc. common  stock at a specified
                                     F-18
     
     price.   The premiums  received from  the sale  of the  put warrants
     offset in full the cost of  the call options.   No call options were
     outstanding at December 31, 1997.

       Other

          In addition to  common stock, the  Company's authorized capital
     includes 5 million shares  of preferred stock, $.0001  par value, of
     which 0.8  million  shares  have  been  designated Series  A  Junior
     Participating Preferred Stock.   At December 31, 1997,  no shares of
     preferred stock were issued or outstanding.

          At December  31, 1997,  the Company  had reserved  61.7 million
     shares of its  common stock  which may be  issued through  its stock
     option and stock purchase plans and  had reserved 0.8 million shares
     of preferred  stock in  connection with  its preferred  stock rights
     plan.


     7.   Stock option and purchase plans

          The Company's  stock  option plans  provide  for  option grants
     designated as either nonqualified  or incentive stock  options.  The
     options generally vest over  a three to five  year period and expire
     seven years from the date of grant.   Most employees are eligible to
     receive a grant  of stock  options periodically  with the  number of
     shares  generally  determined   by  the  employee's   salary  grade,
     performance level  and  the  stock  price.    In  addition,  certain
     management and professional level employees normally receive a stock
     option grant  upon  hire.    In  1997,  most employees  received  an
     additional stock  option grant  in which  all  shares will  vest the
     earlier of: (i) five years from date of grant;  and (ii) the date on
     which the closing  price of  Amgen stock equals  or exceeds  $75 per
     share.  In  December 1997, the  Board of Directors  of Amgen adopted
     the 1997 Special Non-Officer Equity Incentive Plan (the "1997 Plan")
     and reserved 12 million  shares for issuance thereunder.   The terms
     of the  1997 Plan  are substantially  similar  to the  terms  of the
     Company's Amended  and Restated  1991 Equity  Incentive  Plan except
     that the 1997 Plan  does not permit: (i)  repricing of options; (ii)
     the granting of reload options; and  (iii) the granting of incentive
     stock options.    As of  December  31, 1997,  the  Company  had 21.6
     million shares of common stock available  for future grant under its
     stock option plans. 
                                     F-19















     
          Stock option information with  respect to all  of the Company's
     stock option plans follows (shares in millions):

                                                    Exercise Price
                                            -----------------------------
                                                                Weighted-
                                    Shares     Low       High    Average
                                    ------     ---       ----    --------
    Balance unexercised at
      December 31, 1994 .........    35.0     $1.76     $38.88    $16.58
        Granted .................     7.1    $28.94     $58.88    $39.62
        Exercised ...............    (8.1)    $1.93     $38.88    $12.87
        Forfeited ...............    (1.0)    $2.25     $39.88    $19.86
                                     ----
    Balance unexercised at
      December 31, 1995 .........    33.0     $1.76     $58.88    $22.35
        Granted .................     4.6    $51.50     $64.13    $56.00
        Exercised ...............    (6.6)    $2.25     $55.75    $14.92
        Forfeited ...............     (.5)    $3.69     $61.88    $32.48
                                     ----
    Balance unexercised at
      December 31, 1996 .........    30.5     $1.76     $64.13    $29.00
        Granted .................    13.0    $46.50     $67.88    $54.56
        Exercised ...............    (7.1)    $1.76     $58.25    $18.36
        Forfeited ...............     (.9)    $4.31     $65.50    $45.74
                                     ----
    Balance unexercised at
      December 31, 1997 .........    35.5     $2.30     $67.88    $40.08
                                     ====

          At December 31, 1997, 1996 and  1995, stock options to purchase
     15.0 million, 15.7 million and 15.7  million shares were exercisable
     at  weighted-average   prices   of   $27.34,   $20.53  and   $15.71,
     respectively.

          The Company  has an  employee stock  purchase plan  whereby, in
     accordance with Section 423  of the Internal  Revenue Code, eligible
     employees may authorize  payroll deductions  of up  to 10%  of their
     salary to purchase shares of the Company's common stock at the lower
     of 85% of the fair market value of common stock on the first or last
     day of the offering period.  During each of the years ended December
     31, 1997,  1996  and  1995, 0.2  million  shares  were purchased  by
     employees at prices of  approximately $46.00, $46.22  and $24.76 per
     share, respectively.   At  December 31,  1997,  the Company  had 4.6
     million shares available for future issuance under this plan.

       Fair value disclosures

          Stock option  grants  are  set  at  the  closing price  of  the
     Company's common stock on  the date of grant  and the related number
     of shares granted are fixed at that point  in time.  Therefore under
     the principles of APB Opinion No. 25, the Company does not recognize
     compensation expense  associated with  the grant  of  stock options.
     SFAS No.  123, "Accounting  for Stock-Based  Compensation," requires
     the  use  of   option  valuation  models   to  provide  supplemental
     information  regarding  options  granted  after  1994.    Pro  forma
     information regarding net income and earnings  per share shown below
     was determined  as if  the Company  had  accounted for  its employee 
                                     F-20
     
     stock options and  shares sold under  its stock purchase  plan under
     the fair value method of that statement.

          The fair  value of  the options  was estimated  at the  date of
     grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing  model with the following
     weighted-average assumptions for 1997,  1996 and 1995, respectively:
     risk-free interest rates of 6.0%, 6.4%  and 5.9%; dividend yields of
     0%, 0% and  0%; volatility factors  of the expected  market price of
     the Company's common stock of 33%, 34% and 33%; and expected life of
     the  options  of  3.7  years,  3.4  years  and  3.4  years.    These
     assumptions resulted  in  weighted-average  fair  values of  $17.95,
     $18.25 and $12.40 per share for stock  options granted in 1997, 1996
     and 1995, respectively.

          The Black-Scholes option valuation model  was developed for use
     in estimating  the  fair value  of  traded options.    The Company's
     employee stock options have  characteristics significantly different
     from those  of  traded  options  such  as vesting  restrictions  and
     extremely limited  transferability.   In  addition,  the assumptions
     used in option valuation  models (see above)  are highly subjective,
     particularly the expected  stock price volatility  of the underlying
     stock.  Because  changes in  these subjective input  assumptions can
     materially affect the fair value  estimate, in management's opinion,
     existing valuation models do  not provide a  reliable single measure
     of the fair value of its employee stock options.

          For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value
     of the options is amortized over the  options' vesting periods.  The
     pro forma  effect on  net  income for  1997,  1996 and  1995  is not
     representative of the pro forma effect on net income in future years
     because it does not  take into consideration  pro forma compensation
     expense related  to option  grants made  prior to  1995.   Pro forma
     information in  future  years  will reflect  the  amortization  of a
     larger number of stock options granted  in several succeeding years.
     The Company's  pro  forma  information is  as  follows  (in million,
     except per share information):

                                           Years ended December 31,
                                         1997        1996        1995
                                        ------      ------      ------
      Pro forma net income ...........  $575.8      $631.5      $517.6

      Pro forma earnings per share:
        Basic ........................   $2.18       $2.38       $1.95
        Diluted ......................   $2.12       $2.26       $1.85
                                     F-21












                                     
     
          Information regarding stock options  outstanding as of December
     31, 1997 is as follows (options in millions):

                          Options Outstanding        Options Exercisable
                     -----------------------------   -------------------
                                         Weighted-
                             Weighted-    Average              Weighted-
                              Average    Remaining              Average
                              Exercise  Contractual            Exercise
       Price Range   Shares    Price       Life       Shares     Price
     --------------  ------  ---------  -----------  --------  ---------
      Under $20.00      4.6    $13.64    2.2 years     4.2      $13.59
     $20.00 - $40.00   13.4    $29.94    3.4 years     9.1      $28.59
       Over $40.00     17.5    $54.76    6.3 years     1.7      $55.18


     8.   Balance sheet accounts

          Property, plant and  equipment consisted  of the  following (in
     millions):

                                                    December 31,
                                                 1997         1996
                                               --------     --------
       Land ................................   $   70.1     $   62.6
       Buildings ...........................      491.0        425.5
       Manufacturing equipment .............       81.4         63.0
       Laboratory equipment ................      205.8        174.9
       Furniture and office equipment ......      320.0        266.2
       Leasehold improvements ..............       58.8         56.5
       Construction in progress ............      442.1        252.5
                                               --------     --------
                                                1,669.2      1,301.2
       Less accumulated depreciation and
          amortization......................     (483.0)      (390.7)
                                               --------     --------
                                               $1,186.2     $  910.5
                                               ========     ========

          Accrued liabilities consisted of the following (in millions):

                                                    December 31,
                                                  1997         1996
                                                 ------       ------
       Due to affiliated companies and
          corporate partners................     $232.5       $121.2
       Income taxes ........................       98.7         86.8
       Sales incentives, royalties and
          allowances........................       92.9         79.7
       Employee compensation and benefits ..       87.8         83.4
       Other ...............................       96.1         78.6
                                                 ------       ------
                                                 $608.0       $449.7
                                                 ======       ======
                                     F-22




     
     9.   Fair values of financial instruments

          The carrying  amounts  of  cash,  cash equivalents,  marketable
     securities and  cost  method equity  investments  approximated their
     fair values.  Fair values of cash equivalents, marketable securities
     and cost  method  equity  investments  are  based on  quoted  market
     prices.

          The fair  value of  debt securities  at  December 31,  1997 was
     approximately $276 million.  The carrying  values of debt securities
     and promissory notes  at December  31, 1996 approximated  their fair
     values.  The fair values were estimated based on quoted market rates
     for instruments with similar terms and remaining maturities.

          The fair values of  the foreign currency  forward contracts and
     purchased foreign  currency  option contracts  were  not significant
     based on quoted market rates.


     10.  Major customers

          Amgen uses wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical products as
     the principal  means  of  distributing  the  Company's  products  to
     clinics,  hospitals  and  pharmacies.    The  Company  monitors  the
     financial condition of its larger distributors and limits its credit
     exposure  by  setting   appropriate  credit  limits   and  requiring
     collateral from  certain  of its  customers.   For  the  years ended
     December 31,  1997,  1996 and  1995,  sales to  two  large wholesale
     distributors as a percentage of total revenues were 24% and 14%, 24%
     and 14%, and 21% and 15%, respectively.


     11.  Geographic information

          Information about the Company's operations in the United States
     and its possessions,  Europe and other  international markets, which
     include Canada, Australia and Japan is as follows (in millions):

                                             Years ended December 31,
                                          1997         1996        1995
                                        --------     --------    --------
   Sales to unaffiliated customers:
     United States and possessions ..   $1,943.3     $1,803.5    $1,546.1
     Europe .........................      245.8        257.6       254.7
     Other ..........................       30.7         27.1        17.8
   Transfers between geographic
     areas:
     United States and possessions ..       16.9         24.5        12.6
   Other revenue ....................      181.2        151.6       121.3
   Adjustments and eliminations .....      (16.9)       (24.5)      (12.6)
                                        --------     --------    --------
   Total revenues ...................   $2,401.0     $2,239.8    $1,939.9
                                        ========     ========    ========
                                     F-23
     



     

                                             Years ended December 31,
                                          1997         1996        1995
                                        --------     --------    --------
   Operating profit (loss):
     United States and possessions ..     $864.1     $  980.0     $801.7
     Europe .........................       55.2         71.4       75.7
     Other ..........................      (38.7)       (34.8)     (33.1)
   Adjustments and eliminations .....        5.7         (5.7)      (1.7)
                                        --------     --------     ------
   Total operating profit ...........      886.3      1,010.9      842.6
   Interest and other income, net ...       68.9         57.4       50.8
   Loss of affiliates, net ..........      (36.1)       (52.8)     (53.3)
   General corporate expenses .......      (57.7)       (53.2)     (45.7)
                                        --------     --------     ------
   Income before income taxes .......     $861.4     $  962.3     $794.4
                                        ========     ========     ======

          Operating  profit  (loss)  represents  revenue  less  operating
     expenses directly related to each geographic area.  Operating profit
     (loss) excludes "Interest  and other  income", "Loss  of affiliates,
     net"  and   other   expenses  attributable   to   general  corporate
     operations.

          Included in  operating profit  for  the United  States  and its
     possessions is a legal assessment of $157 million for the year ended
     December 31, 1997.  "Loss of  affiliates, net" includes the minority
     interest in earnings  of majority controlled  European affiliates of
     $47.9 million, $55.3 million and $50.7  million, for the years ended
     December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

          Information about  the  Company's identifiable  assets  in each
     geographic area is as follows (in millions):

                                                    December 31,
                                                 1997         1996
                                               --------     --------
        Identifiable assets:
          United States and possessions.....   $1,434.6     $1,127.0
          Europe............................      143.8        123.5
          Other.............................       12.7         23.1
        Adjustments and eliminations .......        5.3         (6.2)
                                               --------     --------
        Total identifiable assets ..........    1,596.4      1,267.4
        Corporate assets including equity
          method investments................    1,513.8      1,498.2
                                               --------     --------
        Total assets .......................   $3,110.2     $2,765.6
                                               ========     ========

          Identifiable assets are  those assets  of the Company  that are
     identified with the  operations in  each geographic area.   Europe's
     identifiable assets  include  accounts  receivable of  approximately
     $48.1 million and  $44.2 million as  of December 31,  1997 and 1996,
     respectively, denominated in foreign  currencies.  Corporate assets,
     which  are  excluded  from   identifiable  assets,  are  principally
     comprised of cash, cash  equivalents and marketable  securities.  At
     December 31, 1997 and 1996,  total international assets approximated
     $200.9  million   and  $207.3   million,  respectively,   and  total
                                     F-24
     
     international  liabilities  approximated  $30.5  million  and  $68.1
     million, respectively.


     12.  Quarterly financial data
          (unaudited, in millions, except per share data):

     1997 Quarter Ended  Dec. 31       Sept. 30      June 30       Mar. 31
     ------------------  -------       --------      -------       -------
     Product sales.....   $564.3         $552.8       $566.7        $536.0
     Gross margin from
      product sales ...    486.6          478.5        489.9         464.0
     Net income........    179.7           83.8 (1)    200.5         180.3
     Earnings per
      share:
      Basic............      .69            .32 (1)      .76           .68
      Diluted..........      .67            .31 (1)      .72           .65

     1996 Quarter Ended  Dec. 31       Sept. 30      June 30       Mar. 31
     ------------------  -------       --------      -------       -------
     Product sales.....   $559.1         $533.3       $518.9        $476.9
     Gross margin from
      product sales ...    484.2          460.2        450.6         410.0
     Net income........    178.0          179.5        178.7         143.6
     Earnings per
      share:
      Basic............      .67            .68          .67           .54
      Diluted..........      .64            .64          .64           .51

     (1)During  the third  quarter of  1997, the  Company accrued  a $157
        million spillover liability which resulted in an after-tax charge
        of $96.4  million, or $.35 per share on  a diluted basis, related
        to  arbitration proceedings with  Johnson & Johnson  (see Note 4,
        "Contingencies - Johnson & Johnson arbitrations").
                                     F-25
























     

                                                                SCHEDULE II

                                   AMGEN INC.

                               VALUATION ACCOUNTS

                  Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
                                 (In millions)


                                             Additions
                                              Charged              Balance
                                 Balance at  to Costs              at End
                                  Beginning     and                  of
                                  of Period  Expenses  Deductions  Period
                                  --------   --------  ----------  -------
   Year ended December 31, 1997:
     Allowance for doubtful
     accounts..................     $11.8      $2.8       $0.4      $14.2

   Year ended December 31, 1996:
     Allowance for doubtful
     accounts..................     $13.8      $2.9       $4.9      $11.8

   Year ended December 31, 1995:
     Allowance for doubtful
     accounts..................     $13.3      $5.4       $4.9      $13.8
                                     F-26
     

     
     