
10-K





                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           WASHINGTON D.C. 20549
                                 FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[ X ]     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994

          OR

[    ]    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 
          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
Commission file number 0-12477
                                AMGEN INC.
          (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        Delaware                                           95-3540776
 (State or other jurisdiction of                        (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)                        Identification No.)

1840 Dehavilland Drive, Thousand Oaks, California                91320-1789
(Address of principal executive offices)                         (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:            805-447-1000

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
      Common stock, $.0001 par value, Common shares purchase rights,
                   Contractual contingent payment rights
                             (Title of class)

Indicate by check  mark whether the  registrant (1) has  filed all  reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange  Act
of 1934 during the preceding  12 months  (or  for such shorter period  that
the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject
to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.      Yes  X  No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to  Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not  contained herein, and will not be  contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge,  in definitive proxy or  information
statements incorporated by reference in Part  III of this Form 10-K or  any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

The approximate  aggregate  market  value of  voting  stock  held  by  non-
affiliates of the registrant was $8,146,310,000 as of January 31, 1995 (A)
                                132,491,196
   (Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of January 31, 1995)

Documents incorporated by reference:
                Document                                    Form 10-K Parts
Definitive Proxy Statement, to be filed within 120 days of
  December 31, 1994 (specified portions)                         III

(A)  Excludes  2,410,394 shares of  common  stock  held  by  directors  and
officers, and  stockholders whose  ownership exceeds  five percent  of  the
shares outstanding, at January 31, 1995.   Exclusion of shares held by  any
person should not be construed to  indicate that such person possesses  the
power, directly or  indirectly, to  direct or  cause the  direction of  the
management or policies of the registrant, or that such person is controlled
by or under common control with the registrant.

                                  PART I

Item 1.   BUSINESS

Overview

     Amgen Inc.  ("Amgen"  or  the "Company")  is  a  global  biotechnology
company that develops, manufactures and markets human therapeutics based on
advanced cellular and molecular biology.

     The Company manufactures and  markets two human therapeutic  products,
NEUPOGEN(R)  (Filgrastim)  and  EPOGEN(R)  (Epoetin  alfa).     NEUPOGEN(R)
selectively stimulates the  production of  neutrophils, one  type of  white
blood cell.    The  Company  markets  NEUPOGEN(R)  in  the  United  States,
countries of the  European Union ("EU"),  Canada and Australia  for use  in
decreasing   the   incidence   of   infection   in   patients    undergoing
myelosuppressive chemotherapy.   In  addition, NEUPOGEN(R)  is marketed  in
most of these countries for use in reducing the duration of neutropenia for
patients  undergoing  myeloablative   therapy  followed   by  bone   marrow
transplantation and for treating patients with severe chronic  neutropenia.
EPOGEN(R) stimulates the production of red  blood cells and is marketed  by
Amgen in  the United  States and  the People's  Republic of  China for  the
treatment of anemia associated  with chronic renal  failure in patients  on
dialysis.  EPOGEN(R) is also approved  for the treatment of anemia  related
to therapy  with  Zidovudine (AZT)  in  patients infected  with  the  human
immunodeficiency virus ("HIV") in the People's Republic of China.

     The Company focuses its research on biological cell/tissue events  and
its  development   efforts  on   human  therapeutics   in  the   areas   of
hematopoiesis,  neurobiology,  inflammation  and  soft  tissue  repair  and
regeneration.  The Company has research facilities in the United States and
Canada and has  clinical development staff  in the United  States, the  EU,
Canada, Australia, Japan and Hong Kong.   To augment internal research  and
development  efforts  the   Company  has   established  external   research
collaborations and has acquired certain product and technology rights.

     Amgen operates commercial manufacturing facilities for NEUPOGEN(R) and
EPOGEN(R) in the  United States and  Puerto Rico.   The facility in  Puerto
Rico, which performs formulation, fill and finish operations, was  approved
by the U.S.  Food and Drug  Administration ("FDA") in  December 1994.   The
Company maintains a sales and marketing force in the United States, the EU,
Canada, Australia and the People's Republic  of China.  In addition,  Amgen
has  entered  into   licensing  and  co-promotion   agreements  to   market
NEUPOGEN(R) and EPOGEN(R) in certain geographic areas.

     The Company was incorporated in California in 1980 and was merged into
a Delaware corporation in  1987.  Amgen's  principal executive offices  are
located at 1840 Dehavilland Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320-1789.

Products and product candidates

  Recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor

     NEUPOGEN(R) (proper name  - Filgrastim) is  Amgen's trademark for  its
recombinant  human  granulocyte  colony-stimulating  factor  ("G-CSF"),   a

protein that selectively stimulates production of certain white blood cells
known as neutrophils.   Neutrophils are  the body's  first defense  against
infection.  Treatments  for various  diseases and  diseases themselves  can
result  in   extremely  low   numbers  of   neutrophils,  or   neutropenia.
Myelosuppressive chemotherapy, one  treatment option  for individuals  with
cancer, targets  cell  types which  grow  rapidly, including  tumor  cells,
neutrophils and other  blood cells.   Providing NEUPOGEN(R)  as adjunct  to
myelosuppressive chemotherapy can  reduce the duration  of neutropenia  and
thereby reduce the potential for infection.

     Congenital neutropenia is an  example of disease-related  neutropenia.
In  congenital  neutropenia,  the  body  fails  to  manufacture  sufficient
neutrophils.   Chronic  administration of  NEUPOGEN(R)  has been  shown  to
reduce the incidence and duration of neutropenia-related consequences  such
as fever and infections in patients with congenital neutropenia.

     NEUPOGEN(R) has  also  been  shown  to  induce  immature  blood  cells
(progenitor cells)  to migrate  (mobilize) from  the bone  marrow into  the
blood circulatory system.   Studies have shown  that when these  progenitor
cells  are  collected  from  the   blood,  stored,  and  re-infused   after
chemotherapy (transplanted), recovery of platelets, the cells which play  a
critical role  in blood  clotting, is  accelerated.   In 1994,  NEUPOGEN(R)
received a positive  opinion from the  Committee for Proprietary  Medicinal
Products ("CPMP") in  the EU to  mobilize progenitor  cells for  peripheral
blood progenitor cell  ("PBPC") transplantation.   PBPC transplantation  is
becoming an alternative to autologous  bone marrow transplantation in  some
countries.

     In the  United  States,  the  Company  began  selling  NEUPOGEN(R)  in
February 1991 upon  receiving approval of  its product license  application
from the  FDA (see  "Joint Ventures  and Business  Relationships -  Limited
Partnership").    NEUPOGEN(R)  was  initially  indicated  to  decrease  the
incidence of infection  as manifested by  febrile neutropenia for  patients
with non-myeloid malignancies undergoing myelosuppressive chemotherapy.  In
June 1994, the FDA approved a supplement to the Filgrastim product  license
which included a claim to reduce  the duration of neutropenia for  patients
with non-myeloid malignancies undergoing myeloablative therapy followed  by
bone marrow  transplantation.    In December  1994,  the  FDA  approved  an
additional supplement to  the Filgrastim product  license which included  a
claim  to  reduce  the   incidence  and  duration  of   neutropenia-related
consequences in symptomatic  patients with  congenital neutropenia,  cyclic
neutropenia or idiopathic  neutropenia.  Amgen  markets NEUPOGEN(R) in  the
United States through its national sales force.

     In  the  EU,  the  CPMP  issued  an  opinion  in  February  1991  that
NEUPOGEN(R) meets  the  requirements  for  marketing  authorization  as  an
adjunct to chemotherapy entitling the Company to seek marketing approval in
individual EU countries.   Marketing approvals  were subsequently  received
from all EU countries and product  sales commenced in these countries.   In
May 1992,  the  CPMP  issued  a favorable  opinion  regarding  the  use  of
NEUPOGEN(R) in reducing the duration of neutropenia for patients undergoing
myeloablative   therapy   followed   by   bone   marrow    transplantation.
Substantially all of the EU countries have now approved the product for use
in this indication.   In  September 1993,  a favorable  opinion was  issued
regarding the use  of NEUPOGEN(R) in  treating severe chronic  neutropenia,
and subsequently, a majority of the EU countries have approved the  product
for use in this indication.  In December 1994, the CPMP issued a  favorable
opinion for the use of NEUPOGEN(R) in mobilizing progenitor cells for  PBPC

transplantation.  Several EU countries have approved the product for use in
this additional indication.  Amgen and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.  ("Roche")
jointly market NEUPOGEN(R) in  the EU under  a co-promotion agreement  (see
"Marketing").

     In Canada, the Company began selling NEUPOGEN(R) in February 1992 when
the product was approved for use as an adjunct to chemotherapy.  In October
1993,  the  Canadian  regulatory   authorities  approved  NEUPOGEN(R)   for
treatment of severe chronic neutropenia.

     In Australia, the Company began selling  NEUPOGEN(R) in May 1992  when
the product was approved for sale both as an adjunct to chemotherapy and to
reduce the duration  of neutropenia in  patients receiving  marrow-ablative
therapy followed by autologous bone marrow transplantation.  In July  1993,
the  Australian  regulatory  authorities   approved  NEUPOGEN(R)  for   the
treatment of severe chronic neutropenia.

     In Japan, Korea and Taiwan, Kirin Brewery Company, Limited  ("Kirin"),
was granted rights to market G-CSF  under licensing agreements with  Kirin-
Amgen, Inc. ("Kirin-Amgen").  Kirin-Amgen is  a joint  venture between  the
Company and Kirin (see "Joint Ventures  and Business Relationships -  Kirin
Brewery Company, Limited").  Kirin received marketing approval in Japan and
Taiwan in  October 1991  and August  1992, respectively,  and  subsequently
began selling GRAN(R), Kirin's G-CSF product.  GRAN(R) is approved for use
to prevent  febrile  neutropenia in  patients  undergoing  myelosuppressive
chemotherapy, to reduce the duration  of neutropenia following bone  marrow
transplants, for  the  treatment of  severe  chronic neutropenia,  for  the
treatment of neutropenia accompanying aplastic anemia and for the treatment
of congenital idiopathic neutropenia.

     The Company  is  conducting  many clinical  trials  with  NEUPOGEN(R).
Later stage trials are examining NEUPOGEN(R) as an adjunct to  chemotherapy
in patients  with  acute  myelogenous leukemia,  as  an  adjunct  to  dose-
intensified chemotherapy  in patients  with various  tumor types,  for  the
treatment of neutropenia in HIV-infected patients and for the treatment  of
severe community-acquired pneumonia.

     For the  years  ended December  31,  1994,  1993 and  1992,  sales  of
NEUPOGEN(R) accounted for approximately 50%, 52% and 50%, respectively,  of
Amgen's total revenues.

  Recombinant human erythropoietin

     EPOGEN(R) (proper name -  Epoetin alfa) is  Amgen's trademark for  its
recombinant human  erythropoietin product,  a protein  that stimulates  red
blood cell production.  EPOGEN(R) is  effective in the treatment of  anemia
associated with  chronic renal  failure for  patients  on dialysis  and  is
indicated to elevate or maintain the red blood cell level (as manifested by
hematocrit or hemoglobin determinations) and to decrease the need for blood
transfusions in these patients.

     In the United States, Amgen was  granted rights to market  recombinant
human erythropoietin  under a  licensing  agreement with  Kirin-Amgen  (see
"Joint  Ventures  and  Business  Relationships  -  Kirin  Brewery  Company,
Limited").   The Company  began selling  EPOGEN(R) in  1989 upon  receiving
approval of its  product license application  from the FDA.   EPOGEN(R)  is
indicated for use in the treatment of anemia associated with chronic  renal
failure.  The  FDA also designated  EPOGEN(R) as an  orphan drug, and  such

designation will  expire  in  1996.   In  July  1994, the  FDA  approved  a
supplement to the Epoetin alfa product  license which included an  expanded
target hematocrit  range for  patients with  chronic  renal failure.    The
target hematocrit, or  percentage of  red blood  cells, was  expanded to  a
range of 30 to 36 percent from the  previously indicated range of 30 to  33
percent.   Ongoing  clinical trials  are  investigating whether  there  are
additional benefits for  dialysis patients  in maintaining  a higher,  even
more normal,  hematocrit range.   Through  its  national sales  force,  the
Company markets EPOGEN(R) in the United  States for dialysis patients,  the
market to which Amgen has maintained exclusive rights.

     Amgen has granted Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation a license to pursue
commercialization  of   recombinant  human   erythropoietin  as   a   human
therapeutic in  the  United States  in  all markets  other  than  dialysis.
(Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation is a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson  and
will be referred to hereafter as Johnson & Johnson.)  In December 1990, the
FDA approved a supplement  to the Epoetin alfa  product license to  include
treatment of anemia related to therapy  with AZT in HIV-infected  patients.
Also, the  FDA approved  Amgen's supplement  to name  Johnson &  Johnson  a
distributor of Epoetin  alfa under the  trademark PROCRIT(R).   In  January
1991, Johnson  & Johnson  began distributing  Epoetin  alfa in  the  United
States.  In April  1993, the FDA approved  an additional supplement to  the
Epoetin alfa product license to include the treatment of anemia in patients
with non-myeloid  malignancies undergoing  chemotherapy.   The  Company  is
engaged in arbitration  proceedings regarding  its license  with Johnson  &
Johnson.  For  a complete  discussion of  this matter,  see Note  5 to  the
Consolidated Financial Statements - "Johnson & Johnson arbitration".

     In the People's  Republic of  China, the  Company received  government
approval in September 1992 and began  marketing EPOGEN(R) for treatment  of
anemia associated with chronic renal failure and anemia related to  therapy
with AZT in HIV-infected patients.

     In Japan,  Kirin  was  granted  rights  to  market  recombinant  human
erythropoietin under  a licensing  agreement with  Kirin-Amgen (see  "Joint
Ventures and Business Relationships - Kirin Brewery Company, Limited").  In
1990, Kirin  received  approval  from the  Japanese  government  and  began
marketing  ESPO(R),  Kirin's  recombinant  human  erythropoietin   product.
ESPO(R) is approved for treatment of  anemia associated with chronic  renal
failure.

     In countries other than  the United States,  the People's Republic  of
China and  Japan,  Johnson &  Johnson  was  granted rights  to  pursue  the
commercialization  of  erythropoietin  as  a  human  therapeutic  under   a
licensing agreement  with Kirin-Amgen.   Affiliates  of Johnson  &  Johnson
market erythropoietin for treatment of anemia associated with chronic renal
failure under the trademark EPREX(R) in several countries.

     For the  years  ended December  31,  1994,  1993 and  1992,  sales  of
EPOGEN(R) accounted for  approximately 44%, 42%  and 46%, respectively,  of
Amgen's total revenues.

  Consensus interferon

     Interferons are a  class of  naturally occurring  proteins with  anti-
viral and  anti-tumor  activity  that  also  modulate  the  immune  system.
INFERGEN(TM), Amgen's consensus  interferon, is  a non-naturally  occurring

protein that  combines structural  features of  many interferon  sub-types.
The Company  is  performing  clinical  trials  with  INFERGEN(TM)  for  the
treatment of  chronic  hepatitis C  viral  infection.   Hepatitis  C  viral
infection is a potentially deadly disease that, if not treated, may lead to
cirrhosis and liver cancer.   INFERGEN(TM) is  also being investigated  for
other indications.

  Hematopoiesis

     Hematopoietic growth  factors  are proteins  which  influence  growth,
migration, and maturation of certain types  of blood cells.  EPOGEN(R)  and
NEUPOGEN(R) are hematopoietic growth  factors which affect the  development
of red  blood  cells  and neutrophils,  respectively.    Stem  cell  factor
("SCF"),  another  of  the   Company's  hematopoietic  growth  factors   in
development, may influence the production, mobilization, and maturation  of
progenitor cells.  Human  clinical trials are  underway to investigate  the
utility of SCF in combination with NEUPOGEN(R) for improved mobilization of
progenitor cells prior to PBPC transplantation.

     Megakaryocyte  growth   and  development   factor  ("MGDF"),   another
hematopoietic growth factor, has  been shown in  pre-clinical models to  be
useful  in   ameliorating   the  thrombocytopenia   caused   by   intensive
chemotherapy or  irradiation.    Thrombocytopenia,  or  severely  depressed
platelet numbers, can result in severe  internal bleeding.  The Company  is
collaborating in the development  of MGDF with  Kirin (see "Joint  Ventures
and Business Relationships - Kirin Brewery Company, Limited") and plans  to
initiate human clinical testing in 1995.

  Cell therapy

     Cell separation  technology  complements the  Company's  research  and
development efforts in hematopoiesis.  Amgen's hematopoietic growth factors
together with selected hematopoietic cells enable the Company to pursue the
investigation  of  new  and  potentially  more  effective  cancer   therapy
protocols.   In 1994,  Amgen acquired  an equity  interest in  AmCell  Inc.
("AmCell"),  a  U.S.  company  which  will  develop  and  manufacture  cell
separation and characterization devices based on the technology of Miltenyi
Biotec GmbH.   Amgen and AmCell  entered into an  agreement whereby  AmCell
will manufacture certain cell selection devices  for Amgen, and Amgen  will
clinically develop and commercialize these devices (see "Joint Ventures and
Business Relationships - AmCell").

  Neurobiology

     The Company  has  extensive  discovery programs  in  neurological  and
neuroendocrine disorders.  Neurotrophic factors  are proteins which play  a
role in nerve cell protection and regeneration and which may therefore,  be
useful  in  treating  a   variety  of  neurological  disorders,   including
neurodegenerative diseases of the central  nervous system, nerve injury  or
trauma.  Human clinical testing of two neurotrophic factors,  brain-derived
neurotrophic factor  ("BDNF")  and neurotrophin-3  ("NT-3"),  is  currently
being conducted  in  collaboration  with  Regeneron  Pharmaceuticals,  Inc.
("Regeneron") (see "Joint Ventures  and Business Relationships -  Regeneron
Pharmaceuticals, Inc.").  BDNF is  being investigated to treat  amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis (Lou  Gehrig's disease),  a fatal  disorder which  causes
rapid degeneration of motor neurons that innervate skeletal muscles.   More
recently, clinical testing began with NT-3.

     Glial derived neurotrophic factor ("GDNF") was  added to the Company's
neurobiology research  program through  the acquisition  of Synergen,  Inc.
("Synergen") (see  "Joint Ventures  and Business  Relationships -  Synergen
acquisition").  GDNF is being investigated  as a treatment for  Parkinson's
disease.

  Inflammation

     The inflammatory  response is  essential for  defense against  harmful
micro-organisms and for  the repair  of damaged  tissues.   The failure  of
control mechanisms over inflammatory response occurs in conditions such  as
rheumatoid arthritis,  acute  respiratory  distress  syndrome  and  asthma.
Tumor necrosis factor binding protein ("TNFbp") and interleukin-1  receptor
antagonist ("IL-1ra") are  two product  candidates added  to the  Company's
inflammation research  program through  the  acquisition of  Synergen  (see
"Joint Ventures and Business Relationships - Synergen acquisition").  TNFbp
is being investigated as a treatment  for rheumatoid arthritis, and  IL-1ra
is currently in clinical testing for  the same indication.  The Company  is
also conducting research to  discover and develop  other molecules for  the
treatment of inflammatory diseases.

  Soft tissue repair and regeneration

     Soft tissue growth factors are believed to play a role in accelerating
or improving tissue regeneration and wound healing.  These growth or  wound
healing factors  regulate a  broad range  of  cellular activities.    Amgen
currently is conducting research on certain tissue growth factors including
keratinocyte growth factor.

  Other therapeutics

     Amgen's recombinant  hepatitis B  vaccine and  interleukin-2  ("IL-2")
were licensed to  Johnson &  Johnson in  1985.   In March  1991, Johnson  &
Johnson returned the rights to develop  and market these products to  Amgen
(see Note 5 to the Consolidated  Financial Statements - "Johnson &  Johnson
arbitration").    In  May  1991,  Johnson   &  Johnson  assigned  its   FDA
authorizations to  conduct  clinical  testing of  recombinant  hepatitis  B
vaccine and IL-2 to Amgen, and the Company is currently conducting clinical
development for hepatitis B vaccine and IL-2.

Joint Ventures and Business Relationships

     The Company intends to self-market its products where possible.   From
time to time  it may  supplement this effort  by using  joint ventures  and
other business relationships  to provide additional  marketing and  product
development capabilities.    The  Company  also  supplements  its  internal
research  and  development  efforts   with  acquisitions  of  product   and
technology  rights  and  external  research  collaborations.    Amgen   has
established the relationships described below  and may establish others  in
the future.

  Synergen acquisition

     In December  1994,  the Company  acquired  Synergen, a  publicly  held
biotechnology company engaged in the discovery and development of  protein-
based pharmaceuticals.  The addition  of Synergen's product candidates  and

research and development  staff has  allowed the  Company to  significantly
expand its research efforts in the areas of neurobiology and  inflammation.
Synergen was  acquired  for  $254,493,000,  including  related  acquisition
costs.  The preliminary assignment of the purchase price among identifiable
tangible and intangible assets (including in-process technology) was  based
on an analysis of the fair values of  those assets.  The value assigned  to
in-process technology of $116,367,000 was expensed on the acquisition date.
This business combination has been accounted for using the purchase method.

  F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.

     In 1988, Amgen and Roche entered into a co-promotion agreement for the
sale of NEUPOGEN(R) (Filgrastim)  in the EU.   Under this agreement,  Amgen
and Roche share the clinical development, regulatory and  commercialization
responsibilities for the product.   Amgen manufactures NEUPOGEN(R) and  the
two companies  share  in the  profits  from  sales of  NEUPOGEN(R).    This
agreement allows Amgen the option to regain complete control for  marketing
the product in the future.

     In  1989,  Amgen   and  Roche  entered   into  another  agreement   to
commercialize NEUPOGEN(R) in certain European countries not located  within
the EU.  Under this agreement, Roche markets NEUPOGEN(R) in these countries
and pays a royalty to Amgen on these sales.

  Johnson & Johnson

     Amgen granted Johnson & Johnson a license to pursue  commercialization
of recombinant human erythropoietin  as a human  therapeutic in the  United
States in  all markets  other than  dialysis.   The Company  is engaged  in
arbitration  proceedings  regarding  this   agreement.    For  a   complete
discussion of  this  matter,  see Note  5  to  the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements - "Johnson & Johnson arbitration".

  Kirin Brewery Company, Limited

     The Company  has  a  50-50 joint  venture  (Kirin-Amgen)  with  Kirin.
Kirin-Amgen  was  formed  to  develop  and  commercialize  certain  of  the
Company's technologies.  Amgen and Kirin have been exclusively licensed  by
Kirin-Amgen to manufacture and  market recombinant human erythropoietin  in
the United States and  Japan, respectively.   Kirin-Amgen has also  granted
Amgen an exclusive license  to manufacture and market  G-CSF in the  United
States, Europe, Canada, Australia and New Zealand.  Kirin has been licensed
by Kirin-Amgen with similar  rights for G-CSF in  Japan, Taiwan and  Korea.
Both Amgen  and  Kirin  have been  licensed  to  market  recombinant  human
erythropoietin and G-CSF in the People's  Republic of China.  Marketing  of
these products by  Amgen and  Kirin in the  People's Republic  of China  is
conducted under a separate co-promotion agreement which is currently  being
reevaluated.  In 1994, Kirin-Amgen licensed  to Amgen and Kirin the  rights
to develop and market MGDF.

     Pursuant to the terms of agreements entered into with Kirin-Amgen, the
Company conducts certain research and  development activities on behalf  of
Kirin-Amgen and is paid for such  services at a negotiated rate.   Included
in revenues from corporate partners in the Company's Consolidated Financial
Statements for  the years  ended  December 31,  1994,  1993 and  1992,  are

$58,638,000, $41,247,000 and  $24,554,000, respectively,  related to  these
agreements.

     In connection  with  its  various  agreements  with  Kirin-Amgen,  the
Company has been granted  sole and exclusive  licenses for the  manufacture
and sale of certain  products in specified geographic  areas of the  world.
In return for such  licenses, the Company  paid Kirin-Amgen stated  amounts
upon the receipt of the licenses and/or pays Kirin-Amgen royalties based on
sales.  During  the years ended  December 31, 1994,  1993 and 1992,  Kirin-
Amgen  earned  royalties  from   Amgen  of  $67,526,000,  $53,122,000   and
$42,793,000, respectively, under such agreements.

  Limited Partnership

     Amgen Clinical Partners, L.P.  (the "Limited Partnership"), a  limited
partnership, was formed to develop and commercialize products from  certain
technologies for  human  pharmaceutical  use in  the  United  States.    In
connection with the formation of the Limited Partnership, Amgen was granted
options to purchase all of the  limited partners' interests in the  Limited
Partnership.   During 1993,  Amgen exercised  these options  and made  cash
advance payments to  the former limited  partners aggregating  $20,860,000.
In addition,  each  former  limited partner  receives  quarterly  payments,
subject to certain  adjustments, equal to  a stated  percentage of  Amgen's
sales of certain  products in specified  geographic areas through  December
31, 2005.   The cash advance  payments are recoverable  against certain  of
these quarterly payments commencing in 1997.

     The Limited  Partnership  and Amgen  formed  Amgen Ventures,  a  joint
venture, to manufacture  and market the  Limited Partnership's products  in
the United States.  Amgen was  responsible for marketing and  manufacturing
products on behalf of the joint venture in return for an annual  commission
of 60% of Amgen Ventures' net product sales and was reimbursed its costs of
manufacturing, as  defined.    Amgen  consolidated  the  results  of  Amgen
Ventures' operations  and reflected  the  Limited Partnership's  equity  in
earnings of these operations  as royalty expense.   During the years  ended
December 31,  1993 and  1992, the  Limited  Partnership's equity  in  these
earnings aggregated $11,131,000 and $36,306,000, respectively.

     In connection with the sale of limited partnership interests in  1987,
Amgen issued warrants to the limited partners to purchase 18,153,000 shares
of its common  stock in exchange  for the options  to purchase the  limited
partners' interests in  the Limited Partnership.   Substantially all  these
warrants were exercised prior to their expiration on June 30, 1994.

  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

     In 1990,  the  Company entered  into  a Collaboration  Agreement  with
Regeneron to  co-develop and  commercialize BDNF  and  NT-3 in  the  United
States.  In addition, Regeneron licensed these potential products to  Amgen
for certain other countries.

     To facilitate  this collaboration,  the Company  and Regeneron  formed
Amgen-Regeneron Partners, a  50-50 partnership.   Amgen-Regeneron  Partners
commenced operations  with  respect  to BDNF  in  June  1993  upon  Amgen's
determination that preclinical development of  BDNF by Amgen and  Regeneron
warranted the  preparation  of  an  Investigational  New  Drug  Application

("IND").  Operations with respect to NT-3 began in January 1994 when  Amgen
determined that an IND should also be prepared for this product.

  AmCell

     During 1994, Amgen acquired  an equity interest  in AmCell, a  company
which will manufacture cell  separation and characterization devices  based
on the  technology of  Miltenyi Biotec  GmbH ("Miltenyi").   Amgen  has  an
exclusive license to clinically develop and commercialize selected products
of AmCell  incorporating Miltenyi  technology in  exchange for  development
funding and milestone payments.

  Synergen Clinical Partners

     Synergen Clinical Partners, L.P.  ("SCP"), a limited partnership,  was
formed to develop and commercialize products  for human therapeutic use  in
certain geographic  areas  from  Synergen's  IL-1ra  technology  which  was
acquired  by   a   wholly-owned   subsidiary  of   Amgen   (see   "Synergen
acquisition").  This wholly-owned subsidiary would be obligated to pay  SCP
royalties on sales of such products and a milestone payment upon  receiving
the first FDA marketing approval of an IL-1ra product.  In connection  with
the formation of SCP, Synergen was  granted options to purchase all of  the
limited partners' interests in  SCP upon the  occurrence of certain  future
events for a specified amount of consideration.

  Other business relationships

     In February 1995, the Company reached  an agreement in principle  with
The Rockefeller University to develop products  based on a gene thought  to
play a key  role in  the regulation of  body weight.   In  April 1994,  the
Company entered into a collaboration agreement with Alanex Inc. to  perform
research and development in the field  of neurobiology.  In June 1993,  the
Company entered into  a collaboration agreement  with Arris  Pharmaceutical
Corporation to develop synthetic cytokine mimetics.  In December 1992,  the
Company entered into a collaboration agreement with Sugen, Inc. to  perform
research,   development   and   commercialization   in   the   fields    of
megakaryocytopoiesis and  neurobiology.    In  addition,  the  Company  has
an extensive number of other corporate and academic research collaborations.

Marketing

     Worldwide changes in health  care policy are  a significant source  of
challenge for the Company.  These challenges include uncertainty  regarding
the outcome of  U.S. health  care reform and  its impact  on sales  growth,
changing reimbursement policies in  worldwide markets and continued  health
care cost containment pressures worldwide.  Market forces are also changing
the economics of the human  therapeutics business through voluntary  limits
on price increases by  the U.S. pharmaceutical  industry, increases in  the
purchasing power of large buying groups, and increased influence on medical
care and treatment decisions by managed care organizations.  The Company is
responding to this changing health  care environment through programs  that
optimize the use of its products for the treatment of patients and clinical
trials designed to evaluate cost and quality-of-life parameters as well  as
clinical safety and  efficacy.   In addition,  the Company  is adapting  to
legislative mandates in foreign markets.

     In the United States, the Company's  sales force markets its  products
to physicians  and pharmacists  primarily in  hospitals and  clinics.   The
Company has chosen  to use major  wholesale distributors of  pharmaceutical
products as the  principal means of  distributing EPOGEN(R) (Epoetin  alfa)
and NEUPOGEN(R) (Filgrastim) to clinics,  hospitals and pharmacies.   Sales
to  Bergen  Brunswig  Corporation  and  Cardinal  Distribution,  two  major
distributors of these products, accounted for 22% and 16%, respectively, of
total revenues  for the  year ended  December 31,  1994.   Sales to  Bergen
Brunswig Corporation and McKesson Drug Company, accounted for 23% and  10%,
and 22% and 11%, of  total revenues for the  years ended December 31,  1993
and 1992, respectively.

     NEUPOGEN(R) is  reimbursed  by both  public  and private  payors,  and
changes in coverage and reimbursement policies of these payors could have a
material effect on sales of NEUPOGEN(R).  EPOGEN(R) is primarily reimbursed
by the  Federal Government  through the  End  Stage Renal  Disease  Program
("ESRD") of Medicare.  The ESRD  Program reimburses approved providers  for
80% of allowed  dialysis costs;  the remainder  is paid  by other  sources,
including Medicaid, state  kidney patient programs  and private  insurance.
The reimbursement rate is established by  Congress and is monitored by  the
Health Care Financing Administration.  The reimbursement rate for EPOGEN(R)
is subject  to  yearly  review.   Changes  in  coverage  and  reimbursement
policies could  have a  material effect  on the  sales of  EPOGEN(R).   The
Federal Government enacted legislation effective  January 1, 1994 to  lower
reimbursement provided to facilities that administer EPOGEN(R) from $11 per
thousand units administered to $10 per  thousand units administered.   This
change in reimbursement has not had a material adverse effect on  EPOGEN(R)
sales.

     Except for purchases by Veterans Administration hospitals, the Company
does not receive any payments directly from the Federal Government nor does
it have  any  significant supply  contracts  with the  Federal  Government.
However,  the  consumption  of  NEUPOGEN(R)  and  EPOGEN(R)  by  hospitals,
clinics, and  physicians may  be  impacted by  the  amount and  methods  of
reimbursement that they receive from the Federal Government.

     In the EU, Amgen and Roche share clinical development, regulatory  and
commercialization responsibilities  for  NEUPOGEN(R) under  a  co-promotion
agreement.  In addition, Amgen manufactures NEUPOGEN(R) for sale in the EU,
and the  two companies  share in  the profits  from sales  of the  product.
NEUPOGEN(R) is  distributed  to  wholesalers and/or  hospitals  in  all  EU
countries depending upon the distribution practice of hospital products  in
each country.  Patients receiving NEUPOGEN(R) for approved indications  are
covered by government health care programs.  The consumption of NEUPOGEN(R)
is affected by budgetary constraints imposed by certain EU countries.

     NEUPOGEN(R) sales volumes  in both the  United States  and Europe  are
influenced by a number of  factors including underlying demand,  government
financial constraints, private sector financial constraints, seasonality of
cancer chemotherapy administration, and wholesaler management practices.

     In Canada  and  Australia,  NEUPOGEN(R) is  marketed  by  the  Company
directly to hospitals, pharmacies and medical practitioners.   Distribution
is handled by third party contractors.

     In the  People's  Republic of  China,  the Company  markets  EPOGEN(R)
directly to hospitals, pharmacies and medical practitioners.   Distribution
is handled by third party contractors.

Competition

     Competition  is  intense  among  companies  that  develop  and  market
products based on  advanced cellular and  molecular biology.   Amgen has  a
number of competitors, including  Chiron Corp., Chugai Pharmaceutical  Co.,
Ltd., Immunex  Corp.  (a  subsidiary of  American  Home  Products),  Rhone-
Poulenc-Rorer, Sandoz Ltd.  and Schering-Plough Corp.   For products  which
the Company manufactures and markets, it faces significant competition from
these and  other  biotechnology  and pharmaceutical  firms  in  the  United
States, Europe and elsewhere.  Certain specialized biotechnology firms have
also  entered  into  cooperative  arrangements  with  major  companies  for
development and  commercialization  of  products,  creating  an  additional
source of competition.

     Any products or technologies  that successfully address anemias  could
negatively  impact  the  market   for  recombinant  human   erythropoietin.
Similarly, any  products  or  technologies that  successfully  address  the
causes or incidence of  low levels of  neutrophils could negatively  impact
the market for G-CSF.  These  include products that could receive  approval
for indications similar  to those  for which  NEUPOGEN(R) (Filgrastim)  has
been  approved,  development  of  chemotherapy  treatments  that  are  less
myelosuppressive than  existing treatments  and  the development  of  anti-
cancer modalities that reduce the need for myelosuppressive chemotherapy.

     NEUPOGEN(R) currently faces market competition from a competing  G-CSF
product, from granulocyte  macrophage colony-stimulating factor  ("GM-CSF")
products and  from the  chemoprotectant, amifostine  (WR-2721).   Potential
future sources of competition include other GM-CSF products, PIXY 321,  and
PGG-glucan, among others.

     Chugai Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. ("Chugai") markets a G-CSF product in
Japan as an  adjunct to  chemotherapy and as  a treatment  for bone  marrow
transplant patients.  In June 1993, Chugai and Rhone-Poulenc-Rorer received
a favorable opinion from the CPMP for this G-CSF product in the adjunct  to
chemotherapy and bone marrow transplant settings and began market  launches
in certain  EU countries  by early  1994.   Chugai, through  its  licensee,
AMRAD,  markets  this  G-CSF  product  in   Australia  as  an  adjunct   to
chemotherapy and for patients receiving a bone marrow transplant.  Under an
agreement with Amgen, Chugai is precluded from selling their G-CSF  product
in the United States, Canada or Mexico.

     Immunex Corp.  markets  GM-CSF  in  the  United  States  for  patients
receiving a  bone  marrow  transplant and  is  pursuing  other  indications
including use as an adjunct to chemotherapy.  Behringwerke AG markets  this
GM-CSF product  in Europe  in  similar settings.    Sandoz Ltd.  markets  a
separate GM-CSF product for use in  bone marrow transplant patients, as  an
adjunct to chemotherapy and as an adjunct to gancyclovir treatment of  HIV-
infected patients  in the  EU and  certain other  countries.   This  GM-CSF
product is currently being developed for similar indications in the  United
States and Canada.

     In 1994,  amifostine received  a favorable  opinion from  the CPMP  to
reduce the neutropenia-related  risk of  infection due  to the  combination
regimen cyclophosphamide and cisplatinum in patients with advanced  ovarian
carcinoma.  Schering Plough markets amifostine in the EU.  U.S.  Bioscience
continues to develop amifostine as an adjunct to chemotherapy in the United
States.

     Immunex Corp.  is developing  PIXY  321 in  the  United States  as  an
adjunct  to  chemotherapy  and  for   patients  receiving  a  bone   marrow
transplant.  PIXY 321 is being  developed for use outside North America  by
American Home Products.  Alpha  Beta Technologies is developing  PGG-glucan
for the  treatment of  certain infectious  diseases and  as an  adjunct  to
chemotherapy.

     Other products  which  address  potential markets  for  G-CSF  may  be
identified and developed by competitors in the future.  Such products could
also present  competition  in potential  markets  for SCF.    Research  and
development of other hematopoietic growth factors, including MGDF, is being
conducted by  several companies  including Genentech,  Inc.,  ZymoGenetics,
Inc. (a subsidiary  of Novo Nordisk  A/S), Immunex Corp.,  Sandoz Ltd.  and
Genetics Institute, Inc.

     INFERGEN(TM) would face competition from interferons and other related
products, several of which are in development or on the market.   Schering-
Plough Corp. and Roche are major suppliers of interferons.

     Several  companies  are  developing  neurotrophic  factors   including
Cephalon Inc., Genentech,  Inc. and Regeneron  Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   Many
companies  are  believed  to  be  conducting   research  in  the  area   of
inflammation including  Celltech, Ltd.,  ICOS Corporation  and  AutoImmune.
Companies believed to be developing  certain tissue growth factors  include
Creative Biomolecules, Inc., Chiron Corp. (in collaboration with Johnson  &
Johnson), Genentech, Inc., Immunex Corp., Scios Nova Inc. and ZymoGenetics,
Inc.

     Several hepatitis  B  vaccines  are marketed  in  the  United  States,
Europe, Japan and  other countries.   SmithKline Beecham,  p.l.c., Merck  &
Co., Inc.  and  Rhone-Poulenc, S.A.  are  major suppliers  of  hepatitis  B
vaccines.  Chiron  Corp. currently markets  an IL-2 product  in the  United
States, Europe and Japan.

Research and Development

     The Company's  two  primary  sources of  new  product  candidates  are
internal research and development and acquisition and licensing from  third
parties.   Research  and  development expense,  which  includes  technology
license fees paid to third parties, for the years ended December 31,  1994,
1993  and   1992   were  $323,629,000,   $255,321,000   and   $182,297,000,
respectively.  The amount for the  year ended December 31, 1994 excludes  a
$116,367,000 write-off  of in-process  technology purchased  in  connection
with  the  acquisition  of  Synergen  (see  "Joint  Ventures  and  Business
Relationships - Synergen acquisition").

Government Regulation

     Regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and  other
countries is a significant  factor in the production  and marketing of  the
Company's products and its ongoing research and development activities.  In
order to clinically test, manufacture  and market products for  therapeutic
use,  Amgen  must  satisfy   mandatory  procedures  and  safety   standards
established by the FDA and comparable agencies in foreign countries.

     In the United States, the  Company's products are regulated  primarily
on a product by product  basis under the U.S.  Food, Drug and Cosmetic  Act
and Section 351(a) of the Public Health Service Act.  Most of the Company's
products and  product candidates  are or  will be  classified as  biologics

rather than drugs and, therefore, are  subject to regulation by the  Center
for Biologics  Evaluation  and  Research.    Approval  of  a  biologic  for
marketing requires both  a license for  the product and  a license for  the
manufacturing facility.

     The  Company's  products   are  subject  to   rigorous  FDA   approval
procedures.    After  purification,  laboratory  analysis  and  testing  in
animals, a sponsor files an investigational  new drug application with  the
FDA to begin human testing.   A three-phase human clinical testing  program
must then be undertaken.   In Phase 1,  studies are conducted to  determine
the safety and optimal dosage for administration of the product.  In  Phase
2, studies are conducted  to gain preliminary evidence  of the efficacy  of
the product.  In Phase 3, studies are conducted to provide sufficient  data
for the statistical  proof of safety  and efficacy.   The time and  expense
required to  perform this  clinical testing  can far  exceed the  time  and
expense of the research  and development initially  required to create  the
product.  No action can be taken  to market any therapeutic product in  the
United States until  an appropriate  product license  application has  been
approved by the FDA.   Even after initial  FDA approval has been  obtained,
further studies may be  required to provide additional  data on safety  and
would be required to gain approval for the use of a product as a  treatment
for clinical indications other than those initially approved.  In addition,
use of products  during testing and  after initial  marketing could  reveal
side effects that could delay, impede or prevent marketing approval,  limit
uses or expose the Company to product liability claims.

     In addition  to receiving  product approval  from  the FDA,  Amgen  is
required to  file an  establishment license  application  with the  FDA  to
obtain approval of Amgen's manufacturing facilities.  Prior to granting  an
establishment  license,  the  FDA  reviews  manufacturing  procedures   and
inspects equipment and facilities.  If,  after receiving approval from  the
FDA, a  material change  is made  in manufacturing  equipment, location  or
process, additional regulatory review may be needed.

     In Europe, regulatory requirements are  similar in principle to  those
in the United States.  A  two-part product approval process is required  in
the EU.  Clinical testing and manufacturing facilities and procedures  data
are presented in a Marketing Authorization Application filed with the CPMP.
The CPMP reviews the  application in order to  express an opinion that  the
product meets the requirements for  marketing authorization.  Approvals  to
market the product must  then be obtained  from the appropriate  government
agency of  each  EU country.    Such  government agencies  may  require  an
inspection of the manufacturing facilities.

     In Canada, a New Drug Submission  is filed with the Health  Protection
Branch ("HPB") of the Canadian government. The submission includes clinical
testing, manufacturing facilities and procedures data.  In a process  which
parallels that  in  the United  States,  the  HPB reviews  these  data  and
inspects the  manufacturing  facilities  in order  to  issue  a  Notice  of
Compliance which allows the Company to market the product.

     In Australia, an application for registration  of a drug is  evaluated
by the  Therapeutic Goods  Administration ("TGA"),  which  is part  of  the
Ministry of Human Services and Health.  In a process similar to that in the
United States, the TGA reviews data on the manufacture, animal testing  and

clinical trials of the  product and, on approval,  issues a Certificate  of
Registration permitting the Company to market the product.

     In the  People's  Republic  of  China,  a  United  States  free  sales
certificate and proven safety  and efficacy data  by local clinical  trials
are required by the Ministry of  Public Health for the registration of  the
product.

     The Company's present and future business in the United States will be
subject to regulation under the United States Atomic Energy Act, the  Clean
Air Act,  the  Federal  Water  Pollution  Control  Act,  the  Environmental
Protection Act,  the  Occupational  Safety and  Health  Act,  the  National
Environmental Policy Act,  the Toxic Substances  Control Act, the  Resource
Conservation and Recovery  Act, the  Comprehensive Environmental  Response,
Compensation and Liability  Act, the Medical  Waste Tracking Act,  national
restrictions and other present or possible future local, state and  federal
regulations.   Also,  Amgen's  research and  manufacturing  activities  are
conducted in voluntary  compliance with the  National Institutes of  Health
Guidelines for Recombinant DNA Research.  The Company's research operations
in Canada are subject to a generally similar set of requirements.

Patents and Trademarks

     Patents are very important to the Company in establishing  proprietary
rights  to  the  products  it  has  developed.    The  Company  has   filed
applications for  a number  of  patents and  it  has been  granted  patents
relating to recombinant human  erythropoietin, G-CSF, consensus  interferon
and various potential products.  The Company has obtained licenses from and
pays royalties  to  third  parties.   Other  companies  have  filed  patent
applications or  have been  granted patents  in areas  of interest  to  the
Company.   There can  be  no assurance  any  licenses required  under  such
patents would be available for license on reasonable terms or at all.   The
Company is engaged in  arbitration proceedings with  Johnson & Johnson  and
various patent litigation.  For a discussion of these matters see Note 5 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements - "Johnson & Johnson arbitration" and
Item 3, "Legal Proceedings".

     The Company  has  obtained  U.S. registration  of  its  EPOGEN(R)  and
NEUPOGEN(R) trademarks.  In addition, these trademarks have been registered
in several other countries. The Company has applied for registration of the
INFERGEN(TM) trademark in the United States and several other countries.

Human Resources

     As of February 28,  1995, the Company  had 3,546 employees  (including
staff added in connection with the acquisition of Synergen), of which 1,632
were engaged in research and development, 572 were engaged in manufacturing
and associated support,  772 were engaged  in sales and  marketing and  570
were engaged  in finance  and  general administration.    There can  be  no
assurance that  the  Company  will  be  able  to  continue  attracting  and
retaining qualified  personnel in  sufficient numbers  to meet  its  needs.
None of  the Company's  employees are  covered by  a collective  bargaining
agreement, and the Company has experienced no work stoppages.  The  Company
considers its employee relations to be excellent.

Geographic Area Financial Information

     For financial   information concerning the  geographic areas in  which
the Company operates see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Item 2.   PROPERTIES

     Amgen's  principal   executive  offices   and   a  majority   of   its
administrative, manufacturing and research  and development facilities  are
located in 29  buildings totaling  approximately 1,440,000  square feet  in
Thousand Oaks, California.  Twenty-five of the buildings are owned and four
are leased.   Adjacent  to these  facilities are  three buildings  totaling
approximately  230,000  square  feet  that  are  under  construction.    In
addition, the  Company  has  acquired  other  property  adjacent  to  these
facilities in  anticipation  of  future  expansion.    The  Thousand  Oaks,
California  facilities  include   a  manufacturing   plant  that   produces
commercial quantities of Epoetin alfa and another manufacturing plant  that
can produce several products including commercial quantities of NEUPOGEN(R)
(Filgrastim).  These  manufacturing plants  have been  licensed by  various
regulatory bodies.

     Elsewhere in North America, Amgen owns research facilities and a pilot
plant in  Boulder,  Colorado  totaling approximately  310,000  square  feet
(including facilities obtained through the acquisition of Synergen) and  an
80,000 square  foot  distribution  center in  Louisville,  Kentucky.    The
Company leases  additional facilities  including  a research  facility  and
administrative offices in Toronto, Canada  totaling 37,000 square feet,  an
administrative office in Washington, D.C. and five regional sales offices.

     Outside  North  America,  the  Company  has  a  320,000  square   foot
formulation, fill and finish facility in Juncos, Puerto Rico which has been
licensed by various regulatory bodies.  In addition, the Company has leased
facilities in nine European countries, Australia, Japan, Hong Kong and  the
People's Republic of China for  administration, marketing and research  and
development aggregating approximately 270,000 square feet.

     Amgen believes that its current facilities plus anticipated  additions
are sufficient to meet its needs for the next several years.

Item 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company  is engaged  in arbitration  proceedings with  one of  its
licensees.  For  a complete discussion  of this matter  see Note  5 to  the
Consolidated Financial Statements - "Johnson & Johnson arbitration".  Other
legal proceedings are discussed below.  While it is not possible to predict
accurately or  to determine  the eventual  outcome  of these  matters,  the
Company believes that the outcome of these legal proceedings will not  have
a material adverse effect on the financial statements of the Company.

Synergen litigation

  Acquisition litigation

     The Company  and  its  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  Amgen  Boulder  Inc.
(formerly Synergen) have been named as defendants in several lawsuits filed
in connection with the Company's December 1994 acquisition of Synergen (the
`` Acquisition'').  One suit, Stanley, et al. v. Soll, et  al., was filed on
November 18, 1994 by two stockholders in the Court of Chancery of the State
of Delaware in New Castle County against Synergen and certain of its former

officers and  directors.   Plaintiffs, who  seek to  represent a  class  of
stockholders of Synergen common stock, allege that the defendants  breached
their  fiduciary  duties   by  failing  to   maximize  stockholder   value.
Plaintiffs seek an  unspecified amount  of compensatory  damages, an  order
rescinding  the  Acquisition,   and  related  equitable   relief.     Other
stockholders seeking the  same relief filed  suits on November  23 and  29,
1994 in United States District Court, County of Boulder, State of Colorado.
In Livergood v. Synergen, Inc., et al. and Weld, et al. v. Amgen  Inc., et
al., the plaintiffs allege that defendants  Synergen, Amgen and certain  of
Synergen's former officers  and directors breached  their fiduciary  duties
and defrauded the  plaintiffs by  omitting to  disclose allegedly  material
information concerning  Synergen's future  prospects.   Plaintiffs in  both
cases seek to represent a class  of stockholders of Synergen common  stock.
Another suit, Glick v.  Synergen, Inc., et al.,  was filed in the  Superior
Court of the State of California, County of Los Angeles, as a class  action
on January 24, 1995 by plaintiffs who seek to represent all warrant holders
of Synergen  who  claim to  have  been deprived  of  the benefit  of  their
warrants.   Plaintiffs  seek general  damages  in the  sum  of  $34,334,499
against Synergen, Amgen and former officers and directors of Synergen based
on allegations of  conspiracy, breach of  duty, self-dealing,  interference
with prospective business advantage and unjust enrichment.

  ANTRIL(TM) litigation

     Several  lawsuits   have   been  filed   against   Synergen   alleging
misrepresentations in  connection  with  its research  and  development  of
ANTRIL(TM) for the treatment  of sepsis.  In  re Synergen, Inc.  Securities
Litigation, a class action complaint filed on April 15, 1993 in the United
States District Court for the District  of Colorado, alleged violations  of
federal  and  state  securities  laws  by  various  classes  of  Synergen's
stockholders.  Synergen and  certain of its  former officers and  directors
were named as  defendants.   The Court dismissed  the state  law claims  on
April 8, 1994 and approved a settlement of the remaining claims on March 7,
1995.  The settlement involves payment  by Synergen and its insurers of  an
amount that is not material to  the Company's financial statements and  the
plaintiffs' agreement to dismiss the action with prejudice.  In Temple,  et
al. v.  Synergen, Inc., et  al., three stockholders filed suit on November
15, 1994 in the District Court for the City and County of Denver, State  of
Colorado, against Synergen  and a  former director  and executive  officer,
alleging violations of state  securities law, fraud and  misrepresentation.
Plaintiffs seek an unspecified amount of compensatory damages and  punitive
damages.   In  Johnson v.  Amgen  Boulder, Inc.,  et  al., suits filed  on
February 14, 1995 in the Superior  Court for the State of Washington,  King
County and in the United States District Court for the Western District  of
Washington, plaintiff seeks rescission of certain  payments made to one  of
the defendants  (or  unspecified damages  not  less than  $50,000,000)  and
treble damages.    Plaintiff,  a  limited  partner  of  defendant  Synergen
Clinical Partners,  L.P.,  seeks to  represent  a class  of  other  limited
partners.  The complaints allege violations of federal and state securities
laws, violations of  other federal and  state statutes, fraud,  negligence,
breach  of  contract,  conspiracy  and  breach  of  fiduciary  duty.    The
defendants include  Synergen, Synergen  Clinical Partners,  L.P.,  Synergen
Development Corporation and former officers and directors of Synergen.

Elanex Pharmaceuticals litigation

     In October 1993, the Company filed a complaint for patent infringement
against defendants  Elanex Pharmaceuticals,  Inc. ("Elanex"),  Laboratorios
Elanex De Costa Rica, S. A., Bio Sidus S.A., Merckle GmbH, Biosintetica  S.
A. and other unknown defendants.  The complaint, filed in the United States
District Court for  the Western District  of Washington  at Seattle,  seeks
injunctive relief and  damages for Elanex's  infringement of the  Company's
patent for DNA  sequences and host  cells useful  in producing  recombinant
erythropoietin.  The  complaint also  alleges that  the foreign  defendants
entered into agreements with Elanex relating  to the production or sale  of
recombinant erythropoietin and thereby have induced Elanex's infringement.

     In December  1993,  Elanex  responded to  the  complaint  denying  the
material  allegations  thereof,   and  filed  a   counterclaim  seeking   a
declaratory judgment that the Company's patent is invalid and that Elanex's
recombinant erythropoietin technology does not infringe any valid claims of
the Company's patent.  The counterclaim  also seeks an award of  reasonable
attorneys' fees  and other  costs  of defense  but  does not  seek  damages
against the Company.  The case is currently in discovery.

Erythropoietin patent litigation

     Amgen has been engaged in litigation (the "Amgen suit") with  Genetics
Institute, Inc. ("Genetics Institute")  and its commercial partner,  Chugai
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., regarding the  infringement of Amgen's patent  on
the DNA  sequence used  in the  production  of erythropoietin  (the  "Amgen
Patent") and the infringement by Amgen's erythropoietin product of a patent
held by Genetics Institute.

     Genetics Institute and the Company announced on May 11, 1993 that they
agreed to settle  all outstanding  patent disputes  between them  regarding
erythropoietin in the United States.   As part of the settlement,  Genetics
Institute paid the Company $13.9 million during the quarter ended September
30, 1993.  An additional $2 million  may be paid to the Company  contingent
upon the outcome of certain future events.   As a result of the  settlement
of the litigation,  Amgen expects  to receive  patents on  the process  for
producing recombinant erythropoietin and on the recombinant  erythropoietin
product.

     In August 1991, Johnson & Johnson,  together with eleven of Johnson  &
Johnson's Cilag European subsidiaries,  filed a suit  in the United  States
District Court for the District of Massachusetts in Boston, the site of the
Amgen suit against Genetics Institute (the "Boston Court"), seeking damages
from Genetics Institute for infringement of the Amgen Patent (the  "Johnson
& Johnson suit") and moved to  consolidate the Johnson & Johnson suit  with
the original suit filed by Amgen.   The two suits were consolidated by  the
Boston Court.  Amgen was allowed to intervene in the Johnson & Johnson suit
for the  limited  purpose of  seeking  a summary  judgment  dismissing  the
Johnson & Johnson suit.  In December 1992, the Boston Court determined that
Johnson & Johnson  had no standing  to sue Genetics  Institute and  entered
judgment and dismissed the Johnson & Johnson suit.  Also, in December 1992,
the Boston Court denied  motions by Johnson &  Johnson to intervene in  the
Amgen suit for the limited purpose  of seeking a summary judgment  limiting
Amgen's damages against Genetics Institute.  Johnson & Johnson has appealed
the Boston Court's December 1992 rulings.  The appeal by Johnson & Johnson,
together with eleven of its Cilag European subsidiaries, is pending.

Genetics Institute litigation

     On June 21, 1994, Genetics Institute  filed suit in the United  States
District Court for the District of Delaware in Wilmington, against  Johnson
& Johnson, a licensee and distributor  of the Company, seeking damages  for
the alleged  infringement  of  a  recently  issued  U.S.  Patent  5,322,837
relating  to   Johnson  &   Johnson's  manufacture,   use,  and   sale   of
erythropoietin.

     On September 12,  1994, the Company  filed suit in  the United  States
District Court  for  the  District  of  Massachusetts  in  Boston,  against
Genetics  Institute,   seeking   declaratory  judgment   of   patent   non-
infringement, invalidity and unenforceability against Genetics Institute in
respect to  U.S.  Patent  5,322,837 issued  to  Genetics  Institute,  which
relates to  homogeneous erythropoietin.   Genetics  Institute answered  the
complaint  and   filed  a   counterclaim  against   the  Company   alleging
infringement of the same patent.   On February 14, 1995, the United  States
District Court for the District of Massachusetts granted Amgen's motion for
a summary judgment  enforcing a prior  judgment against Genetics  Institute
and barring Genetics  Institute from  asserting its  U.S. Patent  5,322,837
against Amgen's recombinant  erythropoietin.  On  March 13, 1995,  Genetics
Institute filed notice of appeal.

Biogen litigation

     On June 15,  1994, Biogen,  Inc. ("Biogen")  filed suit  in the  Tokyo
District Court in Japan, against Amgen  K.K., a subsidiary of the  Company,
seeking injunctive  relief for  the alleged  infringement of  two  Japanese
patents relating to alpha-interferon.

     On March 10,  1995, Biogen filed  suit in the  United States  District
Court for the District  of Massachusetts seeking  an unspecified amount  of
compensatory damages,  treble damages  and injunctive  relief of  its  U.S.
Patent 4,874,702 relating to vectors for  expressing cloned genes.   Biogen
alleges that Amgen has  infringed its patent  by manufacturing and  selling
NEUPOGEN(R).

Item 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's security  holders
during the last quarter of its fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.

                                  PART II


Item 5.   MARKET FOR  REGISTRANT'S COMMON  EQUITY AND  RELATED  STOCKHOLDER
          MATTERS

Price Range of Common Stock

     The Company's common stock trades on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol AMGN.  As of March 15, 1995, there were approximately 11,600 holders
of record of the Company's common stock.  No cash dividends have been  paid
on the common stock  to date, and the  Company currently intends to  retain
any earnings for development of the Company's business and for  repurchases
of its common stock.

     The following table sets forth, for the fiscal periods indicated,  the
range of high and low closing sales prices of the common stock as quoted on
The Nasdaq Stock Market for the years 1994 and 1993:

                                           High         Low
          1994                            -------      -------
          4th Quarter...................  $59-3/8      $50-7/8
          3rd Quarter...................   56-7/8       43-1/4
          2nd Quarter...................   47-3/16      35-23/64
          1st Quarter...................   51-3/4       37-3/4

          4th Quarter..................   $50-7/8      $39-1/4
          3rd Quarter..................    41-5/8       31-1/2
          2nd Quarter..................    42-1/2       32-1/8
          1st Quarter..................    70-3/4       33

Item 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

                                       Years Ended December 31,
                                1990    1991    1992     1993     1994
                                ----    ----    ----     ----     ----
Consolidated Statement of
  Operations Data:
Revenues:
 Product sales..............  $281.4  $645.3  $1,050.7 $1,306.3 $1,549.6
 Other revenues.............    17.3    36.7      42.3     67.5     98.3
Total revenues..............   298.7   682.0   1,093.0  1,373.8  1,647.9
Research and development
  expenses(1)...............    72.4   120.9     182.3    255.3    323.6
Write-off of in-process
  technology................       -       -         -        -    116.4
Marketing and selling
  expenses..................    50.1   122.2     184.5    214.1    236.9
General and administrative
  expenses..................    51.1    80.4     107.7    114.3    122.9
Legal assessment (award)....       -   129.1     (77.1)   (13.9)       -
Net income(2)...............     3.9    97.9     357.6    383.3    319.7
Primary earnings per share(2)    .03     .67      2.43     2.67     2.29
Cash dividends declared per
  share.....................       -       -        -        -         -


                                            At December 31,
                                1990    1991    1992     1993     1994
                                ----    ----    ----     ----     ----
Consolidated Balance Sheet
  Data:
Working capital............   $198.1   $294.9$  562.4 $  642.2 $  579.2
Total assets...............    459.5    865.5 1,374.3  1,765.5  1,994.1
Long-term debt.............     63.3     39.7   129.9    181.2    183.4
Stockholders' equity.......    309.1    531.1   933.7  1,172.0  1,274.3

(1)  Excludes $54.7 million of royalty obligation buyouts in 1990.

(2)  Includes an increase to net income of $8.7 million, or $.06 per share,
     to reflect the cumulative effect of  a change in accounting  principle
     to adopt Statement of  Financial Accounting Standard  No. 109 in  1993
     (see Note 1 to Consolidated Financial Statements).  Also includes  the
     write-off of  in-process technology  purchased of  $116.4 million,  or
     $.83 per share, associated  with the acquisition  of Synergen in  1994
     (see Note 2 to Consolidated Financial Statements).

Item 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  OF FINANCIAL CONDITION  AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Liquidity and Capital Resources

     Cash provided  by operating  activities has  been and  is expected  to
continue to be the Company's primary source of funds.  In 1994,  operations
provided $531.9 million of cash compared  to $433.0 million in 1993.   This
cash  was  used  primarily  to  fund  the  acquisition  of  Synergen,  Inc.
("Synergen") ($240.8 million, net of cash acquired), capital  expenditures,
and the repurchase of  shares of the Company's  common stock.  The  Company
had cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $696.7 million  at
December 31, 1994, compared with $723.2 million at December 31, 1993.

     Capital expenditures  totaled $130.8  million  in 1994  compared  with
$209.9 million in 1993.   The reduction in  capital expenditures is due  to
the completion of  several facilities in  1993, including  the Puerto  Rico
fill and finish facility.  Over the next few years, the Company expects  to
spend approximately  $100  million to  $200  million per  year  on  capital
projects to expand the Company's global operations.

     The Company  receives cash  from the  exercise  of stock  options  and
warrants.  In 1994, stock options  and their related tax benefits  provided
$67.5 million of cash compared with  $56.3 million in 1993.  Proceeds  from
the exercise of stock options and their related tax benefits will vary from
period to  period based  upon, among  other  factors, fluctuations  in  the
market value of the Company's stock relative to the exercise price of  such
options.  In 1994, the exercise of warrants associated with Amgen  Clinical
Partners, L.P. provided $15.3 million of  cash compared to $5.9 million  in
1993.   The right to exercise these warrants expired on June 30, 1994.

     The Company has a common stock  repurchase program (see Note 7 to  the
Consolidated Financial Statements).   Since its  inception in 1992  through
December 31, 1994, the Company has  repurchased 12.9 million shares of  its
common stock at a total cost of  $593.8 million.  The Company is  currently
authorized to purchase up to an  additional $331.2 million of common  stock
through December 31, 1995.

     To provide  for financial  flexibility  and increased  liquidity,  the
Company has established several sources of debt financing.  The Company has
filed a  shelf  registration statement  with  the Securities  and  Exchange
Commission under which  it could issue  up to $200  million of Medium  Term
Notes.   At December  31, 1994,  $113  million of  Medium Term  Notes  were
outstanding which  mature  in  two  to  nine years.    The  Company  has  a
commercial paper program which provides for short-term borrowings up to  an
aggregate face amount of $200 million.  At December 31, 1994, $99.7 million
of commercial paper was outstanding, all with maturities of less than  four
months.  The  Company also  has a $150  million revolving  line of  credit,
principally  to  support  the  Company's  commercial  paper  program.    No
borrowings on this line of credit were outstanding at December 31, 1994.

     The Company invests its cash in accordance with a policy that seeks to
maximize  returns  while  ensuring  both  liquidity  and  minimal  risk  of
principal loss.    The  policy  limits  investments  to  certain  types  of
instruments issued by  institutions with investment  grade credit  ratings,
and places restrictions on maturities and concentration by type and issuer.

The Company's fixed income  investments are subject to  the risk of  market
interest rate  fluctuations,  and  all of  the  Company's  investments  are
subject to risks  associated with  the ability  of the  issuers to  perform
their obligations under the instruments.

     The Company has a program to  manage certain portions of its  exposure
to fluctuations  in  foreign  currency exchange  rates.    These  exposures
primarily result  from European  sales.   The  Company hedges  the  related
receivables with foreign  currency forward contracts,  all of which  mature
within six months.  The Company uses purchased foreign currency option  and
forward contracts to hedge anticipated future  cash flows related to  sales
which generally expire within 12 months.  At December 31, 1994, outstanding
forward and  option  contracts totaled  $31.8  million and  $78.0  million,
respectively.  The gains  and losses on these  contracts were not  material
for 1994, 1993, and 1992.

     The  Company  believes  that  existing  funds,  cash  generated   from
operations, and existing sources  of debt financing  should be adequate  to
satisfy its working  capital and  capital expenditure  requirements and  to
support its common  stock repurchase  program for  the foreseeable  future.
However, the Company may raise additional capital from time to time to take
advantage of favorable conditions in the markets or in connection with  the
Company's corporate development activities.

Results of Operations

  Product sales

     In 1994, product sales increased $243.2 million or 19% over the  prior
year.  In  1993, product  sales increased $255.7  million or  24% over  the
prior year.

     NEUPOGEN(R) (Filgrastim)

     NEUPOGEN(R) sales were $828.9 million in  1994, an increase of  $109.5
million or 15% over the prior year.  In 1993, sales were $719.4 million, an
increase of $175.0 million or 32% over the prior year.

     Domestic sales of NEUPOGEN(R) were $617.2 million in 1994, an increase
of $71.7 million or 13% over the prior year.  In 1993, domestic sales  were
$545.5 million, an increase of $123.3  million or 29% over the prior  year.
These increases were primarily due to increased penetration of the  current
market for colony stimulating factors.

     International sales of NEUPOGEN(R),  primarily in Europe, were  $211.7
million in 1994, an increase of $37.8  million or 22% over the prior  year.
In 1993,  international sales  were $173.9  million, an  increase of  $51.7
million or 42%  over the  prior year.   Without  the effect  of changes  in
foreign currency exchange rates, annual sales volumes increased by 22%  and
62% in 1994  and 1993, respectively,  due to increased  penetration of  the
market for colony-stimulating factors.

     During the  first  quarter of  1994,  Rhone-Poulenc Rorer  and  Chugai
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.  began jointly marketing  a G-CSF  product in  the
European Union ("EU").   Although there has been  no significant effect  on
the Company's worldwide NEUPOGEN(R)  sales, it is  not possible to  predict

the ultimate  impact  this  competitive product  will  have  on  future  EU
NEUPOGEN(R) sales.

     Quarterly NEUPOGEN(R)  sales volumes  in both  the United  States  and
Europe are influenced by a number  of factors including underlying  demand,
seasonality of cancer chemotherapy administration, and wholesaler inventory
management practices.   The  Company's experience  has shown  that  reduced
chemotherapy usage  occurs  in  the  third  calendar  quarter  in  many  EU
countries to varying degrees resulting in corresponding decreases in sales.
In the U.S., reduced chemotherapy usage occurs in the fourth quarter.  This
factor along with wholesaler inventory reductions depresses Amgen sales  in
the first calendar quarter.

     The Company believes that 1995 NEUPOGEN(R) sales will continue to grow
at a double digit rate  but lower than the  1994 growth rate.   NEUPOGEN(R)
sales  increases  are  primarily  dependent  upon  further  penetration  of
existing markets, the timing and nature of additional indications for which
the product may be approved, and  the effects of competitive products.   In
addition, international NEUPOGEN(R)  sales will continue  to be subject  to
changes in foreign currency exchange rates and increased competition.

     EPOGEN(R) (Epoetin alfa)

     EPOGEN(R) sales were  $720.6 million in  1994, an  increase of  $133.7
million or 23% over the prior year.   In 1993, EPOGEN(R) sales were  $586.9
million, an increase of $80.6  million or 16% over  the prior year.   These
increases were  primarily  due  to an  increase  in  the  dialysis  patient
population, the administration  of higher  average doses  of EPOGEN(R)  per
patient, and increased  penetration of the  dialysis market.   The  federal
government  enacted  legislation  effective   January  1,  1994  to   lower
reimbursement provided to facilities that administer EPOGEN(R) from $11 per
thousand units administered to $10 per  thousand units administered.   This
change in reimbursement did not have a material adverse effect on EPOGEN(R)
sales in 1994.

     The Company anticipates  that increases in  the U.S. dialysis  patient
population and increases in dosing will continue to drive EPOGEN(R)  sales.
The annual growth  rate for 1995  is expected to  be in  double digits  but
lower than the  1994 growth  rate.  In  addition, the  continued growth  in
sales volume may be  affected by future changes  in reimbursement rates  or
the basis for reimbursement by the federal government.

  Cost of sales

     Cost of sales as  a percentage of product  sales was 15.4%, 16.8%  and
17.6% for the years ended December  31, 1994, 1993 and 1992,  respectively.
The improvement in 1994 primarily  reflects the commencement of  commercial
production and building of inventories  at the Puerto Rico  fill-and-finish
facility and the commencement of commercial production at a new NEUPOGEN(R)
manufacturing facility.  Annual  cost of sales as  a percentage of  product
sales is not expected to vary significantly for the foreseeable future.

  Research and development

     In 1994 and  1993, research and  development expenses increased  $68.3
million or 27% and  $73.0 million or 40%,  respectively, compared with  the

prior years  primarily  due to  expansion  of the  Company's  research  and
development  staff  and   increased  expenditures   on  external   research
collaborations.   In  connection  with the  acquisition  of  Synergen,  the
Company increased its research  and development staff  in order to  exploit
the technologies that were acquired in those therapeutic areas of interest.
Annual research and development expenses are expected to increase at a rate
exceeding the anticipated annual product sales  growth rate due to  planned
increases in internal efforts on new product discovery and development  and
increases in external research collaboration costs, including  acquisitions
of product and technology rights.

  Write-off of in-process technology purchased

     In December 1994, the Company completed its acquisition of Synergen, a
biotechnology company engaged in the discovery and development of  protein-
based pharmaceuticals.  Synergen was acquired  for $254.5 million in  cash,
including related acquisition costs.   The purchase  price was assigned  to
the acquired tangible and intangible assets  based on their estimated  fair
values at  the date  of  acquisition.   The  value assigned  to  in-process
technology of $116.4 million was expensed during the quarter ended December
31, 1994.

  Marketing and selling

     In 1994, marketing and selling expenses increased $22.7 million or 11%
compared with the prior year.  This increase is primarily due to  marketing
efforts to expand  NEUPOGEN(R) market penetration  and EPOGEN(R)  marketing
efforts to bring  more patients  within the  target hematocrit  range.   In
1993, marketing  and  selling  expenses  increased  $29.7  million  or  16%
compared with the prior  year primarily due to  increases in both  domestic
and international sales  and marketing expenses  in support of  NEUPOGEN(R)
market penetration.    The future  growth  rate of  marketing  and  selling
expenses is expected to be less  than the anticipated annual product  sales
growth rate.

  General and administrative

     In 1994 and 1993, general  and administrative expenses increased  $8.6
million or 8%   and  $6.6 million or  6%, respectively,  compared with  the
prior years.  The future growth rate of general and administrative expenses
is expected to  be less than  the anticipated annual  product sales  growth
rate.

  Legal award

     In June 1993, the Company recorded a $13.9 million legal award as part
of the settlement with Genetics  Institute for outstanding patent  disputes
regarding erythropoietin in the United States.

     In September 1992, an arbitrator found  that the Company was  entitled
to damages  from Johnson  &  Johnson related  to  hepatitis B  vaccine  and
interleukin-2, two  of  the  three  products  included  in  an  arbitration
proceeding.  (See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements - Johnson
& Johnson  arbitration.)   In  January  1993, the  arbitrator  subsequently
determined the  amount of  the award  to  be $89.7  million.   The  Company
recorded $77.1 million of  this award in 1992  and deferred recognition  of

$12.6 million related to the further development of hepatitis B vaccine and
interleukin-2 to future periods.

  Interest and other income

     During 1994,  interest rates  increased significantly  which caused  a
decrease in the  market value of  the Company's  fixed income  investments.
Consistent with its investment policy, the Company elected to sell  certain
of these investments, resulting in capital  losses, in order to  reposition
the portfolio to improve  yields and reduce risk.   Further capital  losses
occurred in  connection with  the liquidation  of investments  to fund  the
Company's acquisition  of Synergen  in December  1994.   During  1994,  net
losses from sales of  marketable securities totaled  $16.1 million, and  at
December 31, 1994, there were no significant unrealized losses remaining in
the Company's  investment portfolio.   Interest  income decreased  in  1993
compared with the prior year primarily due to a decline in interest  rates.
In 1993 and 1992, there were no significant gains or losses related to  the
sale of fixed income investments.

  Income taxes

     In 1994, the Company's effective tax  rate was 45.7%, which is  higher
than the Company's statutory rate.  This is primarily due to the  write-off
of  in-process  technology  purchased  in  connection  with  the   Synergen
acquisition, which is not deductible for income tax purposes.  In 1993, the
Company's effective tax  rate of  36.8% reflected:  1) an  increase in  the
federal tax rate from 34% to 35% due to federal tax law changes enacted  in
1993, and 2) a decrease in the equity in earnings of an affiliated company.
These items  were  substantially  offset by  a  reduction  related  to  the
retroactive  reinstatement   to  July   1,  1992   of  the   research   and
experimentation and orphan drug  tax credits.   In addition, the  provision
for  state  income  taxes  decreased  in   1993  due  to  changes  in   the
apportionment of  taxable income  among states.    In 1992,  the  Company's
effective tax rate of 36.5% reflected a reduction in state income taxes  as
a percentage of pretax income principally due to the legal award having  no
impact on taxable income for state income tax purposes.

     In January  1995,  the  Company  began  receiving  tax  benefits  from
manufacturing products  at its  facility in  Puerto Rico.   Realization  of
these tax benefits  is expected to  result in an  annualized effective  tax
rate of 32%-34%.

Legal Matters

     The Company  is engaged  in arbitration  proceedings with  one of  its
licensees and  various  legal proceedings  relating  to Synergen.    For  a
complete discussion  of  these  matters see  Note  5  to  the  Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Outlook

     Operating in rapidly  changing health  care policy  arenas and  market
environments presents  many  significant  and unique  challenges.    Market
forces are  changing the  economics of  health care  in the  United  States
through voluntary limits on price increases by the pharmaceutical industry,
increases in the  purchasing power of  large buying  groups, and  increased
influence  on  medical  care  and  treatment  decisions  by  managed   care

organizations.   The Company  is meeting  the challenges  of this  changing
health care environment through programs that  work to optimize the use  of
its products in the treatment of  patients and clinical trials designed  to
evaluate cost and quality-of-life parameters as well as clinical safety and
efficacy.  In addition, the Company is adapting to legislative mandates  in
foreign markets.

     The Company's current goals include achieving strong financial results
and expanding its  product portfolio  through both  increased research  and
development efforts and the acquisition  of businesses and/or licensing  of
technologies and  products  which  meet  certain  strategic  and  financial
objectives.


Item 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The information  required  by  this item  is  incorporated  herein  by
reference to the financial  statements listed in Item  14(a) of Part IV  of
this Form 10-K Annual Report.


Item 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS  WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING  AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.

                                 PART III


Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information concerning the directors of the Company is incorporated by
reference to the section entitled "Election of Directors" in the  Company's
definitive Proxy  Statement  with  respect to  the  Company's  1994  Annual
Meeting to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within  120
days of December 31, 1994 (the "Proxy Statement").

     The executive officers of the Company,  their ages as of February  28,
1995 and positions are as follows:

     Mr. Gordon M. Binder, age 59, has served as a director of the  Company
since October 1988.   He joined  the Company  in 1982  as Vice  President-
Finance and was named Senior Vice  President-Finance in February 1986.   In
October 1988, Mr.  Binder was  elected Chief  Executive Officer.   In  July
1990, Mr. Binder became Chairman of the Board.

     Mr. Kevin W. Sharer, age 46, has  served as a director of the  Company
since November  1992.   He  has served  as  President and  Chief  Operating
Officer since  October 1992.   Prior to  joining the  Company,  Mr. Sharer
served as President of the Business Markets Division of MCI  Communications
Corporation, a telecommunications company, from April 1989 to October 1992,
and served in  numerous executive  capacities at  General Electric  Company
from February 1984 to March 1989.  Mr. Sharer also serves as a director of
Geotek Communications, Inc.

     Mr. Robert S. Attiyeh,  age 60, has served  as Senior Vice  President,
Finance and Corporate Development, since joining the Company in July  1994.
Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Attiyeh served as a director of  McKinsey
& Company, a consulting  firm, in its Los  Angeles, Japan and  Scandinavian
offices from 1967 to 1994.

     Dr. N. Kirby Alton, age 44, became Senior Vice President, Development,
in August 1993, having served as Senior Vice President, Therapeutic Product
Development, since  August  1992.   Dr.  Alton previously  served  as  Vice
President, Therapeutic Product Development, Responsible Head, from  October
1988 to August 1992, and as Director, Therapeutic Product Development, from
February 1986 to October 1988.

     Dr.  Dennis  M.  Fenton,  age   43,  became  Senior  Vice   President,
Operations, in January 1995, having served as Senior Vice President, Sales
and Marketing,  since August  1992, and  having served  as Vice  President,
Process Development, Facilities and Manufacturing Services, from July  1991
to August 1992.  Dr. Fenton previously had served as Vice President,  Pilot
Plant Operations  and Clinical  Manufacturing, from  October 1988  to  July
1991, and as Director, Pilot Plant Operations, from 1985 to October 1988.

     Mr. Daryl D. Hill, age 49, became Senior Vice President, Asia Pacific,
in January 1994, having served as Vice  President, Quality Assurance, from
October 1988 to  January 1994, and  as Director of  Quality Assurance  from
January 1984 to October 1988.

     Mr. Larry A. May, age 45, became Vice President, Corporate  Controller
and Chief Accounting Officer  in October 1991,  having served as  Corporate
Controller and Chief Accounting Officer from October 1988 to October  1991,
and as Controller from January 1983 to October 1988.

     Dr. Daniel Vapnek, age 56, became Senior Vice President, Research,  in
October 1988,  having served  as Vice  President, Research,  since  January
1986.

     Mr. Thomas  E. Workman,  Jr., age  67, was  appointed Vice  President,
Secretary and General  Counsel in December  1992, having  served as  Acting
General Counsel since September  1992.  Prior to  joining the Company,  Mr.
Workman was an advisory partner of  Pillsbury Madison & Sutro, a law  firm,
from January 1992 to September 1992, and was a regular partner of Pillsbury
Madison & Sutro from 1986 through December 1991.

     Dr. Linda R. Wudl, age 49,  became Vice President, Quality  Assurance,
in January 1994, having  served as Director of  Quality Control from  April
1991 to January 1994, and as Manager of Quality Control from April 1987  to
April 1991.

Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The  section  labeled  "Executive   Compensation"  appearing  in   the
Company's Proxy Statement is incorporated  herein by reference, except  for
such information  as need  not be  incorporated  by reference  under  rules
promulgated by the Securities Exchange Commission.

Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The section  labeled "Security  Ownership of  Directors and  Executive
Officers and Certain  Beneficial Owners" appearing  in the Company's  Proxy
Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The section labeled "Certain Transactions" appearing in the  Company's
Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.


                                    PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  1. Index to Financial Statements

     The following Financial Statements are included herein:

                                                                  Page
                                                                 Number

  Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors .................F-1
  Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three
     years in the period ended December 31, 1994...............F-2 - F-3
  Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1994 and 1993 .........F-4
  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for each of
     the three years in the period ended December 31, 1994.....F-5 - F-6
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three
     years in the period ended December 31, 1994...............F-7 - F-8
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements .................F-9 - F-28

(a)  2. Index to Financial Statement Schedules

     The following Schedules  are filed as  part of this  Form 10-K  Annual
Report:

                                                                  Page
                                                                 Number

     VIII Valuation Accounts ......................................F-29

     All other schedules are  omitted because they  are not applicable,  or
not required,  or  because the  required  information is  included  in  the
consolidated statements or notes thereto.

(a)  3. Exhibits


Exhibit No.                     Description

  3.1       Restated Certificate of Incorporation. (7)
  3.2       Certificate  of   Amendment   to   Restated   Certificate   of
            Incorporation, effective as of July 24, 1991. (14)
  3.3       Bylaws, as amended to date. (20)

  4.1       Indenture dated  January  1,  1992  between  the  Company  and
            Citibank N.A., as trustee. (15)
  4.2       Forms of Commercial Paper Master Note Certificates. (19)
 10.1*      Company's 1991 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended. (16)
 10.2*      Company's 1984  Stock Option  Plan, as  amended, and  forms of
            Incentive Stock  Option Grant  and  Nonqualified Stock  Option
            Grant used in connection therewith. (16)
 10.3       Shareholder's Agreement  of Kirin-Amgen,  Inc., dated  May 11,
            1984, between the Company  and Kirin Brewery  Company, Limited
            (with certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (1)
 10.4       Amendment Nos. 1,  2, and  3, dated March  19, 1985,  July 29,
            1985 and December 19, 1985, respectively, to the Shareholder's
            Agreement of  Kirin-Amgen,  Inc.,  dated  May 11,  1984  (with
            certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (3)
 10.5       Product License  Agreement,  dated  September  30,  1985,  and
            Technology  License  Agreement,  dated,   September  30,  1985
            between the Company and Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation (with
            certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (2)
 10.6       Product License  Agreement,  dated  September  30,  1985,  and
            Technology License Agreement, dated September 30, 1985 between
            Kirin-Amgen, Inc. and  Ortho Pharmaceutical  Corporation (with
            certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (3)
 10.7*      Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended April 1, 1992.
            (17)
 10.8       Agreement, dated February  12, 1986,  between the  Company and
            Sloan-Kettering Institute  for Cancer  Research (with  certain
            confidential information deleted therefrom). (4)
 10.9       Amendment No. 2, dated November 13,  1990, to Agreement, dated
            February 12,  1986, between  the  Company and  Sloan-Kettering
            Institute  for  Cancer  Research  (with  certain  confidential
            information deleted therefrom). (13)
 10.10      Research,  Development   Technology  Disclosure   and  License
            Agreement PPO,  dated January  20, 1986,  by  and between  the
            Company and Kirin Brewery Co., Ltd. (4)
 10.11      Research  Collaboration  Agreement,  dated  August  31,  1990,
            between Amgen Inc.  and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals,  Inc. (with
            certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (13)
 10.12      Amendment Nos. 4 and 5, dated October 16, 1986 (effective July
            1, 1986)  and  December  6,  1986  (effective July  1,  1986),
            respectively, to  the Shareholders  Agreement of  Kirin-Amgen,
            Inc. dated May 11, 1984 (with certain confidential information
            deleted therefrom). (5)
 10.13      Assignment and  License  Agreement,  dated October  16,  1986,
            between  the  Company  and  Kirin-Amgen,  Inc.  (with  certain
            confidential information deleted therefrom). (5)
 10.14      G-CSF European  License Agreement,  dated  December 30,  1986,
            between  Kirin-Amgen,  Inc.  and  the  Company  (with  certain
            confidential information deleted therefrom). (5)
 10.15      Research and  Development  Technology  Disclosure and  License
            Agreement: GM-CSF, dated March 31, 1987, between Kirin Brewery
            Company, Limited  and the  Company (with  certain confidential
            information deleted therefrom). (5)
 10.16*     Company's 1987 Directors' Stock Option Plan, as amended. (13)
 10.17      Cross License  Agreement, dated  June 1,  1987, between  Amgen
            Inc. and Amgen Clinical Partners, L.P. (6)

 10.18      Development Agreement, dated June 1, 1987,  between Amgen Inc.
            and Amgen Clinical Partners, L.P. (6)
 10.19      Joint Venture  Agreement, dated  June 1,  1987, between  Amgen
            Inc. and Amgen Clinical Partners, L.P. (6)
 10.20      Partnership Purchase  Option Agreement,  dated  June 1,  1987,
            between Amgen Inc. and Amgen Clinical Partners, L.P. (6)
 10.21*     Company's 1988 Stock Option Plan, as amended. (16)
 10.22*     Company's Retirement and Savings Plan, amended and restated as
            of January 1, 1993. (17)
 10.23      Amendment, dated  June  30,  1988, to  Research,  Development,
            Technology Disclosure  and  License  Agreement:  GM-CSF  dated
            March 31, 1987, between Kirin Brewery Company, Limited and the
            Company. (7)
 10.24      Amending  Agreement,  dated  June  30,  1988,  to  Development
            Agreement, Partner  Purchase Option  Agreement, Cross  License
            Agreement and  Joint Venture  Agreement, dated  June 1,  1987,
            between the Company and Amgen Clinical Partners, L.P. (7)
 10.25      Agreement on  G-CSF  in  the  EU,  dated September  26,  1988,
            between Amgen  Inc. and  F. Hoffmann-La  Roche  & Co.  Limited
            Company  (with   certain   confidential  information   deleted
            therefrom). (9)
 10.26      Supplementary Agreement to Agreement dated January  4, 1989 to
            Agreement on  G-CSF  in  the  EU,  dated September  26,  1988,
            between the  Company and  F. Hoffmann-La  Roche &  Co. Limited
            Company,  (with   certain  confidential   information  deleted
            therefrom). (9)
 10.27      Agreement  on  G-CSF  in  Certain  European  Countries,  dated
            January 1, 1989, between Amgen Inc. and F. Hoffmann-La Roche &
            Co. Limited  Company  (with  certain confidential  information
            deleted therefrom). (9)
 10.28      Rights Agreement, dated January  24, 1989, between  Amgen Inc.
            and American Stock Transfer  and Trust Company,  Rights Agent.
            (8)
 10.29      First Amendment to Rights  Agreement, dated January  22, 1991,
            between Amgen  Inc.  and  American  Stock Transfer  and  Trust
            Company, Rights Agent. (11)
 10.30      Second Amendment  to Rights  Agreement, dated  April 2,  1991,
            between Amgen  Inc.  and  American  Stock Transfer  and  Trust
            Company, Rights Agent. (12)
 10.31      Credit Agreement, dated as  of November 15, 1991,  among Amgen
            Inc., The  Borrowing  Subsidiaries  therein named,  the  Banks
            therein named,  Swiss Bank  Corporation, as  issuing Bank  and
            Swiss Bank Corporation and  Citicorp USA, Inc.,  as Co-Agents.
            (17)
 10.32      Deed of  Trust and  Security Agreement,  dated  June 1,  1989,
            between  the  Company  and  UNUM  Life  Insurance  Company  of
            America. (10)
 10.33      Note, dated June  1, 1989, between  the Company and  UNUM Life
            Insurance Company of America. (10)
 10.34      Agency Agreement,  dated  November  21,  1991,  between  Amgen
            Manufacturing,   Inc.   and   Citicorp    Financial   Services
            Corporation. (17)
 10.35      Agency  Agreement,   dated  May   21,   1992,  between   Amgen
            Manufacturing,   Inc.   and   Citicorp    Financial   Services
            Corporation. (17)

 10.36      Guaranty, dated  July 29,  1992, by  the Company  in favor  of
            Merck Sharp & Dohme Quimica de Puerto Rico, Inc. (17)
 10.37      936 Promissory Note No. 01, dated December 11, 1991, issued by
            Amgen Manufacturing, Inc. (17)
 10.38      936 Promissory Note No. 02, dated December 11, 1991, issued by
            Amgen Manufacturing, Inc. (17)
 10.39      936 Promissory Note  No. 001, dated  July 29, 1992,  issued by
            Amgen Manufacturing, Inc. (17)
 10.40      936 Promissory Note  No. 002, dated  July 29, 1992,  issued by
            Amgen Manufacturing, Inc. (17)
 10.41      Guaranty, dated November 21, 1991, by the  Company in favor of
            Citicorp Financial Services Corporation. (17)
 10.42      First Amendment,  dated as  of June  16, 1992,  to the  Credit
            Agreement, dated as  of November 15,  1991, among  Amgen Inc.,
            The Borrowing  Subsidiaries therein  named, the  Banks therein
            named, Swiss Bank Corporation, as issuing  Bank and Swiss Bank
            Corporation and Citicorp USA, Inc., as Co-Agents. (17)
 10.43      Second Amendment, dated as of November 6,  1992, to the Credit
            Agreement, dated as  of November 15,  1991, among  Amgen Inc.,
            The Borrowing  Subsidiaries therein  named, the  Banks therein
            named, Swiss Bank Corporation, as issuing  Bank and Swiss Bank
            Corporation and Citicorp USA, Inc., as Co-Agents. (17)
 10.44      Lease and Agreement  relating to Lease,  dated March  27, 1986
            and April  1, 1986,  respectively, for  2003 Oak  Terrace Lane
            between 2001 Hillcrest Partnership and the Company. (20)
 10.45      Partnership Purchase Agreement, dated March  12, 1993, between
            the Company, Amgen Clinical Partners,  L.P., Amgen Development
            Corporation, the  Class A  limited partners  and  the Class  B
            limited partner. (18)
 10.46*     Amgen Supplemental Retirement Plan dated June 1, 1993. (21)
 10.47      Promissory Note of  Mr. Kevin W.  Sharer, dated June  4, 1993.
            (21)
 10.48      Amendment No. 3 dated  June 25, 1993 to  the Credit Agreement,
            dated November  15,  1991, among  the  Company, The  Borrowing
            Subsidiaries therein named, the Banks therein named, the Swiss
            Bank Corporation, as issuing  Bank and Swiss  Bank Corporation
            and Citicorp USA, Inc., as Co-Agents. (21)
 10.49      Promissory Note of Mr. Larry A. May,  dated February 24, 1993.
            (22)
 10.50*     First Amendment  dated  October  26,  1993  to  the  Company's
            Retirement and Savings Plan. (22)
 10.51*     Amgen Performance Based Management Incentive Plan. (22)
 10.52      Fourth Amendment, dated  as of  June 24,  1994, to  the Credit
            Agreement, dated  November 15,  1991, among  the Company,  The
            Borrowing Subsidiaries therein named, the Banks therein named,
            the Swiss  Bank Corporation,  as issuing  Bank and  Swiss Bank
            Corporation and Citicorp USA, Inc., as Co-Agents. (23)
 10.53      Agreement and Plan of  Merger, dated as of  November 17, 1994,
            among Amgen  Inc.,  Amgen  Acquisition  Subsidiary,  Inc.  and
            Synergen, Inc. (24)
 10.54      Third Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated  as of February 21,
            1995, between Amgen Inc. and American Stock Transfer Trust and
            Trust Company (25)
 11         Computation of earnings per share.
 21         Subsidiaries of the Company.

 23         Consent of  Ernst  & Young  LLP,  independent  auditors.   The
            consent set  forth  on  page  37  is  incorporated  herein  by
            reference.
 24         Power of Attorney.  The Power of Attorney set forth on page 36
            is incorporated herein by reference.
 27         Financial Data Schedule.
_____________            

* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

(1)  Filed as an exhibit  to the Annual  Report on Form  10-K for the  year
     ended March  31, 1984  on June  26, 1984  and incorporated  herein  by
     reference.
(2)  Filed as an exhibit to Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter
     ended September 30, 1985 on November 14, 1985 and incorporated  herein
     by reference.
(3)  Filed as an exhibit to Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter
     ended December 31, 1985 on February 3, 1986 and incorporated herein by
     reference.
(4)  Filed as  an exhibit  to  Amendment No.  1  to Form  S-1  Registration
     Statement  (Registration   No.  33-3069)   on  March   11,  1986   and
     incorporated herein by reference.
(5)  Filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-K Annual Report for the year  ended
     March 31, 1987 on May 18, 1987 and incorporated herein by reference.
(6)  Filed as  an exhibit  to the  Quarterly Report  on Form  10-Q for  the
     quarter ended June 30, 1987 on August 12, 1987 and incorporated herein
     by reference.
(7)  Filed as an exhibit  to Form 8 amending  the Quarterly Report on  Form
     10-Q for  the quarter  ended June  30,  1988 on  August 25,  1988  and
     incorporated herein by reference.
(8)  Filed as an exhibit to the  Form 8-K Current Report dated January  24,
     1989 and incorporated herein by reference.
(9)  Filed as an exhibit  to the Annual  Report on Form  10-K for the  year
     ended March  31, 1989  on June  28, 1989  and incorporated  herein  by
     reference.
(10) Filed as  an exhibit  to the  Quarterly Report  on Form  10-Q for  the
     quarter ended June 30, 1989 on August 14, 1989 and incorporated herein
     by reference.
(11) Filed as an exhibit to the  Form 8-K Current Report dated January  22,
     1991 and incorporated herein by reference.
(12) Filed as an  exhibit to the  Form 8-K Current  Report dated April  12,
     1991 and incorporated herein by reference.
(13) Filed as an exhibit  to the Annual  Report on Form  10-K for the  year
     ended March  31, 1991  on  July 1,  1991  and incorporated  herein  by
     reference.
(14) Filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K Current Report dated July 24, 1991
     and incorporated herein by reference.
(15) Filed as an exhibit to Form S-3 Registration Statement dated  December
     19, 1991 and incorporated herein by reference.
(16) Filed as an exhibit  to the Annual  Report on Form  10-K for the  year
     ended December 31, 1991 on March  30, 1992 and incorporated herein  by
     reference.
(17) Filed as an exhibit  to the Annual  Report on Form  10-K for the  year
     ended December 31, 1992 on March  30, 1993 and incorporated herein  by
     reference.

(18) Filed as  an  exhibit  to  the  Form 8-A  dated  March  31,  1993  and
     incorporated herein by reference.
(19) Filed as an exhibit to the Form  10-Q for the quarter ended March  31,
     1993 on May 17, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference.
(20) Filed as an exhibit to  the Form 10-Q for  the quarter ended June  30,
     1993 on August 16, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference.
(21) Filed as an exhibit to the  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  September
     30, 1993 on November 12, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference.
(22) Filed as an exhibit  to the Annual  Report on Form  10-K for the  year
     ended December 31, 1993 on March  25, 1994 and incorporated herein  by
     reference.
(23) Filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-Q for the ended September 30,  1994
     on November 9, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference.
(24) Filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K Current Report dated November  18,
     1994 on December 2, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference.
(25) Filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K Current Report dated February  21,
     1995 on March 7, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

(b)     Reports on Form 8-K

     The Company  filed  a report  on  Form  8-K dated  November  18,  1994
reporting the  execution of  a definitive  agreement by  which the  Company
would  acquire  Synergen,   Inc.  and  its   subsidiaries.    The   Company
subsequently filed a report on Form 8-K/A dated November 18, 1994  amending
the Form 8-K to report the completion of the acquisition of Synergen,  Inc.
and its subsidiaries and certain pro forma financial information  regarding
the Company.

     The Company  filed  a report  on  Form  8-K dated  February  21,  1995
reporting an amendment  to its Rights  Agreement, dated as  of January  24,
1989, between Amgen Inc.  and American Stock Transfer  & Trust Company,  as
Rights Agent, as amended.


                                SIGNATURES


     Pursuant to the requirements of the  Securities Exchange Act of  1934,
the registrant  has duly  caused this  Annual Report  to be  signed on  its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                             Amgen Inc.
                                             (Registrant)



Date:       3/28/95                  By:     /s/ ROBERT S. ATTIYEH
                                             Robert S. Attiyeh
                                             Senior Vice President,
                                             Finance and Corporate 
                                             Development, and
                                             Chief Financial Officer


                             POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL  MEN BY  THESE PRESENTS,  that  each person  whose  signature
appears below constitutes and appoints Robert S. Attiyeh and Larry A.  May,
or  either  of  them,  his  attorney-in-fact,   each  with  the  power   of
substitution, for him in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments  to
this Report,  and  to  file  the same,  with  exhibits  thereto  and  other
documents  in  connection  therewith,  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission,  hereby  ratifying  and  confirming  all  that  each  of   said
attorneys-in-fact, or his substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to  be
done by virtue hereof.

     Pursuant to the requirements of the  Securities Exchange Act of  1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:



/s/ GORDON M. BINDER     3/28/95
Gordon M. Binder                 /s/ WILLIAM K. BOWES, JR.    3/28/95
Chairman of the Board            William K. Bowes, Jr.
Chief Executive Officer and      Director
Director
(Principal Executive Officer)
                                 /s/ FRANKLIN P. JOHNSON, JR. 3/28/95
                                 Franklin P. Johnson, Jr.
                                 Director
/s/ KEVIN W. SHARER      3/28/95
Kevin W. Sharer
President,
Chief Operating Officer and      /s/ STEVEN LAZARUS           3/28/95
Director                         Steven Lazarus
                                 Director

/s/ ROBERT S. ATTIYEH    3/28/95
Robert S. Attiyeh
Senior Vice President,           /s/ EDWARD J. LEDDER         3/28/95
Finance and Corporate            Edward J. Ledder
Development, and                 Director
Chief Financial Officer

/s/ LARRY A. MAY         3/28/95
Larry A. May                     /s/ GILBERT S. OMENN         3/28/95
Vice President,                  Gilbert S. Omenn
Corporate Controller and         Director
Chief Accounting Officer


/s/ RAYMOND F. BADDOUR   3/28/95
Raymond F. Baddour               /s/ BERNARD H. SEMLER        3/28/95
Director                         Bernard H. Semler
                                 Director

                                                                 EXHIBIT 23


            CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


     We consent  to  the incorporation  by  reference in  the  Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-5111) pertaining to the 1984 Stock Option  Plan,
1981 Incentive  Stock Option  Plan and  Nonqualified Stock  Option Plan  of
Amgen  Inc.,  in  the  Registration  Statement  (Form  S-8  No.   33-24013)
pertaining to the 1988 Stock Option Plan of Amgen Inc., in the Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No.  33-39183) pertaining to  the Amgen Employee  Stock
Purchase Plan,  in  the  Registration Statement  (Form  S-8  No.  33-39104)
pertaining to the Amgen  Retirement and Savings  Plan, in the  Registration
Statement (Form  S-8  No.  33-42501) pertaining  to  the  Amgen  Inc.  1987
Directors' Stock Option Plan, in the  Registration Statement (Form S-8  No.
33-42072) pertaining to the Amgen Inc.  1991 Equity Incentive Plan, in  the
Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-47605) pertaining to the Retirement
and Savings  Plan for  Amgen Manufacturing,  Inc. and  in the  Registration
Statements (Form S-3 No. 33-22544 and Form S-3 No. 33-44454) of Amgen  Inc.
and in the related Prospectuses of  our report dated February 1, 1995  with
respect to the  consolidated financial statements  and financial  statement
schedules of Amgen Inc. included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for  the
year ended December 31, 1994.




                                                     /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
Los Angeles, California
March 24, 1995

             REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Amgen Inc.


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amgen  Inc.
as of December 31, 1994 and  1993, and the related consolidated  statements
of operations, stockholders' equity  and cash flows for  each of the  three
years in the period ended December 31, 1994.  Our audits also included the
financial statement schedules listed in  the Index  at Item  14(a).   These
financial statements and schedules are the responsibility of the  Company's
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedules based on our audits.

We conducted  our audits  in accordance  with generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that  we plan and perform the audit  to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement.   An audit includes examining,  on a test  basis,
evidence  supporting  the   amounts  and  disclosures   in  the   financial
statements.  An  audit also  includes assessing  the accounting  principles
used and significant estimates  made by management,  as well as  evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation.   We believe that our  audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial statements  referred to  above
present fairly,  in  all  material  respects,  the  consolidated  financial
position of Amgen Inc. at December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the  consolidated
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 1994,  in conformity with generally  accepted
accounting principles.    Also,  in  our  opinion,  the  related  financial
statement schedules, when considered  in relation  to the  basic  financial
statements taken as a  whole, present fairly in  all material respects  the
information set forth therein.



                                                      /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
Los Angeles, California
February 1, 1995
                                   F-1

                                AMGEN INC.

                   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

               Years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992
                   (In thousands, except per share data)

                                      1994         1993        1992
                                   ----------  ----------  ----------
   Revenues:
     Product sales................ $1,549,567  $1,306,322  $1,050,654
     Corporate partner revenues...     70,400      48,631      29,621
     Royalty income...............     27,937      18,889      12,766
                                   ----------  ----------  ----------
          Total revenues..........  1,647,904   1,373,842   1,093,041
                                   ----------  ----------  ----------
   Operating expenses:
     Cost of sales................    238,123     220,046     184,735
     Research and development.....    323,629     255,321     182,297
     Write-off of in-process
        technology purchased......    116,367           -           -
     Marketing and selling........    236,858     214,132     184,482
     General and administrative...    122,936     114,295     107,656
     (Earnings) loss of
        affiliates, net...........     31,227      12,589     (16,940)
     Legal award..................          -     (13,900)    (77,076)
                                   ----------  ----------  ----------
          Total operating
             expenses.............  1,069,140     802,483     565,154
                                   ----------  ----------  ----------
   Operating income...............    578,764     571,359     527,887

   Other income (expense):
     Interest and other income....     21,526      27,161      35,388
     Interest expense, net........    (12,021)     (6,150)       (141)
                                   ----------  ----------  ----------
          Total other income
             (expense)............      9,505      21,011      35,247
                                   ----------  ----------  ----------
   Income before income taxes and
     cumulative effect of a
     change in accounting
     principle....................    588,269     592,370     563,134
   Provision for income taxes.....    268,604     217,795     205,534
                                   ----------  ----------  ----------
   Income before cumulative
     effect of a change in
     accounting principle.........    319,665     374,575     357,600
   Cumulative effect of a change
     in accounting principle......          -       8,738           -
                                   ----------  ----------  ----------
   Net income..................... $  319,665  $  383,313  $  357,600
                                   ==========  ==========  ==========
                          See accompanying notes.
                         (Continued on next page)
                                   F-2

                                AMGEN INC.

             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)

               Years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992
                   (In thousands, except per share data)


                                          1994      1993      1992
                                         ------    ------    ------
       Earnings per share:
         Primary:
            Income before cumulative
              effect of a change in
              accounting principle.....  $2.29     $2.61     $2.43
            Cumulative effect of a
              change in accounting
              principle................      -       .06         -
                                         -----     -----     -----
            Net income.................  $2.29     $2.67     $2.43
                                         =====     =====     =====

         Fully diluted:
            Income before cumulative
              effect of a change in
              accounting principle....   $2.27     $2.60     $2.42
            Cumulative effect of a
              change in accounting
              principle...............       -       .06         -
                                         -----     -----     -----
            Net income................   $2.27     $2.66     $2.42
                                         =====     =====     =====

       Shares used in calculation
       of:
         Primary earnings per share..  139,790   143,611   147,297
         Fully diluted earnings per
            share....................  141,099   144,322   147,726

                          See accompanying notes.
                                     F-3

                                  AMGEN   
                        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                        December 31, 1994 and 1993
                   (In thousands, except per share data)

                                                 1994        1993
                                             ----------  ----------
                                  ASSETS
     Current assets:
        Cash and cash equivalents........... $  211,323  $  128,505
        Marketable securities...............    485,358     594,679
        Trade receivables, net of allowance
          for doubtful accounts of $13,284
          in 1994 and $12,161 in 1993.......    194,712     164,337
        Inventories.........................     98,004      74,712
        Deferred tax assets, net............     70,176      58,937
        Other current assets................     56,065      33,340
                                             ----------  ----------
          Total current assets..............  1,115,638   1,054,510

     Property, plant and equipment at cost,
        net.................................    665,314     586,912
     Investments in affiliated companies....     82,263      59,276
     Other assets...........................    130,932      64,825
                                             ----------  ----------
                                             $1,994,147  $1,765,523
                                             ==========  ==========

                   LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
     Current liabilities:
        Accounts payable.................... $   30,476  $   23,056
        Commercial paper....................     99,667     109,767
        Accrued liabilities.................    406,287     279,438
                                             ----------  ----------
          Total current liabilities.........    536,430     412,261

     Long-term debt.........................    183,407     181,242
     Contingencies
     Stockholders' equity:
        Common stock, $.0001 par value;
          750,000 shares authorized;
          outstanding - 132,328 shares in
          1994 and 134,214 in 1993..........         13          13
        Additional paid-in capital..........    719,310     636,217
        Retained earnings...................    554,987     535,790
                                             ----------  ----------
          Total stockholders' equity........  1,274,310   1,172,020
                                             ----------  ----------
                                             $1,994,147  $1,765,523
                                             ==========  ==========

                          See accompanying notes.
                                   F-4         

                                AMGEN INC.

              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

               Years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992
                              (In thousands)

                                  Number   Common Additional  
                                    of     Common   paid-in   Retained
                                  shares    stock   capital   earnings
                                 --------  ------ ---------   --------
   Balance at December 31, 1991.. 131,864    $13   $442,931    $88,201
   Issuance of common stock
      upon the exercise of stock
      options and in connection
      with an employee stock
      purchase plan..............   3,844      1     36,922          -
   Issuance of common stock
      upon the exercise of         
      warrants...................   1,985      -     17,618          -
   Reduction in current income
      tax liability related to
      stock options..............       -      -     76,316          -
   Repurchases of common stock...  (1,372)     -          -    (85,870)
   Net income....................       -      -          -    357,600
                                  -------  -----   --------   --------

   Balance at December 31, 1992.. 136,321     14    573,787    359,931
   Issuance of common stock
      upon the exercise of stock
      options and in connection
      with an employee stock
      purchase plan..............   2,329      -     21,682          -
   Issuance of common stock
      upon the exercise of           
      warrants...................     636      -      5,913          - 
   Reduction in current income
      tax liability related to
      stock options..............       -      -     34,835          -
   Repurchases of common stock...  (5,072)    (1)         -   (207,454)
   Net income....................       -      -          -    383,313
                                  -------  -----   --------   --------
   Balance at December 31, 1993.. 134,214    $13   $636,217   $535,790

                          See accompanying notes.
                           (Continued next page)
                                   F-5

                                AMGEN INC.

        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (Continued)

               Years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992
                              (In thousands)
                                                
                                  Number          Additional 
                                    of     Common   paid-in   Retained
                                  shares    stock   capital   earnings
                                 --------  ------ ---------   --------
   Balance at December 31, 1993.. 134,214    $13   $636,217   $535,790
   Issuance of common stock
      upon the exercise of stock
      options and in connection
      with an employee stock
      purchase plan..............   2,855      -     44,785          -
   Issuance of common stock
      upon the exercise of         
      warrants...................   1,704      -     15,330          -
   Reduction in current income
      tax liability related to
      stock options..............       -      -     22,978          -
   Repurchases of common stock     (6,445)     -          -   (300,468)
   Net income....................       -      -          -    319,665
                                  -------  -----   --------   --------
   Balance at December 31, 1994.. 132,328    $13   $719,310   $554,987
                                  =======  =====   ========   ========

                          See accompanying notes.
                                   F-6

                                AMGEN INC.

                   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

               Years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992
                              (In thousands)

                                         1994        1993       1992
                                       --------    --------   --------
  Cash flows from operating
  activities:
     Net income.......................$  319,665   $383,313   $357,600
     Write-off of in-process
       technology purchased...........   116,367          -          -
     Depreciation and amortization....    74,520     50,743     33,569
     Other non-cash expenses..........     2,794      7,933      8,670
     Deferred income taxes............     2,443     17,379     (8,012)
     (Earnings) loss of affiliates,
       net............................    31,227     12,589    (16,940)
     Cash provided by (used in):
       Trade receivables, net.........   (30,375)    (8,294)   (67,852)
       Inventories....................   (23,292)   (17,911)   (16,632)
       Other current assets...........     1,760     (4,820)   (13,375)
       Accounts payable...............     4,550    (14,970)     8,518
       Accrued liabilities............    32,231      7,045      7,253
                                      ----------   --------   --------
          Net cash provided by
            operating activites.......   531,890    433,007    292,799
                                      ----------   --------   --------
  Cash flows from investing
  activities:
     Purchases of property, plant
       and equipment.................   (130,813)  (209,904)  (219,775)
     Increase in marketable
       securities....................          -   (131,313)  (232,049)
     Proceeds from maturities of
       marketable securities.........     87,726          -          -
     Proceeds from sales of
       marketable securities.........  1,505,776          -          -
     Purchases of marketable
       securities.................... (1,395,139)         -          -
     Cost to acquire company, net of
       cash acquired.................   (240,762)         -          -
     Increase in investments in
       affiliated companies..........    (21,824)   (22,370)    (7,668)
     Distributions from affiliated
       companies.....................          -        673      3,074
     Decrease (increase) in other
       assets........................      4,042    (27,032)   (15,772)
                                      ----------   --------   --------
          Net cash used in investing
            activities...............   (190,994)  (389,946)  (472,190)
                                      ----------   --------   --------
                          See accompanying notes.
                         (Continued on next page)
                                   F-7

                                AMGEN INC.

             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Continued)

               Years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992
                              (In thousands)

                                          1994       1993       1992
                                        --------   --------    --------
  Cash flows from financing
  activities:
     (Decrease) increase in commercial
       paper...........................  (10,100)   109,767          -
     Proceeds from issuance of long-
       term debt.......................   12,490     53,054    100,997
     Repayment of long-term debt.......  (12,009)    (1,991)   (10,556)
     Net proceeds from issuance of
       common stock upon the exercise
       of stock options and in
       connection with an employee
       stock purchase plan.............   44,555     21,454     34,236
     Tax benefit related to stock
       options.........................   22,978     34,835     76,316
     Net proceeds from issuance of
       common stock upon the exercise
       of warrants.....................   15,330      5,913     17,618
     Repurchases of common stock....... (300,468)  (207,454)   (85,870)
     Other.............................  (30,854)   (22,182)    (7,756)
                                        --------   --------   --------
          Net cash (used in) provided
            by financing activities.... (258,078)    (6,604)   124,985
                                        --------   --------   --------
  Increase (decrease) in cash and cash
     equivalents.......................   82,818     36,457    (54,406)
  Cash and cash equivalents at
     beginning of period...............  128,505     92,048    146,454
                                        --------   --------   --------
  Cash and cash equivalents at end of
     period............................ $211,323   $128,505   $ 92,048
                                        ========   ========   ========

                          See accompanying notes.
                                   F-8

                                AMGEN INC.

                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                             December 31, 1994


1.   Summary of significant accounting policies

     Business

     Amgen Inc.  ("Amgen"  or  the "Company")  is  a  global  biotechnology
company that develops, manufactures and markets human therapeutics based on
advanced cellular and molecular biology.

     Principles of consolidation

     The consolidated  financial statements  include  the accounts  of  the
Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries  as well as affiliated  companies
for which the Company  has a controlling  financial interest and  exercises
control over  their operations  ("majority  controlled affiliates").    All
material intercompany  transactions and  balances have  been eliminated  in
consolidation.  Investments  in affiliated  companies which  are 50%  owned
and/or where the  Company exercises significant  influence over  operations
are accounted for using  the equity method.   All other equity  investments
are accounted for under  the cost method.   Earnings (loss) of  affiliates,
net includes  equity in  earnings (loss)  of affiliated  companies and  the
minority interest in (earnings) loss of majority controlled affiliates.

     Cash equivalents and marketable securities

     The Company considers only those investments which are highly  liquid,
readily convertible to cash and which mature within three months from  date
of purchase as cash equivalents.

     The Company considers its  investment portfolio available-for-sale  as
defined in Statement  of Financial Accounting  Standards ("SFAS") No.  115.
There were  no  material  unrealized  gains  or  losses  nor  any  material
differences between the estimated  fair values and  costs of securities  in
the investment portfolio at December 31,  1994.  Realized gains and  losses
totaled $5,048,000  and  $21,110,000,  respectively,  for  the  year  ended
December 31, 1994.  The  cost of securities sold  is based on the  specific
identification method.   The cost of  the investment portfolio  by type  of
security, contractual maturity and its classification in the balance  sheet
at December 31, 1994 is as follows (in thousands):
                                    F-9

         Corporate debt securities...................  $365,033
         U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of
           U.S. government agencies..................   170,940
         Other interest bearing securities...........   151,524
                                                       --------
                                                       $687,497
                                                       ========

         Maturing in one year or less................  $411,002
         Maturing after one year through three years.   132,838
         Maturing after three years..................   143,657
                                                       --------
                                                       $687,497
                                                       ========

         Cash and cash equivalents...................  $211,323
         Marketable securities.......................   485,358
                                                       --------
                                                        696,681
         Less cash...................................    (9,184)
                                                       --------
                                                       $687,497
                                                       ========

     The Company invests its cash in accordance with a policy that seeks to
maximize  returns  while  ensuring  both  liquidity  and  minimal  risk  of
principal loss.    The  policy  limits  investments  to  certain  types  of
instruments issued by  institutions with investment  grade credit  ratings,
and places restrictions on maturities and concentration by type and issuer.
The Company's fixed income  investments are subject to  the risk of  market
interest rate fluctuations, and all  the Company's investments are  subject
to risks  associated with  the  ability of  the  issuers to  perform  their
obligations under the instruments.

     Inventories

     Inventories are  stated at  the lower  of  cost or  market.   Cost  is
determined in a  manner which approximates  the first-in, first-out  (FIFO)
method.  Inventories are shown net  of applicable reserves and  allowances.
Inventories consist of the following (in thousands):

                                                  December 31,     
                                               1994         1993 
                                             -------      -------
          Raw materials....................  $10,943      $ 8,001
          Work in process..................   54,032       47,138
          Finished goods...................   33,029       19,573
                                             -------      -------
                                             $98,004      $74,712
                                             =======      =======
                                    F-10

     Depreciation and amortization

     Depreciation  of  buildings  and  equipment  is  provided  over  their
estimated useful lives  on a straight-line  basis.  Leasehold  improvements
are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of their  estimated
useful lives or lease terms, including periods covered by options which are
expected to be exercised.

     Product sales

     Product sales consist  of two products,  EPOGEN(R) (Epoetin alfa)  and
NEUPOGEN(R) (Filgrastim).

     As a result  of an agreement  between Amgen  and Ortho  Pharmaceutical
Corporation, a  subsidiary  of  Johnson &  Johnson  ("Johnson  &  Johnson")
covering the U.S. market for the Company's Epoetin alfa product, Amgen does
not recognize product sales it makes into the contractual market of Johnson
& Johnson and does  recognize the product sales  made by Johnson &  Johnson
into Amgen's  contractual market.   These  sales amounts,  and  adjustments
thereto, are derived from  third-party data on shipments  to end users  and
their usage as  the data becomes  available (see Note  5, "Contingencies  -
Johnson & Johnson arbitration").

     Research and development costs

     Research and development  costs are  expensed as  incurred.   Payments
related to the acquisition of technology rights, for which development work
is in-process,  are expensed  and considered  a component  of research  and
development costs (Note 2).

  Foreign currency transactions

     The Company has a program to manage foreign currency risk.  As part of
this program, the Company has  purchased foreign currency option  contracts
to hedge against reductions in values of anticipated foreign currency  cash
flows over  the next  12  months, primarily  resulting  from its  sales  in
Europe.  At December 31, 1994, the Company had option contracts to exchange
foreign  currencies,   primarily  Swiss   francs,  for   U.S.  dollars   of
$77,968,000, all having maturities  of less than one  year.  These  options
are designated  and effective  as hedges  of anticipated  foreign  currency
transactions, and accordingly, the net gains on such contracts are deferred
and will be recognized primarily in product sales in the same period as the
hedged transactions.

     The Company  also  has foreign  currency  forward contracts  to  hedge
certain exposures to foreign currency  fluctuations of net monetary  assets
denominated in foreign currencies.  At  December 31, 1994, the Company  had
forward contracts to exchange  foreign currencies, primarily Swiss  francs,
for U.S. dollars  of $31,800,000, all  having maturities of  less than  six
months.   These  contracts are  designated  and effective  as  hedges,  and
accordingly, gains and losses on these forward contracts are recognized  in
the same period  the offsetting  gains and  losses of  hedged net  monetary
assets are realized and recognized.
                                   F-11

  Interest rate swaps

     The Company  has two  interest rate  swap agreements  that change  the
nature of the fixed  rate interest paid on  $50,000,000 of its medium  term
debt securities  ("Medium Term  Notes") outstanding  (Note 4).   Under  the
first agreement, the Company  pays a variable rate  (LIBOR) of interest  in
exchange for the receipt of fixed  rate interest payments of  approximately
6.1%.  Under the  second agreement, the Company  makes fixed rate  interest
payments of approximately 4.7% and receives variable rate (LIBOR)  interest
payments at the same time payments are exchanged under the first agreement.
These agreements both  have notional amounts  of $50,000,000, terminate  in
1997, and involve  the same counterparty.   The differential  in the  fixed
rate interest payments  is recognized as  a reduction  of interest  expense
related to the debt.   The related amounts  payable to and receivable  from
the counterparty are recorded in accrued  liabilities.  The fair values  of
the swap agreements are not recognized in the financial statements.

     Interest

     Interest costs  are expensed  as incurred  except to  the extent  such
interest is related to construction in progress, in which case interest  is
capitalized.  Interest costs capitalized for  the years ended December  31,
1994,  1993  and  1992,   were  $3,733,000,  $3,973,000,  and   $6,102,000,
respectively.

     Income taxes

     Effective  January  1,  1993,  the  Company  adopted  SFAS  No.   109,
"Accounting for Income Taxes," which supersedes SFAS No. 96.  As  permitted
under this new accounting standard, prior years' financial statements  have
not been restated.  Net  income for the year  ended December 31, 1993,  was
increased by $8,738,000, or $.06 per  share on a primary and fully  diluted
basis, to reflect the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle
to adopt SFAS No. 109 (Note 6).

     Earnings per share

     Earnings per share are computed in accordance with the treasury  stock
method.  Primary and  fully diluted earnings per  share are based upon  the
weighted  average  number  of  common  shares  and  dilutive  common  stock
equivalents outstanding.    Common stock  equivalents  include  outstanding
options under the Company's stock option plans and outstanding warrants  to
purchase shares of the Company's common stock.

     Reclassification

     Certain prior year amounts  have been reclassified  to conform to  the
current year presentation.
                                  F-12

2.   Business combination

     On December 22, 1994,  the Company acquired  the outstanding stock  of
Synergen, Inc. ("Synergen"), a publicly held biotechnology company  engaged
in  the  discovery  and   development  of  protein-based   pharmaceuticals.
Synergen was  acquired  for  $254,493,000,  including  related  acquisition
costs.  The preliminary assignment of the purchase price among identifiable
tangible and intangible assets was based on an analysis of the fair  values
of  those  assets.    Specifically,  purchased  in-process  technology  was
evaluated through analysis  of data concerning  each of Synergen's  product
candidates.  The fair  values of the  identifiable tangible and  intangible
assets acquired, net of liabilities  assumed, exceeded the purchase  price,
and accordingly, the values of the noncurrent assets (including  in-process
technology) were  reduced  pro rata.    The value  assigned  to  in-process
technology of $116,367,000 was expensed on the acquisition date.

     This business combination  has been accounted  for using the  purchase
method.  Therefore, the operating results  of Synergen are included in  the
accompanying consolidated financial statements from December 22, 1994.  The
following unaudited pro  forma consolidated  financial information  assumes
the  acquisition  of  Synergen  occurred  on  January  1,  1994  and  1993,
respectively (in thousands, except per share data):

                                      1994         1993
                                   ----------   ----------
               Revenues........... $1,662,251   $1,387,022
               Net income.........    259,829      209,619
               Earnings per
               share:
                 Primary..........      $1.86        $1.42
                 Fully diluted....      $1.84        $1.41

     The pro forma  information does not  purport to be  indicative of  the
operating results  which  would  have been  achieved  had  the  combination
occurred on  January 1,  1994  or 1993,  respectively,  and should  not  be
construed as representative of future operating results.

3.   Related party transactions

     Kirin-Amgen

     The Company owns a 50% interest in Kirin-Amgen, Inc.  ("Kirin-Amgen"),
a corporation formed for the  development and commercialization of  certain
products based  on  advanced  biotechnology.   Pursuant  to  the  terms  of
agreements entered  into with  Kirin-Amgen,  the Company  conducts  certain
research and development activities  on behalf of  Kirin-Amgen and is  paid
for such  services  at  a  negotiated rate.    Included  in  revenues  from
corporate partners for the  years ended December 31,  1994, 1993 and  1992,
are $58,638,000,  $41,247,000  and $24,554,000,  respectively,  related  to
these agreements.

     In connection  with  its  various  agreements  with  Kirin-Amgen,  the
Company has been granted  sole and exclusive  licenses for the  manufacture
and sale of certain  products in specified geographic  areas of the  world.
In return for such  licenses, the Company  paid Kirin-Amgen stated  amounts
upon the receipt of the licenses and/or pays Kirin-Amgen royalties based on
sales.  During  the years ended  December 31, 1994,  1993 and 1992,  Kirin-
                                   F-13

Amgen  earned  royalties  from   Amgen  of  $67,526,000,  $53,122,000   and
$42,793,000, respectively,  under such  agreements, which  are included  in
cost of sales in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

     At December  31, 1994,  Amgen's share  of Kirin-Amgen's  undistributed
retained earnings was approximately $39,350,000.

     Limited Partnership

     Amgen Clinical Partners, L.P.  (the "Limited Partnership"), a  limited
partnership, was formed to develop and commercialize products from  certain
technologies for  human  pharmaceutical  use in  the  United  States.    In
connection with the formation of the Limited Partnership, Amgen was granted
options to purchase all of the  limited partners' interests in the  Limited
Partnership.   During 1993,  Amgen exercised  these options  and made  cash
advance payments to  the former limited  partners aggregating  $20,860,000.
In addition,  each  former  limited partner  receives  quarterly  payments,
subject to certain  adjustments, equal to  a stated  percentage of  Amgen's
sales of certain  products in specified  geographic areas through  December
31, 2005.   The cash advance  payments are recoverable  against certain  of
these quarterly payments commencing in 1997.

     The Limited  Partnership  and Amgen  formed  Amgen Ventures,  a  joint
venture, to manufacture  and market the  Limited Partnership's products  in
the United  States.   Amgen consolidated  the  results of  Amgen  Ventures'
operations and reflected  the Limited Partnership's  equity in earnings  of
these operations as royalty expense.   During the years ended December  31,
1993  and  1992,  the  Limited  Partnership's  equity  in  these   earnings
aggregated $11,131,000 and $36,306,000, respectively, which are included in
cost of sales in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

4.   Debt

     The  Company  has  a  commercial  paper  program  which  provides  for
unsecured  short-term  borrowings  up  to  an  aggregate  of  $200,000,000.
Commercial paper issued under  this program is  supported by the  Company's
credit facility (discussed below).   At December  31, 1994, $99,666,000  of
commercial paper was outstanding at effective interest rates averaging 6.0%
and  maturities  of  less  than  four  months.    At  December  31,   1993,
$109,767,000 of  commercial paper  was  outstanding at  effective  interest
rates averaging 3.3% and maturities of less than three months.
                                  F-14

     Long-term debt consists of the following (in thousands):

                                                   December 31,
                                                1994         1993
                                              --------     --------
          Medium Term Notes................   $113,000     $103,000
          Promissory notes.................     68,200       68,200
          Other long-term obligations......      2,252       11,771
                                              --------     --------
                                               183,452      182,971
          Less current portion.............        (45)      (1,729)
                                              --------     --------
                                              $183,407     $181,242
                                              ========     ========


     The Company has registered $200,000,000 of unsecured Medium Term Notes
of which $113,000,000 were outstanding at December 31, 1994.  These  Medium
Term Notes mature in  two to nine  years and bear  interest at fixed  rates
averaging 5.8%.  The Company may offer and issue these securities from time
to time with  terms determined by  market conditions.   Under the terms  of
these securities, the Company is required to meet certain debt to  tangible
net worth ratios.  In addition, these securities place limitations on liens
and sale/leaseback transactions.

     The Company's promissory notes, which mature  in 1997, were issued  to
assist  in  financing  the  acquisition  and  related  construction  of   a
manufacturing facility in Puerto Rico.  These notes bear interest, which is
payable quarterly, at  a floating rate  equal to 81%  of a Eurodollar  base
rate, not to exceed 12%.  At December 31, 1994, the effective interest rate
on these notes was approximately 4.3%.  Amounts borrowed in connection with
these promissory  notes and  related interest  are  secured by  letters  of
credit which aggregate approximately $72,400,000.

     At December 31,  1994, the Company  had an  unsecured credit  facility
(the "credit facility") which provides for up to $150,000,000 in borrowings
pursuant to  a revolving  line of  credit.   The revolving  line of  credit
expires in June 1995.  At December 31, 1994, $150,000,000 was available for
borrowing  and  to   support  the  Company's   commercial  paper   program.
Borrowings under the line of credit bear interest at: 1) the higher of  the
prime rate of a  major bank or the  federal funds rate plus  1/2%; or 2)  a
Eurodollar base rate  plus 1/2% to  3/4%.  Under  the terms  of the  credit
facility, the Company is required to meet certain working capital, debt  to
tangible net worth and interest coverage ratios and maintain certain levels
of  tangible  net  worth.    In  addition,  the  credit  facility  contains
limitations on investments, liens and sale/leaseback transactions.

     The aggregate  stated  maturities  of all  long-term  obligations  due
subsequent to December 31, 1994, are as follows: $45,000 - 1995; $2,207,000
- 1996; $118,200,000  - 1997; $30,000,000  - 1998; $10,000,000  - 1999  and
$23,000,000 thereafter.
                                    F-15  

5.   Contingencies

     Johnson & Johnson arbitration

     In September 1985, the Company granted Johnson & Johnson an  exclusive
license under certain patented  technology and know how  of the Company  to
sell erythropoietin throughout the United States for all human uses  except
dialysis and diagnostics.

     In January 1989, Johnson  & Johnson initiated arbitration  proceedings
with respect to  a number of  disputes which had  arisen between Amgen  and
Johnson &  Johnson as  to  the respective  rights  and obligations  of  the
parties under the  various agreements between  them.  Amgen  filed a  cross
petition for arbitration raising additional disputes for resolution by  the
arbitrator.  The scope of the arbitration covers erythropoietin,  hepatitis
B vaccine and interleukin-2.

     In April  1990,  the arbitrator  ruled  that Johnson  &  Johnson  must
purchase from Amgen all of Johnson  & Johnson's actual United States  sales
requirements of recombinant  human erythropoietin.   In December 1990,  the
U.S. Food  and Drug  Administration approved  Amgen's application  to  name
Johnson &  Johnson  a  distributor of  Epoetin  alfa  under  the  trademark
PROCRIT(R).  In January 1991, Johnson & Johnson began distributing  Epoetin
alfa.

     In June  1991, the  arbitrator issued  an opinion  awarding Johnson  &
Johnson $164,000,000 on its claims regarding erythropoietin.  In  September
1992, the  arbitrator  found  that  Johnson  &  Johnson  had  breached  its
obligations regarding hepatitis B vaccine and interleukin-2, and in January
1993 awarded  the  Company  approximately $90,000,000  in  damages  against
Johnson & Johnson.  In January 1993, the Company paid Johnson & Johnson the
sum of $82,400,000, representing the difference between the damages awarded
Johnson & Johnson as a result of its erythropoietin claims, and the amounts
awarded Amgen against  Johnson &  Johnson as a  result of  its hepatitis  B
vaccine and  interleukin-2  claims,  plus  interest.    Johnson  &  Johnson
returned to  the Company  the  rights to  develop  and market  hepatitis  B
vaccine and interleukin-2 in March 1991.

     The Company  and Johnson  & Johnson  are required  to compensate  each
other for  Epoetin alfa  sales  which either  party  makes into  the  other
party's contractual market.  The Company  has established and is  employing
an accounting methodology to assign the proceeds of sales of EPOGEN(R)  and
PROCRIT(R) in  Amgen's  and  Johnson  &  Johnson's  respective  contractual
markets.  The Company has made payments to Johnson & Johnson based upon the
results of the  Company's accounting methodology.   Johnson  & Johnson  has
disputed the  methodology  employed by  the  Company and  is  proposing  an
alternative methodology for adoption by the arbitrator.  If, as a result of
the arbitration  proceeding, a  methodology different  from that  currently
employed by  the Company  is instituted  to assign  the proceeds  of  sales
between the  parties, it  may yield  results that  are different  from  the
results of the  accounting methodology currently  employed by the  Company.
As a  result of  the arbitration,  it is  possible that  the Company  would
recognize a different  level of EPOGEN(R)  sales than  are currently  being
recognized.  As a result of the arbitration, the Company may be required to
pay additional compensation  to Johnson &  Johnson for  sales during  prior
periods, or Johnson &  Johnson may be required  to pay compensation to  the
Company for  such prior  period sales.   Due  to the  uncertainties of  any
                                  F-16

arbitrated result, the Company has established net liabilities that  exceed
the amounts paid to Johnson & Johnson.

     A trial date has  been set for October  2, 1995 before the  arbitrator
regarding the  accounting  methodologies  and  compensation  for  sales  by
Johnson & Johnson into Amgen's contractual  market and sales by Amgen  into
Johnson & Johnson's contractual market.  Discovery as to these issues is in
progress.

     Synergen litigation

     Acquisition litigation

     The Company  and  its  wholly owned  subsidiary,  Amgen  Boulder  Inc.
(formerly Synergen),  have been  named as  defendants in  several  lawsuits
filed in  connection  with  the  Company's  December  1994  acquisition  of
Synergen (the ``Acquisition'').  One suit, brought by plaintiffs seeking to
represent a  class of  Synergen  warrant holders  who  claim to  have  been
deprived of the benefit of their  warrants, includes a request for  general
damages in the  sum of $34,334,000.   The balance  of the  suits have  been
brought by plaintiffs  who seek  to represent  a class  of stockholders  of
Synergen common  stock.   These plaintiffs  seek an  unspecified amount  of
compensatory damages,  an  order  rescinding the  Acquisition  and  related
equitable relief based upon allegations that the defendants breached  their
fiduciary duties by failing to maximize stockholder value and defrauded the
plaintiffs  by  omitting   to  disclose   allegedly  material   information
concerning Synergen's future prospects.

     ANTRIL(TM) litigation

     Several  lawsuits   have   been  filed   against   Synergen   alleging
misrepresentations in  connection  with  its research  and  development  of
ANTRIL(TM) for the  treatment of sepsis.   One of  these suits  is a  class
action  brought  by  various  classes  of  Synergen  stockholders  alleging
violations of  federal and  state  securities laws.    This suit  has  been
approved for settlement for an amount that is not material to the Company's
financial statements.  Another suit brought by three Synergen  stockholders
alleges violations of  state securities laws,  fraud and  misrepresentation
and seeks  an  unspecified  amount of  compensatory  damages  and  punitive
damages.   Two additional  suits, proposed  as class  actions, filed  by  a
limited partner of a  partnership with which  Synergen is affiliated,  seek
rescission  of  certain  payments  made  to  one  of  the  defendants   (or
unspecified damages not less than $50,000,000) and treble damages based  on
a variety of allegations.

     While it  is  not possible  to  predict accurately  or  determine  the
eventual outcome  of  the  Johnson  &  Johnson  arbitration,  the  Synergen
litigation or various other  legal proceedings (including patent  disputes)
involving Amgen, the Company believes that the outcome of these proceedings
will not have a material adverse effect on the financial statements of  the
Company.
                                  F-17

6.   Income taxes

     The provision for income taxes includes the following (in thousands):

                                          Years Ended December 31,
                                          1994      1993      1992
                                        --------  --------  --------
       Current provision:
          Federal.....................  $231,306  $165,822  $178,609
          State.......................    34,855    25,856    34,937
                                        --------  --------  --------
            Total current provision...   266,161   191,678   213,546
                                        --------  --------  --------
       Deferred provision (benefit):
          Federal.....................       516    19,723    (8,012)
          State.......................     1,927     6,394         -
                                        --------  --------  --------
            Total deferred provision
               (benefit)..............     2,443    26,117    (8,012)
                                        --------  --------  --------
                                        $268,604  $217,795  $205,534
                                        ========  ========  ========
                                    F-18

     Deferred income taxes  reflect the net  tax effects  of net  operating
loss carryforwards and temporary  differences between the carrying  amounts
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the  amounts
used for  income tax  purposes.   Significant components  of the  Company's
deferred tax assets and liabilities as of December 31, 1994 and 1993 are as
follows (in thousands):

                                                   December 31,
                                                1994         1993
                                              --------     -------
     Deferred tax assets:
       Net operating loss carryforwards...    $ 89,478     $ 3,913
       Expense accruals...................      78,481      42,834
       Fixed assets.......................      17,018       7,280
       Royalty obligation buyouts.........      11,772      12,936
       State income taxes.................       9,499       6,501
       Research collaboration expenses....       8,033       7,865
       Other..............................       7,215       6,969
                                              --------     -------
          Total deferred tax assets.......     221,496      88,298

     Valuation allowance..................     (79,497)    (17,805)
                                              --------     -------
          Net deferred tax assets.........     141,999      70,493
                                              --------     -------
     Deferred tax liabilities:
       Purchase of technology rights......     (25,708)     (9,608)
       Other..............................      (5,649)     (1,948)
                                              --------     -------
          Total deferred tax liabilities..     (31,357)    (11,556)
                                              --------     -------
                                              $110,642     $58,937
                                              ========     =======

     The net  change in  the valuation  allowance for  deferred tax  assets
during the  year ended  December 31,  1994 was  $61,692,000.   This  change
primarily relates to the net operating loss carryforwards acquired  through
the purchase of Synergen (Note 2).

     At December 31,  1994, the  Company had  operating loss  carryforwards
available to reduce future federal and foreign taxable income which  expire
as follows (in thousands):

                                  Federal      Foreign
                                 --------     --------
                  1997 - 2002... $  1,935      $35,755
                  2003 - 2006...   26,799            -
                  2007..........   33,180            -
                  2008..........   94,382            -
                  2009..........   98,722            -
                                 --------      -------
                                 $255,018      $35,755
                                 ========      =======

     Approximately $238,000,000 of the federal operating loss carryforwards
relate to the acquisition of Synergen.  Utilization of these operating loss
carryforwards is limited to approximately $16,000,000 per year.
                                  F-19

     The provision for income taxes varies from taxes based on the  federal
statutory rate of 35% for 1994  and 1993, and 34%  for 1992 as follows  (in
thousands):

                                          1994       1993       1992
                                        --------   --------   --------
  Statutory rate  applied  to  income
     before income taxes............... $205,894   $207,330   $191,466
  Write-off of  purchased  in-process
     technology not deductible.........   40,728          -          -
  State income taxes,  net of federal
     income tax benefit................   23,908     20,963     23,058
  Retroactive effects of  enacted tax
     law changes.......................        -     (9,582)         -
  Equity in  earnings  of  affiliated
     company, not taxable..............   (2,994)    (3,834)    (8,229)
  Other, net...........................    1,068      2,918       (761)
                                        --------   --------   --------
                                        $268,604   $217,795   $205,534
                                        ========   ========   ========


     The tax provision for the year ended December 31, 1993 was reduced  by
$9,582,000 due to changes in federal tax laws enacted in August 1993.  This
amount principally relates to the retroactive reinstatement of research and
experimentation and orphan drug tax credits to July 1, 1992.

     Income taxes paid during the years  ended December 31, 1994, 1993  and
1992, totaled $234,233,000, $146,270,000 and $134,105,000, respectively.


7.   Stockholders' equity

     On January  24, 1989,  the Company's  Board  of Directors  declared  a
dividend of one common share purchase right ("Right") for each  outstanding
share of common stock.  The Rights will become exercisable 10 days after  a
person acquires 10% or more of the common stock, or 10 days after a  person
announces a tender offer which would result in such person acquiring 10% or
more of the common stock.  Subject to certain conditions, the Rights may be
redeemed by the Board of Directors.  The current redemption price is $.0017
per Right, subject to  adjustment.  The Rights  will expire on January  24,
1999.

     Under certain circumstances, if an acquirer  purchases 10% or more  of
the Company's outstanding  common stock, each  Rightholder (other than  the
acquirer) is entitled for a specified period to buy shares of common  stock
of the Company  at 50% of  the then current  market price.   The number  of
shares which a holder  may purchase upon exercise  will be determined by  a
formula which includes a current exercise price of $160 per share,  subject
to adjustment.   If an  acquirer purchases at  least 10%  of the  Company's
common stock, but has not achieved a 50% stake, the Board may exchange  the
Rights (other than the acquirer's Rights) for one share of common stock per
Right.   In  addition,  under certain  circumstances,  if  the  Company  is
involved in a  merger or  other business combination  where it  is not  the
surviving corporation, a Rightholder may buy shares of common stock of  the
acquiring company at 50% of the then current market value.
                                   F-20

     In connection with the sale of limited partnership interests in  1987,
Amgen issued warrants to the limited partners to purchase 18,153,000 shares
of its common  stock in exchange  for the options  to purchase the  limited
partners' interests in the Limited Partnership.  Substantially all warrants
were exercised prior to their expiration on June 30, 1994.

     In addition to  common stock,  the Company's  authorized capital  also
includes 5,000,000  shares  of  preferred stock,  $.0001  par  value.    At
December 31, 1994, no shares of preferred stock were issued or outstanding.

     At December 31, 1994, the Company  has reserved 181,023,000 shares  of
its common stock  which may be  issued through its  stock option and  stock
purchase plans and in connection with the stockholder Rights agreement.

     In 1992, the Company initiated a  program to repurchase shares of  its
own common stock.  The program has been expanded to allow repurchases of up
to an aggregate of $925,000,000 before  December 31, 1995.  As of  December
31, 1994, $331,208,000  of this  total remained  available for  repurchase.
Stock repurchased under the program has  been retired and such  repurchases
have partially offset the dilutive effect of the Company's stock option and
stock purchase plans.

8.   Stock option and purchase plans

     The Company's stock option plans provide for option grants  designated
as either nonqualified or incentive stock  options.  The options  generally
vest over a three to five  year period and expire  seven to ten years  from
the date of grant.  In general, stock option grants are set at the  closing
price of the Company's common stock on the  date of grant.  As of  December
31, 1994, the Company  had 4,167,000 shares of  common stock available  for
future grant under its stock option plans.

     Most U.S.  employees  and  certain  employees  outside  the  U.S.  are
eligible to receive a grant of  stock options periodically with the  number
of  shares  generally  determined  by  the  employee's  salary  grade   and
performance level.  In addition, certain management and professional  level
employees normally receive a  stock option grant  upon hire.   Non-employee
directors of the Company receive a grant of stock options annually.
                                  F-21

     The  total  number  of  options  granted  to  executive  officers  and
directors and to other Amgen personnel is as follows (in thousands):

                                   Years ended December 31,

                              1994           1993           1992

                          -------------  -------------  --------------
                          Shares     %   Shares     %    Shares     %       
                          ------   ----  ------   ----  ------    ----         
     Executive officers
       and directors...      540    13%     391    10%     300     13%
     Other Amgen
       personnel.......    3,692    87%   3,621    90%   2,001     87%         
                          ------   ----   ------  ----  ------    ----         
       Total...........    4,232   100%   4,012   100%   2,301    100%
                          ======   ====  ======   ====  ======    ====

     Stock option information with  respect to all  of the Company's  stock
option plans follows (in thousands, except price information):

                                                      Price
                                            -------------------------
                                                             Weighted
                                   Shares     Low     High   Average
                                   ------     ---     ----   --------
     Balance December 31, 1991,
       unexercised..............   16,889    $ 3.52  $62.75   $14.13
          Granted...............    2,301    $50.00  $77.75   $59.74
          Exercised.............   (3,803)   $ 3.53  $66.25   $ 9.46 
          Cancelled.............     (262)   $ 4.50  $73.75   $18.51
                                   ------
     Balance December 31, 1992,
       unexercised..............   15,125    $ 3.53  $77.75   $22.17
          Granted...............    4,012    $32.13  $70.63   $37.85
          Exercised.............   (2,274)   $ 3.53  $61.00   $ 9.23
          Cancelled.............     (324)   $ 4.50  $76.75   $30.42
                                   ------
     Balance December 31, 1993,
       unexercised..............   16,539    $ 3.53  $77.75   $27.43
          Granted...............    4,232    $35.36  $59.00   $44.13
          Exercised.............   (2,772)   $ 3.86  $56.00   $13.89
          Cancelled.............     (479)   $ 7.38  $74.75   $43.83
                                   ------
     Balance December 31, 1994,
       unexercised..............   17,520    $ 3.53  $77.75   $33.16
                                   ======
                                   F-22

     The following table shows the maximum number of shares that will  vest
based on  the  number of  options  outstanding  at December  31,  1994  (in
thousands, except price range amounts):

     Exercise    1994 and                 1997 and   Total  Aggregate
     Price Range   Prior    1995   1996  Thereafter Shares    Price
     ----------  --------  -----  -----  ---------- ------  --------
     Under $10..   2,951     107      -         -    3,058  $ 19,307
     $10 - $29..   2,627     336     56       180    3,199    48,317
     $30 - $60..   2,759   2,629  2,158     2,651   10,197   443,639
     Over $60...     520     223    194       129    1,066    69,680
                   -----   -----  -----     -----   ------  --------
       Total....   8,857   3,295  2,408     2,960   17,520  $580,943
                   =====   =====  =====     =====   ======  ========


     Unless exercised, options  outstanding as of  December 31, 1994,  will
expire as follows (in thousands, except price range amounts):

     Exercise                             1997 and   Total  Aggregate
     Price Range            1995   1996  Thereafter Shares    Price
     -----------           -----  -----  ---------- ------  ---------          -
     Under $10............  444   1,602     1,012    3,058  $ 19,307
     $10 - $29............  131       -     3,068    3,199    48,317
     $30 - $60............   78       5    10,114   10,197   443,639
     Over $60.............   23       -     1,043    1,066    69,680
                            ---   -----    ------   ------  --------
       Total..............  676   1,607    15,237   17,520  $580,943
                            ===   =====    ======   ======  ========


     The Company has an employee stock purchase plan whereby, in accordance
with Section  423 of  the Internal  Revenue  Code, eligible  employees  may
authorize payroll  deductions of  up to  10% of  their salary  to  purchase
shares of the Company's common stock at the lower of 85% of the fair market
value of common  stock on the  first or last  day of  the offering  period.
During the  years ended  December 31,  1994, 1993  and 1992,  respectively,
99,000, 94,000 and 81,000 shares, respectively, were purchased by employees
at prices  of  $41.76, $42.07  and  $60.03  per share,  respectively.    At
December 31, 1994, the  Company had 2,661,000  shares available for  future
issuance under this plan.
                                   F-23

9.   Balance sheet accounts

     Property, plant and equipment consist of the following (in thousands):

                                                  December 31,
                                              1994         1993
                                            --------     --------
     Land.................................  $ 58,354     $ 44,984
     Buildings............................   330,172      281,917
     Manufacturing equipment..............    53,173       47,416
     Laboratory equipment.................   123,624       87,389
     Furniture and office equipment.......   137,646       90,152
     Leasehold improvements...............    53,697       48,572
     Construction in progress.............   116,708      130,231
                                            --------     --------
                                             873,374      730,661
     Less accumulated depreciation and
        amortization......................  (208,060)    (143,749)
                                            --------     --------
                                            $665,314     $586,912
                                            ========     ========

     Other accrued liabilities consist of the following (in thousands):

                                                  December 31,
                                              1994         1993
                                            --------     --------
     Employee compensation and benefits...  $ 63,357     $ 32,369
     Legal costs..........................    60,733       29,597
     Sales  incentives,   royalties   and
       allowances.........................    60,023       69,039
     Due  to  affiliated   companies  and
        corporate partners................    51,832       57,345
     Income taxes.........................    35,050       24,137
     Clinical costs.......................    29,874        7,703
     Other................................   105,418       59,248
                                            --------     --------
                                            $406,287     $279,438
                                            ========     ========


10.  Fair values of financial instruments

     The following is information concerning the fair values of each  class
of financial instruments at December 31, 1994:

  Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities

     The  carrying  amounts  of  cash,  cash  equivalents  and   marketable
securities approximate their fair values.  Fair values of cash  equivalents
and marketable securities are based on quoted market prices.
                                   F-24

  Debt

     The carrying value of commercial paper approximates its fair value due
to the short maturity of these liabilities.  The fair value of Medium  Term
Notes was approximately $105,711,000.  This  amount was estimated based  on
quoted market  rates  for  instruments with  similar  terms  and  remaining
maturities.  The carrying  value of the  promissory notes approximates  its
fair value since the interest rate on the notes is reset quarterly.

  Interest rate swap agreements

     The fair values of interest rate swap agreements were not  significant
based on estimated amounts  that the counterparty would  receive or pay  to
terminate the swap agreements taking into account current interest rates.

  Foreign currency contracts

     The  fair  values  of  the  foreign  currency  forward  contracts  and
purchased foreign currency option contracts  were not significant based on
quoted market rates.

11.  Major customers

     Amgen has chosen to use major wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical
products as the principal means of  distributing the Company's products  to
clinics, hospitals and  pharmacies.   The Company  performs ongoing  credit
evaluations of its customers' financial condition and generally requires no
collateral.  For the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, sales to
two major wholesale distributors as a percentage of total revenues were 22%
and 16%, 23% and 10%, and 22% and 11%, respectively.

12.  Geographic information

     Information about the  Company's operations in  the United States  and
its possessions,  Europe, and  other international  markets, which  include
Canada, Australia, China and Japan, for the years ended December 31,  1994,
1993 and 1992, is as follows (in thousands):

                                        1994        1993         1992
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------
 Sales to unaffiliated customers:
   United States and possessions.... $1,333,752   $1,130,040   $  927,986
   Europe...........................    193,019      165,746      118,841
   Other............................     22,796       10,536        3,827
 Transfers between geographic areas:
   United States and possessions....     15,688        5,441        4,799
 Other revenue......................     98,337       67,520       42,387
 Adjustments and eliminations.......    (15,688)      (5,441)      (4,799)
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------
 Total revenues..................... $1,647,904   $1,373,842   $1,093,041
                                     ==========   ==========   ==========
                                  F-25 

                                        1994        1993         1992
                                      --------    --------     --------
 Operating profit (loss):
   United States and possessions....  $624,055    $592,949     $542,851
   Europe...........................    50,258      35,826        3,854
   Other............................   (25,628)    (14,886)      (8,233)
 Adjustments and eliminations.......    (2,809)        954       (1,941)
                                      --------    --------     --------
 Total operating profit.............   645,876     614,843      536,531
 Interest and other income, net.....     9,505      21,011       35,247
 Earnings (loss) of affiliates, net.   (31,227)    (12,589)      16,940
 General corporate expenses.........   (35,885)    (30,895)     (25,584)
                                      --------    --------     --------
 Income  before  income  taxes  and
   cumulative effect  of  a change
   in accounting principle..........  $588,269    $592,370     $563,134
                                      ========    ========     ========

     Operating profit  (loss) represents  revenue less  operating  expenses
directly related to each geographic area.  Operating profit (loss) excludes
interest and other  income, earnings (loss)  of affiliates,  net and  other
expenses attributable to general corporate operations.

     Included in  the  operating  profit for  the  United  States  and  its
possessions  is  a   write-off  of  in-process   technology  purchased   of
$116,367,000 for  the year  ended December  31, 1994  and legal  awards  of
$13,900,000 and  $77,076,000, for  the years  ended December  31, 1993  and
1992, respectively.    Earnings  (loss) of  affiliates,  net  includes  the
minority interest in earnings of majority controlled European affiliates of
$30,854,000, $22,182,000 and  $7,756,000 for the  years ended December  31,
1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

     Information about the Company's identifiable assets in each geographic
area at December 31, 1994 and 1993 is as follows (in thousands):

                                                  December 31,
                                               1994         1993
                                            ----------   ----------
     Identifiable assets:
        United States and possessions...... $  906,370   $  792,602
        Europe.............................     50,679       42,728
        Other..............................     22,348        9,936
     Adjustments and eliminations..........     (2,809)         954
                                            ----------   ----------
     Total identifiable assets.............    976,588      846,220
     Corporate  assets  including  equity
        method investments.................  1,017,559      919,303
                                            ----------   ----------
     Total assets.......................... $1,994,147   $1,765,523
                                            ==========   ==========


     Identifiable  assets  are  those  assets  of  the  Company  that   are
identified  with  the  operations  in  each  geographic  area.     Europe's
identifiable  assets   include   accounts   receivable   of   approximately
$34,400,000 and $27,500,000 as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively,
denominated in foreign  currencies.  Corporate  assets, which are  excluded
                                  F-26

from  identifiable  assets,  are   principally  comprised  of  cash,   cash
equivalents and  marketable securities.   At  December 31,  1994 and  1993,
total  international  assets  approximated  $93,819,000  and   $68,029,000,
respectively, and total international liabilities approximated  $16,561,000
and $12,268,000, respectively.

13.  Quarterly financial data  (unaudited, in thousands,  except per  share
     data):


1994 Quarter Ended   Dec. 31     Sept. 30       June 30       Mar. 31
------------------  --------     --------      --------      --------
Product sales.....  $413,566     $401,695      $388,575      $345,731
Gross margin from
  product sales...   352,246       342,569       324,181      292,448
Net income........     4,785 (1)   113,956       107,464       93,460
Earnings per
  share:
  Primary.........       .03           .82          .77           .66
  Fully diluted...       .03           .82          .77           .66



1993 Quarter Ended   Dec. 31     Sept. 30       June 30       Mar. 31
------------------  --------     --------      --------      --------
Product sales.....  $347,289     $335,752      $327,829      $295,452
Gross margin from
  product sales...   289,969      277,491       274,268      244,548
Income before
  cumulative
  effect of a
  change in
  accounting
  principle.......    91,099      102,692       100,224       80,560
Net income........    91,099      102,692 (2)   100,224 (3)   89,298 (4)
Earnings per
  share:
  Primary:
     Income before
       cumulative
       effect of a
       change in
       accounting
       principle..      .64           .72          .70           .55
     Net income...      .64           .72          .70           .61
  Fully diluted:
     Income before
       cumulative
       effect of a
       change in
       accounting
       principle..      .64           .72          .70           .55
     Net income...      .64           .72          .70           .61

     (1)  During  the fourth  quarter of 1994,  net income  was reduced  by
$116,367,000 due to  the write-off  of in-process  technology purchased  in
connection with the acquisition of Synergen (Note 2).
                                  F-27

     (2)  During the third quarter of 1993, the provision for income  taxes
was reduced by $9,582,000 due to changes in federal tax laws enacted during
the period.    This amount  principally  relates to  the  reinstatement  of
research and experimentation  and orphan  drug tax  credits retroactive  to
July 1, 1992 (Note 6).

     (3)  During the  second  quarter  of  1993,  the  Company  recorded  a
$13,900,000  legal  award,  which  resulted  in  an  after  tax  credit  of
$8,618,000,  as  part  of  the  settlement  with  Genetics  Institute   for
outstanding patent disputes regarding erythropoietin in the United States.

     (4)  During the first  quarter of 1993,  net income  was increased  by
$8,738,000, to  reflect the  cumulative effect  of a  change in  accounting
principle to adopt SFAS No. 109 (Note 1).
                                   F-28

                                                              SCHEDULE VIII
                                AMGEN INC.

                            VALUATION ACCOUNTS

               Years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992
                               (In thousands)

                                 Balance   Additions             
                                   at       Charged              Balance
                                Beginning  to Costs              at End
                                   of        and                   of
                                 Period    Expenses  Deductions  Period
                                --------   --------  ----------  -------
  Year ended December 31, 1994:
     Allowance for doubtful                   
       accounts................  $12,161    $1,489    $  366    $13,284
     Inventory reserves........    1,990     6,000     4,973      3,017

  Year ended December 31, 1993:
     Allowance for doubtful
       accounts................  $11,770    $  938    $  547    $12,161
     Inventory reserves........    1,862       128         -      1,990

  Year ended December 31, 1992:
     Allowance for doubtful
       accounts................  $ 6,988    $5,112    $  330    $11,770
     Inventory reserves........    4,693         8     2,839      1,862
                                   F-29


