
10-K
FORM 10-K



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
                                   FORM 10-K
                                 ANNUAL REPORT

(Mark One)
/X/ Annual report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934
  [FEE REQUIRED]

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994

/ / Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934
  [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the transition period from          to

                           COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-4422

                            ------------------------

                                 ROLLINS, INC.
                                  ------------



                2170 PIEDMONT ROAD, N.E., ATLANTA, GEORGIA 30324
                       TELEPHONE NUMBER -- (404) 888-2000
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:



  Indicate  by  check mark  whether  the Registrant  (1)  has filed  all reports
required to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d) of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during  the preceding  12  months (or  for  such shorter  period  that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to  such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes _X_    No ___

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to item 405
of  Regulation S-K is  not contained herein,  and will not  be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge, in definitive  proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  / /

  The   aggregate  market  value   of  Rollins,  Inc.   common  stock,  held  by
non-affiliates on February 28, 1995 was $514,974,078, based on the closing price
on the New York Stock Exchange on such date of $25 1/4 per share.

  Rollins, Inc. had  35,838,091 shares  of common  stock outstanding  (excluding
5,593,723 Treasury shares) as of February 28, 1995.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

  Portions  of Rollins,  Inc.'s Annual Report  to Stockholders  for the calendar
year ended December  31, 1994 are  incorporated by reference  into Part I,  Item
1(b) and 1(c), Item 3, and Part II, Items 5-8.

  Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 1995 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of
Rollins,  Inc. are incorporated by reference into Part III, Items 10, 11, 12 and
13.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

  (a) GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS.

    Since the beginning of the calendar year, Rollins, Inc. and its subsidiaries
have  continued to operate and grow in the same principal services for homes and
businesses.

  (b) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS.

    The response to Item 1.(b) is incorporated by reference from the table under
the caption  "Business Segment  Information," on  pages 21  and 22  of the  1994
Annual Report to Stockholders.

  (c) NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS.

    (1)(i)  The Registrant  is a national  company with  headquarters located in
Atlanta,  Georgia,  providing  services  to  both  residential  and   commercial
customers.  The four  primary services  provided are  termite and  pest control,
plantscaping, lawn care, and protective services. Additionally, the revenues  by
business  segment are incorporated  by reference to the  table under the caption
"Business Segment Information" on pages 21 and  22 of the 1994 Annual Report  to
Stockholders.

    Orkin  Exterminating  Company,  Inc.,  a  wholly  owned  subsidiary (Orkin),
founded in  1901,  is  one of  the  world's  largest termite  and  pest  control
companies.   It  provides  customized  services  to  approximately  1.5  million
customers through a network of  367 company-owned and operated branches  serving
customers  in  49 states,  the District  of Columbia,  the Bahamas,  Mexico, and
Puerto  Rico.  It  provides  customized  pest  control  services  to  homes  and
businesses, including hotels, food service and transportation companies. Orkin's
continuous  regular service provides protection against household pests, rodents
and termites.  Orkin's Plantscaping  Division  designs, installs  and  maintains
green  and  flowering plants  from nine  branches and  services customers  in 17
states and the District  of Columbia. It provides  services to hotels,  shopping
malls,  restaurants, and office  buildings. Orkin's Lawn  Care Division provides
fertilization, weed and insect control, seeding, aeration of lawns, and tree and
shrub care from 22 branches serving customers in 10 states.

    Rollins Protective Services, a Division  of the Registrant, was  established
in  1969. Services are provided from 48  branches serving customers in 35 states
and the  District of  Columbia. A  pioneer in  developing customized  wired  and
wireless electronic security systems, it provides full-service capabilities from
system   design  and  installation  to   maintenance  and  monitoring  services.
Full-service  includes  guaranteed   maintenance  programs,  24-hour   emergency
repairs, and 24-hour alarm monitoring services.

    (ii)  The Registrant  has made no  announcement of, nor  did any information
become public about, a new line of business or product requiring the  investment
of a material amount of the Registrant's total assets.

    (iii)  Sources  and  availability  of raw  materials  present  no particular
problem to the Registrant, since its businesses are primarily in service-related
industries.

    (iv) Governmental licenses, patents, trademarks and franchises are of  minor
importance  to the Registrant's  service operations. Local  licenses and permits
are required  in  order for  the  Registrant to  conduct  its termite  and  pest
control,  plantscaping, and lawn care and  its protective services operations in
certain localities. In  view of  the widespread operations  of the  Registrant's
service operations, the failure of a few local governments to license a facility
would  not have a  material adverse effect  on the results  of operations of the
Registrant.

    (v) The business of the Registrant is affected by the seasonal nature of the
Registrant's termite  and  pest  control, plantscaping  and  lawn  care  service
operations (Orkin Exterminating Company, Inc.). The metamorphosis of termites in
the  spring and summer (the  occurrence of which is  determined by the timing of
the change in seasons) has historically  resulted in an increase in the  revenue
and income of the Registrant's


termite  and pest control operations during such period. Plantscaping operations
experience seasonal increases in revenues and operating income generated by  the
division's  Exterior Color  and Holiday programs  offered during  the spring and
late fall. Lawn care services are seasonal and coincide with the growing seasons
of lawns.

    (vi) Inapplicable.

    (vii) The Registrant  and its subsidiaries  do not have  a material part  of
their  business that is dependent upon a single customer or a few customers, the
loss of which would have a material effect on the business of the Registrant.

    (viii) The dollar amount of service  contracts and backlog orders as of  the
end  of  the  Registrant's  1994  and  1993  calendar  years  was  approximately
$16,063,000 and  $12,890,000,  respectively.  Backlog services  and  orders  are
usually  provided within the month following the month of receipt, except in the
area of prepaid  pest control and  alarm monitoring where  services are  usually
provided within twelve months of receipt.

    (ix) Inapplicable.

    (x)  The Registrant believes that each  of its businesses competes favorably
with competitors within its respective  area. Orkin Exterminating Company,  Inc.
is  one  of the  world's  largest termite  and  pest control  companies. Rollins
Protective Services  is a  pioneer and  one of  the leaders  in residential  and
commercial security. Orkin Plantscaping is the industry's second largest company
with  operations in nine  major markets. Orkin  Lawn Care is  one of the largest
lawn care companies.

    The principal methods of  competition in the  Registrant's termite and  pest
control  business are service and guarantees, including the money-back guarantee
on termite  and pest  control, and  the termite  retreatment and  damage  repair
guarantee to qualified homeowners. Competition in the plantscaping and lawn care
businesses  is based on providing  customized services together with guarantees,
with the Registrant offering the same money-back guarantee for the services. The
principal method of competition  in the residential  protection business of  the
Registrant  is the provision of customized emergency protection services to meet
the particular needs of each customer.

    (xi) Expenditures by the Registrant  on research activities relating to  the
development of new products or services are not significant. Some of the new and
improved  service methods and products are researched, developed and produced by
unaffiliated universities and  companies. Also  a portion of  these methods  and
products are produced to the specifications provided by the Registrant.

    (xii)  The capital  expenditures, earnings  and competitive  position of the
Registrant and its subsidiaries are  not materially affected by compliance  with
Federal,  state  and  local  provisions  which  have  been  enacted  or  adopted
regulating the  discharge  of  materials  into  the  environment,  or  otherwise
relating to the protection of the environment.

    (xiii) The number of persons employed by the Registrant and its subsidiaries
as of the end of 1994 was 8,774.

  (d) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT
SALES.

    Inapplicable.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

    The  Registrant's administrative headquarters and central warehouse, both of
which are owned  by the  Registrant, are located  at 2170  Piedmont Road,  N.E.,
Atlanta,  Georgia 30324.  The Registrant owns  or leases  several hundred branch
offices and operating  facilities used  in its  businesses. None  of the  branch
offices,  individually  considered, represents  a materially  important physical
property of the Registrant. The facilities are suitable and adequate to meet the
current and reasonably anticipated future needs of the Registrant.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

    Legal proceedings  are included  on page  21 of  the 1994  Annual Report  to
Stockholders   contained  in  financial   statement  footnote  No.   6  and  are
incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

    Inapplicable.

ITEM 4.A. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

    Each of the executive officers of the Registrant was elected by the Board of
Directors to serve until the  Board of Directors' meeting immediately  following
the  next annual  meeting of  stockholders or until  his earlier  removal by the
Board of Directors or his resignation.  The following table lists the  executive
officers  of the Registrant and their ages, offices with the Registrant, and the
dates from which they have continually served in their present offices with  the
Registrant.



                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

    Information containing  dividends  and  stock  prices on  page  12  and  the
principal  markets on  which common  shares are  traded on  page 25  of the 1994
Annual Report to Stockholders are  incorporated herein by reference. The  number
of stockholders of record on December 31, 1994 was 3,956.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

    Selected Financial Data on page 24 of the 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders
is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.

    Management's  Discussion and Analysis of  Financial Condition and Results of
Operations included  on  pages  13 through  15  of  the 1994  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders  is incorporated herein  by reference. The  effects of inflation on
operations were not material for the periods being reported.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

    The following consolidated  financial statements and  supplementary data  of
the  Registrant and its  consolidated subsidiaries, included  in the 1994 Annual
Report to Stockholders, are incorporated herein by reference.

    Financial Statements:

       Statements of Income  for each  of the three  years in  the period  ended
       December 31, 1994, page 17.

       Statements of Earnings Retained for each of the three years in the period
       ended December 31, 1994, page 17.

       Statements  of Financial Position as of  December 31, 1994 and 1993, page
       16.

       Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period  ended
       December 31, 1994, page 18.

       Notes to Financial Statements, pages 19 through 23.

       Report of Independent Auditors, page 23.

    Supplementary Data:

       Quarterly Information, pages 12 and 13.


ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

    Inapplicable.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

    The  response to Item 10, applicable to  the Directors of the Registrant, is
incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth under the  caption
"Election  of  Directors"  in the  Proxy  Statement  for the  Annual  Meeting of
Stockholders to  be  held  April 25,  1995.  Additional  information  concerning
executive officers is included in Part I, Item 4.A. of this Form 10-K.

    Based  solely on its  review of copies  of forms received  by it pursuant to
Section 16(a) of  the Securities Exchange  Act of 1934,  as amended, or  written
representations  from certain reporting persons, Registrant believes that during
the fiscal year ended  December 31, 1994 all  filing requirements applicable  to
its  officers, directors, and greater than  10% stockholders were complied with,
except that Mr. R.  Randall Rollins and  Mr. Gary W. Rollins  each filed a  late
report  on Form 5 which  reported the disposition of shares  by the estate of O.
Wayne Rollins, of which both are co-executors.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

    The response  to  Item  11  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  the
information  set forth under  the caption "Executive  Compensation" in the Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 25, 1995.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

    The response  to  Item  12  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  the
information  set  forth  under the  captions  "Capital Stock"  and  "Election of
Directors" in the Proxy Statement for  the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to  be
held April 25, 1995.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

    The   section  entitled  "Compensation   Committee  Interlocks  and  Insider
Participation" and  "Executive  Compensation" in  the  Proxy Statement  for  the
Annual  Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 25, 1995, and related footnotes
and information are incorporated herein by reference.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

    The following are filed as part of this report:

    (a) 1. Financial Statements

    The following financial statements are  incorporated herein by reference  to
portions of the 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders included with this Form 10-K:

       Statements  of Income  for each  of the three  years in  the period ended
       December 31, 1994, page 17.

       Statements of Earnings Retained for each of the three years in the period
       ended December 31, 1994, page 17.

       Statements of Financial Position as of  December 31, 1994 and 1993,  page
       16.

       Statement  of Cash Flows for each of  the three years in the period ended
       December 31, 1994, page 18.

       Notes to Financial Statements, pages 19 through 23.

       Report of Independent Auditors, page 23.

    (a) 2. Financial Statement Schedules

       II  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

    Schedules not  listed above  have  been omitted  as either  not  applicable,
immaterial or disclosed in the financial statements or notes thereto.


    (a) 3. Exhibits
        (3)(i)     The  Company's Certificate  of Incorporation  is incorporated
                   herein by reference to Exhibit (3)(a) as filed with its  Form
                   10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.

          (ii)    By-laws  of Rollins, Inc. are incorporated herein by reference
                  to Exhibit 3(b) as filed with its Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1993.

       (10)      Rollins, Inc.  1984 Employee  Incentive  Stock Option  Plan  is
                 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit (10) filed with the
                 Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991.

                 Rollins,   Inc.   1994   Employee  Stock   Incentive   Plan  is
                 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit A of the March  18,
                 1994  Proxy Statement  for the  Annual Meeting  of Stockholders
                 held on April 26, 1994.

       (13)      Portions of  the Annual  Report to  Stockholders for  the  year
                 ended  December  31, 1994  which are  specifically incorporated
                 herein by reference.

       (21)      Subsidiaries of Registrant.

       (23)      Consent of Independent Public Accountants.

       (24)      Powers of Attorney for Directors.

       (27)      Financial Data Schedule.

    (b) No reports on Form 8-K were required to be filed by the Company for the
        quarter ended December 31, 1994.


                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this  report to be signed on its behalf  by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          ROLLINS, INC.

                                          By: R. RANDALL ROLLINS

                                             -----------------------------------
                                              R. Randall Rollins
                                             Chairman of the Board of Directors
                                             (Principal Executive Officer)
                                             March 28, 1995

    PURSUANT  TO THE REQUIREMENTS  OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE  ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT  AND
IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.



    The  Directors of Rollins, Inc. (listed  below) executed a power of attorney
appointing Gary W. Rollins their  attorney-in-fact, empowering him to sign  this
report on their behalf.

       Wilton Looney, Director
       John W. Rollins, Director
       Henry B. Tippie, Director
       James B. Williams, Director
       Bill J. Dismuke, Director

GARY W. ROLLINS
- ----------------------------------
Gary W. Rollins, As
Attorney-in-Fact
& Director, President and
Chief Operating Officer
March 28, 1995


                         ROLLINS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ROLLINS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES:

    The  Registrant's 1994 Annual Report to  Stockholders, portions of which are
filed with this  Form 10-K,  contains on pages  16 through  23 the  consolidated
financial  statements for the years  ended December 31, 1994,  1993 and 1992 and
the report of Arthur Andersen LLP on the financial statements for the years then
ended. These financial  statements and  the report  of Arthur  Andersen LLP  are
incorporated   herein  by  reference.  The   financial  statements  include  the
following:

       Statements of Income  for each  of the three  years in  the period  ended
       December 31, 1994.

       Statements of Earnings Retained for each of the three years in the period
       ended December 31, 1994.

       Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 1994 and 1993.

       Statements  of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended
       December 31, 1994.

       Notes to Financial Statements.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS ON SCHEDULES, Page 9.
SCHEDULES



    Schedules not  listed above  have  been omitted  as either  not  applicable,
immaterial or disclosed in the financial statements or notes thereto.


                  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS ON SCHEDULES

To the Directors and the Stockholders of Rollins Inc.:

    We  have audited, in accordance  with generally accepted auditing standards,
the  financial  statements  included  in   Rollins,  Inc.'s  annual  report   to
stockholders  incorporated by reference  in this Form 10-K,  and have issued our
report thereon dated February 13, 1995. Our audits were made for the purpose  of
forming  an opinion on those statements taken as a whole. The schedule listed in
the index to financial statements and the schedule is the responsibility of  the
Company's  management  and  is  presented for  purposes  of  complying  with the
Securities and  Exchange  Commission's  rules  and is  not  part  of  the  basic
financial   statements.  This  schedule  has  been  subjected  to  the  auditing
procedures applied in the audits of  the basic financial statements and, in  our
opinion,  fairly states in all material  respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in  relation to the basic  financial statements taken as  a
whole.

                                          ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Atlanta, Georgia
February 13, 1995


                         ROLLINS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 SCHEDULE II-VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992
                           (IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)








                                     EXHIBITS


                                   EXHIBIT INDEX



