ITEM 1.BUSINESS



We are a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1983.We develop, manufacture and distribute products and provide services primarily for thecompanion animalveterinary, livestock and poultry, dairy andwater testingmarkets. We also sell a line of portable electrolytes and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. Our primary products and services are:



·Point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprisinginstruments, consumables and rapid assays;

·Veterinary reference laboratorydiagnosticand consulting services;

·Practicemanagementsystems andservices and diagnostic imagingsystems used by veterinarians;

·Biological materials testing,laboratory animal diagnosticinstruments andservicesused bythe biomedical research community;

·Diagnostic,health-monitoringand food safety testingproducts forlivestock, poultry and dairy;

·Products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants;

·Point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers used in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market.
















DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS BY SEGMENT



We operate primarily through three business segments: diagnostic and information technology-based products and services for the veterinary market, which we refer to as the Companion Animal Group (“CAG”); water quality products (“Water”); and diagnostic productsand servicesfor livestock and poultry health and to ensure the quality and safety of milk and food, which we refer to as Livestock, Poultry and Dairy (“LPD”).Our Other operating segment combines and presents productsfor the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market (“OPTI Medical”) with our pharmaceutical product line and ourout-licensing arrangements because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments.



The performance of our business is particularly subject to various risks that are associated with doing business internationally. For the year ended December 31, 2015, sales of products and services to customers outsidethe U.S. accounted forapproximately 39% of our overall revenue. These foreign sales accounted for approximately 33%, 50% and 89% of revenue in our CAG, Water and LPD segments, respectively. See “Part 1, Item 1A. Risk Factors.” and Note 15 tothe consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information about our segments andrevenue fromcustomers outside of the U.S.



COMPANION ANIMAL GROUP



CAG providesto veterinariansdiagnostic capabilities and information management solutions that enhance the health and well-being of pets. The breadth and complementary nature of our products and services comprise a unique competitiveadvantage that we refer to as the IDEXX Diagnostic Advantage, providing veterinarians with the tools and services to offer advanced veterinary medical care. The IDEXX Diagnostic Advantage improves staff efficiencies and also enables the veterinarian to communicate the value of this medical care to the pet owner, which ultimately leads togrowing practice revenues.



CAG Diagnostics



We provide diagnostic capabilities that meet veterinarians’ diverse needs through a variety of modalities, including in-clinic diagnostic solutions and outside reference laboratory services. Regardless of modality utilized, veterinarians are provided with clinically relevant data which is integrated within our information management technologies. The result is a comprehensive view of patient diagnostic information that is easily accessible by both the veterinarian and pet owner.
















Integrated Diagnostic Information Management



VetConnect PLUSis a cloud-based technology that enables veterinarians to access and analyze patients’ data fromall ofIDEXX’s diagnostic modalities. These integrated diagnostic results provide the veterinarian with a visualization of patient-specific testing results, allowing the veterinarian to easily see and trend diagnostic results, enabling greater medical insightand enhanced decision making. In addition, VetConnect PLUS provides instant mobile orbrowser-basedaccess to results, which can be printed or emailed to pet ownersandother veterinarians. In this way, VetConnect PLUS can aid veterinariansand practice staff in engaging the pet owner in the patient’s care, which can support greater compliancewith medicalrecommendations or preventive care protocols.VetConnect PLUS is currently available in North America, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Israel and in numerous countries throughout Europe.



In-Clinic Diagnostic Solutions



Our in-clinic diagnostic solutions are comprised of our IDEXX VetLab suite of in-clinic chemistry, hematology, immunoassay, urinalysis and coagulation analyzers, associated proprietary consumable products that provide real-time reference lab quality diagnostic results and a broad range of single-use, handheld IDEXX SNAPrapid assay test kits that provide quick, accurate and convenient point-of-care diagnostic test results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions.



The IDEXX VetLab suite includes several instrument systems, as well as associated proprietary consumable products, all of which are described below.Additionally, we offer extended maintenance agreements in connection with the sale of our instruments.



Blood and Urine Chemistry.We sell three chemistry analyzers, the Catalyst DxChemistry Analyzer, the Catalyst One Chemistry Analyzer and the VetTest Chemistry Analyzer, that are used by veterinarians to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine for monitoring health status and assisting in diagnosing physiologic conditions. These three instruments use consumables manufactured for IDEXX by Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. (“Ortho”) based on Ortho’s dry slide technology. In addition, the Catalyst Dx and the Catalyst One analyzers also use dry slide electrolyte consumables manufactured by OPTI Medical Systems, Inc. (“OPTI Medical Systems”), one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, and other slides also manufactured by IDEXX. Blood tests commonly run on these analyzers include glucose, alkaline phosphatase, ALT (alanine aminotransferase), albumin, calcium, creatinine,blood urea nitrogen,total proteinand many others. Tests are sold individually and in prepackaged panels. All three analyzers also run a urine test called urine protein:creatinine ratio, which assists in the detection of renal disease.



The Catalyst Dx and Catalyst One analyzers provide significantly improved throughput, ease of use and test menu relative to the VetTest analyzer (our original chemistry analyzer), including the ability to run

electrolytes, phenobarbital,

fructosamine

and total thyroxine (“

T


”).

Key ease-of-use features include the ability to run a whole blood sample using an on-board centrifuge, the ability to run pre-packaged, multi-slide clips in addition to single chemistry slides and an automated metering system. These analyzers also enable automated dilutions, which is an ease-of-use feature both for certain blood chemistries and the test for urine protein:creatinine ratio. The Catalyst Dx analyzer allows a veterinarian to run multiple patient samples simultaneously and both the Catalyst Dx and Catalyst One run different sample types including whole blood, plasma, serum a

nd urine. In addition, the Catalyst Dx and Catalyst One analyzers run a test to measure

phenobarbital levels in blood, allowing veterin

arians to adjust anticonvulsant medication more quickly and efficiently

. Our

fructosamine test helps veterinarians to

diagnose and

manage canine and feline diabetes mellitus, helping to assess insulin treatments and adjust insulin dosages. We

launched our

total T


test

globally for use on the Catalyst One analyzer during the first quarter of 2015 and for use on the Catalyst Dx analyzer early in the third quarter of 2015.

T


testing is essential to assessing and managing thyroid function and is an accepted standard for baseline testing for both sick pets and preventive care in senior pets.
















The Catalyst One analyzer, launched in November 2014, is engineered to deliver the same laboratory-quality results and real-time workflow as the Catalyst Dx analyzer, offering an attractive in-house chemistry option when a single sample drawer is sufficient for a clinic’s work-flow requirements. The Catalyst One analyzer currently offers an expanding menu of 30 tests, including tests for thyroid disease, kidney disease, diabetes and therapeutic drug monitoring.



We also havetwo other chemistry analyzers, the VetLyte Electrolyte Analyzer and the VetStat Electrolyte and Blood Gas Analyzer. The VetStat analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that are manufactured byourOPTI Medical Systemsbusiness.



Sales of consumables to customers who use our chemistry analyzers provide the majority of our instrument consumables revenues from our installed base of IDEXX VetLab equipment.



Hematology. We sell four hematology analyzers that assess the cellular components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets (also called a complete blood count). These analyzers include the ProCyte DxHematology Analyzer, the first and only in-house analyzer to combine laser-flow cytometry, optical fluorescence and laminar-flow impedance in its analysis; the original LaserCyte Hematology Analyzer and next generation LaserCyte Dx Hematology Analyzer, launched in 2013, which both use laser-flow cytometry technology in their analysis; and the IDEXX VetAutoread Hematology Analyzer, our original hematology analyzer. In addition, the ProCyte DxHematology Analyzer, the LaserCyte Dx Hematology Analyzer and the LaserCyte Hematology Analyzer each have the ability to analyze the components of certain body fluids. We also sell the Coag Dx Analyzer, which permits the detection and diagnosis of blood clotting disorders.



The ProCyte Dxanalyzer,our premier hematology analyzer, provides significantly improved throughput and accuracy and more complete medical information relative to the LaserCyte, LaserCyte Dx and VetAutoread hematology analyzers. The ProCyte Dx analyzer provides up to 26 different blood parameters, including the ability to detect band neutrophils and nucleated red blood cells, for a more complete picture of a patient’s health. The ProCyte Dx is validated for ten companion animal species (canine, feline, equine, bovine, ferret, rabbit, gerbil, pig, guinea pig and mini pig) with research and development efforts focused on validating results for additional species.



Immunoassay Testing Instruments.During the first quarter of 2014, we launched the SNAP ProMobile Device, which automatically activates a SNAP test, properly times the run and captures an image of the result. This device improves medical care by allowing veterinarians to share the test results on the SNAP Pro Mobile screen, or via VetConnect PLUS. Inaddition, the SNAP Pro Mobile Device improves staff efficiency and ensures that allSNAP test runs are captured andentered into the patient record for customer billing.



With multiple-patient testing functionality, the SNAPshot Dx Analyzer provides quantitative measurements of total T4, cortisol and bile acids to assist in the evaluation of thyroid, adrenal and liver function,respectively. The SNAPshot Dx Analyzer also reads, interprets and records the results of many IDEXX rapid assay SNAP tests, including our canine SNAP4Dx Plus test,feline SNAP FIV/FeLV Combo test, canineSNAPcPLtest, felineSNAPfPLtest, SNAP Feline Triple testandcanineSNAPHeartworm RT test.



Urinalysis.Early in 2016, we plan to launch SediVue Dx in North America. SediVue Dx is the firstand onlyin-clinic urine sediment analyzer, designed to provide automated real-time results in a fraction of the time of manual microscope analysis.SediVue Dx brings automation, speed and consistency to urinalysis, a traditionally laborious and variable process. Its leading-edge technology allows veterinary staff to perform a complete urinalysis inapproximately3 minutes. SediVue Dx uses proprietary image processing algorithms similar to facial recognition technology to identify clinicallyrelevant particles found in urine and to capture high-contrast digital images that become part of the permanent patient record.The IDEXX VetLab UA Analyzer provides rapid,automated capture ofsemi-quantitative chemical urinalysis and is validated specifically for veterinary use.














IDEXX VetLab Station. The IDEXX VetLab Station (“IVLS”) connects and integrates the diagnostic information from all the IDEXX VetLab analyzers and thus provides reference laboratory information management system capability.IVLS securely connects to the internet, and in this way enables IDEXX to perform, throughitsSmartService Solutionswireless services, remoteinstrument service and softwareupdates to IVLS and certain connected instruments. IVLS also sends all results created on connected instruments instantly to VetConnect PLUS. We sell IVLS as an integral component of the Catalyst Dx, Catalyst One, LaserCyte Dx andProCyte Dxanalyzers, SNAP Pro Mobile Deviceand also as a standalone hardware platform. The IVLS includes a touch screen user interface to simplify laboratory work flow, connect with a practice management system and send information to run the individual analyzers. IVLS also generates one integrated patient report incorporating all of the lab work generated by the IDEXX VetLab suite, stores, retrieves and analyzes historical patient diagnostics data, including SNAP test results, and sends and receives information from practice management systems, including the IDEXX Cornerstone system, as well as a wide variety of third-party systems.



The SNAPrapid assaysare single-use, handheld test kits that can work without the use of instrumentation, although many kits may also be read and recorded automatically by the SNAPshot Dx Analyzer or activated and captured automatically by the SNAP Pro Mobile Device as discussed above. The principal SNAP rapid assay tests are as follows:



Single-Use Canine Tests:

·SNAP 4Dx Plus, whichtests for the six vector-borne diseases;Lyme disease,Ehrlichia canis, Ehrlichia ewingii, Anaplasma phagocytophilum and Anaplasma platys,andcanine heartworm;

·SNAP Heartworm RT, which tests forheartworm;

·SNAP Parvo, which tests for parvovirus, a virus causing life-threatening damage to the immune system and intestinal tract;

·SNAP cPL, which tests for canine pancreatitis;

·SNAPGiardia, which is a fecal test for solubleGiardiaantigens, a common cause of waterborne infection; and

·SNAP Lepto, which tests for leptospirosis, a life-threatening bacterial infection spread through contact with water or soil that has been contaminated by the urine of infected animals.

Sales of canine vector-borne disease tests, including SNAP 4Dx Plusand SNAP Heartworm RT, are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice.



Single-Use Feline Tests:

·SNAP Feline Triple, which tests for feline immunodeficiency virus (“FIV”) (which is similar to thevirus that leads toAIDSin humans), feline leukemia virus (“FeLV”) and feline heartworm;

·SNAP FIV/FeLV Combo Test, which tests for FIV and FeLV;

·SNAP fPL, which tests for feline pancreatitis;

·SNAPGiardia, which is a fecal test for solubleGiardiaantigens; and

·SNAP Feline proBNP, which uses a cardiac biomarker (NT proBNP) to test for stretch and stress on the heart.
















OutsideReference Laboratory Diagnostic and Consulting Services



We offer commercial reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services to veterinarians worldwide, including customers in the U.S., Europe, Canada, Australia, Japan,New Zealand,South Africa and South Korea. We have large reference laboratories in Memphis, Tennessee and Leipzig, Germany that are strategically located near largelogisticshubsof major air cargo carriers. Customers use our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. Most test results have same-day or next-day turnaround times. Our reference laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions in animals, including all tests that can be run in-clinic at the veterinary practice with our instruments or rapid assays.This menu of tests also includes a number of specialized and proprietary tests that we have developed that allow practitioners to diagnose increasingly relevantdiseases andconditions in dogs and cats, includingparasites,heart disease, allergies, pancreatitis, diabetes and infectious diseases.Canine vector-borne disease testing volumes are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice.



Inthe third quarter of2015, welaunched IDEXX SDMA in North America, anew kidney test which detects the onset of canine and feline kidney disease months or years earlier than traditional methods. Upon its introduction, IDEXX SDMAwasincluded in everychemistry panelsubmitted by our customers at no incremental charge. As of the first quarter of 2016, we have also launched IDEXX SDMA in all of major European countries and Australia. A full international launch of IDEXX SDMA is planned over the remainder of 2016.



In the second quarter of 2015, we launchedHookworm and Roundworm antigen teststo all fecal panels that already include the Whipworm antigen test. These new intestinal parasite panels detect the presence of intestinal worms left undiagnosed by current methods, finding them earlier in the infection cycle and therefore enabling earlier disease diagnosis and treatment intervention.



Additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine and advisory services, including radiology, cardiology, internal medicine and ultrasound consulting. These services enable veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmitted by telephone and over the internet.



As part of a previous business combination, we acquired the research and diagnostic laboratory (“RADIL”) business of the College of Veterinary Medicine from the University of Missouri. RADIL provides health monitoring and diagnostic testing services to bioresearch customers in North America, Europe and Asia.



Customer Information Management and DiagnosticImaging Systems



Customer Information Management.We develop, market and sell practice management systems, including hardware, software and services that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including managing patient electronic health records, scheduling (including for boarding and grooming), client communication, billing and inventory management. Our principal practice management systems are Cornerstone, DVMAX, Animana and Neo, which we launched in North America during the third quarter of 2015.  IDEXX Neo and IDEXX Animana are cloud-based practice management systems available in North America, Europe and Australia, respectively. We also support several other practice management systems installed with our customers, including Better Choice, VPM, VetLINK and BeeFree. Our practice management services include Payment Solutions, Data Backup & Recovery, Cornerstone Coach, Practice Profile and PetDetect boarding collars.


















DiagnosticImaging Systems. Our diagnosticimaging systems capture radiographic images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film and the film development process, which generally requires the use of hazardous chemicals and darkrooms. We market and sell three diagnosticimaging systems, our IDEXX EliteVision Digital Imaging System, and the IDEXX I-Vision CR and the IDEXX I-Vision DR systems for small animal veterinary applications. The IDEXX EliteVision Digital Imaging System is a wireless system which uses advanced plate technology to capture clear, high-quality images in a short capture time. The IDEXX EliteVision Digital Imaging system is a portable unitpromoted for usein ambulatory veterinary practices, such as equine practices.



Our diagnosticimaging systems employ picture archiving and communication system (“PACS”) software, IDEXX-PACS, that allows forthe viewing, manipulation, management, storage and retrieval of the digital images generated by the digital capture plate. This software also permits images from our diagnosticimaging systems to be integrated into patients’ medical records in the Cornerstone system, as well as transferred to other practice management systems.



During the third quarter of 2015,we launched IDEXX Web PACS, our cloud-based software solution for accessing, storing and sharing diagnostic images. IDEXX Web PACS is asoftware-as-a-service(“SaaS”)offering, which isintegrated with IDEXX VetConnectPLUSto provide centralized access to diagnostic imaging results alongside patient diagnostic results from any internet connected device.  IDEXX Web PACS updates automatically and offers secure storage for an unlimited number of diagnostic images. The new software features advanced radiology measurement tools as well as an interactive collaboration feature that allows veterinarians to collaborate and consult remotely with other practitioners.



IDEXX I-Vision Mobile is a software application that allows veterinarians with the I-Vision DR and IDEXX I-Vision CR systems, as well as our legacy diagnosticimagingsystems, to request, view and send images using an iPad®or an Android™mobile tablet. This application integrates with our IDEXX-PACS software.



WATER



We provide innovative testing solutions for easy, rapidandaccuratedetection and quantification of various microbiological parameters in water, helping to ensure water safety for billions of people around the world.



Our principal products arethe Colilert, Colilert-18and Colisure tests, which simultaneously detect the presence of total coliforms andE. coliin water. These organisms are broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. These products utilize nutrient-indicators that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. Our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with regulatory standards, including U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) standards. The tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, wastewater and water from private wells.
















Our Enterolert products detect the presence of enterococci in drinking, waste and recreational waters. Enterococci, bacteria normally found in human and animal waste, are organisms broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. Our Pseudalert products detect the presence ofPseudomonas aeruginosain pool, spa and bottled water.Pseudomonas aeruginosais a pathogen that can cause “hot-tub rash,” “swimmer’s ear” and potentially fatal infections in individuals with weakened immune systems.Our Filta-Max and Filta-Maxxpressproducts are used in the detection ofCryptosporidiumandGiardiain water.CryptosporidiumandGiardiaare parasites that can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if ingested. We alsodistribute certain water testing kits manufacturedby Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc.that complement ourCryptosporidiumandGiardiatesting products.



Our Quanti-Tray products, when used in conjunction with our Colilert, Colilert-18, Colisure, Enterolert, Pseudalert or Heterotrophic Plate Count (HPC) products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination rather than a presence/absence indication. In the second quarter of 2015, we launched the Quanti-Tray Sealer PLUS, a next generation instrument of the previously available Quanti-Tray Sealer 2X.  These instruments are used with the Quanti-Tray products for the determination of bacterial density in water samples. Our SimPlate for HPC product detects the total number of the most common bacteria in a water sample.



We also sell consumables, parts and accessories to be used with many of our water testing products.



LIVESTOCK, POULTRY and dairy



We sell diagnostic tests, servicesand related instrumentation that are used to manage the health status of livestock and poultry, to improve bovine reproductive efficiency, and to ensure the quality and safety of milk and food. Our livestock and poultry diagnostic products are purchased by government and private laboratories that provide testing services tolivestockveterinarians, producers and processors.Our livestock testing services are offered to livestock veterinarians and producers.Our principal livestock and poultry diagnostic products include tests for Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (“BVDV”) and Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome (“PRRS”). BVDV is a common and contagious viral infection that suppresses the immune system, making the animal susceptible to a host of other infections, impacting beef and dairy production yields as a result. PRRS is a contagious virus causing reproductive problems and respiratory diseases in swine, leading to increased piglet mortality, reduced growth and vulnerability to secondary infections. We also provide tests for detecting pregnancy in bovine, which provides a means to optimize reproductive efficiency.



Our principal dairy products use our SNAP test format and are used by dairy producers and processors worldwide to detect antibiotic drug residue in milk. Our primary product lines are SNAP Beta-Lactam ST and SNAPduo Beta-Tetra ST, which detect certain beta lactam and tetracycline antibiotic residues. We also sell SNAPtests for the detection of certain other contaminants in milk, such as Aflatoxin M1.



In the third quarter of 2013,we acquired a Brazilian distributor of certain of our Livestock and Dairy products. As part of this acquisition, we acquired the right to distribute food safety products that monitor microbial contamination and drug residues for livestock producers, meat exporters and pharmaceutical companies.



OTHER



OPTI Medical Systems



Through OPTIMedical Systems, we sell point-of-care analyzers and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose, lactate, blood urea nitrogen and ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as base excess and anion gap. These OPTI analyzers are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas and other locations where time-critical diagnostic testing is performed within the hospital setting. Our latest generation OPTI CCA-TS2 Blood Gas and Electrolyte Analyzer,whichlaunchedinApril 2013, contains many new features relative to previous generation blood gas analyzers including customized work flows, faster time to result, improved communication and a multi-level electronic control. Similar to our earlier generation OPTI CCA and OPTI Touch Electrolyte Analyzers, the OPTI CCA-TS2 runs whole blood, plasma and serum samples on single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes. The OPTI LION Stat Electrolyte Analyzer runs single-use electrolyte cassettes.














In addition,OPTI Medical Systems manufactures ourVetStat analyzer, aninstrument and consumable system that is a member of the IDEXXVetLabsuite for the veterinary market, and provides the dry slides for electrolyte testing on theCatalyst analyzers for our CAG segment.



Other Activities



Previously,we restructured the remaining pharmaceutical division and realigned two of our pharmaceutical product lines to the Rapid Assay line of business, which is part of CAG, and realigned the remainder of the products, comprised of one product line and two out-licensing arrangements, to the Other segment. We retained certain drug delivery technologies that we continue to seek to commercialize through agreements with third parties, such as pharmaceutical companies, that are also included in the Other segment.



MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION



We market, sell and service our products worldwide through our marketing,customer service,sales and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. We maintain sales offices outside the U.S. in all major regions, including Africa, Asia Pacific, Canada, Europe and Latin America.



Generally, we select the appropriate distribution channel for our products based on the type of product, technical s

ervice requirements, number and concentration of customers, regulatory requirements and other factors. Effective January 1, 2015, we market our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians directly in the U.S.

Prior to Januar

y 1, 2015

,



w

e



market

ed

our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians both directly and through independent veterinary



distributors in the U.S., with most instruments sold directly by IDEXX sales personnel and rapid assay test kits and instrument consumables supplied primarily by distributors.

Outside the U.S., we sell our companion animal diagnostic products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through distributors and other resellers. We sell our veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services worldwide generally through our direct sales force.

We market our diagnostic imaging products primarily through our direct sales force in the U.S. and Canada.  We market our software products primarily through our direct sales force in the U.S., Canada, Europe and Australia.

We market our Water and LPD products primarily through our direct sales force in the U.S. and Canada. Outside the U.S. and Canada, we market these products through selected independent distributors and, in certain countries, through our direct sales force. We sell our OPTI electrolyte and blood gas analyzers both directly and through independent human medical product distributors in the U.S. and we sell most of the related consumables through the distribution channel. Outside the U.S., we sell our OPTI products primarily through distributors and other resellers.



RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT



Our business includes the development and introduction of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. We maintain active research and development programs in each of our business areas. Our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and external consulting and development costs, were $99.7 million, $98.3 million and $88.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, or 6.2%, 6.6% and 6.4% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.



PATENTS AND LICENSES



We actively seek to obtain patent protection in the U.S. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. We also license patents and technologies from third parties.Patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties are considered important to the Company based on a variety of factors, including providing protection for the Company’s inventions and other proprietary intellectual property, affording protection from competitors in certain markets, enabling the use of more effective and efficient technologies in the development and production of our products and offerings, strengthening the Company’s reputation and standing among customers, employees and key suppliers, and acting as a deterrent against counterfeiters, imitators and other copiers of technologies.
















Important patents and licenses include:

·Exclusive licenses from the University of Texas and Tulane University to patents that expire in 2017 and 2019, respectively, relating to reagents and methods for the detection of Lyme disease utilized in certain of our SNAP products and a reference laboratory diagnostic test;

·An exclusive license from Cornell University to patents covering methods for detecting BVDV that expire beginning in 2017;

·Patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection ofAnaplasma phagocytophilumutilized in certain of our SNAP products that expire beginning in 2017;

·Patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection ofEhrlichia canisutilized in certain of our SNAP products that expire beginning in 2019;

·A patent concerning LaserCyte consumables that expires in 2020;

·Patents concerning Catalystconsumables that expire beginning in 2023;

·Patentsconcerning Catalystinstruments that expire in 2026;

·Patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of canine pancreatic lipase that expire in 2026; and

·Patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of IDEXX SDMA that expire beginning in 2029.



While we consider these proprietary technology rights to be important to the Company, a range of factors help to mitigate the future effects of patent and license expiration on our results of operations and financial position. These factors includeour brand strength and reputation in the marketplace; the breadth, quality and integration of our product offerings; our existing customer relationships and our customer support; our sales force; the applicable regulatory approval status for certain products; our continued investments in innovative product improvements that often result in new technologies and/or additional patents;oursignificant know-how, scale and investments related to manufacturing processes of associated product offerings and certain supply arrangements for consumables that are compatible with our instruments.Although the Company has several patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties that expired during 2015 and are expected to expire during 2016 and 2017,the expiration of these patents, individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material effect on the Company’s financial position or future operations.In addition, we already face notable competition in certain areas as other companies have been successful in bringing competitive products to market, despite the protections afforded by these proprietary technology rights.



To the extent some of our products may now or in the future embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. These licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our failure to obtain anysuch licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY



Many of the instruments that we sell are manufactured by third parties and we rely on third parties to supply us with certain important components, raw materials and consumables used in or with our products. In some cases these third parties are sole or single source suppliers.



Instruments and consumables. Significant products supplied by sole and single source providers includeCatalyst Dx andCatalyst Oneconsumables (other than electrolyte consumables and the fructosamine and T4slides),VetLyte consumables,LaserCyteandLaserCyte Dx consumables, VetTest, VetAutoreadand ProCyte Dx analyzers and consumables, SediVue Dx urinalysis instrument andcomponents of our SNAP Pro Mobile Device.



VetTest and Catalyst chemistry slides are supplied by Ortho under supply agreements that are currently set to expire at the end of 2028. We are required to purchase all of our requirements for our current menu of VetTestandCatalystchemistry slides from Ortho to the extent Ortho is able to supply those requirements. The agreements provide for pricing based on purchase volumes and a fixed annual inflationary adjustment. The agreements also prohibit Ortho from promoting and selling these chemistry slides in the veterinary market other than to IDEXX.














We purchase other analyzers and consumables under supply agreements with terms extending through 2032, which in some cases may be extended at our option. We have minimum purchase obligations under some of these agreements, and our failure to satisfy these obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these agreements. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



Other components. We purchase certain other products, raw materials and components from sole and single source suppliers. Theseproducts include certain diagnosticimagingsystems and certain components used in our SNAP rapid assay and dairy devices, livestock and poultry testing kits and water testing products.



Certain components incorporated into our SNAP products and certain livestock and poultry testing kits are supplied by Moss, Inc. (“Moss”) under a supply agreement that either party may terminate with 24 months prior written notice. Pursuant to the terms of the supply agreement, Moss has escrowed its manufacturing information relating to the components, which may be released to us upon certain triggering events that would render Moss incapable of supplying the components to us. If such a triggering event occurs, we will make royalty payments to Moss for the use of such information until Moss is able to again begin manufacturing.



We have been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of products purchased from sole and single source suppliers. However, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



BACKLOG



We do not generally maintain significant backlogordersand believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales.



COMPETITION



We compete with many companies ranging from large human pharmaceutical and medical diagnostics companies to small businesses focused on animal health. Our companion animal veterinary diagnostic products and services compete with both reference laboratory service and in-clinic product providers. Our competitors vary in our different markets. In some markets, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations conduct research activities and may commercialize products or services which could compete with our products, on their own or through joint ventures. Several of our direct and potentialcompetitors have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we do.



Competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below:



·Companion animal diagnostic offerings.We compete primarily on the basis of ease of use and speed of our products, diagnostic accuracy, product quality, breadth of our product line and services, technology, information management capability, availability of medical consultation, effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, quality of our technical and customer service and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services in comparison with competitive products and services. Our major competitors in most geographic locations in North America are Antech Diagnostics, a unit of VCA Inc., Abaxis, Inc.,Heska Corporationand Zoetis Inc.In 2015, following our transition to an all-direct sales and distribution model in the U.S., certain of our competitors began to sell products through our formerly exclusive U.S. distributors.See“Part IIItem 7. Results of Operations and Trends” for more information.We also compete in international markets with Fujifilm Holdings Corporation, Arkray, Inc. and BioNote, Inc.

·Water, livestock,poultry and dairy testing products.We compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy, product quality and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including unique tests), the breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer service, our ability to receive regulatory approvals from governing agencies and our pricing relative to the value of our products in comparison with competitive products and services. Our competitors include highly focused smaller companies and multi-billion dollar companies with small livestock and poultry diagnostics and water testing solution franchises.










·Customer information management and diagnosticimaging systems. We compete primarily on the basis of functionality, connectivity to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of our implementation, training process and customer service, information handling capabilities, advances in technologies and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services. We sell these products primarily in North America where our largest competitor is Henry Schein.

·Electrolyte and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. We compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, menu, convenience, international distribution and service, instrument reliability, and our pricing relative to the value of our products. We compete primarily with large human medical diagnostics companies such as Radiometer A/S, Siemens Medical Solutions Diagnostics, Instrumentation Laboratory Company, Abbott Diagnostics, a division of Abbott Laboratories and Roche Diagnostics Corporation.



GOVERNMENT REGULATION



Many of our products are subject to comprehensive regulation by U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies that relate to, among other things, product approvals, manufacturing, distribution, marketing and promotion, labeling, recordkeeping, testing, quality, storage and product disposal. The following is a description of the principal regulations affecting our businesses.



Veterinary diagnostic products



Our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems are veterinary medical devices regulated bythe U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) under the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act (the “FDC Act”). While the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by the FDA and does not subject us to the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations (“cGMP”), these products must not be adulterated, mislabeled or misbranded under the FDC Act.



These instrument systems also are subject tothe European Medical Device Directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all European Union (“EU”) member countries and require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in EU member countries to obtain European Conformity marking for their products.



Water testing products. Our water tests are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. However, before a test can be used as part of a water quality monitoring program in the U.S. that is regulated by the EPA, the test must first be approved by the EPA. The EPA approval process involves submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an EPA-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the EPA and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the Federal Register before final approval. Our Colilert, Colilert-18, Colisure, Quanti-Tray, Filta-Maxxpress, Enterolert and SimPlate for heterotrophic plate counts products have been approved by the EPA for use under various regulatory programs. Water testing products are subject to similarly extensive regulatory processes in other countries around the world.
















Dairy testing products. Dairy products used in National Conference on Interstate Milk Shipments (“NCIMS”) milk-monitoring programs in the U.S. are regulated by the FDA as veterinary medical devices. However, before products requiring FDA approval can be sold in the U.S., performance data must be submitted in accordance with an FDA-approved protocol administered by an independent body, such as the Association of Analytical Communities Research Institute (“AOAC RI”). Following approval of a product by the FDA, the product must also be approved by NCIMS, an oversight body that includes state, federal and industry representatives. Our SNAP Beta-Lactam antibiotic residue test product has been approved by the FDA, NCIMS and AOAC RI for sale in the U.S. While some foreign countries accept AOAC RI approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes.



Human point-of-care electrolyte and blood gas analyzers. Our OPTI instrument systems are classified as Class II medical devices, and their design, manufacture and marketing are regulated by the FDA. Accordingly, we must comply with cGMP in the manufacture of our OPTI products.The FDA’s Quality System regulations further set forth standards for product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of our facilities by the FDA. NewOPTIproducts fall into FDA classifications that require notification of and review by the FDA before marketing, and which are submitted as a 510(k) application.OPTI Medicalproducts are also subject to the European Medical Device Directives and regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of medical devices in other countries in which they are sold.



In addition to the foregoing, our business is generally subject to various U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities, including the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) and other anti-competition authorities, andwe are also subject to anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and import and export laws and regulations, including U.S. import and export control and sanctions laws. Any acquisitions of new products and technologies may subject us to additional areas of government regulation. These may involve food safety, medical device, water-quality and other regulations of the FDA, the EPA, the USDA, the FTC and other federal agencies, as well as state, local and foreign governments. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



EMPLOYEES



As of February 5, 2016, we had approximately 6,800 employees.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION



Our principal executive offices are located at One IDEXX Drive, Westbrook, Maine 04092, our telephone number is 207-556-0300, and our internet address iswww.idexx.com. References to our website in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are inactive textual references only and the content of our website should not be deemed incorporated by reference for any purpose.



We make available free of charge atwww.idexx.comour Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, copies of our reports filed electronically with the SEC may be accessed at www.sec.gov. The public may also read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



Our Corporate Governance Guidelines and our Code of Ethics are also available on our website atwww.idexx.com.




















