ITEM 1.BUSINESS



We develop, manufacture and distribute products and provide services primarily for the companion animal veterinary, livestock and poultry, water testing and dairy markets. We also sell a line of portable electrolytes and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. Our primary products and services are:



·Point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprising instruments and consumables and rapid assays;



·Veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services used by veterinarians;



·Diagnostic and health-monitoring products for livestock and poultry;



·Products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants;



·Practice information systems and services, and digital radiography systems used by veterinarians;



·Products that test milk for antibiotic residues and other contaminants; and

·Point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers used in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market.



In the fourth quarter of 2008, we sold our Acarexx®and SURPASS®veterinary pharmaceutical products and a feline insulin product under development. Upon completion of this transaction we restructured the remaining pharmaceutical division and realigned two of our remaining pharmaceutical product lines to the Rapid Assay line of business, which is part of our Companion Animal Group (“CAG”) segment, and realigned the remainder of the products, which comprised one product line and two out-licensing arrangements, to the “Other”
category. We retained certain drug delivery technologies that we will seek to commercialize through agreements with third parties such as pharmaceutical companies. See Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



We are a Delaware corporation and were incorporated in 1983. Our principal executive offices are located at One IDEXX Drive, Westbrook, Maine 04092, our telephone number is 207-556-0300, and our Internet address is www.idexx.com. References herein to “we,” “us,” the “Company,” or “IDEXX” include our wholly-owned subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires. References to our Web site are inactive textual references only and the content of our Web site should not be deemed incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K for any purpose.






We make available free of charge on our Web site our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, copies of our reports filed electronically with the SEC may be accessed on the SEC’s Web site at www.sec.gov. The public may also read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS BY SEGMENT



During 2010, we operated primarily through three business segments: diagnostic and information technology-based products and services for the veterinary market, which we refer to as CAG, water quality products (“Water”) and products for livestock and poultry health, which we refer to as Livestock and Poultry Diagnostics (“LPD”). Prior to the second quarter of 2010, we referred to LPD as our Production Animal Segment. We also operate two smaller operating segments that comprise products for milk quality (“Dairy”) and products for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market (“OPTI Medical”).  Financial information about the Dairy and OPTI Medical
operating segments is combined and presented with one of our remaining pharmaceutical product lines and our out-sourcing licensing arrangements in an “Other” category because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for financial information about our segments, including geographic information, and our product and service categories.



COMPANION ANIMAL GROUP



Instruments and Consumables



We currently market an integrated suite of in-clinic laboratory analyzers for use in providing reference laboratory diagnostic information in companion animal veterinary practices that we refer to as the IDEXX VetLab®suite of analyzers. The IDEXX VetLab®suite includes several instrument systems, as well as associated proprietary consumable products, all of which are described below:



Blood and Urine Chemistry.



We sell two chemistry analyzers, the Catalyst Dx®Chemistry Analyzer and the VetTest®Chemistry Analyzer, that are used by veterinarians to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine for assistance in diagnosing physiologic conditions. Both instruments use consumables manufactured for IDEXX by Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. (“Ortho”), a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, based on Ortho’s dry slide technology (“dry chemistry slides,” “Catalyst Dx®slides,” “VetTest®slides” or “slides”). In addition to dry chemistry slides, the Catalyst Dx®analyzer also uses electrolyte consumables manufactured by IDEXX at OPTI Medical Systems. Blood tests commonly run on these analyzers include glucose, alkaline phosphatase, ALT (alanine aminotransferase), creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (“BUN”), and total protein. Tests are sold individually and in prepackaged panels. Both analyzers also run a urine test called urine protein:creatinine ratio, which assists in the detection of early renal disease.



The Catalyst Dx®analyzer is our latest generation chemistry analyzer, which was launched in the first quarter of 2008. The Catalyst Dx®analyzer provides significantly improved throughput, ease of use and menu options relative to the VetTest®analyzer, including the ability to run electrolytes. Key ease-of-use features include the ability to run whole blood by way of an on-board centrifuge, the ability to run pre-packaged, multi-slide clips in addition to single
chemistry slides, and an automated metering system. The Catalyst Dx®analyzer also has the ability to run automated dilutions, which is an ease-of-use feature both for certain blood chemistries and the test for urine protein:creatinine ratio. The Catalyst Dx®analyzer allows a veterinarian to run multiple patient samples simultaneously; to run different sample types including whole blood, plasma, serum and urine; to perform 27 different chemistry and electrolyte tests; and to automatically calculate other parameters and ratios important to blood chemistry analysis.






Our VetLyte®Electrolyte Analyzer measures three electrolytes—sodium, potassium and chloride—to aid in evaluating acid-base and electrolyte balances and assessing plasma hydration.



Our VetStat®Electrolyte and Blood Gas Analyzer measures electrolytes, blood gases, glucose and ionized calcium, and calculates other parameters, such as base excess and anion gap. These measurements aid veterinarians in diagnosing various disease states, evaluating fluid therapy choices and measuring respiratory function. The VetStat®analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes. The VetStat®analyzer and its cassettes
are manufactured by OPTI Medical Systems.



Sales of consumables for use in our installed base of chemistry analyzers provide the majority of consumables volumes and revenues generated from our installed base of IDEXX VetLab®equipment.



Hematology. We sell three hematology analyzers that assess the cellular components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets (also called a complete blood count (“CBC”)). These analyzers include the ProCyte Dx™Hematology Analyzer, which uses laser-flow cytometry, optical fluorescence and laminar-flow impedance in its analysis; the LaserCyte®Hematology Analyzer, which uses laser-flow cytometry technology in its analysis; and the IDEXX
VetAutoread™Hematology Analyzer. We also sell the Coag Dx™Analyzer, which permits the detection and diagnosis of blood clotting disorders.



The ProCyte Dx™analyzer is our latest generation hematology analyzer, which we launched in the third quarter of 2010. The ProCyte Dx™analyzer provides significantly improved throughput, accuracy and more complete medical information relative to the LaserCyte®and VetAutoread™hematology analyzers. The ProCyte Dx™analyzer provides validated results for five species (canine, feline, equine, bovine and ferret) for up to 24 different blood parameters, providing a more complete picture of each patient’s health.



Quantitative Immunoassay Testing. In the first quarter of 2008, we launched the SNAPshot Dx®Analyzer, which provides quantitative measurements of total thyroxine (“T4”), cortisol and bile acids. The SNAPshot Dx®analyzer assists in the evaluation of thyroid, adrenal and liver function, and offers multiple-patient testing functionality. The SNAPshot Dx®analyzer also reads, interprets and records the results of most IDEXX rapid assay SNAP®tests, including our canine SNAP®4Dx®test,feline SNAP®FIV/FeLV Combo test, canine SNAP®cPL™test, SNAP®Feline Triple test, and canine SNAP®Heartworm RT test.



Urinalysis. The IDEXX VetLab®UA™Analyzer provides rapid, semi-quantitative urinalysis and is validated specifically for veterinary use.



IDEXX VetLab®Station. The IDEXX VetLab®Station (“IVLS”) connects and integrates the diagnostic information from all the IDEXX VetLab®equipment and thus provides reference laboratory information management system capability. We sell the IVLS as an integral component of the Catalyst Dx®, LaserCyte®and ProCyte Dx™analyzers and also as a standalone hardware platform. The IVLS includes a user interface to input patient
information, connect with a practice management information system and send information to run the individual analyzers. IVLS also generates one integrated patient report incorporating all of the lab work generated by the IDEXX VetLab®suite; stores, retrieves and analyzes historical patient diagnostics data, including SNAP®test results; and sends and receives information from practice information management systems, including IDEXX Cornerstone®and Better Choice®systems, as well as a wide variety of third-party systems.



Rapid Assays



We sell a broad range of single-use, handheld test kits under the SNAP®name that provide quick, accurate and convenient diagnostic test results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions. These kits work without the use of instrumentation, although most kits may also be read automatically by the SNAPshot Dx®analyzer as discussed above.



Principal single-use canine tests include:



·SNAP®4Dx®, which tests for Lyme disease,Ehrlichia canis, canine heartworm, andAnaplasma phagocytophilum.·SNAP®3Dx®, which tests for Lyme disease,Ehrlichia canisand canine heartworm;5·SNAP®Heartworm RT, which tests only for canine heartworm;·SNAP®Parvo, which tests for parvovirus;·SNAP®cPL™, which tests for canine pancreatitis; and·SNAP®Giardia, which is a fecal test for solubleGiardiaantigens.Principal single-use feline tests include:·SNAP®Feline Triple®, which tests for feline immunodeficiency virus (“FIV”) (which is similar to the human AIDS virus), feline leukemia virus (“FeLV”), and feline heartworm;·SNAP®FIV/FeLV Combo Test, which tests for FIV and FeLV;·SNAP®FeLV, which tests only for FeLV; and·SNAP®Giardia, which is a fecal test for solubleGiardiaantigens.



Sales of canine parasite tests (including SNAP®4Dx®, SNAP®3Dx®and SNAP®Heartworm RT), are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice.



In addition to our single-use tests, we sell a line of microwell-based test kits under the PetChek®name for canine heartworm, FIV and FeLV. Larger clinics and laboratories use these kits to test multiple samples and provide ease-of-use and cost advantages to high-volume customers.



Veterinary Reference Laboratory Diagnostic and Consulting Services



We offer commercial veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services to veterinarians in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Australia, Japan, and South Africa. Veterinarians use our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. Most test results have same-day or next-day turnaround times. Our laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions in companion animals and livestock and poultry, including virtually all tests that can be run in-clinic at the veterinary practice with our instruments or rapid assays. This menu of tests also includes a number of specialized and proprietary tests that
we have developed that allow practitioners to diagnose increasingly relevant diseases in dogs and cats, including heart disease, pancreatitis and certain infectious diseases.



Additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine and advisory services, including radiology, cardiology, internal medicine and ultrasound consulting. These services enable veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmitted by telephone and over the Internet.



Practice Information Systems and Digital Radiography



Practice Information Systems and Services. We develop, market and sell practice information systems, including hardware and software, that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including managing patient electronic health records, scheduling (including boarding and grooming), reminders, billing and inventory management. Our principal system is the Cornerstone®system. We also support several legacy systems installed with our customers, including IDEXX Better Choice®, IDEXX VPM™and IDEXX VetLINK®. Additionally, we provide software and hardware support to our practice information system customers, and related supplies and services including Cornerstone®Coaching, Practice Profile™, Reminder Service, SmartService™ Solutions and VetVault®Backup Solution to veterinary practice information system users in general. We derive a significant portion of our revenues for this product line from ongoing service contracts.



Digital Radiography Systems and Services. Our digital radiography systems capture radiographic images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film. Use of digital radiography systems eliminates the need for the film and processor, hazardous chemicals, and darkroom required for the production of film images, and provides for image manipulation and enhancement at the computer with a keyboard and mouse. We market and sell three digital radiography systems: the IDEXX-DR™ 1417 and the IDEXX-CR™1417 systems for use in the small animal (e.g. dog and cat)
veterinary hospital, and the IDEXX EquiView®DR system for use as a portable unit in ambulatory veterinary practices, such as equine practices. In January 2011, we began replacing the IDEXX-CR™1417 with the IDEXX I-Vision CR system, our latest generation computed radiography system. As we transition from the IDEXX-CR™1417 to the IDEXX I-Vision CR, we will continue to support our active installed base of systems. Our digital radiography systems use IDEXX-PACS™and IDEXX EquiView PACS™picture archiving and communication system (“PACS”) software for the viewing, manipulation, management, storage and retrieval of the digital images generated by the digital capture plate. The PACS software also permits images from our digital radiography systems to be integrated into patients’ medical records in the Cornerstone®system, as well as transferred to other practice information management systems.






WATER



We offer a range of products used in the detection of various microbiological parameters in water.



Our Colilert®, Colilert®-18 and Colisure®tests simultaneously detect total coliforms andE. coliin water. These organisms are broadly used as indicators of microbial contamination in water. These products utilize indicator-nutrients that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. Our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities and private
certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with regulatory standards, including U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) standards. The tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, waste water and water from private wells.



Our Enterolert®products detect enterococci in drinking, waste and recreational waters. Enterococci, bacteria normally found in human and animal waste, are organisms broadly used as an indicator of microbial contamination in water. Our Pseudalert™ products detect pseudomonas in pool, spa and bottled waters. Pseudomonas is a pathogen that can cause “hot-tub rash,” “swimmer’s ear” and potentially fatal infections in immunocompromised individuals. Our Quanti-Tray®products, when used in conjunction with our
Colilert®, Colilert®-18, Colisure®, Enterolert®or Pseudalert™ products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination, rather than a presence/absence indication. The Colilert®, Colilert®-18, Colisure®, Quanti-Tray®, Enterolert®and SimPlate®for heterotropic plate count products have been approved by the EPA and by regulatory agencies in certain other countries.



Our Filta-Max®and Filta-Maxxpress®products are used in the detection ofCryptosporidiumandGiardiain water.CryptosporidiumandGiardiaare parasites that can cause potentially fatal
gastrointestinal illness if ingested.



We also distribute certain water testing kits manufactured by Life Technologies Corporation that complement ourCryptosporidiumandGiardiatesting products.



LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY DIAGNOSTICS



We sell diagnostic tests and related instrumentation that are used to detect a wide range of diseases and to monitor health status in livestock and poultry. Our livestock and poultry diagnostic products are purchased by government and private laboratories that provide testing services to cattle, swine and poultry veterinarians and producers. Our products include tests for Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus, Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (“BSE” or “mad cow disease”), Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome, and various other livestock and poultry diseases.



OTHER



Dairy



Our principal product for use in testing for antibiotic residue in milk is the SNAP®Beta-Lactam test. Our primary customers are dairy producers and processors worldwide who use our tests for quality assurance of raw milk. We also sell a SNAP®test for the detection of the chemical melamine in milk, which we developed for the China market.






OPTI Medical Systems



We sell OPTI®point-of-care analyzers and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose, lactate, BUN and ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as base excess and anion gap. These analyzers are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas and other locations where time-critical diagnostic testing is performed within the hospital setting. The OPTI®CCA and OPTI®Touch Electrolyte and Blood Gas Analyzers run single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes; the OPTI®R Analyzer runs reusable cassettes in various analyte configurations; and the OPTI®LION Stat Electrolyte Analyzer runs single-use electrolyte cassettes. OPTI Medical Systems also manufactures our VetStat®analyzer and provides the electrolyte module and dry slide reagents that make up the electrolyte testing functionality of the Catalyst Dx®analyzer.



Other Activities



As discussed above, in connection with the restructuring of our pharmaceutical product line at the end of 2008, we realigned one product line and two out-licensing arrangements to the Other category, the financial impacts of which have been shown in the Other segment for 2010, 2009 and 2008.



When a research and development program materializes into a product or service offering that does not align with one of our existing product or service categories, the related financial impacts are shown in the Other segment.



UNALLOCATED AMOUNTS



Items that are not allocated to our operating segments are comprised primarily of corporate research and development expenses that do not align with one of our existing product or service categories, a portion of share-based compensation expense, interest income and expense, and income taxes. We report these items under the caption “Unallocated Amounts.” We estimate our share-based compensation expense for the year and allocate the estimated expense to the operating segments. This allocation differs from the actual expense and consequently yields a difference between the total allocated share-based compensation expense and the actual expense for the total company resulting in an unallocated
amount.



We maintain active research and development programs, some of which may materialize into the development and introduction of new technology, products or services. Research and development costs incurred that are not specifically allocated to one of our existing product or service categories are reported under the caption “Unallocated Amounts.”



MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION



We market, sell and service our products worldwide through our marketing, sales and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. We maintain sales offices outside the U.S. in Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, and South Africa. Sales and marketing expense was $179.6 million, $167.7 million and $170.0 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, or 16.3% of revenue in each of 2010 and 2009 and 16.6% of revenue in 2008.



®

®






Our largest customers are our U.S. distributors of our products in the CAG segment. One of our CAG distributors, Butler Schein Animal Health Supply, LLC (“Butler”), accounted for 9% of our 2010 revenue. Butler was formed in December 2009 when Butler Animal Health Supply, LLC combined with the U.S. animal health business of Henry Schein, Inc. Butler Animal Health Supply, LLC accounted for 7% and 8% of our 2009 and 2008 revenue, respectively. Henry Schein, Inc. accounted for 3% of our 2009 and 2008 revenue.



RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT



Our business includes the development and introduction of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. We maintain active research and development programs in each of our business areas. Our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and consulting costs, were $68.6 million, $65.1 million and $70.7 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, or 6.2% of revenue in 2010, 6.3% of revenue in 2009 and 6.9% of revenue in 2008.



PATENTS AND LICENSES



We actively seek to obtain patent protection in the U.S. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. We also license patents and technologies from third parties.



Important patents and licenses include:



·Exclusive licenses from Tulane University and the University of Texas to patents and patent applications that expire beginning in 2019 relating to the methods for detection of Lyme disease utilized in certain of our SNAP®products and a reference laboratory diagnostic test;

·A patent concerning the Colilert®-18 product that expires in 2014;

·A patent concerning the Quanti-Tray®product that expires in 2014;

·A patent that relates to certain methods and kits for simultaneously detecting antigens and antibodies, which covers certain of our SNAP®products, including our canine and feline combination tests, that expires in 2014;

·Patents covering various reagents, kits and/or immunoassays for detecting FIV antibodies utilized in certain of our SNAP®products that expire beginning in 2014;

·An exclusive license from Boehringer Ingelheim to certain patents covering reagents and methods for detecting Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome that expire beginning in 2012; and

·An exclusive license from Cornell University to patents covering methods for detecting Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus that expire beginning in 2017.



To the extent some of our products may now, or in the future, embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. These licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY



Many of the instruments that we sell are manufactured by third parties and we rely on third parties to supply us with certain important components, raw materials and consumables used in or with our products. In some cases these third parties are sole or single source suppliers.



Instruments and consumables.



Significant products supplied by sole and single source providers include VetTest®analyzers and consumables, Catalyst Dx®consumables (other than electrolyte consumables), LaserCyte®consumables and VetAutoread™, VetLyte®, Coag Dx™and ProCyte Dx™analyzers and consumables.






VetTest®slides and Catalyst Dx®chemistry slides are supplied by Ortho under supply agreements that expire in 2025. We were required to purchase a minimum volume of chemistry slides through the end of 2010; thereafter, we do not have minimum purchase obligations. The agreements provide for price increases based upon the U.S. Producer Price Index. The agreements also prohibit Ortho from promoting and selling these chemistry slides in the veterinary market other than to IDEXX.



We purchase other analyzers and consumables under supply agreements with terms ranging from 1 year to 14 years, which in some cases may be extended at our option. We have minimum purchase obligations under some of these agreements, and our failure to satisfy these obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these agreements or require us to compensate the supplier. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



Other components.



We purchase certain other products, raw materials and components from sole and single source suppliers. These products include certain digital radiography systems and certain components used in our SNAP®rapid assay and dairy devices, livestock and poultry testing kits, water testing products, and blood analyzers, including our LaserCyte®and ProCyte Dx™analyzers.



Certain components incorporated into our SNAP®products are supplied by Moss, Inc. (“Moss”) under a supply agreement that Moss may terminate with 24 months notice. We are required annually to purchase a minimum amount from Moss equal to our average purchase volumes in 2004, 2005 and 2006. Annual price increases are capped at 3%. Pursuant to the terms of the supply agreement, Moss has escrowed its manufacturing information relating to the components, which may be released to us upon certain triggering events that would render Moss incapable of supplying the components to us. If such a triggering event occurs, we will make
royalty payments to Moss for the use of such information until Moss is able to again begin manufacturing.



We have in the past been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of products purchased from single source suppliers. However, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



We do not generally maintain significant backlog and believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales.



COMPETITION



We face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services. This competition is intensifying and increasing, as new competitors have entered our markets and some of our competitors have expanded the range of products and services offered to the companion animal veterinary market and expanded the geographic scope of their operations. In addition, we have to compete with changing technologies, which could affect the marketability of our products and services. Our competitive position will depend on our ability to develop proprietary or highly differentiated products and services, integrate our products, develop and maintain effective sales channels, attract and retain qualified
scientific and other personnel, develop and implement production and marketing plans, obtain or license patent rights, and obtain adequate capital resources.



We compete with many companies ranging from large human pharmaceutical and medical diagnostics companies to small businesses focused on animal health. Our companion animal veterinary diagnostic products and services compete with both reference laboratory service and in-clinic product providers. Our competitors vary in our different markets. In some markets, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations conduct research activities and may commercialize products, which could compete with our products, on their own or through joint ventures. Several of our direct and indirect competitors have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and
development resources than we do.






Competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below:



·Veterinary diagnostic, water, livestock and poultry and dairy testing products. We compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy, quality of the information provided, and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including unique tests), the breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer service, and our pricing relative to the value of our products in comparison with competitive products and services. We compete in most geographic locations in North America with Abaxis, Inc. in respect to our veterinary diagnostic products.



·Veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services. We compete primarily on the basis of quality, consistency of service levels, technology, information management, medical consultation and our pricing relative to the value of our services in comparison with competitive products and services. We compete in most geographic locations in North America with Antech Diagnostics, a unit of VCA Antech, Inc.



·Practice information management and digital radiography systems. We compete primarily on the basis of functionality, connectivity to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of our customer service, information handling capabilities, advances in technologies, and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services.



·Electrolyte and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. We compete primarily with large human medical diagnostics companies such as Radiometer A/S, Siemens Medical Solutions Diagnostics, Instrumentation Laboratory, Abbott Diagnostics, and Roche Diagnostics. We compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, menu, convenience, international distribution and service, instrument reliability, and our pricing relative to the value of our products.



GOVERNMENT REGULATION



Many of our products are subject to comprehensive regulation by U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies that relate to, among other things, product approvals, manufacturing, marketing and promotion, labeling, recordkeeping, testing, quality, storage, and product disposal. The following is a description of the principal regulations affecting our businesses.



Veterinary diagnostic products. Diagnostic tests for animal health infectious diseases, including most of our livestock and poultry products and our rapid assay products, are regulated in the U.S. by the Center for Veterinary Biologics within the United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (“APHIS”). These products must be approved by APHIS before they may be sold in the U.S. The APHIS regulatory approval process involves the submission of product performance data and manufacturing documentation. Following regulatory approval to market a product, APHIS requires that each lot of
product be submitted for review before release to customers. In addition, APHIS requires special approval to market products where test results are used in part for government-mandated disease management programs. A number of foreign governments accept APHIS approval as part of their separate regulatory approvals. However, compliance with an extensive regulatory process is required in connection with marketing diagnostic products in Japan, Germany, the Netherlands and many other countries. We also are required to have a facility license from APHIS to manufacture USDA-licensed products. We have obtained such a license for our manufacturing facility in Westbrook, Maine and our distribution center in Memphis, Tennessee.



Our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems are medical devices regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) under the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act (the “FDC Act”). While the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by the FDA and does not subject us to the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations (“cGMP”), these products must not be adulterated or misbranded under the FDC Act.



These instrument systems also are subject to the European Medical Device Directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all European Union (“EU”) member countries and require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in EU member countries to obtain European Conformity (“CE”) marking for their products.



Water testing products. Our water tests are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. However, before a test can be used as part of a water quality monitoring program in the U.S. that is required by the EPA, the test must first be approved by the EPA. The EPA approval process involves submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an EPA-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the EPA and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the Federal Register before final approval. Our Colilert®, Colilert®-18, Colisure®, Quanti-Tray®, Filta-Max®, Enterolert®, and SimPlate®for heterotropic plate counts products have been approved by the EPA. The sale of water testing products also is subject to extensive and lengthy regulatory processes in many other countries around the world.




Dairy testing products. Dairy products used in National Conference on Interstate Milk Shipments (“NCIMS”) milk-monitoring programs are regulated by the FDA. Before products requiring FDA approval can be sold in the U.S., extensive product performance data must be submitted in accordance with an FDA approved protocol administered by AOAC Research Institute (“AOAC RI”). Following approval of a product by the FDA, the product must also be approved by NCIMS, an oversight body that includes state, federal and industry representatives. Our SNAP®Beta-Lactam dairy antibiotic residue testing product has been approved by the FDA, NCIMS and AOAC RI. While some foreign countries accept AOAC RI approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes.



Human point-of-care electrolyte and blood gas analyzers. Our OPTI®instrument systems are classified as Class II medical devices, and their design, manufacture and marketing are regulated by the FDA. Accordingly, we must comply with cGMP in the manufacture of our OPTI®products. The FDA’s Quality System regulations further set forth standards for product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records, and provide for inspections of our facilities by
the FDA. New OPTI®products fall into FDA classifications that require notification of and review by the FDA before marketing, submitted as a 510(k) application.



OPTI®products are also subject to the European Medical Device Directives and regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of medical devices in other countries in which they are sold.



Any acquisitions of new products and technologies may subject us to additional areas of government regulation. These may involve food, medical device and water-quality regulations of the FDA, the EPA and the USDA, as well as state, local and foreign governments. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



EMPLOYEES



At February 11, 2011, we had approximately 4,800 full-time and part-time employees.



