ITEM 1.BUSINESS



We are a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1983.We develop, manufacture and distribute products and provide services primarily for thecompanion animalveterinary, livestock and poultry,water testingand dairymarkets. We also sell a line of portable electrolytes and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. Our primary products and services are:



·Point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprisinginstruments and consumables, and rapid assays;

·Veterinary reference laboratorydiagnosticand consulting services used by veterinarians;

·Practicemanagementsystems and services and digital radiography systems used by veterinarians;

·Biological materials testing and laboratory diagnostic instruments and services used by the biomedical research community;

·Diagnostic and health-monitoring products forlivestock and poultry;

·Products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants;

·Products that test milk for antibiotic residues and other contaminants; and

·Point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers used in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market.
















DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS BY SEGMENT



Prior to January 1, 2013, we operated primarily through three business segments: diagnostic and information technology-based products and services for the veterinary market, which we continue to refer to as the Companion Animal Group (“CAG”); water quality products (“Water”); and diagnostic products for livestock and poultry health, which we referred to as Livestock and Poultry Diagnostics. We also operated two smaller operating segments that comprised products for milk quality and safety (“Dairy”) and products for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market (“OPTI Medical”). Financial information about our Dairy and OPTI Medical operating segments was combined and presented with our remaining pharmaceutical product line and our out-licensing arrangements in an “Other” category because they did not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments.



In 2013, we combined the management of our Livestock and Poultry Diagnostics and Dairy lines of business to more effectively realize the market synergies between the product lines and to achieve operational efficiencies. We refer to this segment as Livestock, Poultry and Dairy (“LPD”). Our OPTI Medical operating segment remains combined and presented with our remaining pharmaceutical product line and our out-licensing arrangements in an “Other” category because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. The segment income (loss) from operations discussed within this report for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 has been retrospectively revised to reflect this change in the composition of our reportable segments.See Note 15tothe consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31,2013included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for financial information about our segments, including our product and service categoriesand our geographic areas.



The performance of our business is particularly subject to various risks that are associated with doing business internationally. For the year ended December 31, 2013, sales of products and services to customers outsidethe U.S. accounted for approximately 42% of our overall revenue. These foreign sales accounted for approximately 35%, 51% and 88% of revenue in our CAG, Water and LPD segments, respectively. See “Part 1, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



COMPANION ANIMAL GROUP



CAG provides diagnostic capabilities and information management solutions that enhance the health and well-being of petsto veterinarians. The breadth and complementary nature of our products and services comprise a unique competitive advantage that we refer to as the IDEXX Diagnostic Advantage, providing veterinarians with the tools and services to offer advanced veterinary medical care. The IDEXX Diagnostic Advantage improves staff efficiencies and also enables the veterinarian to communicate the value of this medical care to the pet owner, which ultimately leads to growing practice revenues.



CAG Diagnostics



We provide diagnostic capabilities that meet veterinarians’ diverse needs through a variety of modalities, including in-clinic diagnostic solutions and outside reference laboratory services, which are integrated within our information management technologies to provide a comprehensive view of patient diagnostic information that is easily accessible by both the veterinarian and pet owner.



Integrated Diagnostic Information Management



VetConnect PLUSis a cloud-based technology that enables veterinarians to access and analyze patients’ data from IDEXX’s diagnostic modalities. These integrated diagnostic results provide the veterinarian with a visualization of patient-specific testing results, allowing the veterinarian to easily see and trend patient-specific diagnostic results, enabling greater medical insight. In addition, VetConnect PLUS provides instant mobile orbrowser-basedaccess to results, which can be printed or emailed to pet ownersandother veterinarians. In this way, VetConnect PLUS can aid veterinariansand practice staff in engaging the pet owner in the patient’s care, which can support greater compliancewith medicalrecommendations or preventive care protocols.
















In-Clinic Diagnostic Solutions



Our in-clinic diagnostic solutions are comprised of both our IDEXX VetLab suite of in-clinic chemistry and hematology analyzers and associated proprietary consumable products that provide real-time reference lab quality diagnostic results and a broad range of single-use, handheld IDEXX SNAPRapid Assay test kits that provide quick, accurate and convenient point-of-care diagnostic test results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions.



The IDEXX VetLab suite includes several instrument systems, as well as associated proprietary consumable products, all of which are described below.Additionally, we offer extended maintenance agreements in connection with the sale of our instruments.



Blood and Urine Chemistry.We sell three chemistry analyzers, the Catalyst DxChemistry Analyzer, the upcoming Catalyst One Chemistry Analyzer and the VetTest Chemistry Analyzer, that are used by veterinarians to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine for monitoring health status and assisting in diagnosing physiologic conditions. These three instruments use consumables manufactured for IDEXX by Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. (“Ortho”) based on Ortho’s dry slide technology. In addition, the Catalyst Dx and the Catalyst One analyzersalso use dry slide electrolyte consumables manufactured by OPTI Medical Systems, Inc. (“OPTI Medical Systems”), one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, and other slides also manufactured by IDEXX. Blood tests commonly run on these analyzers include glucose, alkaline phosphatase, ALT (alanine aminotransferase), albumin, calcium, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen and total protein. Tests are sold individually and in prepackaged panels. All three analyzers also run a urine test called urine protein:creatinine ratio, which assists in the early detection of renal disease.



The Catalyst Dx and Catalyst One analyzers provide significantly improved throughput, ease of use and test menu relative to the VetTest analyzer (our original chemistry analyzer), including the ability to run electrolytes, phenobarbital and fructosamine. Key ease-of-use features include the ability to run a whole blood sample using an on-board centrifuge, the ability to run pre-packaged, multi-slide clips in addition to single chemistry slides and an automated metering system. These analyzers also enable automated dilutions, which is an ease-of-use feature both for certain blood chemistries and the test for urine protein:creatinine ratio. The Catalyst Dx analyzer allows a veterinarian to run multiple patient samples simultaneously and both the Catalyst Dx and Catalyst One run different sample types including whole blood, plasma, serum and urine. In addition, the Catalyst Dx and Catalyst One analyzers run a test to measure

phenobarbital levels in blood, allowing veterinarians to adjust anticonvulsant medication more quickly and efficiently

. We

began shipping a fructosamine test, compatible for the Catalyst Dx and upcoming Catalyst One analyzers, during the fourth quarter of 2013. Fructosamine levels are used to manage canine and feline diabetes mellitus, helping to assess insulin treatments and adjust insulin dosages. We expect to introduce a total thyroxine (“T


”)



slide for use with the Catalyst One analyzer upon its launch date and for use with the Catalyst Dx early in 2015. T


testing is essential to assessing thyroid function and is an accepted standard for baseline testing for both sick pets and preventive care in senior pets.



The upcoming Catalyst One analyzer is engineered to deliver the same laboratory-quality results and real-time work flow as the Catalyst Dx analyzer, offering an attractive in-house chemistry option when a single sample drawer is sufficient for a clinic’s work-flow requirements. In addition, the Catalyst One analyzer will be the industry’s first to combine chemistry, electrolytes and T4in a single sample run. Placements of the Catalyst One analyzer are expected to begin in the fourth quarter of 2014.



We also sell two other chemistry analyzers, the VetLyte Electrolyte Analyzer and the VetStat Electrolyte and Blood Gas Analyzer. The VetStat analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that are manufactured by OPTI Medical Systems.



Sales of consumables for use in our installed base of chemistry analyzers provide the majority of consumables volumes and recurring revenues generated from our installed base of IDEXX VetLab equipment.














Hematology. We sell four hematology analyzers that assess the cellular components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets (also called a complete blood count). These analyzers include the ProCyte DxHematology Analyzer, which uses laser-flow cytometry, optical fluorescence and laminar-flow impedance in its analysis; the original LaserCyte Hematology Analyzer and next generation LaserCyte Dx Hematology Analyzer, launched in 2013, which both use laser-flow cytometry technology in their analysis; and the IDEXX VetAutoread Hematology Analyzer, our original hematology analyzer. In addition, the ProCyte DxHematology Analyzer, the LaserCyte Dx Hematology Analyzer and the LaserCyte Hematology Analyzer each have the ability to analyze the components of certain body fluids. We also sell the Coag Dx Analyzer, which permits the detection and diagnosis of blood clotting disorders.



The ProCyte Dxanalyzer is our premier hematology analyzer, which we launched in 2010. The ProCyte Dx analyzer provides significantly improved throughput and accuracy and more complete medical information relative to the LaserCyte, LaserCyte Dx and VetAutoread hematology analyzers. The ProCyte Dx analyzer provides up to 26 different blood parameters, including the ability to detect band neutrophils and nucleated red blood cells, for a more complete picture of a patient’s health. The ProCyte Dx is validated for ten companion animal species (canine, feline, equine, bovine, ferret, rabbit, gerbil, pig, guinea pig and mini pig) with research and development efforts focused on validating results for additional species. In 2012, we began to place ProCyte Dxanalyzers containing a more advanced and research-focused user interface with customers in the bioresearch market. In 2013, we launched the LaserCyte Dx Hematology Analyzer, which combines the advanced capabilities of the original LaserCyte Hematology Analyzer with several features of our ProCyte Dx analyzer.



Immunoassay Testing Instruments.With multiple-patient testing functionality, the SNAPshot Dx Analyzer provides quantitative measurements of total T4, cortisol and bile acids to assist in the evaluation of thyroid, adrenal and liver function, respectively. The SNAPshot Dx analyzer also reads, interprets and records the results of many IDEXX rapid assay SNAP tests, including our canine SNAP4Dx Plus test,feline SNAP FIV/FeLV Combo test, canineSNAPcPLtest, felineSNAPfPLtest, SNAP Feline Triple test and canineSNAPHeartworm RT test.



We are taking pre-orders for our upcoming SNAP Pro Mobile device that automatically activates a SNAP test, properly times the run and captures an image of the result. This device improves medical care by allowing veterinarians to share the test results on the SNAP Pro Mobile screen, or via VetConnect PLUS. In addition, the SNAP Pro Mobile device improves staff efficiency and ensures that all SNAP test runs are captured and entered into the patient record for customer billing. We anticipate the SNAP Pro Mobile Device will begin shipping at the end of the first quarter of 2014.



Urinalysis. The IDEXX VetLab UA Analyzer provides rapid, semi-quantitative chemical urinalysis and is validated specifically for veterinary use.



IDEXX VetLab Station. The IDEXX VetLab Station (“IVLS”) connects and integrates the diagnostic information from all the IDEXX VetLab analyzers and thus provides reference laboratory information management system capability. IVLS securely connects to the internet, and in this way enables IDEXX to perform, through SmartServiceSolutions, remote instrument service and firmware updates to IVLS and certain connected instruments. IVLS also sends all results created on connected instruments instantly to VetConnect PLUS. We sell IVLS as an integral component of the Catalyst Dx, LaserCyte Dx and ProCyte Dxanalyzers and also as a standalone hardware platform. The IVLS includes a touch screen user interface to simplify laboratory work flow, connect with a practice management system and send information to run the individual analyzers. IVLS also generates one integrated patient report incorporating all of the lab work generated by the IDEXX VetLab suite, stores, retrieves and analyzes historical patient diagnostics data, including SNAP test results, and sends and receives information from practice management systems, including the IDEXX Cornerstone system, as well as a wide variety of third-party systems.
















The SNAPRapid Assaysare single-use, handheld test kits that can work without the use of instrumentation, although many kits may also be read and recorded automatically by the SNAPshot Dx analyzer or activated and captured automatically by the SNAP Pro Mobile device as discussed above. The principal SNAP Rapid Assay tests are as follows:



Single-UseCanineTests:

·SNAP4Dx Plus, launched during the second quarter of 2012, which tests for the tick-borne diseases Lyme disease,Ehrlichia canis, Ehrlichia ewingii, Anaplasma phagocytophilum and Anaplasma platys,and the mosquito-borne disease canine heartworm;

·SNAP 3Dx, which tests for Lyme disease,Ehrlichia canisand canine heartworm;

·SNAP Heartworm RT, which tests for canine heartworm;

·SNAP Parvo, which tests for parvovirus, a virus causing life-threatening damage to the immune system and intestinal tract;

·SNAP cPL, which tests for canine pancreatitis;and

·SNAP Giardia, which is a fecal test for soluble Giardia antigens, a common cause of waterborne infection.



Single-UseFelineTests:

·SNAP Feline Triple, which tests for feline immunodeficiency virus (“FIV”) (which is similar to the human AIDS virus), feline leukemia virus (“FeLV”) and feline heartworm;

·SNAP FIV/FeLV Combo Test, which tests for FIV and FeLV;

·SNAP fPL, which tests for feline pancreatitis;

·SNAP Giardia, which is a fecal test for soluble Giardia antigens; and

·SNAP Feline proBNP, which uses a cardiac biomarker (NT proBNP) to test for stretch and stress on the heart.



Sales of canine vector-borne disease tests, including SNAP 4Dx Plus, SNAP 3Dx and SNAP Heartworm RT, are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice.



In addition to our single-use tests, we sell a line of microwell-based test kits under the PetChek name for canine heartworm, FIV and FeLV. Larger clinics and laboratories use these kits to test multiple samples and provide ease-of-use and cost advantages to high-volume customers.



OutsideReference Laboratory Diagnostic and Consulting Services



We offer commercial reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services to veterinarians worldwide, including customers in the U.S., Europe, Canada, Australia, Japan, South Africa and South Korea. We have large reference laboratories in Memphis, Tennessee and Leipzig, Germany that are strategically located near large courier hubs. Customers use our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. Most test results have same-day or next-day turnaround times. Our reference laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions in animals, including all tests that can be run in-clinic at the veterinary practice with our instruments or rapid assays. This menu of tests also includes a number of specialized and proprietary tests that we have developed that allow practitioners to diagnose increasingly relevant conditions in dogs and cats, including heart disease, allergies, pancreatitis, diabetes and infectious diseases.Canine vector-borne disease testing volumes are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice.



Additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine and advisory services, including radiology, cardiology, internal medicine and ultrasound consulting. These services enable veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmitted by telephone and over the Internet.














In 2012, we acquired the research and diagnostic laboratory (“RADIL”) business of the College of Veterinary Medicine from the University of Missouri. RADIL provides health monitoring and diagnostic testing services to bioresearch customers in North America, Europe and Asia.



Customer Information Management and Digital Imaging Systems



Customer Information Management. We develop, market and sell practice management systems, including hardware, software and services that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including managing patient electronic health records, scheduling (including for boarding and grooming), client communication, billing and inventory management. Our principal practice management systems are Cornerstone and DVMAX Veterinary Practice Management Software. We also support several legacy practice management systems installed with our customers, including IDEXX Better Choice, IDEXX VPM and IDEXX VetLINK. Our practice management services include Cornerstone Coaching, Practice Profile, IDEXX Reminder Service, VetVault Backup Solution and PetDetect Pet Identification System.



In addition, we commercially launched Pet Health Network Pro in March 2013. Pet Health Network Pro is a subscription-based service that permits veterinarians to provide online communication and education to pet owners before, during and after each patient visit, thus strengthening the loyalty between a practice andits clients.Further, veterinarians can share VetConnect PLUS testing results directly with pet owners via Pet Health Network Pro.We also offer IDEXX Pet Health Network 3D, an educational subscription-based tool which provides anatomical animations that improve client communication and understanding in the exam room and facilitates adherence to veterinarian recommendations. Certain of our services are compatible with non-IDEXX practice management systems.



Digital Imaging Systems. Our digital imaging systems capture radiographic images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film and the film development process, which generally requires the use of hazardous chemicals and darkrooms. We market and sell two digital imaging systems for use in the small animal veterinary hospital, the IDEXX I-Vision CR, our latest generation computed radiography system, launched in 2012, and the IDEXX I-Vision DR system. We also market and sell the IDEXX EquiView system for use as a portable unit in ambulatory veterinary practices, such as equine practices.



Our digital imaging systems use picture archiving and communication system (“PACS”) software, IDEXX-PACS and IDEXX EquiView PACS,for the viewing, manipulation, management, storage and retrieval of the digital images generated by the digital capture plate. The PACS software also permits images from our digital imaging systems to be integrated into patients’ medical records in the Cornerstone system, as well as transferred to other practice management systems. IDEXX I-Vision Mobile is an application that allows veterinarians with the I-Vision DR and IDEXX I-Vision CR systems, as well as our legacy digital radiography systems, to request, view and send images using an iPad®or an Android™ mobile tablet. This application integrates with our IDEXX-PACS software. In November 2013, we launched the IDEXX ImageBank storage system, a cloud-based image storage solution which provides secure storage for an unlimited number of diagnostic images and is accessible anywhere through VetConnect PLUS.



WATER



We provide innovative testing solutions for easy, rapid and accurate detection and quantification of various microbiological parameters in water, helping to ensure water safety for people around the world.



Our principal products are the Colilert, Colilert-18 and Colisure tests, which simultaneously detect the presence of total coliforms andE. coliin water. These organisms are broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. These products utilize nutrient-indicators that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. Our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with regulatory standards, including U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) standards. The tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, waste water and water from private wells.














Our Enterolert products detect the presence of enterococci in drinking, waste and recreational waters. Enterococci, bacteria normally found in human and animal waste, are organisms broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. Our Pseudalert products detect the presence ofPseudomonas aeruginosain pool, spa and bottled water.Pseudomonas aeruginosais a pathogen that can cause “hot-tub rash,” “swimmer’s ear” and potentially fatal infections in individuals with weakened immune systems.Our Filta-Max and Filta-Maxxpressproducts are used in the detection ofCryptosporidiumandGiardiain water.CryptosporidiumandGiardiaare parasites that can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if ingested. We alsodistribute certain water testing kits manufactured by Life Technologies Corporation that complement ourCryptosporidiumandGiardiatesting products.



Our Quanti-Tray products, when used in conjunction with our Colilert, Colilert-18, Colisure, Enterolert, Pseudalert or Heterotrophic Plate Count (HPC) products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination rather than a presence/absence indication. Our SimPlate for HPC product detects the total number of the most common bacteria in a water sample.



We also sell consumables, parts and accessories to be used with many of our water testing products.



LIVESTOCK, POULTRY and dairy



We sell diagnostic tests and related instrumentation that are used to manage the health status of livestock and poultry, to improve bovine reproductive efficiency, and to ensure the quality and safety of milk and food. Our livestock and poultry diagnostic products are purchased by government and private laboratories that provide testing services to cattle, swine and poultry veterinarians, producers and processors. Our principal livestock and poultry diagnostic products include tests for Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (“BVDV”) and Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome (“PRRS”). BVDV is a common and contagious viral infection that suppresses the immune system, making the animal susceptible to a host of other infections, impacting beef and dairy production yields as a result. PRRS is a contagious virus causing reproductive problems and respiratory diseases in swine.



Our principal dairy products use our SNAP test format and are used by dairy producers and processors worldwide to detect antibiotic drug residue in milk. Our primary product line is SNAP Beta-Lactam, which detects penicillin, amoxicillin, ampicillin, ceftiofur and cephapirin residues, followed by SNAPduo Beta-Tetra, which detects certain tetracycline antibiotic residues in addition to those detected by the SNAP Beta Lactam test kits. We also sell SNAPtests for the detection of certain other contaminants in milk, such as Aflatoxin M1.



In the third quarter of 2013, we acquired a Brazilian distributor of certain of our Livestock, Poultry and Dairy products. As part of this acquisition, we acquired the right to distribute product lines of food safety products which provide microbial monitoring and drug residue tests for bovine, poultry and swine producers, meat exporters and pharmaceutical companies.



OTHER



OPTI Medical Systems



Through OPTIMedical Systems, we sell point-of-care analyzers and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose, lactate, blood urea nitrogen and ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as base excess and anion gap. These OPTI analyzers are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas and other locations where time-critical diagnostic testing is performed within the hospital setting. Our latest generation OPTI CCA-TS2 Blood Gas and Electrolyte Analyzer contains many new features relative to previous generation blood gas analyzers including customized work flows, faster time to result, improved communication and a multi-level electronic control. Similar to our earlier generation OPTI CCA and OPTI Touch Electrolyte Analyzers, the OPTI CCA-TS2 runs whole blood, plasma and serum samples on single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes. The OPTI R Analyzer runs reusable cassettes in various analyte configurations, and the OPTI LION Stat Electrolyte Analyzer runs single-use electrolyte cassettes.
















In addition,OPTI Medical Systems manufactures ourVetStat analyzer, aninstrument and consumable system that is a member of the IDEXXVetLabsuite for the veterinary market, and provides the electrolyte module and dry slide reagents that make up the electrolyte testing functionality of theCatalyst Dx analyzer for our CAG segment.



Other Activities



In the fourth quarter of 2008, we sold ourAcarexx®andSURPASS®veterinary pharmaceutical products and a feline insulin product under development. Upon completion of this transaction we restructured the remaining pharmaceutical division and realigned two of our pharmaceutical product lines to the Rapid Assay line of business, which is part of CAG, and realigned the remainder of the products, comprised of one product line and two out-licensing arrangements, to the Other segment. We retained certain drug delivery technologies that we continue to seek to commercialize through agreements with third parties, such as pharmaceutical companies, that are also included in the Other segment.



We earned milestone payments of $3.5 million and $3.0 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively, in connection with the achievement of certain sales milestones by the acquirer of our feline insulin product following commercialization of that product.See Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for additional information regarding the restructuring of our pharmaceutical business. Since realignment to the Rapid Assay line of business, we have discontinued the production and sale of the two remaining pharmaceutical product lines. Neither of these product lines is or was a significant contributor to revenue in the Rapid Assay line of business.



MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION



We market, sell and service our products worldwide through our marketing, sales and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. We maintain sales offices outside the U.S. in all major regions, including Africa, Asia Pacific, Canada, Europe and Latin America.





Our largest customers are the U.S. distributors of our products in the CAG segment. Our two largest CAG distributors are Henry Schein Animal Health Supply, LLC (“Henry Schein”) and MWI Veterinary Supply, Inc. (“MWI”). Henry Schein accounted for 9% of our 2013, 2012 and 2011 revenue, and 7% of our net accounts receivable at December 31, 2013 and 2012. MWI accounted for 8%, 8% and 7% of our 2013, 2012 and 2011 revenue, respectively, and 11% and 9% of our net accounts receivable at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
















RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT



Our business includes the development and introduction of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. We maintain active research and development programs in each of our business areas. Our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and external consulting and development costs, were $88.0 million, $82.0 million and $76.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, or 6.4%, 6.3% and 6.2% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.



PATENTS AND LICENSES



We actively seek to obtain patent protection in the U.S. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. We also license patents and technologies from third parties.Patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties are considered important to the Company based on a variety of factors, including providing protection for the Company’s inventions and other proprietary intellectual property, affording protection from competitors in certain markets, enabling the use of more effective and efficient technologies in the development and production of our products and offerings, strengthening the Company’s reputation and standing among customers, employees and key suppliers, and acting as a deterrent against counterfeiters, imitators and other copiers of technologies.



Important patents and licenses include:

·Exclusive licenses from the University of Texas and Tulane University to patents that expire in 2017 and 2019, respectively, relating to reagents and methods for the detection of Lyme disease utilized in certain of our SNAP products and a reference laboratory diagnostic test;

·A patent concerning the Colilert-18 product that expires in 2014;

·A patent concerning the Quanti-Tray product that expires in 2014;

·A patent that relates to certain methods and kits for simultaneously detecting antigens and antibodies, which covers certain of our SNAP products, including our canine and feline combination tests, that expires in 2014;

·An exclusive license from Boehringer Ingelheim to certain patents covering reagents and methods for detecting PRRS that expire in 2014;

·An exclusive license from Cornell University to patents covering methods for detecting BVDV that expire beginning in 2017;

·Patents concerning the SNAP immunoassay platform that expire in 2015; and

·Patents concerning CatalystDxconsumables that expire beginning in 2023.



While we consider these proprietary technology rights to be important to the Company, a range of factors help to mitigate the future effects of patent and license expiration on our results of operations and financial position. These factors includeour brand strength and reputation in the marketplace; the breadth, quality and integration of our product offerings; our existing customer relationships and our customer support; our sales force; the applicable regulatory approval status for certain products; our continued investments in innovative product improvements that often result in new technologies and/or additional patents;oursignificant know-how, scale and investments related to manufacturing processes of associated product offerings and certain supply arrangements for consumables that are compatible with our instruments.Although the Company has several patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties expected to expire during 2014 and 2015,the expiration of these patents or licenses, individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material effect on the Company’s financial position or future operations.In addition, we already face notable competition in certain areas as other companies have been successful in bringing competitive products to market, despite the protections afforded by these proprietary technology rights.



To the extent some of our products may now or in the future embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. These licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”














PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY



Many of the instruments that we sell are manufactured by third parties and we rely on third parties to supply us with certain important components, raw materials and consumables used in or with our products. In some cases these third parties are sole or single source suppliers.



Instruments and consumables. Significant products supplied by sole and single source providers include VetTestanalyzers and consumables,Catalyst Dxconsumables (other than electrolyte consumables and the fructosamine and T4slides), LaserCyteandLaserCyte Dx consumables and VetAutoread, VetLyte and ProCyte Dx analyzers and consumables.



VetTest and Catalyst chemistry slides are supplied by Ortho under supply agreements that are currently set to expire at the end of 2028. We are required to purchase all of our requirements for our current menu of VetTestandCatalystchemistry slides from Ortho to the extent Ortho is able to supply those requirements. The agreements provide for pricing based on purchase volumes and a fixed annual inflationary adjustment. The agreements also prohibit Ortho from promoting and selling these chemistry slides in the veterinary market other than to IDEXX.



We purchase other analyzers and consumables under supply agreements with terms extending through 2032, which in some cases may be extended at our option. We have minimum purchase obligations under some of these agreements, and our failure to satisfy these obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these agreements. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



Other components. We purchase certain other products, raw materials and components from sole and single source suppliers. These products include certain digital radiography systems and certain components used in our SNAP rapid assay and dairy devices, livestock and poultry testing kits and water testing products.



Certain components incorporated into our SNAP products and certain livestock and poultry testing kits are supplied by Moss, Inc. (“Moss”) under a supply agreement that either party may terminate with 24 months prior written notice. Pursuant to the terms of the supply agreement, Moss has escrowed its manufacturing information relating to the components, which may be released to us upon certain triggering events that would render Moss incapable of supplying the components to us. If such a triggering event occurs, we will make royalty payments to Moss for the use of such information until Moss is able to again begin manufacturing.



We have been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of products purchased from sole and single source suppliers. However, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



BACKLOG



We do not generally maintain significant backlogordersand believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales.



COMPETITION



We compete with many companies ranging from large humanpharmaceutical andmedical diagnostics companiestosmall businesses focused on animal health. Our companion animal veterinary diagnostic products and services compete with both reference laboratory service and in-clinic product providers. Our competitors vary in our different markets. In some markets, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations conduct research activities and may commercialize productsor serviceswhich could compete with our products, on their own or through joint ventures.Severalof ourdirect and indirectcompetitors have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we do.
















Competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below:



·Companion animal diagnostic offerings.We competeprimarilyon the basis of ease of use andspeedof our products,diagnosticaccuracy, product quality, breadth of our product line and services,technology, information management capability, availability of medical consultation,effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, quality of our technical and customer service and ourpricing relative to the value of our productsand servicesin comparison with competitive products and services.Our major competitorsin most geographic locations in North AmericaareAntech Diagnostics, a unit of VCA Antech, Inc., Abaxis, Inc. and Heska Corporation.

·Water, livestock and poultry and dairy testing products. We competeprimarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy,productquality and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including unique tests), the breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer service,our ability to receive regulatory approvals from governing agenciesand ourpricing relative to the value of our products in comparison with competitive products and services. Our competitors includehighly focused smaller companies and multi-billion dollar companies with small livestock and poultry diagnostics and water testing solution franchises.

·Customer information managementand digitalimagingsystems. We compete primarily on the basis of functionality, connectivity to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of ourimplementation, training process andcustomer service, information handling capabilities, advances in technologies and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services.We sell these products primarily in North America where our largest competitor is Henry Schein.

·Electrolyte and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. We compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, menu, convenience, international distribution and service, instrumentreliability, and our pricing relative to the value of our products.We compete primarily with large human medical diagnostics companies such as Radiometer A/S, Siemens Medical Solutions Diagnostics, Instrumentation LaboratoryCompany, Abbott Diagnostics,a division of Abbott Laboratoriesand Roche DiagnosticsCorporation.



GOVERNMENT REGULATION



Many of our products are subject to comprehensive regulation by U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies that relate to, among other things, product approvals, manufacturing,distribution,marketing and promotion,labeling,recordkeeping, testing, quality, storage and product disposal. The following is a description of the principal regulations affecting our businesses.



Veterinary diagnostic products

. Diagnostic tests for animal health infectious diseases, including most of our

livestock and poultry products and our rapid assay products, are regulated in the U.S. by the Center for

Veterinary Biologics within the United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (“APHIS”). These products must be approved by APHIS before they may be sold in the U.S. The APHIS regulatory approval process involves the submission of product performance data and manufacturing documentation. Following regulatory approval to market a product, APHIS requires that each lot of product be submitted for review before release to customers. In addition, APHIS requires special approval to market products where test results are used in part for government-mandated disease management programs. A number of foreign governments accept APHIS approval as part of their separate regulatory approvals. However, compliance with an extensive regulatory process is required in connection with marketing diagnostic

products in Japan, Germany, the Netherlands and many

other countries. We also are required to have a facility license from APHIS to manufacture USDA-licensed products

.

We have a

facility

license for our manufacturing facility in Westbrook, Maine and our distribution center in Memphis,

Tennessee. Our manufacturing facility in Montpellier, France has been approved by APHIS and we have a permit to import product

s manufactured in Montpellier, France



to

the U

.

S

. for distribution.
















Our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems areveterinarymedical devices regulated bythe U.S. Food and Drug Administration(“FDA”)under the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act (the “FDC Act”). While the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by the FDA and does not subject us to the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations (“cGMP”), these products must not be adulterated, mislabeledor misbranded under the FDC Act.



These instrument systems also are subject tothe European Medical Device Directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all European Union (“EU”) member countries and require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in EU member countries to obtain European Conformitymarking for their products.



Water testing products. Our water tests are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. However, before a test can be used as part of a water quality monitoring program in the U.S. that is regulatedby the EPA, the test must first be approved by the EPA. The EPA approval process involves submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an EPA-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the EPA and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the Federal Register before final approval. Our Colilert, Colilert-18, Colisure, Quanti-Tray, Filta-Maxxpress,Enterolertand SimPlate for heterotrophic plate counts products have been approved by the EPAfor use under various regulatory programs.Water testing productsaresubject tosimilarlyextensive regulatory processes in other countries around the world.



Dairy testing products. Dairy products used in National Conference on Interstate Milk Shipments (“NCIMS”) milk-monitoring programsin the U.S.are regulated by the FDAas veterinary medical devices.However,before products requiring FDA approval can be sold in the U.S., performance data must be submitted in accordance with an FDA-approved protocol administered byan independent body, such as the Association of Analytical CommunitiesResearch Institute (“AOAC RI”). Following approval of a product by the FDA, the product must also be approved by NCIMS, an oversight bodythat includes state, federal and industry representatives. Our SNAP Beta-Lactam antibiotic residue test product hasbeen approved by the FDA, NCIMS and AOAC RI for sale in the U.S. While some foreign countries accept AOAC RI approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes.



Human point-of-care electrolyte and blood gas analyzers. Our OPTI instrument systems are classified as Class II medical devices, and their design, manufacture and marketing are regulated by the FDA. Accordingly, we must comply with cGMP in the manufacture of our OPTI products.The FDA’s Quality System regulations further set forth standards for product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of our facilities by the FDA. NewOPTIproducts fall into FDA classifications that require notification of and review by the FDA before marketing,and which aresubmitted as a 510(k) application.OPTI Medicalproducts are also subject to the European Medical Device Directives and regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of medical devices in other countries in which they are sold.



In addition to the foregoing, our business is generally subject to various U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities, including the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) and other anti-competition authorities, and any acquisitions of new products and technologies may subject us to additional areas of government regulation. These may involve food safety, medical device, water-quality and other regulations of the FDA, the EPA, the USDA, the FTC and other federal agencies, as well as state, local and foreign governments. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



EMPLOYEES



Asof February 7, 2014, we had approximately 5,700 employees.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION



Our principal executive offices are located at One IDEXX Drive, Westbrook, Maine 04092, our telephone number is 207-556-0300, and our Internet address iswww.idexx.com. References to our website are inactive textual references only and the content of our website should not be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K for any purpose.














We make available free of charge atwww.idexx.comour Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, copies of our reports filed electronically with the SEC may be accessed at www.sec.gov. The public may also read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



Our Corporate Governance Guidelines and our Code of Ethics are also available on our website atwww.idexx.com.



