ITEM 1.   BUSINESS



We develop, manufacture and distribute products
and provide services primarily for the companion animal veterinary, livestock and poultry, water testing and dairy markets. We
also sell a line of portable electrolytes and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. Our primary
products and services are:



·Point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprising instruments and consumables and rapid assays;

·Veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services used by veterinarians;

·Diagnostic and health-monitoring products for livestock and poultry;

·Products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants;

·Practice management systems and services and digital radiography systems used by veterinarians;

·Products that test milk for antibiotic residues and other contaminants; and

·Point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers used in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market.



We are a Delaware corporation and were incorporated
in 1983. Our principal executive offices are located at One IDEXX Drive, Westbrook, Maine 04092, our telephone number is 207-556-0300,
and our Internet address is www.idexx.com. References herein to “we,” “us,” the “Company,”
or “IDEXX” include our wholly-owned subsidiaries and majority-owned subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires.
References to our Web site are inactive textual references only and the content of our Web site should not be deemed incorporated
by reference into this Form 10-K for any purpose.



We make available free of charge on our Web
site our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports
as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, copies of our reports
filed electronically with the SEC may be accessed on the SEC’s Web site at www.sec.gov. The public may also read and copy
any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Information
on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.








DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS BY SEGMENT



During 2011, we operated primarily
through three business segments: diagnostic and information technology-based products and services for the veterinary market,
which we refer to as the Companion Animal Group (“CAG”), water quality products (“Water”) and
products for livestock and poultry health, which we refer to as Livestock and Poultry Diagnostics (“LPD”). Prior
to the second quarter of 2010, we referred to LPD as our Production Animal Segment. We also operate two smaller operating
segments that comprise products for milk quality and safety (“Dairy”) and products for the human point-of-care
medical diagnostics market (“OPTI Medical”). Financial information about the Dairy and OPTI Medical operating
segments is combined and presented with one of our remaining pharmaceutical product lines and our out-licensing arrangements
in an “Other” category because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable
segments. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 included in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K for financial information about our segments, including geographic information, and our product and
service categories.



COMPANION ANIMAL GROUP



Instruments and Consumables



We currently market an integrated suite of in-clinic
laboratory analyzers for use in providing reference laboratory quality diagnostic results in companion animal veterinary practices
that we refer to as the IDEXX VetLab®suite of analyzers. The IDEXX VetLab®suite includes several
instrument systems, as well as associated proprietary consumable products, all of which are described below:



Blood and Urine Chemistry. We sell two
chemistry analyzers, the Catalyst Dx®Chemistry Analyzer and the VetTest®Chemistry Analyzer, that
are used by veterinarians to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine for monitoring health status
and assistance in diagnosing physiologic conditions. Both instruments use consumables manufactured for IDEXX by Ortho-Clinical
Diagnostics, Inc. (“Ortho”), a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, based on Ortho’s dry slide technology (“Catalyst
Dx®slides,” “VetTest®slides” or “slides”). In addition, the Catalyst
Dx®analyzer also uses dry slide electrolyte consumables manufactured by IDEXX at OPTI Medical Systems, one of our
wholly-owned subsidiaries. Blood tests commonly run on these analyzers include glucose, alkaline phosphatase, ALT (alanine aminotransferase),
albumin, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (“BUN”), and total protein. Tests are sold individually and in prepackaged
panels. Both analyzers also run a urine test called urine protein:creatinine ratio, which assists in the detection of early renal
disease.



The Catalyst Dx®analyzer is
our latest generation chemistry analyzer, which was launched in 2008. The Catalyst Dx®analyzer provides significantly
improved throughput, ease of use and menu relative to the VetTest®analyzer, including the ability to run electrolytes.
Key ease-of-use features include the ability to run whole blood using an on-board centrifuge, the ability to run pre-packaged,
multi-slide clips in addition to single chemistry slides, and an automated metering system. The Catalyst Dx®analyzer
also enables automated dilutions, which is an ease-of-use feature both for certain blood chemistries and the test for urine protein:creatinine
ratio. The Catalyst Dx®analyzer allows a veterinarian to run multiple patient samples simultaneously; to run different
sample types including whole blood, plasma, serum and urine; to perform 28 different chemistry and electrolyte tests; and to automatically
calculate other parameters and ratios important to blood chemistry analysis.



Our VetLyte®Electrolyte Analyzer
measures three electrolytes—sodium, potassium and chloride—to aid in evaluating acid-base and electrolyte balances
and assessing plasma hydration.



Our VetStat®Electrolyte and
Blood Gas Analyzer measures electrolytes, blood gases, glucose and ionized calcium, and calculates other parameters, such as base
excess and anion gap. These measurements aid veterinarians in diagnosing various disease states, evaluating fluid therapy choices
and measuring respiratory function. The VetStat®analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that contain various
configurations of analytes. The VetStat®analyzer and its cassettes are manufactured by OPTI Medical Systems.








Sales of consumables for use in our installed
base of chemistry analyzers provide the majority of consumables volumes and revenues generated from our installed base of IDEXX
VetLab®equipment.



Hematology. We sell three hematology
analyzers that assess the cellular components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets (also called
a complete blood count (“CBC”)). These analyzers include the ProCyte Dx®Hematology Analyzer, which
uses laser-flow cytometry, optical fluorescence and laminar-flow impedance in its analysis; the LaserCyte®Hematology
Analyzer, which uses laser-flow cytometry technology in its analysis; and the IDEXX VetAutoread™Hematology Analyzer.
We also sell the Coag Dx™Analyzer, which permits the detection and diagnosis of blood clotting disorders.



The ProCyte Dx®analyzer is our
latest generation hematology analyzer, which we launched in the third quarter of 2010. The ProCyte Dx®analyzer
provides significantly improved throughput, accuracy and more complete medical information relative to the LaserCyte®and VetAutoread™hematology analyzers. The ProCyte Dx®analyzer provides validated results for
five species (canine, feline, equine, bovine and ferret) for up to 24 different blood parameters, providing a more complete picture
of each patient’s health.



Quantitative Immunoassay Testing. With
multiple-patient testing functionality, the SNAPshot Dx®analyzer provides quantitative measurements of total thyroxine
(“T4”), cortisol and bile acids to assist in the evaluation of thyroid, adrenal and liver function. The
SNAPshot Dx®analyzer also reads, interprets and records the results of many IDEXX rapid assay SNAP®tests, including our canine SNAP®4Dx®test,feline SNAP®FIV/FeLV Combo
test, canine SNAP®cPL™test, feline SNAP®fPL™test, SNAP®Feline Triple test and canine SNAP®Heartworm RT test.



Urinalysis. The IDEXX VetLab®UA™Analyzer provides rapid, semi-quantitative chemical urinalysis and is validated specifically for veterinary
use.



IDEXX VetLab®Station.
The IDEXX VetLab®Station (“IVLS”) connects and integrates the diagnostic information from all the
IDEXX VetLab®equipment and thus provides reference laboratory information management system capability. We sell
the IVLS as an integral component of the Catalyst Dx®, LaserCyte®and ProCyte Dx®analyzers
and also as a standalone hardware platform. The IVLS includes a user interface to input patient information, connect with a practice
management system and send information to run the individual analyzers. IVLS also generates one integrated patient report incorporating
all of the lab work generated by the IDEXX VetLab®suite; stores, retrieves and analyzes historical patient diagnostics
data, including SNAP®test results; and sends and receives information from practice management systems, including
the IDEXX Cornerstone®system, as well as a wide variety of third-party systems. IVLS also connects back to IDEXX
through SmartServiceTM, a secure internet link that enables us to provide diagnostic service and support for certain
IDEXX VetLab®instruments through remote access.



Rapid Assays



We sell a broad range of single-use, handheld
test kits under the SNAP®name that provide quick, accurate and convenient diagnostic test results for a variety
of companion animal diseases and health conditions. These kits work without the use of instrumentation, although many kits may
also be read automatically by the SNAPshot Dx®analyzer as discussed above.



Principal single-use canine tests include:

·SNAP®4Dx®, which tests for the tick-borne diseases Lyme disease,Ehrlichia canisandAnaplasma phagocytophilumand the mosquito-borne disease canine heartworm;



·SNAP®3Dx®, which tests for Lyme disease,Ehrlichia canisand canine heartworm;



·SNAP®Heartworm RT, which tests only for canine heartworm;



·SNAP®Parvo, which tests for parvovirus, a virus causing life-threatening damage to immune and intestinal systems;



·SNAP®cPL™, which tests only for canine pancreatitis;








·SNAP®Giardia, which is a fecal test for solubleGiardiaantigens, a common cause of waterborne
infection; and



·SNAP®Leishmania, which tests for a parasitological disease (“Leishmania”) transmitted by mosquitoes
that affects biological systems and vital organs.



Principal single-use feline tests include:

·SNAP®Feline Triple®, which tests for feline immunodeficiency virus (“FIV”) (which
is similar to the human AIDS virus), feline leukemia virus (“FeLV”), and feline heartworm;



·SNAP®FIV/FeLV Combo Test, which tests for FIV and FeLV;



·SNAP®FeLV, which tests only for FeLV;



·SNAP®fPL™, which we launched during the second quarter of 2011 and tests for feline pancreatitis;
and



·SNAP®Giardia, which is a fecal test for solubleGiardiaantigens.





Sales of canine parasite tests, including SNAP®4Dx®, SNAP®3Dx®and SNAP®Heartworm RT, are greater in the first
half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice.



In addition to our single-use tests, we sell
a line of microwell-based test kits under the PetChek®name for canine heartworm, FIV and FeLV. Larger clinics and
laboratories use these kits to test multiple samples and provide ease-of-use and cost advantages to high-volume customers.



We expect to introduce SNAP®4Dx®Plus to the U.S. market during the second quarter of 2012, pending approval from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (“USDA”).
This next generation product tests for two additional tick-borne analytes,Ehrlichia ewingiiandAnaplasma platys,
in addition to those analytes currently tested by SNAP®4Dx®.



Reference Laboratory Diagnostic and Consulting Services



Reference Laboratory Diagnostic Services.We offer commercial reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services to veterinarians in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Australia,
Japan, South Africa, China and South Korea and to bioresearch customers in the U.S. and Europe. Customers use our services by submitting
samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. Most test results have same-day or next-day turnaround times.
Our laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions
in animals, including virtually all tests that can be run in-clinic at the veterinary practice with our instruments or rapid assays.
This menu of tests also includes a number of specialized and proprietary tests that we have developed that allow practitioners
to diagnose increasingly relevant diseases in dogs and cats, including heart disease, pancreatitis and certain infectious diseases.



In November 2011, we acquired the research and
diagnostic laboratory (“RADIL”) business of the College of Veterinary Medicine from the University of Missouri. RADIL
provides health monitoring and diagnostic testing services to bioresearch customers. The financial results of RADIL are reflected
in the financial results of our reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services business. The acquisition of RADIL did
not have a material effect on our results of operation in 2011 and are not expected to have a material effect on our results of
operation in 2012.



Consulting Services.Additionally, we
provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine and advisory services, including radiology, cardiology, internal medicine
and ultrasound consulting. These services enable veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmitted
by telephone and over the Internet.








Practice Management Systems and Digital Radiography



Practice Management Systems and Services.
We develop, market and sell practice management systems, including hardware and software, and services that run key functions of
veterinary clinics, including managing patient electronic health records, scheduling (including boarding and grooming), reminders,
billing and inventory management. Our principal practice management system is Cornerstone®. We also support several
legacy practice management systems installed with our customers, including IDEXX Better Choice®, IDEXX VPM™and IDEXX VetLINK®. Our services include Cornerstone®Coaching, Practice Profile™, Reminder
Service, SmartService™ Solutions, VetVault®Backup Solution and PetDetect®Pet Identification
System. Certain of our services are compatible with non-IDEXX practice management systems. We derive a significant portion of our
revenues for this product line from ongoing service contracts.



Digital Radiography Systems and Services.
Our digital radiography systems capture radiographic images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film and the film development
process, which generally requires the use of hazardous chemicals and darkrooms. We market and sell two digital radiography systems
for use in the small animal veterinary hospital: the IDEXX-DR™ 1417 and the IDEXX I-Vision CR™. The I-Vision CR™
is our latest generation computed radiography system, which we launched in January 2011. We also market and sell the IDEXX EquiView®DR system for use as a portable unit in ambulatory veterinary practices, such as equine practices.



Our digital radiography systems use IDEXX-PACS™and IDEXX EquiView PACS™picture archiving and communication system (“PACS”) software for the viewing,
manipulation, management, storage and retrieval of the digital images generated by the digital capture plate. The PACS software
also permits images from our digital radiography systems to be integrated into patients’ medical records in the Cornerstone®system, as well as transferred to other practice management systems. In September 2011, we launched IDEXX I-Vision Mobile™,
an application that allows veterinarians with the IDEXX-DR™ 1417 and IDEXX I-Vision CR™ systems, as well as our legacy
digital radiography systems, to request, view and send images using an iPad®or an Android®mobile
tablet. This application integrates with our IDEXX-PACS™software.



WATER



We offer a range of products used in the detection
and quantification of various microbiological parameters in water.



Our principal products are the Colilert®,
Colilert®-18 and Colisure®tests, which simultaneously detect the presence of total coliforms andE. coliin water. These organisms are broadly used as indicators of microbial contamination in water. These products utilize
indicator-nutrients that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. Our water
tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance
with regulatory standards, including U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) standards. The tests also are used
in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled
water, recreational water, waste water and water from private wells.



Our Enterolert®products detect
the presence of enterococci in drinking, waste and recreational waters. Enterococci, bacteria normally found in human and animal
waste, are organisms broadly used as an indicator of microbial contamination in water. Our Pseudalert™ products detect the
presence of pseudomonas in pool, spa and bottled waters. Pseudomonas is a pathogen that can cause “hot-tub rash,” “swimmer’s
ear” and potentially fatal infections in immunocompromised individuals.Our Filta-Max®and Filta-Maxxpress®products are used in the detection ofCryptosporidiumandGiardiain water.CryptosporidiumandGiardiaare parasites that can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if
ingested. We also distribute certain water testing kits manufactured by Life Technologies Corporation that complement ourCryptosporidiumandGiardiatesting products.



Our Quanti-Tray®products, when
used in conjunction with our Colilert®, Colilert®-18, Colisure®, Enterolert®or Pseudalert™ products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination, rather than a presence/absence
indication. Our SimPlate for heterotropic plate count product detects the total number of the most common bacteria in a water sample.



We also sell consumables, parts and accessories
to be used with many of our water testing products.








LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY
DIAGNOSTICS



We sell diagnostic tests and related instrumentation
that are used to detect a wide range of diseases and to monitor health status in livestock and poultry. Our livestock and poultry
diagnostic products are purchased by government and private laboratories that provide testing services to cattle, swine and poultry
veterinarians and producers. Our principal products include tests for Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (“BVDV”), Porcine
Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome (“PRRS”) and Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (“BSE” or “mad
cow disease”). BVDV is a common and contagious viral infection that suppresses the immune system, making the animal susceptible
to a host of other infections, impacting beef and dairy production yields as a result. PRRS is a contagious virus causing reproductive
problems and respiratory diseases. BSE is a fatal neurodegenerative disease in cattle that causes a spongy degeneration in the
brain and spinal cord.



OTHER



Dairy



The principal products in our
Dairy business are our SNAP®tests used to detect antibiotic drug-residue in milk. Dairy producers and
processors worldwide use our tests for quality and safety assurance of raw milk. Our primary product line for detecting
antibiotic residue in milk is SNAP®Beta-Lactam, which detects penicillin, amoxicillin, ceftiofur and
cephaphirin residues, followed by SNAPduo®Beta-Tetra, which detects certain tetracycline antibiotic residues
in addition to those detected by the SNAP®Beta Lactam test kits. We also sell SNAP®tests for
the detection of certain other contaminants in milk, such as chemical melamine and Alfatoxin M1.



OPTI Medical Systems



We sell OPTI®point-of-care analyzers
and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance,
glucose, lactate, BUN and ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as base excess and anion gap. These analyzers
are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas and other locations where time-critical diagnostic
testing is performed within the hospital setting. The OPTI®CCA and OPTI®Touch Electrolyte and Blood
Gas Analyzers run single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes; the OPTI®R Analyzer
runs reusable cassettes in various analyte configurations; and the OPTI®LION Stat Electrolyte Analyzer runs single-use
electrolyte cassettes. OPTI Medical Systems also manufactures our VetStat®analyzer and provides the electrolyte
module and dry slide reagents that make up the electrolyte testing functionality of the Catalyst Dx®analyzer.



Other Activities



In the fourth quarter of 2008, we sold our Acarexx®and SURPASS®veterinary pharmaceutical products and a feline insulin product under development. Upon completion
of this transaction we restructured the remaining pharmaceutical division and realigned two of our pharmaceutical product lines
to the Rapid Assay line of business, which is part of CAG, and realigned the remainder of the products, which comprised of one
product line and two out-licensing arrangements in effect at the time of the realignment, to the Other segment. We retained certain
drug delivery technologies that we have continued to seek to commercialize through agreements with third parties, such as pharmaceutical
companies, that we also include in the Other segment. See Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December
31, 2011 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the restructuring of our pharmaceutical
business. Since realignment to the Rapid Assay line of business, we have discontinued the production and sale of one of the remaining
pharmaceutical product lines. Neither this product line nor the second remaining product line is or was a significant contributor
to revenue in the Rapid Assay line of business.



MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION



We market, sell and service our products worldwide
through our marketing, sales and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. We
maintain sales offices outside the U.S. in Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland,
Taiwan, the United Kingdom, South Africa, Poland and South Korea. Sales and marketing expense was $204.9 million, $179.6 million
and $167.7 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, or 16.8% of revenue in 2011 and
16.3% of revenue in each of 2010 and 2009.








®

®



Our largest customers are our U.S. distributors
of our products in the CAG segment. One of our CAG distributors, Butler Schein Animal Health Supply, LLC (“Butler”),
accounted for 9% of our revenue in each of 2011 and 2010. Butler was formed in December 2009 when Butler Animal Health Supply,
LLC combined with the U.S. animal health business of Henry Schein, Inc. Together these organizations accounted for 10% of our revenue
in 2009.



RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT



Our business includes the development and introduction
of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. We maintain active research and development programs
in each of our business areas. Our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and
external consulting and development costs, were $76.0 million, $68.6 million and $65.1 million for the twelve months ended December
31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, or 6.2% of revenue in 2011 and 2010 and 6.3% of revenue in 2009.



PATENTS AND LICENSES



We actively seek to obtain patent protection
in the U.S. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. We also license patents and technologies
from third parties.



Important patents and licenses include:



·Exclusive licenses from the University of Texas and Tulane University to patents that expire in 2017 and 2019, respectively,
relating to reagents and methods for the detection of Lyme disease utilized in certain of our SNAP®products and
a reference laboratory diagnostic test;

·A patent concerning the Colilert®-18 product that expires in 2014;

·A patent concerning the Quanti-Tray®product that expires in 2014;

·A patent that relates to certain methods and kits for simultaneously detecting antigens and antibodies, which covers certain
of our SNAP®products, including our canine and feline combination tests, that expires in 2014;

·Patents covering various reagents, kits and/or immunoassays for detecting FIV antibodies utilized in certain of our SNAP®products that expire beginning in 2014;

·An exclusive license from Boehringer Ingelheim to certain patents covering reagents and methods for detecting PRRS that expire
in 2014; and

·An exclusive license from Cornell University to patents covering methods for detecting BVDV that expire beginning in 2017.



To the extent some of our products may now,
or in the future, embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain
licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. These licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable
terms or at all. Our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. See
“Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”








PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY



Many of the instruments that we sell are manufactured
by third parties and we rely on third parties to supply us with certain important components, raw materials and consumables used
in or with our products. In some cases these third parties are sole or single source suppliers.



Instruments and consumables.



Significant products supplied by sole and single
source providers include VetTest®analyzers and consumables, Catalyst Dx®consumables (other than
electrolyte consumables), LaserCyte®consumables and VetAutoread™, VetLyte®, Coag
Dx™and ProCyte®analyzers and consumables.



VetTest®slides and Catalyst
Dx®chemistry slides are supplied by Ortho under supply agreements that are currently set to expire at the end of
2028. We are required to purchase all of our requirements for our current menu of VetTest®slides and Catalyst Dx®chemistry slides from Ortho to the extent Ortho is able to supply those requirements. Through 2012, the agreements provide for
price increases based upon the U.S. Producer Price Index. Starting in 2013, the agreements provide for pricing based on purchase
volumes and a fixed annual inflationary adjustment. The agreements also prohibit Ortho from promoting and selling these chemistry
slides in the veterinary market other than to IDEXX.



We purchase other analyzers and consumables
under supply agreements with terms ranging up to 21 years, which in some cases may be extended at our option. We have minimum purchase
obligations under some of these agreements, and our failure to satisfy these obligations may result in loss of some or all of our
rights under these agreements. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



Other components.



We purchase certain other products, raw materials
and components from sole and single source suppliers. These products include certain digital radiography systems and certain components
used in our SNAP®rapid assay and dairy devices, livestock and poultry testing kits and water testing products.



Certain components incorporated into our SNAP®products are supplied by Moss, Inc. (“Moss”) under a supply agreement that Moss may terminate with 24 months notice.
We are required annually to purchase a minimum amount from Moss equal to our average purchase volumes in 2004, 2005 and 2006. Annual
price increases are capped at 3%. Pursuant to the terms of the supply agreement, Moss has escrowed its manufacturing information
relating to the components, which may be released to us upon certain triggering events that would render Moss incapable of supplying
the components to us. If such a triggering event occurs, we will make royalty payments to Moss for the use of such information
until Moss is able to again begin manufacturing.



We have been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted
supply of products purchased from single source suppliers. However, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be
maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products.
See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



We do not generally maintain significant backlog
and believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales.



COMPETITION



We face intense competition within the markets
in which we sell our products and services. This competition is intensifying and increasing, as new competitors have entered our
markets and some of our competitors have expanded the range of products and services offered to the companion animal veterinary
market and expanded the geographic scope of their operations. In addition, we have to compete with changing technologies, which
could affect the marketability of our products and services. Our competitive position will depend on our ability to develop proprietary
or highly differentiated products and services, integrate our products, develop and maintain effective sales channels, attract
and retain qualified scientific and other personnel, develop and implement production and marketing plans, obtain or license patent
rights, and obtain adequate capital resources.








We compete with many companies ranging from
large human pharmaceutical and medical diagnostics companies to small businesses focused on animal health. Our companion animal
veterinary diagnostic products and services compete with both reference laboratory service and in-clinic product providers. Our
competitors vary in our different markets. In some markets, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private
research organizations conduct research activities and may commercialize products or services, which could compete with our products,
on their own or through joint ventures. Several of our direct and indirect competitors have substantially greater capital, manufacturing,
marketing, and research and development resources than we do.



Competitive factors in our different business
areas are detailed below:



·Companion animal diagnostic offerings.We compete primarily on the basis of ease of use and speed of our products, diagnostic
accuracy, product quality, breadth of our product line and services, technology, information management, availability of medical
consultation, effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, quality of our technical and customer service, and our pricing
relative to the value of our products and services in comparison with competitive products and services. We compete in most geographic
locations in North America with Antech Diagnostics, a unit of VCA Antech, Inc., and Abaxis, Inc.

·Water, livestock and poultry and dairy testing products. We compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed,
accuracy, product quality, and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including unique tests), the breadth
of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer
service, and our pricing relative to the value of our products in comparison with competitive products and services.

·Practice management and digital radiography systems. We compete primarily on the basis of functionality, connectivity
to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of our customer service, information handling capabilities,
advances in technologies, and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services. We compete in most geographic locations
in North America with Butler with respect to our practice management products and services.

·Electrolyte and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. We compete primarily with
large human medical diagnostics companies such as Radiometer A/S, Siemens Medical Solutions Diagnostics, Instrumentation Laboratory,
Abbott Diagnostics, and Roche Diagnostics. We compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, menu, convenience, international
distribution and service, instrument reliability, and our pricing relative to the value of our products.



GOVERNMENT REGULATION



Many of our products are subject to comprehensive
regulation by U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies that relate to, among other things, product approvals, manufacturing, distribution,
marketing and promotion, labeling, recordkeeping, testing, quality, storage, and product disposal. The following is a description
of the principal regulations affecting our businesses.



Veterinary diagnostic products








Our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems
are veterinary medical devices regulated by the U.S. FDA under the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act (the “FDC Act”). While
the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by the FDA and does not subject us to the FDA’s current Good
Manufacturing Practices regulations (“cGMP”), these products must not be adulterated, mislabeled or misbranded under
the FDC Act.



These instrument systems also are subject to
the European Medical Device Directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all European Union (“EU”)
member countries and require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in EU member countries to obtain
European Conformity (“CE”) marking for their products.



Water testing products. Our water tests
are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. However, before a test can be used as part of a water quality monitoring
program in the U.S. that is required by the EPA, the test must first be approved by the EPA. The EPA approval process involves
submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an EPA-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the EPA
and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the Federal Register before final approval. Our Colilert®,
Colilert®-18, Colisure®, Quanti-Tray®, Filta-Max®, Enterolert®,
and SimPlate®for heterotropic plate counts products have been approved by the EPA. The sale of water testing products
also is subject to extensive and lengthy regulatory processes in many other countries around the world.



Dairy testing products. Dairy products
used in National Conference on Interstate Milk Shipments (“NCIMS”) milk-monitoring programs are regulated by the FDA
as veterinary medical devices. However, before products requiring FDA approval can be sold in the U.S., performance data must
be submitted in accordance with an FDA approved protocol administered by an independent body, such as the Association of Analytical
Communities Research Institute (“AOAC RI”). Following approval of a product by the FDA, the product must also be approved
by NCIMS, an oversight body that includes state, federal and industry representatives. Our SNAP®Beta-Lactam antibiotic
residue test products have been approved by the FDA, NCIMS and AOAC RI for sale in the U.S. While some foreign countries accept
AOAC RI approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes.



Human point-of-care electrolyte and blood
gas analyzers. Our OPTI®instrument systems are classified as Class II medical devices, and their design, manufacture
and marketing are regulated by the FDA. Accordingly, we must comply with cGMP in the manufacture of our OPTI®products.
The FDA’s Quality System regulations further set forth standards for product design and manufacturing processes, require
the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of our facilities by the FDA. New OPTI®products
fall into FDA classifications that require notification of and review by the FDA before marketing, and which are submitted as a
510(k) application.



OPTI®Medical products are also
subject to the European Medical Device Directives and regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of medical devices in
other countries in which they are sold.



Any acquisitions of new products and technologies
may subject us to additional areas of government regulation. These may involve food, medical device and water-quality regulations
of the FDA, the EPA and the USDA, as well as state, local and foreign governments. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



EMPLOYEES



At February 10, 2012, we had approximately 5,100
full-time and part-time employees.



