ITEM 1.BUSINESS



We develop, manufacture and distribute products and provide services primarily for thecompanion animalveterinary, livestock and poultry,water testingand dairymarkets. We also sell a line of portable electrolytes and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. Our primary products and services are:



·Point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprisinginstruments and consumables, and rapid assays;

·Veterinary reference laboratorydiagnosticand consulting services used by veterinarians;

·Practicemanagementsystems and services and digital radiography systems used by veterinarians;

·Biological materials testing and laboratory diagnostic instruments and services used by the biomedical research community;

·Diagnostic and health-monitoring products forlivestock and poultry;

·Products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants;

·Products that test milk for antibiotic residues and other contaminants; and

·Point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers used in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market.



We are a Delaware corporation and were incorporated in 1983. Our principal executive offices are located at One IDEXX Drive, Westbrook, Maine 04092, our telephone number is 207-556-0300, and our Internet address is www.idexx.com. References herein to “we,” “us,” the “Company,” or “IDEXX” include our wholly-owned subsidiariesand majority-owned subsidiariesunless the context otherwise requires. References to our Web site are inactive textual references only and the content of our Web site should not be deemed incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K for any purpose.
















We make available free of charge on our Web site our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reportsfiled or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Actas soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, copies of our reports filed electronically with the SEC may be accessed on the SEC’s Web site at www.sec.gov. The public may also read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS BY SEGMENT



During 2012, we operated primarily through three business segments:diagnostic and information technology-basedproducts and services for the veterinaryand bioresearchmarkets, which we refer to astheCompanion Animal Group (“CAG”), water quality products (“Water”) and products forlivestock and poultryhealth, which we refer to asLivestock and Poultry Diagnostics(“LPD”).Prior to the second quarter of 2010, we referred to our LPD segment as our Production Animal Segment.We also operate two smalleroperatingsegments that comprise products formilkqualityand safety(“Dairy”) and products for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market (“OPTI Medical”).  Financial information about the Dairy and OPTI Medical operating segmentsiscombined and presentedwith one of our remaining pharmaceutical product lines and our out-licensing arrangementsin an “Other” category because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments.See Note 15tothe consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for financial information about our segments, including geographic information, and our product and service categories.



COMPANION ANIMAL GROUP



CAG offers a set of discrete products and services as described below.  The breadth and complementary nature of our products and servicespermit us to offer integrated disease-management diagnostic solutions that leverage the advantages of both point-of-care and outside laboratory testing, facilitate the flow of medical and business information in the veterinary practiceand between the veterinarypracticeand its clients, and provide us with scale in sales and distribution.Ourobjective isto provide veterinarians with the tools and services to enhance the pet owner experience with veterinary medical care, while also growing veterinary practice revenues andimproving staff efficiencies.



VetConnect®PLUS. In the third quarter of 2012, we launched VetConnect®PLUS,acloud-based technology that enables veterinarians to access and analyze patients’ diagnostic data from both IDEXX in-house analyzers, Rapid Assays and IDEXX ReferenceLaboratories in one place. VetConnect®PLUS combines all results that have been run on a patient with IDEXX VetLab®Station and ReferenceLaboratories, and thus allows theveterinarianto easily see and trend patient-specific diagnostic results, enabling greater medical insight. In addition, VetConnect®PLUS provides instant mobile orInternet access to results, whether run at IDEXX Reference Labs or on in-house equipment. Results can easily be printed or emailed fromVetConnect®PLUS to pet owners or otherveterinarians. In this way, VetConnect®PLUS can aid the veterinarian and the practice staff in engaging the pet owner in the patient’s care, which can support greater compliance to care recommendations or preventive care protocols.



Instruments and Consumables



We currently market an integrated suite of in-houselaboratory analyzers for use inproviding reference laboratory quality diagnostic results in companion animalveterinary practices that we refer to as the IDEXX VetLab®suite of analyzers. The IDEXX VetLab®suite includes several instrument systems, as well as associated proprietary consumable products, all of which are described below:
























Blood and Urine Chemistry.We sell two chemistryanalyzers,the Catalyst Dx®Chemistry Analyzer and the VetTest®Chemistry Analyzer, that are used by veterinariansto measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine formonitoring health status andassistance in diagnosing physiologic conditions. Both instruments use consumables manufactured for IDEXX by Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. (“Ortho”), a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, based on Ortho’s dry slide technology (“Catalyst Dx®slides,” “VetTest®slides” or “slides”). In addition, the Catalyst Dx®analyzer also usesdry slideelectrolyte consumables manufactured by IDEXX at OPTI MedicalSystems, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. Blood tests commonly run on these analyzers include glucose, alkaline phosphatase, ALT (alanine aminotransferase),albumin, calcium,creatinine,blood urea nitrogen (“BUN”), and total protein. Tests are sold individually and in prepackaged panels. Both analyzers also run a urine test called urine protein:creatinine ratio, which assists in the detection of early renal disease.



The Catalyst Dx®analyzer is our latest generation chemistry analyzer, which was launched in 2008. The Catalyst Dx®analyzer provides significantly improved throughput, ease of use and menurelative to the VetTest®analyzer, including the ability to run electrolytes. Key ease-of-use features include the ability to runawhole bloodsample usingan on-board centrifuge, the ability to run pre-packaged, multi-slideclips in addition to single chemistry slides, and an automated metering system. The Catalyst Dx®analyzer alsoenablesautomated dilutions, which is an ease-of-use feature both for certain blood chemistries and the test for urine protein:creatinine ratio. The Catalyst Dx®analyzer allows a veterinarian to run multiplepatientsamplessimultaneously; to run different sample types including whole blood, plasma, serum and urine; to perform28different chemistry and electrolyte tests; and toautomatically calculate other parameters and ratios important to blood chemistry analysis. In addition, the Catalyst Dx®analyzer runs a test to measurephenobarbital levels in blood, allowing veterinarians to adjust anticonvulsant medication more quickly and efficiently.



Our VetLyte®Electrolyte Analyzer measures three electrolytes—sodium, potassium and chloride—to aid in evaluating acid-base and electrolyte balances and assessing plasma hydration.



Our VetStat®Electrolyte and Blood Gas Analyzer measures electrolytes, blood gases, glucose and ionized calcium, and calculates other parameters, such as base excess and anion gap. These measurements aid veterinarians in diagnosing various disease states, evaluating fluid therapy choices and measuring respiratory function. The VetStat®analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes.TheVetStat®analyzer and its cassettes are manufactured by OPTI Medical Systems.



Sales of consumables for use in our installed base of chemistry analyzers provide the majority of consumables volumes and revenues generated from our installed base of IDEXX VetLab®equipment.



Hematology. We sell four hematology analyzers that assess the cellular components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets (also called a complete blood count (“CBC”)). These analyzers include the ProCyte Dx®Hematology Analyzer, which uses laser-flow cytometry, optical fluorescence and laminar-flow impedance in its analysis; the LaserCyte®Hematology Analyzer and the newly launched LaserCyte®Dx Hematology Analyzer, which both use laser-flow cytometry technology in their analysis; and the IDEXX VetAutoread™Hematology Analyzer. In addition, the ProCyte Dx®Hematology Analyzer, the LaserCyte®Dx Hematology Analyzer and the LaserCyte®Hematology Analyzer each have the ability to analyze the components of certain body fluids. We also sell the Coag Dx™Analyzer, which permits the detection and diagnosis of blood clotting disorders.



The ProCyte Dx®analyzer is our premier hematology analyzer, which we launched in 2010. The ProCyte Dx®analyzer provides significantly improved throughput, accuracy and more complete medical information relative to the LaserCyte®and VetAutoread™hematology analyzers. The ProCyte Dx®analyzer provides up to 24 different blood parameters including the ability to detect band neutrophils and nucleated red blood cells for a more complete picture of a patient’s health. The ProCyte Dx®is validated for nine companion animal species (canine, feline, equine, bovine, ferret, rabbit, gerbil, pig and mini pig) with research and development efforts focused on validating results for additional species. In January 2013, we launched the LaserCyte®Dx Hematology Analyzer, which combines the advanced capabilities of the original LaserCyte®Hematology Analyzer with several features of our ProCyte Dx®analyzer.
















Quantitative Immunoassay Testing.With multiple-patient testing functionality, theSNAPshot Dx®analyzerprovidesquantitative measurements of total thyroxine (“T4”), cortisol and bile acids toassist in the evaluation of thyroid, adrenal and liver function, respectively. The SNAPshot Dx®analyzer also reads, interprets and records the results ofmanyIDEXX rapid assay SNAP®tests, including ourcanineSNAP®4Dx®andSNAP®4Dx®Plus tests,feline SNAP®FIV/FeLV Combotest,canineSNAP®cPL™test, felineSNAP®fPL™test,SNAP®Feline Triple®testand canineSNAP®Heartworm RTtest.



Urinalysis. The IDEXX VetLab®UA™Analyzer provides rapid, semi-quantitativechemicalurinalysis and is validated specifically for veterinary use.



IDEXX VetLab®Station. The IDEXX VetLab®Station (“IVLS”) connects and integrates thediagnosticinformation from all the IDEXX VetLab®equipment and thus providesreferencelaboratory information management system capability. We sell the IVLS as an integral component of the Catalyst Dx®,LaserCyte®, LaserCyte®Dx and ProCyte Dx®analyzersand also as a standalone hardware platform. The IVLS includes a user interface tosimplify laboratory work flow, connect with a practice management system and send information to run the individual analyzers. IVLS also generates one integrated patient reportincorporating all of the lab work generated by the IDEXX VetLab®suite; stores, retrieves and analyzes historical patient diagnostics data, including SNAP®test results; and sends and receives information from practice management systems, includingtheIDEXX Cornerstone®system, as well as a wide variety of third-party systems.IVLS also connects back to IDEXX through SmartServiceTMSolutions, a secure Internet link that enables us to provide diagnostic service, software updates and support for certain IDEXX VetLab®instruments through remote access.



Rapid Assays



Wesella broad range of single-use, handheld test kits under the SNAP®name thatprovidequick, accurate and convenientdiagnostictest results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions. These kits work without the use of instrumentation,althoughmanykits mayalsobe read automatically by the SNAPshot Dx®analyzeras discussed above.



Principal single-use canine testsare:

·SNAP®4Dx®Plus, launched during the second quarter of 2012, which tests for the tick-borne diseases Lyme disease,Ehrlichia canis,Ehrlichia ewingii,Anaplasma phagocytophilum and Anaplasma platysand the mosquito-borne disease canine heartworm;

·SNAP®4Dx®, which tests for the tick-borne diseases Lyme disease,Ehrlichia canisandAnaplasma phagocytophilumand the mosquito-borne disease canine heartworm;

·SNAP®3Dx®, which tests for Lyme disease,Ehrlichia canisand canine heartworm;

·SNAP®Heartworm RT, which tests for canine heartworm;

·SNAP®Parvo, which tests for parvovirus, a virus causing life-threatening damage to the immune system and intestinal tract;

·SNAP®cPL™, which tests for canine pancreatitis;

·SNAP®Giardia, which is a fecal test forsoluble Giardia antigens, a common cause of waterborne infection; and

·SNAP®Leishmania, which tests for a parasitological disease transmitted by mosquitoes that affects biological systems and vital organs.



Principal single-use feline testsare:

·SNAP®Feline Triple®, which tests for feline immunodeficiency virus (“FIV”) (which is similar to the human AIDS virus), feline leukemia virus (“FeLV”), and feline heartworm;

·SNAP®FIV/FeLV Combo Test, which tests for FIV and FeLV;

·SNAP®FeLV, which tests for FeLV;

·SNAP®fPL™, which we launched during the second quarter of 2011, tests for feline pancreatitis; and

·SNAP®Giardia, which is a fecal test forsoluble Giardia antigens.














Sales of caninevector-bornediseasetests,including SNAP®4Dx®Plus,SNAP®4Dx®,SNAP®3Dx®andSNAP®Heartworm RT, are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice.



In addition to our single-use tests, we sell a line of microwell-based test kitsunder thePetChek®name for canine heartworm, FIV and FeLV.Larger clinics and laboratoriesuse these kitsto test multiple samples and provide ease-of-use and cost advantages to high-volume customers.



ReferenceLaboratoryDiagnosticand Consulting Services



Reference Laboratory Diagnostic Services.We offer commercialreferencelaboratorydiagnosticand consulting services to veterinariansworldwide, including customers in theU.S.,Europe,Canada, Australia, Japan, South Africa, China and South Korea.Customersuse our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities.Most test results have same-day or next-day turnaround times.Our laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions inanimals, including virtually all tests that can be run in-clinic at the veterinary practice with our instruments or rapid assays. This menu of testsalsoincludes a number of specialized and proprietary tests that we have developed that allow practitioners to diagnose increasinglyrelevantconditionsin dogs and cats, including heart disease,allergies,pancreatitis and infectious diseases.Canine vector-borne disease testing volumes are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice.



Health Monitoring and Biological Materials Testing.In November 2011, we acquired the research and diagnostic laboratory (“RADIL”) business of the College of Veterinary Medicine from the University of Missouri. RADIL provides health monitoring and diagnostic testing services to bioresearch customers in North America, Europe and Asia. The financial results of RADIL are reflected in the financial results of our reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services business.



Consulting Services.Additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine and advisory services, including radiology, cardiology, internal medicine and ultrasound consulting. These services enable veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmitted by telephone and over the Internet.



PracticeManagementand DigitalImaging Systemsand Services



PracticeManagementSystems and Services. We develop, market and sell practicemanagementsystems, including hardware and software,and servicesthat run key functions of veterinary clinics, including managing patient electronic health records, scheduling (including boarding and grooming),client communication,billing and inventory management. Our principalpractice managementsystem is Cornerstone®. We also support several legacypractice managementsystems installed with our customers, including IDEXX Better Choice®, IDEXX VPM™and IDEXX VetLINK®.In December 2012, we acquired the assets of Sneakers Software, Inc., which sold DVMAX®Veterinary Practice Management Software and such acquisition did not have a material effect on our results of operation in 2012 and is not expected to have a material effect on our results of operation in 2013.



Ourpractice managementservices include Cornerstone®Coaching, Practice Profile™, IDEXX Reminder Service, VetVault®Backup Solution, PetDetect®Pet Identification System and Pet Health Network®Pro. Pet Health Network®Pro, beta launched in the third quarter of 2012, is a subscription-based service that permits veterinarians to provide online communication and education to pet owners before, during and after each patient visit. We anticipate a full commercial launch of Pet Health Network®Pro during the first quarter of 2013. Certain of our services are compatible with non-IDEXX practice management systems.



DigitalImagingSystems and Services. Our digital radiography systems capture radiographicimages in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray filmand the film development process, which generally requires the use of hazardous chemicals and darkrooms. We market and sell twodigital radiography systemsfor use in the small animal veterinary hospital:the IDEXX I-Vision CR®, our latest generation computed radiography system, which we launched in September 2011 andthe IDEXX-DR™ 1417system. We also market and sellthe IDEXX EquiView®DR system for use as a portable unit in ambulatory veterinary practices, such as equine practices.














Our digital radiography systems usepicture archiving and communication system (“PACS”) software,IDEXX-PACS™and IDEXX EquiView PACS®,for the viewing, manipulation, management, storage and retrieval of the digital images generated by the digital capture plate. The PACS software also permits images from our digital radiography systems to be integrated into patients’ medical records in the Cornerstone®system, as well as transferred to other practice management systems.In September 2011, we launched IDEXX I-Vision Mobile™, an application that allows veterinarians with theIDEXX-DR™ 1417andIDEXXI-Vision CR™systems, as well as  our legacy digital radiographysystems, to request, view and send images using an iPad®or an Android™mobile tablet. This application integrates with our IDEXX-PACS™software.



WATER



We offer a range of products used in the detectionand quantificationof various microbiologicalparametersin water.



Our principal products are theColilert®, Colilert®-18 and Colisure®tests,whichsimultaneously detectthe presence oftotal coliforms andE. coliin water. These organisms are broadly used asmicrobialindicatorsfor potential fecalcontamination in water. These products utilizenutrient-indicatorsthat produce achangein coloror fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. Our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with regulatory standards, including U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) standards. The tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverageand pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluatingbottled water,recreational water, waste water and water from private wells.



Our Enterolert®products detectthe presence ofenterococci in drinking, waste and recreational waters. Enterococci,bacterianormally found inhuman and animalwaste, are organisms broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. Our Pseudalert®products detect the presence ofPseudomonas aeruginosain pool, spa and bottled water.Pseudomonas aeruginosais a pathogen that can cause “hot-tub rash,” “swimmer’s ear” and potentially fatal infections in immunocompromised individuals.Our Filta-Max®and Filta-Maxxpress®products are used in the detection ofCryptosporidiumandGiardiain water.CryptosporidiumandGiardiaareparasitesthat can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if ingested.We alsodistribute certain water testing kits manufactured byLife Technologies Corporation thatcomplement ourCryptosporidiumandGiardiatesting products.



Our Quanti-Tray®products, when used in conjunction with our Colilert®, Colilert®-18, Colisure®, Enterolert®, Pseudalert™ or Heterotrophic Plate Count (HPC) products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination, rather than a presence/absence indication. Our SimPlate for HPC product detects the total number of the most common bacteria in a water sample.



We also sell consumables, parts and accessories to be used with many of our water testing products.



LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY DIAGNOSTICS



We sell diagnostic tests and related instrumentation that are used to detect a wide range of diseases and to monitor health status inlivestock andpoultry.Our livestock and poultry diagnostic products are purchased by government and private laboratories that provide testing servicestocattle, swine and poultryveterinarians andproducers. Ourprincipal products include tests for Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (“BVDV”) and Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome (“PRRS”). BVDV is a common and contagious viral infection that suppresses the immune system, making the animal susceptible to a host of other infections, impacting beef and dairy production yields as a result. PRRS is a contagious virus causing reproductive problems and respiratory diseases. In the fourth quarter of 2012, we launched a milk-based pregnancy test for detecting pregnancy in dairy cattle, which provides a means to optimize reproductive efficiency. Since 2009, changes in testing regulations pertaining to Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy(“BSE” or “mad cow disease”) have led to a decline in revenues from sales of our BSE test products.Revenue fromBSE testing productswasless than$10million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2012.BSE is a fatal neurodegenerative disease in cattle that causes a spongy degeneration in the brain and spinal cord.














OTHER



Dairy



The principal products in our Dairy business are our SNAP®tests used to detect antibiotic drug residue in milk. Dairy producers and processors worldwide use our tests forquality and safetyassurance of raw milk. Our primaryproductlinefordetectingantibiotic residue in milk is SNAP®Beta-Lactam, which detects penicillin, amoxicillin, ceftiofur and cephapirin residues, followed by SNAPduo®Beta-Tetra, which detects certain tetracycline antibiotic residues in addition to those detected by the SNAP®Beta Lactam test kits.We also sell SNAP®testsfor the detection ofcertain other contaminantsin milk, such as chemical melamine and Aflatoxin M1.



OPTI Medical Systems



We sell OPTI®point-of-care analyzers and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose, lactate, BUNand ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as base excess and anion gap. These analyzers are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas andotherlocations where time-critical diagnostic testing is performed within the hospital setting. The OPTI®CCA and OPTI®Touch Electrolyte and Blood Gas Analyzers run single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes; the OPTI®R Analyzer runs reusable cassettes in various analyte configurations; and the OPTI®LION™ Stat Electrolyte Analyzer runs single-use electrolyte cassettes.OPTI Medical Systems also manufactures ourVetStat®analyzer, aninstrument and consumable system that is a member of the IDEXXVetLab®suite for the veterinary market. In addition, OPTI Medical Systems provides the electrolyte module and dry slide reagents that make up the electrolyte testing functionality of theCatalyst Dx®analyzer.



Other Activities



In the fourth quarter of 2008, we sold ourAcarexx®andSURPASS®veterinary pharmaceutical products and afeline insulinproduct under development. Upon completion of this transaction we restructured the remaining pharmaceutical division and realignedtwo of our pharmaceutical product lines to the Rapid Assay line of business, which is part of CAG, and realigned the remainder of the products, which comprised of one product line and two out-licensing arrangements in effect at the time of the realignment, to the Other segment.We retained certain drug delivery technologies that wehave continued toseek to commercialize through agreements with third parties,such as pharmaceutical companies, that we also include in the Other segment.We earnedmilestone payments of$3.5 million,$3.0 millionand $3.0 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010,respectively, in connection with the achievement of certain sales milestones by the acquirer following commercialization of the feline insulin product.See Note22to the consolidatedfinancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012included in this Annual Report on Form 10-Kfor additional information regarding the restructuring of our pharmaceutical business.Since realignment to the Rapid Assay line of business, we have discontinued the production and sale of one of the remaining pharmaceutical product lines. Neither this product line nor the second remaining product line is or was a significant contributor to revenue in the Rapid Assay line of business.



MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION



We market, sell and service our products worldwide through our marketing, sales and technical servicegroups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. We maintain sales offices outside the U.S. in Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland, Taiwan, the UnitedKingdom, South Africa, Poland and South Korea.Sales and marketing expensewas $217.0 million, $204.9million and $179.6millionfor the twelve months ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, or 16.8%of consolidated revenue in each of 2012 and 2011and 16.3% ofconsolidatedrevenue in2010.
























Generally, we select the appropriate distribution channel for our products based on the type of product, technical service requirements, number and concentration of customers, regulatory requirements and other factors. We market our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians both directly and through independent veterinary distributors in the U.S., with most instruments sold directly by IDEXX sales personnel and rapid assay test kits and instrument consumables supplied primarily by distribut

ors

. Outside the U.S., we sell our companion animal diagnostic products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through distributors and other resellers. We sell our

veterinary



reference

laboratory

diagnostic and consulting

services worldwide through our direct sales force. We market our software and digital radiography products through our direct sales force and through distributors primarily in the U.S.

and Canada.

We market our water

, livestock and poultry

and

dairy

products primarily through our direct sales force in the U.S. and Canada. Outside the U.S. and Canada, we market these products through selected independent distributors and, in certain countries, through our direct sales force. We sell our OPTI

®

electrolyte and blood gas analyzers both directly and through independent human medical product distributors in the U.S. and we sell most of the related consumables through the distribution channel. Outside the U.S., we sell our OPTI

®

products primarily through distributors and other resellers.



Our largest customers are our U.S. distributors of our products in the CAG segment. One of our CAG distributors, Butler Schein Animal Health Supply, LLC (“Butler”), accounted for9%of ourconsolidatedrevenue in each of 2012,2011 and 2010.



RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT



Our business includes the development and introduction of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. We maintain active research and development programs in each of our business areas. Our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials andexternalconsultingand development costs, were$82.0million, $76.0 million and $68.6 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, or6.3%of revenue in 2012 and 6.2% of revenue in each of 2011 and 2010.



PATENTS AND LICENSES



We actively seek to obtain patent protection in the U.S. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. We also license patents and technologies from third parties.



Important patents and licenses include:

·Exclusive licenses fromthe University of Texas andTulane University to patents that expire in 2017 and 2019, respectively,relating toreagents and methods forthedetection of Lyme diseaseutilized in certain of our SNAP®products and a reference laboratory diagnostic test;

·A patent concerning the Colilert®-18 product that expires in 2014;

·A patent concerning the Quanti-Tray®product that expires in 2014;

·A patent that relates to certain methods and kits for simultaneously detecting antigens and antibodies, which covers certain of our SNAP®products, including our canine and feline combination tests, that expires in 2014;

·Patents covering various reagents, kits and/or immunoassays for detecting FIV antibodiesutilized in certain of our SNAP®productsthat expire beginning in 2014;

·An exclusive license from Boehringer Ingelheim to certain patents covering reagents and methods for detectingPRRSthat expirein2014;

·An exclusive license from Cornell University to patents covering methods for detectingBVDVthat expire beginning in 2017;

·Patents concerning the SNAP®immunoassay platform that expire in 2015; and

·Patents concerning CatalystDx®consumables that expire beginning in 2023.



To the extent some of our products may now, or in the future, embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. These licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”














PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY



Many of the instruments that we sell are manufactured by third parties and we rely on third parties to supply us with certain important components, raw materials and consumables used in or with our products. In some cases these third parties are sole or single source suppliers.



Instruments and consumables. Significant products supplied by sole and single source providers include VetTest®analyzers and consumables,Catalyst Dx®consumables (other than electrolyte consumables), LaserCyte®andLaserCyte®Dx consumables and VetAutoreadTM, VetLyte®, and ProCyte Dx®analyzers and consumables.



VetTest®and Catalyst Dx®chemistry slides are supplied by Ortho under supply agreements that are currently set to expire at the end of 2028. We are required to purchase all of our requirements for our current menu of VetTest®andCatalyst Dx®chemistry slides from Ortho to the extent Ortho is able to supply those requirements. The agreements provide for pricing based on purchase volumes and a fixed annual inflationary adjustment. The agreements also prohibit Ortho from promoting and selling these chemistry slides in the veterinary market other than to IDEXX.



We purchase other analyzers and consumables under supply agreements with terms extending through 2032, which in some cases may be extended at our option. We have minimum purchase obligations under some of these agreements, and our failure to satisfy these obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these agreements. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



Other components. We purchase certain other products, raw materials and components from sole and single source suppliers. These products include certain digital radiography systems and certain components used in our SNAP®rapid assay and dairy devices, livestock and poultry testing kits and water testing products.



Certain components incorporated into our SNAP®products and certain livestock and poultry testing kits are supplied by Moss, Inc. (“Moss”) under a supply agreement that either party may terminate with 24 months prior written notice. We are required annually to purchase a minimum amount from Moss equal to our average purchase volumes in 2004, 2005 and 2006. Annual price increases are capped at 3%. Pursuant to the terms of the supply agreement, Moss has escrowed its manufacturing information relating to the components, which may be released to us upon certain triggering events that would render Moss incapable of supplying the components to us. If such a triggering event occurs, we will make royalty payments to Moss for the use of such information until Moss is able to again begin manufacturing.



We have been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of products purchased from sole and single source suppliers. However, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



BACKLOG



We do not generally maintain significant backlog and believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales.





COMPETITION



We face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services. This competition is intensifyingand increasing, asnew competitors have entered our markets andsome of our competitors have expanded the range of products and services offered to the companion animal veterinary market and expanded the geographic scope of their operations. In addition, we have to compete with changing technologies, which could affect the marketability of our products and services. Our competitive position will depend on our ability to develop proprietaryor highly differentiatedproductsand services, integrate our products, develop and maintain effective sales channels, attract and retain qualified scientific and other personnel, develop and implement production and marketing plans, obtain or license patent rights, and obtain adequate capital resources.














We compete with many companies ranging from large humanpharmaceutical andmedical diagnostics companiestosmall businesses focused on animal health. Our companion animal veterinary diagnostic products and services compete with both reference laboratory service and in-clinic product providers. Our competitors vary in our different markets. In some markets, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations conduct research activities and may commercialize productsor services, which could compete with our products, on their own or through joint ventures.Severalof ourdirect and indirectcompetitors have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we do.



Competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below:



·Companion animal diagnostic offerings.We competeprimarilyon the basis of ease of use andspeedof our products,diagnosticaccuracy, product quality, breadth of our product line and services,technology, information management capability, availability of medical consultation,effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, quality of our technical and customer service, and ourpricing relative to the value of our productsand servicesin comparison with competitive products and services.Our major competitorsin most geographic locations in North AmericaareAntech Diagnostics, a unit of VCA Antech, Inc., and Abaxis, Inc.

·Water, livestock and poultry and dairy testing products. We competeprimarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy,productquality, and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including unique tests), the breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer service,our ability to receive regulatory endorsements from governing agencies,and ourpricing relative to the value of our products in comparison with competitive products and services. Our competitors includehighly focused smaller companies and multi-billion dollar companies with small livestock and poultry diagnostics and water testing solution franchises.

·Practice management and digitalimagingsystemsand services. We compete primarily on the basis of functionality, connectivity to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of ourimplementation, training process andcustomer service, information handling capabilities, advances in technologies, and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services.We sell these products primarily in North America where our largest competitor is Butler.

·Electrolyte and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. We compete primarily with large human medical diagnostics companies such as Radiometer A/S, Siemens Medical Solutions Diagnostics, Instrumentation Laboratory, Abbott Diagnostics, and Roche Diagnostics. We compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, menu, convenience, international distribution and service, instrumentreliability, and our pricing relative to the value of our products.



GOVERNMENT REGULATION



Many of our products are subject to comprehensive regulation by U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies that relate to, among other things, product approvals, manufacturing,distribution,marketing and promotion,labeling,recordkeeping, testing, quality, storage, and product disposal. The following is a description of the principal regulations affecting our businesses.


































Veterinary diagnostic products

. Diagnostic tests for animal health infectious diseases, including most of our

livestock and poultry products and our rapid assay products, are regulated in the U.S. by the Center for

Veterinary Biologics within the United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (“APHIS”). These products must be approved by APHIS before they may be sold in the U.S. The APHIS regulatory approval process involves the submission of product performance data and manufacturing documentation. Following regulatory approval to market a product, APHIS requires that each lot of product be submitted for review before release to customers. In addition, APHIS requires special approval to market products where test results are used in part for government-mandated disease management programs. A number of foreign governments accept APHIS approval as part of their separate regulatory approvals. However, compliance with an extensive regulatory process is required in connection with marketing diagnostic

products in Japan, Germany, the Netherlands and many

other countries. We also are required to have a facility license from APHIS to manufacture USDA-licensed products

.

We have a

facility

license for our manufacturing facility in Westbrook, Maine and our distribution center in Memphis,

Tennessee. Our manufacturing facility in Montpellier, France has been approved by APHIS and we have a permit to import product

s manufactured in Montpellier, France



to

the U

.

S

. for distribution.



Our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems areveterinarymedical devices regulated bythe U.S. Food and Drug Administration(“FDA”)under the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act (the “FDC Act”). While the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by the FDA and does not subject us to the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations (“cGMP”), these products must not be adulterated, mislabeledor misbranded under the FDC Act.



These instrument systems also are subject tothe European Medical Device Directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all European Union (“EU”) member countries and require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in EU member countries to obtain European Conformity (“CE”) marking for their products.



Water testing products. Our water tests are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. However, before a test can be used as part of a water quality monitoring program in the U.S. that is regulatedby the EPA, the test must first be approved by the EPA. The EPA approval process involves submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an EPA-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the EPA and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the Federal Register before final approval. Our Colilert®, Colilert®-18, Colisure®, Quanti-Tray®, Filta-Maxxpress®,Enterolert®,and SimPlate®for heterotropic plate counts products have been approved by the EPAfor use under various regulatory programs.Water testing productsaresubject tosimilarlyextensive regulatory processes in other countries around the world.



Dairy testing products. Dairy products used in National Conference on Interstate Milk Shipments (“NCIMS”) milk-monitoring programs are regulated by the FDAas veterinary medical devices.However,before products requiring FDA approval can be sold in the U.S., performance data must be submitted in accordance with an FDA approved protocol administered byan independent body, such as the Association of Analytical CommunitiesResearch Institute (“AOAC RI”). Following approval of a product by the FDA, the product must also be approved by NCIMS, an oversight bodythat includes state, federal and industry representatives. Our SNAP®Beta-Lactam antibiotic residue test product hasbeen approved by the FDA, NCIMS and AOAC RI for sale in the U.S. While some foreign countries accept AOAC RI approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes.



Human point-of-care electrolyte and blood gas analyzers. Our OPTI®instrument systems are classified as Class II medical devices, and their design, manufacture and marketing are regulated by the FDA. Accordingly, we must comply with cGMP in the manufacture of our OPTI®products.The FDA’s Quality System regulations further set forth standards for product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of our facilities by the FDA. NewOPTI®products fall into FDA classifications that require notification of and review by the FDA before marketing,and which aresubmitted as a 510(k) application.



OPTI®Medicalproducts are also subject to the European Medical Device Directives and regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of medical devices in other countries in which they are sold.














Any acquisitions of new products and technologies may subject us to additional areas of government regulation. These may involve food, medical device and water-quality regulations of the FDA, the EPA and the USDA, as well as state, local and foreign governments. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



EMPLOYEES



AtFebruary 8, 2013, we had approximately5,400employees.



