ITEM 1.Business

General





NIKE, Inc. was incorporated in 1968 under the laws of the state of Oregon. As used in this report, the terms “we”, “us”, “NIKE” and the “Company” refer to NIKE, Inc. and its
predecessors, subsidiaries and affiliates, unless the context indicates otherwise. Our internet address iswww.nike.com.On our NIKE Corporate web site, located atwww.nikeinc.com,we post the following filings as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission: our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports
filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All such filings on our NIKE Corporate web site are available free of charge. Also available on the NIKE Corporate web site are the
charters of the committees of our board of directors, as well as our corporate governance guidelines and code of ethics; copies of any of these documents will be provided in print to any shareholder who submits a request in writing to NIKE Investor
Relations, One Bowerman Drive, Beaverton, Oregon 97005-6453.

Our principal business activity is the design, development and worldwide marketing and
selling of high quality footwear, apparel, equipment, accessories and services. NIKE is the largest seller of athletic footwear and athletic apparel in the world. We sell our products to retail accounts, through NIKE-owned retail stores and internet
sales, which we refer to as our “Direct to Consumer” operations, and through a mix of independent distributors and licensees, in approximately 190 countries around the world. Virtually all of our products are manufactured by independent
contractors. Virtually all footwear and apparel products are produced outside the United States, while equipment products are produced both in the United States and abroad.



Products





We focus our product offerings in seven key categories: Running, Basketball, Football (Soccer), Men’s Training, Women’s Training, NIKE Sportswear (our sports-inspired products), and Action Sports. We also
market products designed for kids, as well as for other athletic and recreational uses such as baseball, cricket, golf, lacrosse, outdoor activities, football (American), tennis, volleyball, walking and wrestling.

NIKE’s athletic footwear products are designed primarily for specific athletic use, although a large percentage of the products are worn for casual or leisure
purposes. We place considerable emphasis on high quality construction and innovation in products designed for men, women and children. NIKE Sportswear, Running, Basketball, Football (Soccer) and kids’ shoes are currently our top-selling
footwear categories and we expect them to continue to lead in product sales in the near future.

We sell sports apparel and accessories covering most of
the above categories, as well as athletic bags and accessory items. NIKE apparel and accessories feature the same trademarks and are sold through the same marketing and distribution channels. We often market footwear, apparel and accessories in
“collections” of similar use or by category. We also market apparel with licensed college and professional team and league logos.

We sell a
line of performance equipment under the NIKE Brand name, including bags, socks, sport balls, eyewear, timepieces, digital devices, bats, gloves, protective equipment, golf clubs, and other equipment designed for sports activities. We also sell small
amounts of various plastic products to other manufacturers through our wholly-owned subsidiary, NIKE IHM, Inc.

In addition to the products we sell
directly to customers through our Direct to Consumer operations, we have entered into license agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture and sell certain apparel, digital devices and applications and other equipment designed for
sports activities.

Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Cole Haan (“Cole Haan”), headquartered in New York, New York, designs and
distributes dress and casual footwear, apparel and accessories for men and women under the Cole Haan®trademark.

Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Converse Inc. (“Converse”), headquartered in North Andover, Massachusetts, designs, distributes and
licenses athletic and casual footwear, apparel and accessories under the Converse®, Chuck
Taylor®, All Star®, One Star®, Star Chevron®and Jack Purcell®trademarks.

Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Hurley
International LLC (“Hurley”), headquartered in Costa Mesa, California, designs and distributes a line of action sports and youth lifestyle apparel and accessories under the Hurley®trademark.

Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Umbro
International Limited (“Umbro”), headquartered in Cheadle, United Kingdom, designs, distributes and licenses athletic and casual footwear, apparel and equipment, primarily for the sport of football (soccer), under the Umbro®trademark.

As part of our long-term growth strategy, we continually evaluate
our existing portfolio of businesses to ensure we are investing in those businesses that are accretive to the NIKE Brand, and with the largest growth potential and highest returns. On May 31, 2012, we announced our intention to divest of the
Cole Haan and Umbro businesses, which will allow us to focus our resources on driving growth in the NIKE, Jordan, Converse and Hurley brands. Refer to the “Other Businesses” section under Item 7— Management Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information.







Sales and Marketing



Financial information about geographic and segment operations
appears in Note 17 — Operating Segments and Related Information of the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 60.

We
experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. Historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third quarters. However, the mix of product sales may vary
considerably as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment.

Because NIKE is a
consumer products company, the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. We must therefore respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of
existing product offerings, developing new products, styles and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through aggressive marketing. Failure to respond in a timely and adequate manner could have a material adverse effect on our
sales and profitability. This is a continuing risk.

We report our NIKE Brand operations based on our internal geographic organization. Each NIKE
Brand geography operates predominantly in one industry: the design, development, marketing and selling of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment. Our reportable operating segments for the NIKE Brand are: North America, Western Europe,
Central & Eastern Europe, Greater China, Japan, and Emerging Markets. Our NIKE Brand Direct to Consumer operations are managed within each geographic segment.



United States Market





In fiscal 2012, sales in the United States including U.S. sales of our Other Businesses accounted for approximately 42% of total revenues, compared to 43% in fiscal 2011 and 42% in fiscal 2010. Our Other
Businesses were primarily comprised of our affiliate brands; Cole Haan, Converse, Hurley and Umbro; and NIKE Golf. We sell to thousands of retail accounts in the United States, including a mix of footwear stores, sporting goods stores, athletic
specialty stores, department stores, skate, tennis and golf shops, and other retail accounts. During fiscal 2012, our three largest customers accounted for approximately 24% of sales in the United States.

We make substantial use of our “futures” ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the
commitment that their orders will be delivered within a set time period at a fixed price. In fiscal 2012, 86% of our U.S. wholesale footwear shipments (excluding our Other Businesses) were made under the futures program, compared to 87% in fiscal
2011 and 89% in fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2012, 64% of our U.S. wholesale apparel shipments (excluding our Other Businesses) were made under the futures program, compared to 60% in fiscal 2011 and 62% in fiscal 2010.

We utilize NIKE sales offices to solicit sales in the United States as well as independent sales representatives to sell specialty products for golf, skateboarding
and snowboarding products. In addition, our Direct to Consumer operations sell NIKE Brand products through our internet website,www.nikestore.com, and the following in-line and factory retail outlets in the United States:



U.S. Retail StoresNumberNIKE factory stores156NIKE in-line stores, including NIKETOWNs and employee-only stores28Cole Haan stores (including factory stores)109Converse stores (including factory stores)62Hurley stores (including factory and employee stores)29TOTAL384



NIKE’s three significant distribution centers in the
United States for NIKE Brand products, including NIKE Golf, are located in Memphis, Tennessee. NIKE also operates and leases one facility in Memphis, Tennessee for NIKE Brand product returns. NIKE Brand apparel and equipment products are also
shipped from our Foothill Ranch, California distribution center. Cole Haan products are distributed primarily from Greenland, New Hampshire, and Converse and Hurley products are shipped primarily from Ontario, California.



International Markets





In fiscal 2012, non-U.S. sales (including non-U.S. sales of our Other Businesses) accounted for 58% of total revenues, compared to 57% in fiscal 2011 and 58% in fiscal 2010. We sell our products to retail accounts,
through our own Direct to Consumer operations, and through a mix of independent distributors, licensees and sales representatives around the world. We sell to thousands of retail accounts and operate 16 distribution centers outside of the United
States. In many countries and regions, including Canada, Asia, some Latin American countries, and Europe, we have a futures ordering program for retailers similar to the United States futures program described above. During fiscal 2012, NIKE’s
three largest customers outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 11% of total non-U.S. sales.



Our Direct to Consumer business operates the following in-line and factory retail outlets outside the United States:



Non-U.S. Retail StoresNumberNIKE factory stores308NIKE in-line stores, including NIKETOWNs and employee-only stores65Cole Haan stores (including factory stores)69TOTAL442







International branch offices and subsidiaries of NIKE are located in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bermuda,
Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, Indonesia, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Lebanon, Macau, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, the
Netherlands, Norway, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, Uruguay and Vietnam.



Significant Customer



No customer accounted for 10% or more of our net sales during
fiscal 2012.

Orders





Worldwide futures orders for NIKE Brand athletic footwear and apparel, scheduled for delivery from June through November 2012, were $11.2 billion compared to $10.5 billion for the same period last year. This
futures order amount is calculated based upon our forecast of the actual exchange rates under which our revenues will be translated during this period. Reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of revenues for this
period. This is because the mix of orders can shift between futures and at-once orders and the fulfillment of certain of these futures orders may fall outside of the scheduled time period noted above. In addition, foreign currency exchange rate
fluctuations as well as differing levels of order cancellations and discounts can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. Moreover, a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders,
including at-once and close-out sales of NIKE Brand footwear and apparel, sales of NIKE Brand equipment, sales from our Direct to Consumer operations, and sales from our Other Businesses.



Product Research and Development





We believe our research and development efforts are a key factor in our past and future success. Technical innovation in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel, and athletic equipment receive
continued emphasis as NIKE strives to produce products that help to reduce injury, enhance athletic performance and maximize comfort.

In addition to
NIKE’s own staff of specialists in the areas of biomechanics, chemistry, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design, and related fields, we also utilize research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers,
equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists, and other experts who consult with us and review designs, materials, concepts for product and manufacturing process improvements and compliance with product safety regulations around the world. Employee
athletes, athletes engaged under sports marketing contracts and other athletes wear-test and evaluate products during the design and development process.



Manufacturing





Virtually all of our footwear is produced by factories we contract with outside of the United
States. In fiscal 2012, contract factories in Vietnam, China and Indonesia, manufactured approximately 41%, 32% and 25% of total NIKE Brand footwear, respectively. We also have manufacturing agreements with independent factories in Argentina,
Brazil, India, and Mexico to manufacture footwear for sale primarily within those countries. The largest single footwear factory that we have contracted with accounted for approximately 5% of total fiscal 2012 NIKE Brand footwear production. Almost
all of NIKE Brand apparel is manufactured outside of the United States by independent contract manufacturers located in 28 countries. Most of this apparel production occurred in China, Vietnam, Thailand, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Indonesia, Turkey,
Cambodia, Mexico, and El Salvador. The largest single apparel factory that we have contracted with accounted for approximately 8% of total fiscal 2012 apparel production.

The principal materials used in our footwear products are natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, nylon, leather, canvas, and polyurethane films used to make Air-Sole cushioning
components. During fiscal 2012, NIKE IHM, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of NIKE, as well as independent contractors in China and Taiwan, were our largest suppliers of the Air-Sole cushioning components used in footwear. The principal materials
used in our apparel products are natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, plastic and metal hardware, and specialized performance fabrics designed to repel rain, retain heat, or efficiently transport body moisture. NIKE’s independent
contractors and suppliers buy raw materials in bulk for the manufacturing of our footwear, apparel and equipment products. Most raw materials are available and purchased by those independent contractors and suppliers in the countries where
manufacturing takes place. We have thus far experienced little difficulty in satisfying our raw material requirements.

Since 1972, Sojitz Corporation of
America (“Sojitz America”), a large Japanese trading company and the sole owner of our redeemable preferred stock, has performed significant import-export financing services for us. During fiscal 2012, Sojitz America provided financing and
purchasing services for NIKE Brand products sold in Argentina, Uruguay, Canada, Brazil, India, Indonesia, the Philippines, Malaysia, South Africa, China, Korea, and Thailand, excluding products produced and sold in the same country. Approximately
19% of NIKE Brand sales occurred in those countries. Any failure of Sojitz America to provide these services or any failure of Sojitz America’s banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to
our customers in those jurisdictions. Such a disruption could result in cancelled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. However, we believe that any such disruption would be short-term in duration due to the ready availability
of alternative sources of financing at competitive rates. Our current agreements with Sojitz America expire on May 31, 2014.







International Operations and Trade





Our international operations and sources of supply are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad, such as possible revaluation of currencies, export and import duties, anti-dumping measures, quotas,
safeguard measures, trade restrictions, restrictions on the transfer of funds and, in certain parts of the world, political instability and terrorism. We have not, to date, been materially affected by any such risk, but cannot predict the likelihood
of such developments occurring.

The global economic recession resulted in a significant slow-down in international trade and a sharp rise in
protectionist actions around the world. These trends are affecting many global manufacturing and service sectors, and the footwear and apparel industries, as a whole, are not immune. Companies in our industry are facing trade protectionist
challenges in many different regions, and in nearly all cases we are working together to address trade issues to reduce the impact to the industry, while observing applicable competition laws. Notwithstanding our efforts, such actions, if
implemented, could result in increases in the cost of our products, which may in turn adversely affect our sales or profitability and the imported footwear and apparel industry as a whole. Accordingly, we are actively monitoring the developments
described below.



Footwear Imports into the European Union





In 2005, at the request of the European domestic footwear industry, the European Commission (“EC”) initiated investigations into leather footwear imported from China and Vietnam. Together with other
companies in our industry, we took the position that Special Technology Athletic Footwear (STAF) (i) should not be within the scope of the investigation, and (ii) does not meet the legal requirements of injury and price in an anti-dumping
investigation. Our arguments were successful and the EU agreed in October 2006 on definitive duties of 16.5% for China and 10% for Vietnam for non-STAF leather footwear, but excluded STAF from the final measures. Prior to the scheduled expiration in
October 2008 of the measures imposed on the non-STAF footwear, the domestic industry requested and the EC agreed to review a petition to extend these restrictions on non-STAF leather footwear. In December 2009, following a review of the ongoing
restrictions, EU member states voted to extend the measures for an additional 15 months, until March 31, 2011. In early 2011, the EC declined to further extend the measures and since April 1, 2011 these restrictions have been terminated.
The EC noted at the time that it would monitor leather footwear imports from Vietnam and China over the next 12 months. No new trade defense actions have been taken by the EC.

On February 3, 2010, the Chinese government announced it would seek to refer the EU decision (both on the original measures and subsequent review decision) to the World Trade Organization (“WTO”) for
its further review and decision. On May 18, 2010, the Dispute Settlement Body of the WTO agreed to establish a panel to rule on China’s claims against the EU with respect to the above anti-dumping measures. On October 28, 2011, the
WTO issued a ruling in which it supported China’s positions on a number of issues. Neither party has filed an appeal.



Footwear, Apparel and Equipment Imports into Brazil and Argentina





At the request of certain domestic footwear industry participants, both Brazil and Argentina
have initiated independent anti-dumping investigations against footwear made in China. Over the last two years, we have been working with a broad coalition of other companies in our industry to challenge these cases on the basis that the athletic
footwear being imported from China (i) should not be within the scope of the investigation, and (ii) does not meet the legal requirements of injury and price in an anti-dumping investigation. In the case of Argentina, in 2010, the final
determination made by the administering authorities was favorable to us. In the case of Brazil, the administering authorities agreed to impose an anti-dumping duty against nearly all footwear from China, which we believe will impact all brands in
the footwear industry. This decision does not materially affect us. In October 2011, the Brazilian government initiated an anti-circumvention investigation to determine whether Chinese-made products or components were subject to minimal assembly or
finishing in Vietnam or Indonesia to evade anti-dumping duties on Chinese-made products. In July 2012, the Brazilian government found no circumvention was taking place and this matter is closed.

Many products, including footwear, apparel and equipment, that we and others in our industry import into Argentina and Brazil are subject to the WTO non-automatic
licensing requirements, which means that it may take up to 60 days for those products to clear customs and enter into those jurisdictions. From time to time, in addition to these WTO licensing requirements, these jurisdictions impose further
importation restrictions or limitations. As a result, we have experienced delays in our ability to import our products or it has taken longer than the time allowed under the WTO for us to import our products. To date, our business has not been
materially affected by these restrictions or delays. In the future, however, if we are unable to import our products into these jurisdictions due to these or other restrictions or if we experience increasing or more frequent delays beyond the
WTO-permitted 60 days to import our products, our business could be materially affected.



Footwear, Apparel and Equipment Imports into Turkey





In 2006, Turkey introduced safeguard measures in the form of additional duties on all imported
footwear into Turkey with the goal of protecting its local shoe manufacturing industry until August 2009. In June 2009, Turkish shoe-manufacturers submitted, and the Turkish government agreed to review, a request for extension of the safeguard
measures claiming that the rehabilitation process of the local Turkish industry was interrupted due to the continuing increase of footwear imports. Despite the importers opposition to the continuation of the safeguard measures, the Turkish
authorities extended these safeguard measures until August 2012, but reduced the duty from $3 per pair of footwear to $1.60 per pair of footwear. In June 2012, the government of Turkey launched an expiry review on the footwear safeguards to assess
if they should be extended for three additional years (until August 2015). Together with other companies in our industry, we are advocating for exclusion of certain footwear products (STAF shoes) that cannot be manufactured in Turkey and
therefore should not be subject to a higher import duty.

In 2011, two new safeguard measures and reviews were initiated by the Turkish Undersecretariat
of Foreign Trade (“UFT”) on apparel and equipment imports. In January 2011, the UFT began an investigation on apparel imports that could result in a 20-30% increase in import duties applied to imported apparel products, regardless of
country of origin and with exceptions for EU







and countries that are included in a cross-cumulation of origin system in the framework of the Free Trade Agreements to which Turkey is a party, subject to evidence of preferential origin. In
July 2011, these higher import duties were approved and will be in place through July 2014.

Together with other companies in our industry, we advocated
for exclusion of certain apparel products used for sporting activities that cannot be manufactured in Turkey and therefore should not be subject to a higher import duty but no exclusion has been granted.

In February 2011, the UFT began a review of existing safeguard measure on travel goods, handbags and similar accessories and containers listed under applicable
regulations. One Turkish bag manufacturers association has requested the continuation of the safeguard measures through April 2014, with the application of an additional import duty of $2.50/kg (max. $3.75/unit) to $2.70/kg (max. $4.25/unit),
regardless of country of origin. In October 2011, these higher import duties were approved and will be in place through April 2014.

Together with other
companies in our industry, we advocated for the exclusion of non-leather bags from the scope of the continued safeguards but no exclusion has been granted.



Trade Relations with China





China represents an important sourcing country and consumer marketing country for us. Many
governments around the world are concerned about China’s growing and fast-paced economy, compliance with WTO rules, currency valuation, and high trade surpluses. As a result, a wide range of legislative proposals have been introduced to address
these concerns. We are working with broad coalitions of global businesses and trade associations representing a wide variety of sectors (e.g., services, manufacturing, and agriculture) to help ensure any legislation enacted and implemented
(i) addresses legitimate and core concerns, (ii) is consistent with international trade rules, and (iii) reflects and considers China’s domestic economy and the important role it has in the global economic community. We believe
other companies in our industry as well as most other multi-national companies are in a similar position regarding these trade measures.

In the event
any of these trade protection measures are implemented, we believe that we have the ability to develop, over a period of time, adequate alternative sources of supply for the products obtained from our present suppliers. If events prevented us
from acquiring products from our suppliers in a particular country, our operations could be temporarily disrupted and we could experience an adverse financial impact. However, we believe we could abate any such disruption, and that much of the
adverse impact on supply would, therefore, be of a short-term nature. We believe our principal competitors are subject to similar risks.



Competition





The athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment industry is keenly competitive in the United
States and on a worldwide basis. We compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure shoe companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies, and large companies having diversified lines of
athletic and leisure shoes, apparel, and equipment, including Adidas, Puma, and others. The intense competition and the rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, and athletic
equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations.



NIKE is the largest seller of athletic footwear and athletic apparel in the world. Performance and reliability of shoes, apparel, and equipment, new product development, price, product identity through marketing
and promotion, and customer support and service are important aspects of competition in the athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment industry. To help market our products, we contract with prominent and influential athletes, coaches, teams,
colleges and sports leagues to endorse our brands and use our products, and we actively sponsor sporting events and clinics. We believe that we are competitive in all of these areas.



Trademarks and Patents





We utilize trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying our brands and the
Company, and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. We consider our NIKE®and Swoosh Design®trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in almost 150 jurisdictions. In addition, we own many other trademarks that we
utilize in marketing our products. We continue to vigorously protect our trademarks against infringement.

NIKE has an exclusive,
worldwide license to make and sell footwear using patented “Air” technology. The process utilizes pressurized gas encapsulated in polyurethane. Some of the early NIKE
AIR®patents have expired, which may enable competitors to use certain types of similar technology. Subsequent NIKE AIR®patents will not expire for several years. We also have over a thousand U.S. and foreign utility patents, and thousands of U.S. and foreign design patents covering
components, manufacturing techniques and features used in various athletic and leisure shoes, apparel, athletic equipment, digital devices and golf products. These patents expire at various times, and patents issued for applications filed this year
will last from now to 2026 for design patents, and from now to 2032 for utility patents. We believe our success depends primarily upon skills in design, research and development, production, and marketing rather than upon our patent position.
However, we have followed a policy of filing applications for United States and foreign patents on inventions, designs, and improvements that we deem valuable.



Employees





As of May 31, 2012, we had approximately 44,000 employees worldwide, including retail and
part-time employees. Management considers its relationship with employees to be excellent. None of our employees are represented by a union, except for certain employees in the Emerging Markets geography, where local law requires those employees to
be represented by a trade union, and in the United States, where certain employees of Cole Haan are represented by a union. Also, in some countries outside of the United States, local laws require representation for employees by works councils (such
as in certain countries in the European Union, in which they are entitled to information and consultation on certain Company decisions) or other employee representation by an organization similar to a union, and in certain European countries, we are
required by local law to enter into and/or comply with (industry wide or national) collective bargaining agreements. There has never been a material interruption of operations due to labor disagreements.







Executive Officers of the Registrant





The executive officers of NIKE as of July 19, 2012 are as follows:

Philip H. Knight,Chairman of the Board —
Mr. Knight, 74, a director since 1968, is a co-founder of NIKE and, except for the period from June 1983 through September 1984, served as its President from 1968 to 1990 and from June 2000 to December 2004. Prior to 1968, Mr. Knight was a
certified public accountant with Price Waterhouse and Coopers & Lybrand and was an Assistant Professor of Business Administration at Portland State University.

Mark G. Parker,President and Chief Executive Officer — Mr. Parker, 56, was appointed CEO and
President in January 2006. He has been employed by NIKE since 1979 with primary responsibilities in product research, design and development, marketing, and brand management. Mr. Parker was appointed divisional Vice President in charge of
development in 1987, corporate Vice President in 1989, General Manager in 1993, Vice President of Global Footwear in 1998, and President of the NIKE Brand in 2001.

David J. Ayre,Vice President, Global Human Resources — Mr. Ayre, 52, joined NIKE as Vice
President, Global Human Resources in 2007. Prior to joining NIKE, he held a number of senior human resource positions with PepsiCo, Inc. since 1990, most recently as head of Talent and Performance Rewards.

Donald W. Blair,Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer — Mr. Blair, 54, joined NIKE in November 1999. Prior to joining NIKE, he held a number of financial management positions with PepsiCo, Inc., including Vice President, Finance of Pepsi-Cola Asia, Vice President, Planning of
PepsiCo’s Pizza Hut Division, and Senior Vice President, Finance of The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. Prior to joining PepsiCo, Mr. Blair was a certified public accountant with Deloitte, Haskins, and Sells.

Charles D. Denson,President of the NIKE Brand —
Mr. Denson, 56, has been employed by NIKE since 1979. Mr. Denson held several management positions within the Company, including his appointments as Director of USA Apparel Sales in 1994, divisional Vice President, U.S. Sales in 1994,
divisional Vice President European Sales in 1997, divisional Vice President and General Manager, NIKE Europe in 1998, Vice President and General Manager of NIKE USA in 2000, and President of the NIKE Brand in 2001.

Gary M. DeStefano,President, Global Operations —
Mr. DeStefano, 55, has been employed by NIKE since 1982, with primary responsibilities in sales and regional administration. Mr. DeStefano was appointed Director of Domestic Sales in 1990, divisional Vice President in charge of domestic
sales in 1992, Vice President of Global Sales in 1996, Vice President and General Manager of Asia Pacific in 1997, President of USA Operations in 2001, and President of Global Operations in 2006.

Trevor A. Edwards,Vice President, Global Brand and
Category Management — Mr. Edwards, 49, joined NIKE in 1992. He was appointed Marketing Manager, Strategic Accounts, Foot Locker in 1993, Director of Marketing, the Americas in 1995, Director of Marketing, Europe in 1997, Vice President,
Marketing for Europe, Middle East and Africa in 1999, and Vice President, U.S. Brand Marketing in 2000. Mr. Edwards was appointed corporate Vice President, Global Brand Management in 2002 and Vice President, Global Brand and Category Management
in 2006. Prior to NIKE, Mr. Edwards was with the Colgate-Palmolive Company.

Jeanne P.
Jackson,President, Direct to Consumer — Ms. Jackson, 60, served as a member of the NIKE, Inc. Board of Directors from 2001 through 2009, when she resigned from our Board
and was appointed President, Direct to Consumer. She is founder and CEO of MSP Capital, a private investment company. Ms. Jackson was CEO of Walmart.com from March 2000 to January 2002. She was with Gap, Inc., as President and
CEO of Banana Republic from 1995 to 2000, also serving as CEO of Gap, Inc. Direct from 1998 to 2000. Since 1978, she has held various retail management positions with Victoria’s Secret, The Walt Disney Company, Saks Fifth Avenue, and Federated
Department Stores. Ms. Jackson is the past President of the United States Ski and Snowboard Foundation Board of Trustees, and is a director of McDonald’s Corporation. She is a former director of Nordstrom, Inc., and Harrah’s
Entertainment, Inc.

Hilary K. Krane,Vice
President, General Counsel and Corporate Affairs — Ms. Krane, 48, joined NIKE as Vice President and General Counsel in April 2010. In 2011, her responsibilities expanded and she became Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate
Affairs. Prior to joining NIKE, Ms. Krane was General Counsel and Senior Vice President for Corporate Affairs at Levi Strauss & Co. where she was responsible for legal affairs and overseeing the global brand protection department from
2006 to 2010. From 1996 to 2006, she was a partner and assistant general counsel at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

Bernard F. Pliska,Vice President, Corporate Controller — Mr. Pliska, 50, joined NIKE as Corporate Controller in 1995. He was appointed Vice
President, Corporate Controller in 2003. Prior to NIKE, Mr. Pliska was with Price Waterhouse from 1984 to 1995. Mr. Pliska is a certified public accountant.

John F. Slusher,Vice President, Global Sports Marketing — Mr. Slusher, 43, has been employed
by NIKE since 1998 with primary responsibilities in global sports marketing. Mr. Slusher was appointed Director of Sports Marketing for the Asia Pacific and Americas Regions in 2006, divisional Vice President, Asia Pacific & Americas
Sports Marketing in September 2007 and Vice President, Global Sports Marketing in November 2007. Prior to joining NIKE, Mr. Slusher was an attorney at the law firm of O’Melveny & Myers from 1995 to 1998.

Eric D. Sprunk,Vice President, Merchandising and
Product — Mr. Sprunk, 48, joined NIKE in 1993. He was appointed Finance Director and General Manager of the Americas in 1994, Finance Director, NIKE Europe in 1995, Regional General Manager, NIKE Europe Footwear in 1998, and Vice
President & General Manager of the Americas in 2000. Mr. Sprunk was appointed corporate Vice President, Global Footwear in 2001 and Vice President, Merchandising and Product in 2009. Prior to joining NIKE, Mr. Sprunk was a
certified public accountant with Price Waterhouse from 1987 to 1993.

Hans van Alebeek,Vice President, Global Operations and Technology — Mr. van Alebeek, 46, joined NIKE as Director of Operations of Europe in 1999, and was appointed Vice President,
Operations & Administration in EMEA in 2001, Vice President, Global Operations in 2003, Vice President, Global Operations & Technology in 2004, and Corporate Vice President in November 2005. Prior to joining NIKE, Mr. van
Alebeek worked for McKinsey & Company as a management consultant and at N.V. Indivers in business development.

Roger S. Wyett,President, Affiliates — Mr. Wyett, 55, joined NIKE in April 2005 as President and Chief Operating Officer of the
Company’s Hurley brand and was appointed Vice President, Global Apparel in 2006. In October 2007, Mr. Wyett returned to the Company’s Hurley brand as President and Chief Executive Officer, and then in February 2011 was appointed
President of Affiliates. Mr. Wyett first joined NIKE in 1994, holding a number of management positions in soccer and NIKE Team Sports. From 2000 to 2005, Mr. Wyett was employed by The Walt Disney Company where he was Senior Vice President
for Global Apparel, Accessories and Footwear, and later promoted to Executive Vice President for Global Sales and Marketing for Consumer Products.







