ITEM 1A.RISK
    FACTORS



The factors described below are the principal risks that
    could materially adversely affect our operating results and
    financial condition. Other factors may exist that we do not
    consider significant based on information that is currently
    available. In addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and we
    cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they
    may affect us.



Downturns
    in the markets we serve, particularly materials processing,
    could have a material adverse effect on our sales and
    profitability.



Our business depends substantially upon capital expenditures by
    our customers, particularly by manufacturers in the materials
    processing market, which includes automotive, marking,
    electronics and photovoltaic applications. Approximately 76% of
    our revenues in 2009 were from customers in the materials
    processing market. Although applications in this market are
    broad, sales for these applications are cyclical and have
    historically experienced sudden and severe downturns and periods
    of oversupply, resulting in significantly reduced demand for
    capital equipment, including the products that we manufacture
    and market. In 2009, our sales decreased by approximately 25% in
    the materials processing market as a result of the global
    economic recession during 2009. For the foreseeable future, our
    operations will continue to depend upon capital





expenditures by customers in this market, which, in turn, depend
    upon the demand for their products or services. Decreased demand
    for products and services from customers for these applications
    during an economic downturn may lead to decreased demand for our
    products, which would reduce our sales and margins. We may not
    be able to respond by decreasing our expenses quickly enough,
    due in part, to our fixed overhead structure related to our
    vertically-integrated operations and our commitments to
    continuing investment in research and development.



Uncertainty
    and adverse changes in the general economic conditions of
    markets in which we participate negatively affect our
    business.





Our
    sales depend upon our ability to penetrate new applications for
    fiber lasers and increase our market share in existing
    applications.



Our level of sales will depend on our ability to generate sales
    of fiber lasers in applications where conventional lasers, such
    as
    CO2and yttrium aluminum garnet (YAG) lasers, have been used or in
    new and developing markets and applications for lasers where
    they have not been used previously. To date, a significant
    portion of our revenue growth has been derived from sales of
    fiber lasers primarily for applications where
    CO2and YAG lasers historically have been used. In order to maintain
    or increase market demand for our fiber laser products, we will
    need to devote substantial resources to:



•demonstrate the effectiveness of fiber lasers in new
    applications;•increase our direct and indirect sales efforts;•effectively service and support our installed product base.•extend our product line to address new applications for our
    products;•continue to reduce our manufacturing costs and enhance our
    competitive position; and



If we are unable to implement our strategy to develop new
    applications for our products, our revenues, operating results
    and financial condition could be adversely affected. We cannot
    assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our
    business strategy. In addition, our newly developed or enhanced
    products may not achieve market acceptance or may be rendered
    obsolete or less competitive by the introduction of new products
    by other companies.



If
    fiber lasers do not achieve broader market acceptance or if
    market penetration occurs more slowly than we expect, sales and
    profitability may be negatively impacted.



Fiber lasers are relatively new when compared to conventional
    lasers and our future success depends on the development and
    broader acceptance of fiber lasers. Potential customers may be
    reluctant to adopt fiber





lasers as an alternative to conventional lasers, such as
    CO2and
    YAG, and non-laser methods, such as mechanical tools. Such
    potential customers may have substantial investments and
    know-how related to their existing laser and non-laser
    technologies, and may perceive risks relating to the
    reliability, quality, usefulness and cost-effectiveness of fiber
    lasers when compared to other laser or non-laser technologies
    available in the market. Many of our target markets, such as the
    automotive, machine tool and other manufacturing, communications
    and medical industries, have historically adopted new
    technologies slowly. These markets often require long test and
    qualification periods or lengthy government approval processes
    before adopting new technologies. As a result, we may expend
    significant resources and time to qualify our products for a new
    customer application, and we cannot assure that our products
    will be qualified or approved for such markets. If acceptance of
    fiber laser technology and of our fiber lasers in particular
    does not continue to grow within the markets that we serve, then
    the opportunities to maintain or increase our revenues and
    profitability may be severely limited.



Our
    vertically integrated business results in high levels of fixed
    costs and inventory levels that may adversely impact our gross
    profits and our operating results in the event that demand for
    our products declines or we maintain excess inventory
    levels.





Our
    manufacturing capacity and operations may not be appropriate for
    future levels of demand and may adversely affect our gross
    margins.



In response to an increase in demand for our fiber lasers, we
    started adding substantial manufacturing capacity at our
    facilities in the United States, Germany and Russia beginning in
    2005. We continue to expand our capacity further in Russia. A
    significant portion of our manufacturing facilities and
    production equipment, such as our semiconductor production and
    processing equipment, diode packaging equipment and diode
    burn-in stations, are special-purpose in nature and cannot be
    adapted easily to make other products. If the demand for fiber
    lasers or amplifiers does not increase or decreases from current
    levels, we may have significant excess manufacturing capacity
    and under-absorption of our fixed costs, which could in turn
    adversely affect our gross margins and profitability.



To maintain our competitive position as the leading developer
    and manufacturer of fiber lasers and to meet anticipated demand
    for our products, we invested significantly in the expansion of
    our manufacturing and operations throughout the world and may do
    so in the future. We incurred in the past and will incur
    significant costs associated with the acquisition, build-out and
    preparation of our facilities. We had capital expenditures of
    $10.5 million and $37.1 million in 2009 and 2008,
    respectively, and we expect to incur approximately
    $25 million in capital expenditures, including
    acquisitions, in 2010. In connection with these projects, we may
    incur cost overruns, construction delays, labor difficulties or
    regulatory issues which could cause our capital expenditures to
    be higher than what we currently anticipate, possibly by a
    material amount, which would in turn adversely impact our
    operating results. Moreover, we may experience higher costs due
    to yield loss,





production inefficiencies and equipment problems until any
    operational issues associated with the opening of new
    manufacturing facilities are resolved.



The
    laser and amplifier industries are experiencing declining
    average selling prices, which could cause our gross margins to
    decline and harm our operating results.



Products in the laser and amplifier industries generally, and
    our products specifically, are experiencing and may in the
    future continue to experience a decline in average selling
    prices (ASPs) as a result of new product and technology
    introductions, increased competition and price pressures from
    significant customers. If the ASPs of our products decline
    further and we are unable to increase our unit volumes,
    introduce new or enhanced products with higher margins or reduce
    manufacturing costs to offset anticipated decreases in the
    prices of our existing products, our operating results may be
    adversely affected. In addition, because of our significant
    fixed costs, we are limited in our ability to reduce total costs
    quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. Because of these
    factors, we have experienced and we may experience in the future
    material adverse fluctuations in our operating results on a
    quarterly or annual basis if the ASPs of our products continue
    to decline.



Because
    we lack long-term purchase commitments from our customers, our
    sales can be difficult to predict, which could lead to excess or
    obsolete inventory and adversely affect our operating
    results.





We may
    experience lower than expected manufacturing yields, which would
    adversely affect our gross margins.



The manufacture of semiconductor diodes and the packaging of
    them is a highly complex process. Manufacturers often encounter
    difficulties in achieving acceptable product yields from diode
    and packaging operations. We have from time to time experienced
    lower than anticipated manufacturing yields for our diodes and
    packaged diodes. This occurs during the production of new
    designs and the installation andstart-upof
    new process technologies. If we do not achieve planned yields,
    our product costs could increase resulting in lower gross
    margins, and key component availability would decrease.



We are
    subject to litigation alleging that we are infringing
    third-party intellectual property rights. Intellectual property
    claims could result in costly litigation and harm our
    business.



In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving
    intellectual property rights in many technology-based
    industries, including our own. We face risks and uncertainties
    in connection with such litigation, including the risk that
    patents issued to others may harm our ability to do business;
    that there could be existing patents of which we are unaware
    that could be pertinent to our business; and that it is not
    possible for us to know whether there are patent applications
    pending that our products might infringe upon, since





patent applications often are not disclosed until a patent is
    issued or published. Moreover, the frequency with which new
    patents are granted and the diversity of jurisdictions in which
    they are granted make it impractical and expensive for us to
    monitor all patents that may be relevant to our business.



From time to time, we have been notified of allegations and
    claims that we may be infringing patents or intellectual
    property rights owned by third parties. In 2007, we settled two
    patent infringement lawsuits filed against us. We are presently
    defending two patent infringement lawsuits.







There can be no assurance that we will be able to dispose
    without a material effect the litigations with IMRA America or
    CardioFocus, claims or other allegations made against us and
    claims that may be asserted in the future. The outcome of any
    litigation, including the pending litigation, is uncertain, as
    is the outcome of any remaining re-examination of the
    CardioFocus patents. Even if we ultimately are successful on the
    merits of any such litigation or re-examination, legal and
    administrative proceedings related to intellectual property are
    typically expensive and time-consuming, generate negative
    publicity and divert financial and managerial resources. Some
    litigants may have greater financial resources than we have and
    may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual
    property litigation more easily than we can.





If we do not prevail in any intellectual property litigation
    brought against us, including the lawsuits brought by IMRA
    America and CardioFocus, it could affect our ability to sell our
    products and materially harm our business, financial condition
    and results of operations. These developments could adversely
    affect our ability to compete for customers and increase our
    revenues. Plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek,
    and sometimes obtain, injunctive relief. Intellectual property
    litigation commenced against us, including the lawsuits brought
    by IMRA America and CardioFocus that we are presently defending,
    could force us to take actions that could be harmful to our
    business, competitive position, results of operations and
    financial condition, including the following:



•stop selling our products or using the technology that contains
    the allegedly infringing intellectual property;•pay actual monetary damages, royalties, lost profits or
    increased damages and the plaintiff’s attorneys’ fees,
    which individually or in the aggregate may be substantial;•attempt to obtain a license to use the relevant intellectual
    property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at
    all; and•attempt to redesign the products that allegedly infringed upon
    intellectual property of others, which may be costly or
    impractical.



In addition, intellectual property lawsuits can be brought by
    third parties against OEMs and end users that incorporate our
    products into their systems or processes. In some cases, we
    indemnify OEMs against third-party infringement claims relating
    to our products and we often make representations affirming,
    among other things, that our products do not infringe on the
    intellectual property rights of others. As a result, we may
    incur liabilities in connection with lawsuits against our
    customers. Any such lawsuits, whether or not they have merit,
    could be time-consuming to defend, damage our reputation or
    result in substantial and unanticipated costs.



Our
    inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary
    technologies could result in the unauthorized use of our
    technologies by third parties, hurt our competitive position and
    adversely affect our operating results.







Given our reliance on trade secret laws, others may
    independently develop similar or alternative technologies or
    duplicate our technologies and commercialize discoveries that we
    have made. Therefore, our intellectual property efforts may be
    insufficient to maintain our competitive advantage or to stop
    other parties from commercializing similar products or
    technologies. Many countries outside of the United States afford
    little or no protection to trade secrets and other intellectual
    property rights. Intellectual property litigation can be
    time-consuming and expensive, and there is no guarantee that we
    will have the resources to fully enforce our rights. If we are
    unable to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our
    intellectual property rights, or the independent development or
    design of similar technologies, our competitive position and
    operating results could suffer.



We
    depend upon internal production and on outside single or
    limited-source suppliers for many of our key components and raw
    materials. Any interruption in the supply of these key
    components and raw materials could adversely affect our results
    of operations.



We rely exclusively on our own production capabilities to
    manufacture certain of our key components, such as semiconductor
    diodes, specialty optical fibers and optical components. We do
    not have redundant production lines for some of our components,
    such as our diodes and some other components, which are made at
    a single manufacturing facility. These may not be readily
    available from other sources at our current costs. If our
    manufacturing activities were obstructed or hampered
    significantly, it could take a considerable length of time, or
    it could increase our costs, for us to resume manufacturing or
    find alternative sources of supply. Many of the tools and
    equipment we use are custom-designed, and it could take a
    significant period of time to repair or replace them. Our three
    major manufacturing facilities are located in Oxford,
    Massachusetts; Burbach, Germany; and Fryazino, Russia. If, as a
    result of a flood, fire, natural disaster, political unrest, act
    of terrorism, war, outbreak of disease or other similar event,
    any of our three major manufacturing facilities or equipment
    should become inoperable, inaccessible, damaged or destroyed,
    our business could be adversely affected to the extent that we
    do not have redundant production capabilities.





We
    rely on the significant experience and specialized expertise of
    our senior management and scientific staff and if we are unable
    to retain these key employees and attract other highly skilled
    personnel necessary to grow our business successfully, our
    business and results of operations could suffer.



Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued
    service of our executive officers, particularly our founder and
    chief executive officer, Dr. Valentin P. Gapontsev,
    age 71, and the managing director of our German subsidiary
    IPG Laser GmbH, Dr. Eugene Shcherbakov, age 62, our
    highly trained team of scientists, many of whom have numerous
    years of experience and specialized expertise in optical fibers,
    semiconductors and optical component technology, and other key
    engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support
    personnel, any of whom may leave, which could harm our business.
    The members of our scientific staff who are expected to make
    significant individual contributions to our business are also
    members of our





executive management team as disclosed under Item 10,
    “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance” below. Furthermore, our business requires
    scientists and engineers with experience in several disciplines,
    including physics, optics, materials sciences, chemistry and
    electronics. We will need to continue to recruit and retain
    highly skilled scientists and engineers for certain functions.
    Our future success also depends on our ability to identify,
    attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled
    research and development, managerial, operations, sales,
    marketing and customer service personnel. If we fail to attract,
    integrate and retain the necessary personnel, our ability to
    extend and maintain our scientific expertise and grow our
    business could suffer significantly.



Failure
    to effectively build and expand our direct field service and
    support organization could have an adverse effect on our
    business.



We believe that it will become increasingly important for us to
    provide rapid, responsive service directly to our customers
    throughout the world and to build and expand our own personnel
    resources to provide these services. Any actual or perceived
    lack of direct field service in the locations where we sell or
    try to sell our products may negatively impact our sales efforts
    and, consequently, our revenues. Accordingly, we have an ongoing
    effort to develop our direct support systems worldwide. This
    requires us to recruit and train additional qualified field
    service and support personnel as well as maintain effective and
    highly trained organizations that can provide service to our
    customers in various countries. We may not be able to attract
    and train additional qualified personnel to expand our direct
    support operations successfully. We may not be able to find and
    engage additional qualified third-party resources to supplement
    and enhance our direct support operations. Further, we may incur
    significant costs in providing these direct field and support
    services. Failure to implement our direct support operation
    effectively could adversely affect our relationships with our
    customers, and our operating results may suffer.



A few
    customers account for a significant portion of our sales, and if
    we lose any of these customers or they significantly curtail
    their purchases of our products, our results of operations could
    be adversely affected.



We rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our
    sales. In the aggregate, our top five customers accounted for
    12%, 17% and 20% of our consolidated net sales in 2009, 2008 and
    2007, respectively. Our largest customer accounted for 3%, 7%
    and 7% of sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We
    generally do not enter into agreements with our customers
    obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. Our
    business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and
    shipment schedules. If any of our principal customers
    discontinues its relationship with us, replaces us as a vendor
    for certain products or suffers downturns in its business, our
    business and results of operations could be adversely affected.



We
    have experienced, and expect to experience in the future,
    fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. These
    fluctuations may increase the volatility of our stock
    price.



We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience,
    fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. We believe that
    fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market price of
    our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. Factors
    which may have an influence on our operating results in a
    particular quarter include:



•the increase, decrease, cancellation or rescheduling of
    significant customer orders;•the timing of revenue recognition based on the installation or
    acceptance of certain products shipped to our customers;•seasonality attributable to different purchasing patterns and
    levels of activity throughout the year in the areas where we
    operate;•the timing of customer qualification of our products and
    commencement of volume sales of systems that include our
    products;•Our ability to obtain export licenses for our products on a
    timely basis or at all;







•the rate at which our present and future customers and end users
    adopt our technologies;•the gain or loss of a key customer;•product or customer mix;•competitive pricing pressures;•the relative proportions of our U.S. and international
    sales;•our ability to design, manufacture and introduce new products on
    a cost-effective and timely basis;•our ability to manage our inventory levels and any inventory
    write-downs;•the incurrence of expenses to develop and improve application
    and support capabilities, the benefits of which may not be
    realized until future periods, if at all;•different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our
    customers, which affect the timing of their spending;•foreign currency fluctuations; and•our ability to control expenses.



These factors make it difficult for us to accurately predict our
    operating results. In addition, our ability to accurately
    predict our operating results is complicated by the fact that
    many of our products have long sales cycles, some lasting as
    long as twelve months. Once a sale is made, our delivery
    schedule typically ranges from four weeks to four months, and
    therefore our sales will often reflect orders shipped in the
    same quarter that they are received and will not enhance our
    ability to predict our results for future quarters. In addition,
    long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses
    without offsetting revenues since customers typically expend
    significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our
    products before making a decision to purchase them. Moreover,
    customers may cancel or reschedule shipments, and production
    difficulties could delay shipments. Accordingly, our results of
    operations are subject to significant fluctuations from quarter
    to quarter, and we may not be able to accurately predict when
    these fluctuations will occur.



Foreign
    currency transaction risk may negatively affect our net sales,
    cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange
    losses.



We conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of
    most countries in which we operate. In 2009, our net sales
    outside the United States represented a significant portion of
    our total sales. We incur currency transaction risk whenever one
    of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a
    sales transaction using a different currency from the currency
    in which it receives revenues. Changes in exchange rates can
    also affect our results of operations by changing the
    U.S. dollar value of sales and expenses denominated in
    foreign currencies. We cannot accurately predict the impact of
    future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations.
    Further, given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be
    able to effectively manage our currency transaction or
    translation risks, and any volatility in currency exchange rates
    may increase the price of our products in local currency to our
    foreign customers, which may have an adverse effect on our
    financial condition, cash flows and profitability.



We
    depend on our OEM customers and system integrators and their
    ability to incorporate our products into their
    systems.



Our sales depend in part on our ability to maintain existing and
    secure new OEM customers. Our revenues also depend in part upon
    the ability of our current and potential OEM customers and
    system integrators to develop and sell systems that incorporate
    our laser and amplifier products. The commercial success of
    these systems depends to a substantial degree on the efforts of
    these OEM customers and system integrators to develop and market
    products that incorporate our technologies. Relationships and
    experience with traditional laser makers, limited marketing
    resources, reluctance to invest in research and development and
    other factors affecting these OEM customers and third-party
    system integrators could have a substantial





impact upon our financial results. If OEM customers or
    integrators are not able to adapt existing tools or develop new
    systems to take advantage of the features and benefits of fiber
    lasers, then the opportunities to increase our revenues and
    profitability may be severely limited or delayed. Furthermore,
    if our OEM customers or third-party system integrators
    experience financial or other difficulties that adversely affect
    their operations, our financial condition or results of
    operations may also be adversely affected.



The
    markets for our products are highly competitive and increased
    competition could increase our costs, reduce our sales or cause
    us to lose market share.



The industries in which we operate are characterized by
    significant price and technological competition. Our fiber laser
    and amplifier products compete with conventional laser
    technologies and amplifier products offered by several
    well-established companies, some of which are larger and have
    substantially greater financial, managerial and technical
    resources, more extensive distribution and service networks,
    greater sales and marketing capacity, and larger installed
    customer bases than we do. Also, we compete with widely used
    non-laser production methods, such as resistance welding. We
    believe that competition will be particularly intense from
    makers of
    CO2and YAG lasers, as these makers of conventional solutions may
    lower prices to maintain current market share and have committed
    significant research and development resources to pursue
    opportunities related to these technologies.



In addition, we face competition from a growing number of fiber
    laser makers, including Rofin-Sinar Technologies, Inc., Trumpf
    GmbH + Co. KG, GSI Group Inc., Coherent Inc., Newport
    Corporation, The Furukawa Electric Co., Ltd., Keopsys SA,
    Mitsubishi Cable Industries, Ltd., Miyachi Unitek Corporation,
    MPB Communications Inc. and JDS Uniphase Corporation.
    Competition from other fiber laser makers increased and some
    have introduced high-power fiber lasers that compete with our
    products. We may not be able to successfully differentiate our
    current and proposed products from our competitors’
    products and current or prospective customers may not consider
    our products to be superior to competitors’ products. To
    maintain our competitive position, we believe that we will be
    required to continue a high level of investment in research and
    development, application development and customer service and
    support, and to react to market pricing conditions. Many of the
    laser companies that we compete with are larger and have
    substantially greater financial, managerial and technical
    resources, more extensive distribution and service networks,
    greater sales and marketing capacity, and larger installed
    customer bases than we do.



We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make these
    investments and we may not be able to make the technological
    advances or price adjustments necessary to maintain our
    competitive position. We also compete against our OEM
    customers’ internal production of competitive laser
    technologies.



Our
    inability to manage risks associated with our international
    customers and operations could adversely affect our
    business.



Our products are currently marketed and sold in numerous
    countries. The United States, Germany, Japan, Russia and China
    are our principal markets. A significant amount of our revenues
    are derived from customers outside of the United States. We
    anticipate that foreign sales will continue to account for a
    significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future.
    Our operations and sales in these markets are subject to risks
    inherent in international business activities, including:



•longer accounts receivable collection periods;•fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies;•changes in a specific country’s or region’s economic
    conditions, such as recession;•compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and
    regulations and unexpected changes in those laws and regulatory
    requirements, including uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs,
    quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade
    barriers;•certification requirements;•environmental regulations;







•less effective protection of intellectual property rights in
    some countries;•potentially adverse tax consequences;•different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our
    customers, which affect the timing of their spending;•political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts,
    and the impact of regional and global infectious illnesses in
    the countries in which we and our customers, suppliers,
    manufacturers and subcontractors are located;•preference for locally produced products;•difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international
    operations across different geographic areas and cultures;•seasonal reductions in business activities; and•fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions.



Political and economic instability and changes in governmental
    regulations could adversely affect both our ability to
    effectively operate our foreign sales offices and the ability of
    our foreign suppliers to supply us with required materials or
    services. Any interruption or delay in the supply of our
    required components, products, materials or services, or our
    inability to obtain these components, materials, products or
    services from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within
    a reasonable amount of time, could impair our ability to meet
    scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause
    customers to cancel orders.



We are also subject to risks of doing business in Russia through
    our subsidiary, NTO IRE-Polus, which provides components and
    test equipment to us and sells finished fiber devices to
    customers in Russia and neighboring countries. The results of
    operations, business prospects and facilities of NTO IRE-Polus
    are subject to the economic and political environment in Russia.
    In recent years Russia has undergone substantial political,
    economic and social change. As is typical of an emerging market,
    Russia does not possess a well-developed business, legal and
    regulatory infrastructure that would generally exist in a more
    mature free market economy. In addition, the tax, currency and
    customs legislation within Russia is subject to varying
    interpretations and changes, which can occur frequently. The
    future economic direction of Russia remains largely dependent
    upon the effectiveness of economic, financial and monetary
    measures undertaken by the government, together with tax, legal,
    regulatory and political developments. Our failure to manage the
    risks associated with NTO IRE-Polus and our other existing and
    potential future international business operations could have a
    material adverse effect upon our results of operations.



Our
    products could contain defects, which may reduce sales of those
    products, harm market acceptance of our fiber laser products or
    result in claims against us.



The manufacture of our fiber lasers and amplifiers involves
    highly complex and precise processes. Despite testing by us and
    our customers, errors have been found, and may be found in the
    future, in our products. These defects may cause us to incur
    significant warranty, support and repair costs, incur additional
    costs related to a recall, divert the attention of our
    engineering personnel from our product development efforts and
    harm our relationships with our customers. These problems could
    result in, among other things, loss of revenues or a delay in
    revenue recognition, loss of market share, harm to our
    reputation or a delay or loss of market acceptance of our fiber
    laser products. Defects, integration issues or other performance
    problems in our fiber laser and amplifier products could also
    result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our
    customers, which in turn could damage market acceptance of our
    products. Our customers could also seek damages from us for
    their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even
    if unsuccessful, could be time-consuming and costly to defend.





We may
    pursue acquisitions and investments in new businesses, products,
    patents or technologies. These may involve risks which could
    disrupt our business and may harm our financial
    condition.





We are
    subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could
    impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our
    business, operating results and financial
    condition.





We are
    subject to export control regulations that could restrict our
    ability to increase our international sales and may adversely
    affect our business.



A significant part of our business involves the export of our
    products to other countries. The U.S. government has in
    place a number of laws and regulations that control the export,
    re-export or transfer ofU.S.-originproducts, software and technology. The governments of other
    countries in which we do business have similar regulations
    regarding products, software and technology originating in those
    countries. These laws and regulations may require that we obtain
    a license before we can export, re-export or transfer certain
    products, software or technology. The requirement to obtain a
    license could put us at a competitive disadvantage by
    restricting our ability to sell products to customers in certain
    countries or by giving rise to delays or expenses related to
    obtaining a license. In applying for a license and responding to
    questions from licensing authorities, we have experienced and,
    in the future, may experience delays in obtaining export
    licenses based on issues solely within the control of the
    applicable government agency. Under the discretion of the
    issuing government agency, an export license may permit the
    export of one unit to a single customer or multiple units to one
    or more customers. Licenses may also include conditions that
    limit the use, resale, transfer, re-export,





modification, disassembly, or transfer of a product, software or
    technology after it is exported without first obtaining
    permission from the relevant government agency. Failure to
    comply with these laws and regulations could result in
    government sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties,
    denial of export privileges, debarment from government contracts
    and a loss of revenues. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain
    required export licenses may require us to defer shipments for
    substantial periods or cancel orders. Any of these circumstances
    could adversely affect our operations and, as a result, our
    financial results could suffer.



Our
    ability to access financial markets to finance a portion of our
    working capital requirements and support our liquidity needs may
    be adversely affected by factors beyond our control and could
    negatively impact our ability to finance our operations, meet
    certain obligations or implement our operating
    strategy.



We occasionally borrow under our existing credit facilities to
    fund operations, including working capital investments. Our
    major credit lines in the U.S. and Germany expire in July
    2011 and June 2010, respectively. Market disruptions such as
    those currently being experienced in the United States and
    abroad have materially impacted liquidity in the credit and debt
    markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive,
    and, in certain cases, have resulted in the unavailability of
    certain types of financing. Continued uncertainty in the
    financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access
    additional financing or to refinance our existing credit
    facilities or existing debt arrangements on favorable terms or
    at all, which could negatively affect our ability to fund
    current and future expansion as well as future acquisitions and
    development. These disruptions may include turmoil in the
    financial services industry, unprecedented volatility in the
    markets where our outstanding securities trade, and general
    economic downturns in the areas where we do business. If we are
    unable to access funds at competitive rates, or if our
    short-term or long-term borrowing costs increase, our ability to
    finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations and
    implement our operating strategy could be adversely affected.



Our
    ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our
    failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from
    growing.



We may in the future be required to raise capital through public
    or private financing or other arrangements. Such financing may
    not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure
    to raise capital when needed could harm our business. Additional
    equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our common
    stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive
    covenants and could reduce our profitability. If we cannot raise
    funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our
    business or respond to competitive pressures.



Dr. Valentin
    P. Gapontsev, our chairman, Chief Executive Officer and
    principal stockholder, controls approximately 41% of our voting
    power and has a significant influence on the outcome of director
    elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval,
    including a change in corporate control.



Dr. Valentin P. Gapontsev, our Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer, and IP Fibre Devices (UK) Ltd. (IPFD), of which
    Dr. Gapontsev is the managing director and majority owner,
    beneficially own approximately 41% of our common stock.
    Dr. Gapontsev has a significant influence on the outcome of
    matters requiring stockholder approval, including:



•election of our directors;•amendment of our certificate of incorporation or
    by-laws; and•approval of mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or
    substantially all of our assets.



Dr. Gapontsev may vote his shares of our common stock in
    ways that are adverse to the interests of other holders of our
    common stock. Dr. Gapontsev’s significant ownership
    interest could delay, prevent or cause a change in control of
    our company, any of which could adversely affect the market
    price of our common stock.





Anti-takeover
    provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could
    prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if a
    change in control would be beneficial to our
    stockholders.



Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws,
    including certain provisions that will take effect when
    Dr. Valentin P. Gapontsev (together with his affiliates and
    associates) ceases to beneficially own an aggregate of 25% or
    more of our outstanding voting securities, may discourage, delay
    or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control, even if
    it would be beneficial to our stockholders. The existence of
    these provisions could also limit the price that investors might
    be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.
    These provisions include:



•authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred
    stock;•establishing a classified board;•providing that directors may only be removed for cause;•prohibiting stockholder action by written consent;•limiting the persons who may call a special meeting of
    stockholders;•establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for
    election to the board of directors and for proposing matters to
    be submitted to a stockholder vote; and•supermajority stockholder approval to change these provisions.



Provisions of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent
    someone from acquiring or merging with our company or obtaining
    control of our company. Specifically, Section 203 of the
    Delaware General Corporation Law, which will apply to our
    company following such time as Dr. Gapontsev (together with
    his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own 25% or
    more of the total voting power of our outstanding shares, may
    prohibit business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or
    more of our outstanding voting stock.



Substantial
    sales of our common stock, including shares issued upon the
    exercise of currently outstanding options or pursuant to our
    universal shelf registration statement, could cause our stock
    price to decline.



Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the
    perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the
    market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2009,
    we had 46,076,000 shares of common stock outstanding and
    3,028,000 shares subject to outstanding options. We have
    registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under
    our stock option plans and our employee stock ownership plan. In
    addition, all of our unregistered shares of our common stock are
    now eligible for sale under Rule 144, Rule 144(k) or
    Rule 701. As these shares are issued, they may be freely
    sold in the public market, and subject, in the case of any
    awards under our stock-based compensation plans, to applicable
    vesting requirements.



We currently have the ability to offer and sell common stock,
    preferred stock, warrants, debt and convertible securities under
    a currently effective universal shelf registration statement. In
    the future, we may issue additional options, warrants or other
    securities convertible into our common stock. Sales of
    substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or other
    securities under our universal shelf registration statement
    could lower the market price of our common stock and impair our
    ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities.



If
    securities analysts stop publishing research or reports about
    our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our
    stock could decline.



The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the
    research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish
    about us. If one or more of these analysts who do cover us
    downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline.
    Further, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our
    company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn
    could cause our stock price to decline.





