Item 1A. Risk Factors

In addition to the other information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risks described in this section. The risks described below are not the only risks that could adversely affect our business; other risks currently deemed immaterial or additional risks not currently known to us could also adversely affect us. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. You should read the section titled “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” for a description of the types of statements that are considered forward-looking statements, as well as the significance of such statements in the context of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We operate in competitive markets, which may adversely affect our financial results.

While we do not believe that we have a direct competitor across all of the industries we serve, we face competition across all markets for our products and services, including from larger and smaller competitors that may be able to adopt new or emerging technologies to address customer requirements more quickly than we can, from incumbent companies with strong market share in specific markets, or from organizations that have not traditionally competed with us but could adapt their products and services or use their significant resources or expertise to begin competing. We believe that competitors are continuously investing, developing, and enhancing their products, services, and technology, and acquiring new businesses to better serve existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, the internet, widespread availability of sophisticated search engines, and public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information and solutions have simplified the process of locating, gathering, and disseminating data, potentially diminishing the perceived value of our offerings. While we believe our offerings are distinguished by such factors as complex compilation, standardization and analytical processes, currency,









accuracy and completeness, and our other added value, our customers could choose to obtain the information and solutions they need from public, regulatory, governmental, or other sources. An increase in our capital investments, price reductions for our offerings, reduced spending, or increased self-sufficiency by our customers due to competition could negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations.

We may be unsuccessful in achieving our guidance, growth and profitability objectives.

If we are unable to identify opportunities, develop successful new products and services, or adapt to rapidly changing technology, our business could suffer serious harm.

The information services industry is characterized by significant and rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, and changing regulatory requirements, and our growth and success depend on our ability to meet our changing customer needs. The process of developing and enhancing our products and services is complex and may become increasingly complex and expensive in the future due to the introduction of new platforms, operating systems, technologies, and customer expectations. Current areas of significant technological change include artificial intelligence, mobility, cloud-based computing, blockchain, speed of availability of data, and the storing, processing, and analysis of large amounts of data. We may find it difficult or costly to enhance our current products and services and to develop new products and services quickly enough to keep the pace with evolving technologies, industry standards or regulations, or to meet our customers’ needs, in which case we may not grow our business as quickly as we anticipate.

Fraudulent or unpermitted access to our data, services, or systems, or other cyber-security or privacy breaches may negatively impact our business and harm our reputation.

Many of our products and services and systems involve the collection, storage, use, and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including data from our employees, customers and suppliers, intellectual property, proprietary business information, personally identifiable information, and information that may be confidential, sensitive, or material and nonpublic. Similar to other global companies that provide services online, we experience cyber-threats, cyber-attacks, and security breaches of varying degrees of severity on our products and our information technology systems and applications, which can include unauthorized attempts to access, disable, improperly modify or degrade our information, systems, and networks, the introduction of computer viruses and other malicious codes, and fraudulent “phishing” e-mails that seek to misappropriate data and information or install malware onto users’ computers and our systems generally. Cyber-threats vary in technique and sources, are persistent, and increasingly are more sophisticated, targeted, and difficult to detect and prevent.

We rely on a system of physical and technological security measures, internal processes and controls, contractual precautions and business continuity plans, and policies, procedures, and training to protect the confidentiality of such data. We have dedicated resources at our company that are responsible for maintaining, and training our business teams on, appropriate levels of cyber-security, and we utilize third-party technology products and services to help identify, protect, and remediate our









information technology systems and infrastructure against security breaches and cyber-incidents. Our information systems must also be constantly updated, patched, and upgraded to protect against known vulnerabilities and optimize performance. We may be required to incur significant costs to minimize or alleviate the effects of cyber-attacks or other security vulnerabilities and to protect against damage caused by future disruptions, security breaches, or cyber-attacks. However, our responsive and precautionary measures may not be adequate or effective to prevent, identify, or mitigate attacks by hackers, foreign governments, or other actors or breaches, disruptions, slowdowns or misconduct caused by employee error, malfeasance, or other third parties. In addition, if a customer experiences a data security breach that results in the misappropriation of our proprietary business information, our reputation could be harmed, even if we were not responsible for the breach.

We could experience system failures or capacity constraints that could negatively impact our business.

Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex systems, relying on people, processes, and technology to function effectively. Most of our products and services are delivered electronically, and our customers rely on our ability to process and deliver substantial quantities of information and other services on computer-based networks. Some elements of these systems have been outsourced to third-party providers, including critical data inputs received from third-party suppliers and data systems stored on cloud-based computing infrastructure. Some of our systems have been consolidated for the purpose of enhancing scalability and efficiency, which increases our dependency on a smaller number of systems. Any failure of, or significant interruption, delay, or disruption to, our systems could result in: disruption to our operations; significant expense to repair, replace, or remediate systems, equipment or facilities; a loss of customers; legal or regulatory claims, proceedings, or fines; damage to our reputation; and harm to our business.









Our transition to cloud-based technologies could expose us to operational disruptions.

Design defects, errors, failures, or delays associated with our products or services could negatively impact our business.

Software, products, and services that we develop, license, or distribute, or use to develop or provide our products and services, may contain errors or defects when first released or when major new updates or enhancements are released that cause the software, product or service to operate incorrectly or less effectively. We may also experience delays while developing and introducing new products and services for various reasons, such as difficulties in licensing data inputs or adapting to particular operating environments. Defects, errors, or delays in our products or services that are significant, or are perceived to be significant, could result in rejection or delay in market acceptance, damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, a lower rate of license renewals or upgrades, diversion of development resources, product liability claims or regulatory actions, or increases in service and support costs. We may also need to expend significant capital resources to eliminate or work around defects, errors, failures, or delays. In each of these ways, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted.

We depend on externally obtained software, content, and services to support our offerings, and the interruption or cessation of important third-party content or services could prove harmful to our business.

We obtain data from a wide variety of external sources that we transform into critical information and analytics and use to create integrated product and service offerings for our customers. Many of our offerings include content and information that is purchased or licensed from third parties, including from public record sources or parties that are our customers or our competitors, or obtained using independent contractors. For instance, our industry standards offerings that are part of our Product Design workflow rely on information licensed from standards developing organizations, and many of our financial institution customers provide us with data that is a critical input for many of our Financial Services offerings. We believe that the content licensed from many of these third parties might not be able to be obtained from alternate sources on favorable terms, if at all.









Our relationships with third-party service providers may change, which could adversely affect our results of operations.

Failure to comply with customer contracts or requirements could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows.

The loss of, or the inability to attract and retain, qualified personnel could impair our future success.

Our future success depends to a large extent on the continued service of our highly skilled, educated, and trained employees, including our experts in research and analysis, information technology, and the industries in which we operate, and colleagues in sales, marketing, product development, operations, technology, and management, including our executive officers. We do not carry any “key person” insurance policies that could offset potential loss of service under applicable circumstances. We must maintain our ability to attract, motivate, compensate, and retain highly qualified colleagues in order to support our customers and achieve business results. The markets we serve are highly competitive and competition for skilled employees in our industry is intense for both onshore and offshore locales, and uncertainty around future employment opportunities, facility locations, organizational and reporting structures, acquisitions and divestitures, and other related concerns may impair our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. The loss of the services of qualified personnel and any inability to recruit effective replacements or to otherwise attract, motivate, train, or retain highly qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.

We also must manage leadership development and succession planning throughout our business. Any significant leadership change and accompanying senior management transition involves inherent risk, and any failure to ensure a smooth transition could hinder our strategic planning, execution, and future performance. While we strive to mitigate the negative impact associated with changes to our senior management team, such changes may cause uncertainty among investors, employees, customers, creditors, and others concerning our future direction and performance. If we fail to effectively manage our leadership changes, including ongoing organizational and strategic changes, our business, financial condition, operating results, and ability to successfully attract, motivate and retain highly qualified colleagues, could be harmed.









We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information.

We may be exposed to litigation related to products we make available to customers and we may face legal liability or damage to our reputation.

We are subject to litigation and investigation risks which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.









exposure to loss or the amounts we actually pay in connection with litigation and investigation matters, due to inherent uncertainties and the inherent shortcomings of the estimation process, the uncertainties involved in litigation, and other factors.

Our use of open source software could result in litigation or impose unanticipated restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products and services.

We use open source software in our technology, most often as small components within a larger product or service. Open source code is also contained in some third-party software we rely on. The terms of many open source licenses are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by U.S. or other courts, and these licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products and services, license the software on unfavorable terms, require us to re-engineer our products and services or take other remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could also be subject to suits by parties claiming breach of the terms of licenses, which could be costly for us to defend.

Our brand and reputation are key assets and competitive advantages of our company and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace.

The integrity and external perceptions of our brand and reputation are key to our ability to remain a trusted source of products and services and to attract and retain customers. We also enter into redistribution arrangements that allow other firms to represent certain of our products and services as partners or agents. Reputational damage from negative perceptions or publicity, or actual, alleged, or perceived issues regarding any of our products or services, or misrepresentation of our products and services by third parties, could damage our reputation and relationships with customers, prospects, and the public generally. Although we monitor developments, including social media, for areas of potential risk to our brand and reputation, negative perceptions or publicity or misrepresentations by third parties may adversely impact our credibility as a trusted source for critical information, analytics, and insight and may have a negative impact on our brand, reputation, and our business.

Failure to operate our pricing and valuation services, benchmarks, and indices in a manner that maintains their independence and integrity could adversely affect our reputation and our business.

We operate multiple global pricing and valuation services, benchmark products, and indices across a broad range of commodities and asset classes, many of which depend on contributions or inputs from third parties or market participants. To ensure continued use of such products and services, our customers expect us to be able to demonstrate that they are not readily subject to manipulation. We believe our products and services are designed with appropriate methodologies, processes, and procedures to maintain independence and integrity; however, we may not be able to prevent third parties or market participants from working together or colluding to try to manipulate their inputs and thus the resulting outputs of our products and services. We may also become involved in third-party investigations or litigation related to the commodities and asset classes our products and services serve. Any failures, negative publicity, investigations, or lawsuits that implicate the independence and integrity of our pricing and valuation services, benchmarks, and indices could result in a loss of confidence in the administration of these products and services and could harm our reputation and our business.

Some of our products and services typically face long selling cycles to secure new contracts, which require significant resource commitments and result in long lead times before we receive revenue.

For certain new products and services, and especially for complex products and services, we often face long selling cycles to secure new contracts and customers, and there can be a long preparation period before we commence providing products and services. For instance, some of our Financial Services products and services can require active engagement with potential customers and can take 12 months or more to reach deal closure. Some products’ success is also dependent on building a network of users and may not be profitable while such a network is developing. We can incur significant business development expenses during the selling cycle, and we may not succeed in winning a new customer’s business, in which case we receive no revenue and may receive no reimbursement for such expenses. Selling cycle periods could lengthen, causing us to incur even higher business development expenses with no guarantee of winning a new customer’s business. Even if we succeed in developing a relationship with a potential new customer, we may not be successful in obtaining contractual commitments after the selling cycle or in maintaining contractual commitments after the implementation cycle, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected.









Changes in the legislative, regulatory, and commercial environments in which we operate may adversely impact our ability to collect, compile, use, transfer, publish, or sell data, subject us to increased regulation or decreased demand of our products and services, or prevent us from offering certain products or services, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.

Certain types of information we collect, compile, store, use, transfer, publish and/or sell, and certain of our products and services, are subject to regulation by law and governmental authorities in various jurisdictions in which we operate. There is an increasing public concern regarding, and resulting regulations of, privacy, data, and consumer protection issues. Certain types of information, including offerings in our Automotive businesses, are subject to laws and regulations by governmental authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations pertain primarily to personally identifiable information relating to individuals, and constrain the collection, use, storage, and transfer of that data, as well as other obligations with which we must comply. If we fail to comply with these laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant litigation and civil or criminal penalties (including monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions or fines) in one or more jurisdictions and reputational damage resulting in the loss of data, brand equity and business. To conduct our operations, we also move data across national borders and consequently are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, and data security in an increasing number of jurisdictions. Many jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, such as the European Union General Data Protection Regulation



(the “GDPR”), the cyber-security law adopted by China in 2017, and the 2020 California Privacy Act, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number, change frequently, and increasingly conflict among the various countries in which we operate, which has resulted in greater compliance risk and cost for us. It is possible that we could be prohibited or constrained from collecting or disseminating certain types of data or from providing certain products or services. If we fail to comply with these laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant litigation, civil or criminal penalties, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions or fines in one or more jurisdictions. For example, a failure to comply with the GDPR could result in fines up to the greater of €20 million or 4% of annual global revenues.





Our operations are subject to risks relating to worldwide operations, and our compliance and risk management methods might not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results.



Operating in many jurisdictions around the world, we may be affected by numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal and regulatory regimes, including: changes in law or their interpretation (including trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment, including export controls and economic sanctions laws); changes in tax rates, holidays, incentives and laws, or their interpretation; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and political conditions and events. Different liability standards and legal systems, that may be less developed and less predictable than those in the United States and the United Kingdom, could limit our ability to provide services in specific countries and subject us to potential noncompliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations. We must also manage social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a specific country or region; restrictive actions by governments, including embargoes; difficulties in









staffing and managing local operations; difficulties with local or grassroots activism; difficulties in penetrating new markets because of established and entrenched competitors; uncertainties of obtaining data and creating products and services that are relevant to particular geographic markets; lack of recognition of our brands, products, or services; unavailability of local joint venture partners; restrictions or limitations on outsourcing contracts or services abroad; potential adverse tax consequences on the repatriation of funds and from taxation reform affecting multinational companies; and exposure to adverse government action in countries where we may conduct reporting activities. Because of the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to protect our rights. Compliance with diverse legal and regulatory requirements is costly and time-consuming, and requires significant resources. Violations could result in significant fines or monetary damages, criminal and civil sanctions, including the restriction, suspension or revocation of an authorization, regulatory approval, license, recognition, exemption or registration that we rely on in order to conduct our business, and damage to our reputation.



Any of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.

Legal, political, and economic uncertainty surrounding the planned exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union are a source of instability and uncertainty.

The referendum in the United Kingdom in favor of the United Kingdom leaving the European Union (“E.U.”), commonly referred to as “Brexit,” could cause disruption to our business, including affecting relationships with existing and future customers, suppliers, and employees. The United Kingdom held an election in December 2019, resulting in a majority government that is expected to complete Brexit whether or not a formal withdrawal agreement is in place with the European Union. We are headquartered and tax domiciled in the United Kingdom and conduct business throughout the European Union primarily through our U.K. subsidiaries. The United Kingdom will cease to be a member state of the European Union by January 31, 2020, if not delayed, and will lose access to the E.U. single market and to E.U. trade deals negotiated with other jurisdictions at that time, so the long-term effects of Brexit will depend on the agreements or arrangements with the European Union for the United Kingdom to retain access to E.U. markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. Depending on the final terms of Brexit and the agreements or arrangements negotiated with the European Union, we could face









new regulatory costs and challenges. For instance, we may be required to move certain operations to other E.U. member states to maintain access to the E.U. single market and to E.U. trade deals. A decline in trade could affect the attractiveness of the United Kingdom as a global investment center and have a detrimental impact on U.K. growth. Although we have an international customer base, we could be adversely affected by reduced growth and greater currency and economic volatility in the United Kingdom. Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the United Kingdom determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate, including U.K. competition laws. Changes to U.K. immigration policy related to Brexit could also affect our business. Although the United Kingdom would likely retain its diverse pool of talent, London’s role as a global financial center may decline, particularly if financial institutions shift their operations to the European Union as the United Kingdom loses the E.U. financial services passport. Any adjustments we make to our business and operations as a result of Brexit could result in significant time and expense to complete. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.

Our international operations are subject to exchange rate fluctuations.

International hostilities, terrorist or cyber-terrorist activities, natural disasters, pandemics, and infrastructure disruptions could prevent us from effectively serving our customers and thus adversely affect our results of operations.

Acquisitions, joint ventures, or similar strategic relationships, or dispositions of our businesses, and the related integration or separation risks, may require significant resources or result in unanticipated costs or liabilities or fail to deliver anticipated benefits, and may disrupt or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.

As part of our business strategy, we pursue selective acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies, or joint ventures, partnerships, alliances, or similar strategic transactions and relationships with third parties, to support our business. We may also undertake dispositions of certain of our businesses or products. We seek to be disciplined in a highly competitive market and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates on favorable terms to successfully complete acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, alliances or strategic relationships, or dispositions. In addition, we typically fund our acquisitions through our credit facilities. Although we have capacity under our credit facilities, those may not be sufficient. Therefore, future acquisitions or strategic relationships may require us to obtain additional financing through debt or equity, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all and could result in shareholder dilution.

If such acquisitions or other strategic transactions are completed, the anticipated growth and other strategic objectives of such transactions may not be fully realized, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits. Their success









depends on, among other things, our ability to integrate businesses in a manner that realizes anticipated synergies and exceeds cost savings and revenue growth trends we have identified, which is a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. We expect to benefit from cost synergies driven by a number of strategies, such as integrating corporate functions, using cost-competitive locations, optimizing IT infrastructure, real estate, and other costs, as well as greater tax efficiencies from global cash movement. We may also enjoy revenue synergies, including cross-selling of products and services, an expanded product offering, and balance across geographic regions. We may not be successful in integrating acquired businesses, and completed strategic transactions may not perform at the levels we anticipate or achieve our expected cost or revenue synergies.

Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.

Our indebtedness could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our indebtedness obligations and our other ongoing business obligations, which may result in defaults; events of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt instruments, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable or require us to negotiate an amendment to financial or other covenants that could cause us to incur additional fees and expenses; sensitivity to interest rate increases on our variable rate outstanding indebtedness, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly; reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industries in which we operate, and the overall economy; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any of our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; and increasing our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions.

Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our debt instruments depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot be certain that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing or any future credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our indebtedness obligations and to fund other liquidity needs. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, for many reasons, including to fund acquisitions. If we add additional indebtedness or other liabilities, the related risks that we face could intensify.

A downgrade to our credit ratings would increase our cost of borrowing under our credit facility and adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets.

We are party to a $1.25 billion senior unsecured revolving credit agreement that matures in November 2024 (the “Senior Credit Facility”). The cost of borrowing under the Senior Credit Facility and our ability to, and the terms under which we may, access the credit markets are affected by credit ratings assigned to us by the major credit rating agencies. These ratings are premised on our performance under assorted financial metrics and other measures of financial strength, business and financial risk, and other factors determined by the credit rating agencies. Our current ratings have served to lower our borrowing costs and facilitate access to a variety of lenders. However, there can be no assurance that our credit ratings or outlook will not be lowered in the future in response to adverse changes in these metrics and factors caused by our operating results or by actions that we take that reduce our profitability, or that require us to incur additional indebtedness for items such as substantial acquisitions, significant increases in costs and capital spending in security and IT systems, significant costs related to settlements of litigation or regulatory requirements, or by returning excess cash to shareholders through dividends or under our share repurchase program. A downgrade of our credit ratings would increase our cost of borrowing under the Senior Credit









Facility, negatively affect our ability to access the capital markets on advantageous terms, or at all, negatively affect the trading price of our securities, and have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.

We cannot provide any guaranty of future dividend payments or that we will continue to repurchase our common shares pursuant to our share repurchase program.

The U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) may not agree that, after the 2016 merger of IHS Inc. and Markit Ltd., IHS Markit should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and/or that we are not subject to certain other adverse U.S. federal income tax laws relating to certain transactions that we may undertake in the future. In addition, future changes to U.S. tax laws could adversely affect us.



Based on the rules for determining the ownership percentage for purposes of the ownership test under Section 7874, we believe that the former IHS Inc. shareholders held less than 60% of our stock (by vote and value) after the merger by reason of holding IHS common stock, and therefore that IHS Markit should not be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes and should not be subject to the adverse U.S. tax rules described above. However, there is limited guidance regarding the application of Section 7874, including the application of the ownership test. If we were to be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes or otherwise subject to the adverse U.S. tax rules described above, we could be subject to substantially greater U.S. income tax liability than if our status as a non-U.S. corporation were respected.  In addition, if we were to be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, any dividends we pay to non-U.S. shareholders would be subject to U.S. withholding tax at the rate of 30% (or a reduced rate under an applicable tax treaty).



Audits, investigations, tax proceedings and future changes in tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

We are subject to direct and indirect taxes in numerous jurisdictions, and tax laws, including tax rates, in the jurisdictions in which we operate may change as a result of macroeconomic, political, or other factors.









We calculate and provide for such taxes in each tax jurisdiction in which we operate. The amount of tax we pay is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. In complex transactions or jurisdictions, we regularly utilize third-party advisers to help us make judgments about the proper application of tax law. We have taken and will continue to take tax positions based on our interpretation of tax laws, but tax accounting often involves complex matters and judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for taxes and other tax liabilities. Although we believe that we have complied with all applicable tax laws, we have been and expect to continue to be subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions, and tax authorities have disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with some of our interpretations of applicable tax law. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits to determine the appropriateness of our tax provisions. However, our judgments may not be sustained on completion of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid could be different from the amounts previously recorded.

Our tax liabilities and effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws. For example, the U.S. Congress, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”), and other government agencies have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations, such as the comprehensive plan set forth by the OECD to create an agreed set of international rules for fighting base erosion and profit shifting. The tax laws in the United States, the United Kingdom, and other countries in which we operate could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and changes in tax laws, treaties, or regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, may be unpredictable, particularly in less developed markets, and could become more stringent. Any of these occurrences could materially adversely affect our tax position and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our common shares, including enforcing judgments against us or our directors and executive officers.

We have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control.

Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions provide for: directors only to be removed for cause; restrictions  on the time period in which directors may be nominated; our Board of Directors to determine the powers, preferences, and rights of our preference









shares and to issue the preference shares without shareholder approval; and an affirmative vote of 66-2/3% of our voting shares for certain “business combination” transactions which have not been approved by our Board of Directors.

These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares.



