Item 1A.  Risk Factors



In addition to the other information provided in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risks described in this section. The risks described below are not the only risks that could adversely affect our business; other risks currently deemed immaterial or additional risks not currently known to us could also adversely affect us. These and other factors could have a material adverse effect on the value of your investment in our securities, meaning that you could lose all or part of your investment.



Note that this section includes forward-looking statements and future expectations as of the date of this Form 10-K. This discussion of Risk Factors should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II of this Form 10-K.



Our business performance might not be sufficient for us to meet the full-year financial guidance that we provide publicly.



We provide full-year financial guidance to the public based upon our assumptions regarding our expected financial performance. For example, we provide assumptions regarding our ability to grow revenue, our expenses and tax rates, and our ability to achieve our profitability targets. While we believe that our annual financial guidance provides investors and analysts









with insight to our view of the company’s future performance, such financial guidance is based on assumptions that may not always prove to be accurate and may vary from actual results. If we fail to meet the full-year financial guidance that we provide, or if we find it necessary to revise such guidance during the year, the market value of our common shares could be adversely affected.



We operate in competitive markets, which may adversely affect our financial results.





We may be unsuccessful in achieving our growth and profitability objectives.



We seek to achieve our growth objectives by enhancing our offerings to meet the needs of our customers through organic development, including by delivering integrated workflow platforms, cross-selling our products across our existing customer base and acquiring new customers, entering into strategic partnerships, acquisitions, and by implementing operational efficiency initiatives. If we are unable to successfully execute on our strategies to achieve our growth objectives or drive operational efficiencies, or if we experience higher than expected operating costs that cannot be adjusted accordingly, our growth and profitability rates could be adversely affected. An additional factor that may adversely affect our growth rates is global economic uncertainty, particularly in our energy and financial end markets. Our resources and financial markets segments in particular may be adversely affected by industry dynamics, including decisions on the part of our customers to defer capital spending in uncertain economic environments.



If we are unable to develop successful new products and services or adapt to rapidly changing technology, our business could suffer serious harm.



The information services industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing regulatory requirements. Our growth and success depend upon our ability to enhance our existing products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services to keep pace with such changes and developments and to meet changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs. The process of developing our products and services is complex and may become increasingly complex and expensive in the future due to the introduction of new platforms, operating systems, technologies and customer expectations. Current areas of significant technological change include artificial intelligence, mobility, cloud-based computing, blockchain, speed of availability of data, and the storing, processing, and analysis of large amounts of data. We may find it difficult or costly to update our services and software and to develop new products and services quickly enough to work effectively with new or changed technologies and regulations, to keep the pace with evolving industry standards or to meet our customers’ needs. If we are unable to develop new products or services, or to successfully enhance or update existing products and services, we may not be able to grow our business as quickly as we anticipate.



Fraudulent or unpermitted data access or other cyber-security or privacy breaches may negatively impact our business and harm our reputation.



Many of our products and services involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data. Similar to other global multinational companies that provide services online, we experience cyber-threats, cyber-attacks and security breaches of varying degrees of severity on our information technology systems, which can include unauthorized attempts to access, disable, improperly modify or degrade our information, systems and networks, the introduction of computer viruses and other malicious codes and fraudulent “phishing” e-mails that seek to misappropriate data and information or install malware onto users’ computers. For example, in 2018, unauthorized actors obtained access to









certain employee email accounts by sending phishing messages, a breach that we determined was not material to our business or operations. Cyber-threats in particular vary in technique and sources, are persistent, frequently change, and increasingly are more sophisticated, targeted, and difficult to detect and prevent against. Other recent, highly publicized data security breaches and cyber-attacks of other companies have further heightened awareness of this issue and may embolden individuals or groups to target our systems.





We collect, store, use, and transmit our employees’, customers’, and suppliers’ data on our networks, including information from public and private sources, intellectual property, proprietary business information, personally identifiable information, and information that may be confidential, sensitive, or material and nonpublic. We rely on a system of physical and technological security measures, internal processes and controls, contractual precautions and business continuity plans, and policies, procedures, and training to protect the confidentiality of such data. It is not always possible to prevent misconduct or misuse of such information or data by employees or third parties. The precautions we take to detect and prevent such activity, including trading and contractual obligations, may not be effective in all cases.



Any fraudulent, malicious, or accidental breach of data security controls could also result in unintentional disclosure of, or unauthorized access to, or misappropriation or misuse of, customer, vendor, employee, or other confidential or sensitive data or information, which could potentially result in additional costs to our company to enhance security or to respond to occurrences, lost sales, violations of regulations or laws relating to the privacy of personal or payment card information, penalties, or litigation. Similarly, if any confidential or embargoed data is inadvertently disclosed or deliberately misused prior to our authorization, customers and financial markets could be negatively affected, and any resulting need to change our procedures for handling and sharing this data may diminish the value of such offerings. In addition, media or other reports of perceived security vulnerabilities to our systems or those of our third-party suppliers, even if no breach has been attempted or occurred, could also adversely impact our reputation and materially impact our business.



Misappropriation, misuse, improper modification, or disclosure, destruction, corruption, or unavailability of data and information or ransom demands due to cyber-attacks or other security breaches could damage our brand and reputation, and customers and data suppliers could lose confidence in our processes, security measures, and reliability, which would harm our ability to retain customers and data suppliers and gain new ones. We could also face litigation or other claims from impacted individuals as well as substantial regulatory sanctions or fines. We may be required to incur significant costs to minimize or alleviate the effects of cyber-attacks or other security vulnerabilities and to protect against damage caused by disruptions, security breaches, or cyber-attacks of the nature we have already incurred, in the future. If any of these were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.



We could experience system failures or capacity constraints that could negatively impact our business.



Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex systems, relying on people, processes, and technology to function effectively. Most of our products and services are delivered electronically, and our customers rely on our ability to process and deliver substantial quantities of information and other services on computer-based networks. Some elements of these systems have been outsourced to third-party providers, including critical data inputs received from third-party suppliers. Some of our systems have been consolidated for the purpose of enhancing scalability and efficiency, which increases our dependency on a smaller number of systems. Any failure of, or significant interruption, delay or disruption to, or security breaches affecting, our systems could result in: disruption to our









operations; significant expense to repair, replace or remediate systems, equipment or facilities; a loss of customers; legal or regulatory claims, proceedings or fines; damage to our reputation; and harm to our business.





Design defects, errors, failures or delays associated with our products or services could negatively impact our business.



Despite testing, software, products and services that we develop, license or distribute may contain errors or defects when first released or when major new updates or enhancements are released that cause the software, product or service to operate incorrectly or less effectively. Many of our products and services also rely on data and services provided by third-party providers over which we have no control and may be provided to us with defects, errors or failures. We may also experience delays while developing and introducing new products and services for various reasons, such as difficulties in licensing data inputs or adapting to particular operating environments. Defects, errors or delays in our products or services that are significant, or are perceived to be significant, could result in rejection or delay in market acceptance, damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, a lower rate of license renewals or upgrades, diversion of development resources, product liability claims or regulatory actions, or increases in service and support costs. We may also need to expend significant capital resources to eliminate or work around defects, errors, failures or delays. In each of these ways, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted.



We depend on externally obtained content and services to support our offerings, and the inability to continue to obtain access could prove harmful to our business.



We obtain data from a wide variety of external sources that we transform into critical information and analytics and use to create integrated product and service offerings for our customers. Many of our offerings include content and information that is purchased or licensed from third parties, including from public record sources or parties that are our customers or our competitors, or obtained using independent contractors. In addition, we often rely on third-party dealers to sell or distribute some of our offerings, such as in locations where we do not maintain a sales office or sales teams or for methods of distribution to which we do not have direct access. For instance, our industry standards offerings that are part of our Product Design workflow rely on information licensed from standards developing organizations, and many of our financial institution customers provide us with data which is a critical input for many of our Financial Services offerings. We believe that the content licensed from many of these third parties might not be able to be obtained from alternate sources on favorable terms, if at all.



Our license agreements with these third parties are often nonexclusive and many are terminable on less than one year’s notice. In addition, many of these third parties compete with one another and with us, including by providing data to our competitors or becoming competitors themselves, which may cause them to reduce their willingness to supply, or increase the price of, data and content that are important to our products and services. Our competitors could also enter into exclusive contracts with our data sources, which may preclude us from receiving certain data from these suppliers or restricted in our use of such data. We could also become subject to legislative, regulatory, judicial or contractual restrictions on the use of data, such as if such data is not collected by the third parties in a way which allows us to process the data or use it legally. We are also limited in our ability to monitor and direct the activities of our independent contractors, but if any actions or business practices of these individuals or entities violate our policies or procedures or are otherwise deemed inappropriate or illegal, we could lose access to the data they collect, as well as be subject to litigation, regulatory sanctions, or reputational damage.









If we lose access to, or are restricted in receiving, a significant number of data sources and cannot replace the data through alternative sources or we are unable to obtain information licensed to us consistently, in a timely manner, or on terms commercially reasonable to us, specific products, services and customer solutions may be impacted or disrupted and our business, reputation, financial condition, operating results and cash flow could be materially adversely affected.



Our relationships with third-party service providers may not be successful or may change, which could adversely affect our results of operations.



We have commercial relationships with third-party service providers whose capabilities complement our own, for integral services, software and technologies. Many of our products and services are developed using third-party service providers’ data or services, or are made available to our customers or are integrated for our customers’ use through integral infrastructure, information and technology solutions provided by such third-party service providers. For example, we outsource certain functions involving our data transformation process and data hosting functions to business partners who we believe offer us deep expertise in these areas, as well as scalability and cost effective services. In some cases, these providers are also our competitors or may in the future become our competitors as we expand our product and service offerings, which could impact our relationships.



The priorities and objectives of these providers may differ from ours, which may make us vulnerable to changes or terminations of our commercial relationships and could reduce our access over time to information and technology. We have little control over these third-party providers, which increases our vulnerability to errors, failures, interruptions or disruptions or problems with their services or technologies. We also face risks that one or more service providers may perform work that deviates from our standards or that we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. Any errors, failures to perform, interruptions, delays or terminations of service experienced in connection with these third-party providers, or if we do not obtain the expected benefits from our relationships with third-party service providers, we may be less competitive, our products and services may be negatively affected, and our results of operations could be adversely impacted.



Some of the critical information we use in our offerings is publicly available in raw form at little or no cost.



The internet, widespread availability of sophisticated search engines, pervasive wireless data delivery, and public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information and solutions have simplified the process of locating, gathering, and disseminating data, potentially diminishing the perceived value of our offerings. While we believe our offerings are distinguished by such factors as currency, accuracy and completeness, and our analysis and other added value, our customers could choose to obtain the information and solutions they need from public, regulatory, governmental or other sources. To the extent that customers become more self-sufficient, demand for our offerings may be reduced, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected.



The loss of, or the inability to attract and retain, key personnel could impair our future success.



Our future success depends to a large extent on the continued service of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees, including our experts in research and analysis, information technology, the industries in which we operate, and colleagues in sales, marketing, product development, operations, technology and management, including our executive officers. We do not carry any “key person” insurance policies that could offset potential loss of service under applicable circumstances. We must maintain our ability to attract, motivate, compensate and retain highly qualified colleagues in order to support our customers and achieve business results. The loss of the services of key personnel and any inability to recruit effective replacements or to otherwise attract, motivate, or retain highly qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.



We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information.



Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, processes, methodologies and information. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent and other intellectual property laws and nondisclosure, license, assignment and confidentiality arrangements to establish, maintain and protect our proprietary rights as well as the intellectual property rights of third parties whose assets we license. However, we cannot assure that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, and the rights of those from whom we license intellectual property, are adequate to prevent unauthorized use, misappropriation, or theft of our intellectual property. Intellectual property laws in various jurisdictions in which we operate are also subject to change at any time and could further restrict our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. In particular, a portion of our revenues are derived from jurisdictions where adequately protecting intellectual property rights may prove more challenging or impossible. We may also not be able to detect unauthorized uses or take timely and effective steps to remedy unauthorized conduct. To prevent or respond to unauthorized









uses of our intellectual property, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation or other proceedings and we may not ultimately prevail. Any failure to establish, maintain or protect our intellectual property or proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.



We may be exposed to litigation related to products we make available to customers and we may face legal liability or damage to our reputation.



Companies in our industry have increasingly pursued patent and other intellectual property protection for their data, technologies and business methods. As we do not actively monitor third-party intellectual property, if any of our data, technologies or business methods are covered or become covered by third-party intellectual property protection and used without license or if we misuse data, technologies or business methods outside the terms of our licenses, we may be subject to claims or threats of infringement, misappropriation or other violation of intellectual property rights, or have the use of our data, technologies and business methods otherwise challenged. We have also in the past been, and may in the future be, called upon to defend partners, customers, suppliers or distributors against such third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our agreements.



Responding to such claims or threats, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time and resources, result in costly or unfavorable litigation or settlements that could exceed the limits of applicable insurance coverage, delay operations of our business, require redesign of our products and services, or require new royalty and licensing agreements. It could also damage our reputation for any reason which could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, employees, and information suppliers. Any such factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.



We are subject to litigation and investigation risks which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.





Our use of open source software could result in litigation or impose unanticipated restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products and services.



We use open source software in our technology, most often as small components within a larger product or service. Open source code is also contained in some third-party software we rely on. The terms of many open source licenses are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by U.S. or other courts, and these licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products and services, license the software on unfavorable terms, require us to re-engineer our products and services or take other remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could also be subject to suits by parties claiming breach of the terms of licenses, which could be costly for us to defend.



Our brand and reputation are key assets and competitive advantages of our company and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace.



The integrity and external perceptions of our brand and reputation are key to our ability to remain a trusted source of products and services and to attract and retain customers. Reputational damage from negative perceptions or publicity, or









actual, alleged, or perceived issues regarding any of our products or services, could damage our reputation and relationships with customers, prospects, and the public generally. Although we monitor developments, including social media, for areas of potential risk to our brand and reputation, negative perceptions or publicity may adversely impact our credibility as a trusted source for critical information, analytics, and insight and may have a negative impact on our business.

We enter into redistribution arrangements that allow other firms to represent certain of our products and services as partners or agents. It is difficult to monitor whether the representation of our products and services by such partners or agents is accurate. Poor representation of our products and services by our partners or agents could have an adverse effect on our brand, reputation, and our business.



Cost-cutting pressures and consolidation in our customer markets could lower demand for our products and services.



Our customers are focused on controlling or reducing spending as a result of the continued financial challenges and market uncertainty many of them face. Customers within the financial services, shipping and energy industries in particular strive to reduce their operating costs, and may use strategies that result in a reduction in their spending on our products and service, such as by consolidating their spending with fewer or lower cost vendors or by internally developing products, services and functionality. In addition, mergers or consolidations among our customers could reduce the number of our customers and potential customers, which could cause them to discontinue or reduce their use of our products and services. All such developments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.



Declining activity levels in our core end markets, or weak or declining financial performance of companies in our end markets, could lower demand for certain of our products and services.



Many of our products and services are dependent upon the robustness of the core end markets in which we operate, as well as the financial health of the participants in those markets and the general economy. In addition, a proportion of our revenue in our Financial Services segment is variable and depends upon transaction volumes, investment levels (i.e., assets under management), or the number of positions we value. Unfavorable or uncertain economic conditions or lower activity levels in the end markets in which we operate could result in cancellations, reductions, or delays for our products and services or in lower revenues, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.



Some of our products and services typically face long selling cycles to secure new contracts, which require significant resource commitments and result in long lead times before we receive revenue.



For certain new products and services, and especially for complex products and services, we often face long selling cycles to secure new contracts and customers and there can be a long preparation period before we commence providing products and services. For instance, some of our Financial Services products and services can require active engagement with potential customers and can take 12 months or more to reach deal closure. Some products’ success is also dependent on building a network of users, and may not be profitable while such a network is developing. We can incur significant business development expenses during the selling cycle and we may not succeed in winning a new customer’s business, in which case we receive no revenue and may receive no reimbursement for such expenses. Selling cycle periods have historically lengthened and could lengthen further, causing us to incur even higher business development expenses with no guarantee of winning a new customer’s business. Even if we succeed in developing a relationship with a potential new customer, we may not be successful in obtaining contractual commitments after the selling cycle or in maintaining contractual commitments after the implementation cycle, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected.



If we are unable to consistently renew and enter into new subscriptions for our offerings, our results could weaken.



The majority of our revenue is recurring, typically based on subscription agreement to our offerings. In 2018, approximately84 percentof our revenues were recurring fixed and recurring variable revenues. Our operating results depend on our ability to achieve and sustain high renewal rates on our existing subscription base and to enter into new subscription arrangements at acceptable prices and other commercially acceptable terms. Failure to meet one or more of these subscription objectives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.



Changes in the legislative, regulatory, and commercial environments in which we operate may adversely impact our ability to collect, compile, use, transfer, publish, or sell data, subject us to increased regulation or decreased demand of our products and services, or prevent us from offering certain products or services, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.











Certain types of information we collect, compile, store, use, transfer, publish and/or sell, and certain of our products and services, are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in various jurisdictions in which we operate.



There is an increasing public concern regarding privacy, data, and consumer protection issues, and the number of jurisdictions with data protection laws has been increasing. Certain types of information we collect, compile, use, and publish, including offerings in our Automotive businesses, are subject to laws and regulations by governmental authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations pertain primarily to “personally identifiable information” and “personal data” (i.e

.

, information relating to an identified or identifiable individual), constrain whether and how we collect that data, how that data may be used and stored, and whether, to whom, and where that data may be transferred, as well as notification and other requirements that must be followed in the event data is accessed by unauthorized persons. To conduct our operations, we regularly move data across national borders, and consequently are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, and data security. Many jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, such as the European Union General Data Protection Regulation



(the “GDPR”) and the cyber-security law adopted by China in June 2017, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number, change frequently and increasingly conflict among the various countries in which we operate, which has resulted in greater compliance risk and cost for us. It is possible that we could be prohibited or constrained from collecting or disseminating certain types of data or from providing certain products or services. If we fail to comply with these laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant litigation, civil or criminal penalties, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions or fines in one or more jurisdictions. For example, a failure to comply with the GDPR could result in fines up to the greater of €20 million or 4% of annual global revenues.



In addition, many of our customers rely on many of our products and services to meet their operational, regulatory, or compliance needs. Our financial industry customers, for example, operate within a highly regulated environment and must comply with governmental and quasi-governmental legislation, regulations, directives, and standards. Complex and ever-evolving legislative and regulatory changes around the world that impact our customers’ industries may impact how we provide products and services to our customers and may affect the structure and regulation of, and possibly the demand for, certain products and services we offer, such as indices, benchmark administration, intermediating and clearing services, and offerings in which we function as a “third-party service provider.”



It is very difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding laws, rules, regulations or standards affecting our business, our products and services, and our customers. There can be no assurance that changes in laws, rules or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we fail to comply with any applicable laws, rules, regulations, or standards, or fail to obtain regulatory approval to conduct certain operations or provide certain products or services, we could be subject to fines or other penalties. Additionally, we may be required to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, rules, or regulations in various jurisdictions, or investigate, defend, or remedy actual or alleged violations, which could, individually or in the aggregate, result in materially higher compliance costs to us. New legislation, or a significant change in laws, rules, regulations, or standards could also result in some of our products and services becoming obsolete or prohibited, reduce demand for our products and services, increase expenses as we modify our products and services to comply with new requirements and retain relevancy, impose limitations on our operations, and increase compliance or litigation expense, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.



Our operations are subject to risks relating to worldwide operations, and our compliance and risk management methods might not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results.











jurisdictions; potential adverse tax consequences on the repatriation of funds and from taxation reform affecting multinational companies; and exposure to adverse government action in countries where we may conduct reporting activities. Because of the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to protect our rights. Compliance with diverse legal and regulatory requirements is costly and time-consuming, and requires significant resources. Violations could result in significant fines or monetary damages, criminal sanctions, prohibitions, suspensions, or restrictions on doing business and damage to our reputation.







Any of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.



The U.K. electorate voted in favor of a U.K. exit from the E.U. in a referendum, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.











result in significant time and expense to complete. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.



Our international operations are subject to exchange rate fluctuations.



We operate in many countries around the world and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. In 2018, we generated approximately

40 percent

of our revenues from sales outside the United States. Approximately

20 percent

of our revenue was transacted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in 2018. We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets, and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including, but not limited to, the British Pound, the Euro, the Canadian Dollar, the Singapore Dollar, and the Indian Rupee. As we continue to leverage our global delivery model, more of our expenses will likely be incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the related products and services. An increase in the value of certain currencies against the U.S. dollar could increase costs for delivery of services at offshore sites by increasing labor and other costs that are denominated in local currency. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income, expenses, and the value of assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. We may use derivative financial instruments to reduce our net exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Nevertheless, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies can materially affect our net operating revenues, operating income, and the value of balance sheet items denominated in other currencies.



International hostilities, terrorist or cyber-terrorist activities, natural disasters, pandemics, and infrastructure disruptions could prevent us from effectively serving our customers and thus adversely affect our results of operations.





Acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, alliances, or similar strategic relationships, or dispositions of any of our businesses, and the related integration or separation risks may disrupt or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.



As part of our business strategy, we pursue selective acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies, or joint ventures, partnerships, alliances, or similar strategic transactions and relationships with third parties, to support our business, such as the Merger of IHS and Markit in June 2016 and the acquisition of Ipreo, a leading financial services solutions and data provider, in August 2018. We may also undertake dispositions of certain of our businesses or products. We seek to be disciplined in a highly competitive market, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable candidates on favorable terms to successfully complete acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, alliances, or strategic relationships, or dispositions of businesses. In addition, we typically fund our acquisitions through our credit facilities. Although we have capacity under our credit facilities, those may not be sufficient. Therefore, future acquisitions or strategic relationships may require us to obtain additional financing through debt or equity, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all and could result in dilution.



If such acquisitions or other strategic transactions are completed, the anticipated growth and other strategic objectives of such transactions may not be fully realized, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. The success of such transactions depends on, among other things, our ability to combine the various businesses in a manner that realizes anticipated synergies and exceeds the projected stand-alone cost savings and revenue growth trends we have identified, which is a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. We expect to benefit from cost synergies driven by a number of strategies, such as integrating corporate functions, reducing technology spending by optimizing IT infrastructure, using centers of excellence in cost-competitive locations, and optimizing real estate and other costs, as well as greater tax efficiencies from global management and global cash movement. We may also enjoy revenue synergies, including









product and service cross-selling, a more diversified and expanded product offering, and balance across geographic regions.



We cannot assure you that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses or other strategic transactions, or that they will perform at the levels we anticipate or achieve the cost or revenue synergies expected. The completion of such transactions may have material unanticipated difficulties, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, and diversion of management focus and attention, such as:



•difficulties or delays in integrating or remediating operations, systems, and technology and maintaining institutional knowledge and procedures;

•challenges in conforming standards, controls, procedures, accounting and other policies, business cultures, and compensation structures;

•difficulties in attracting and retaining key personnel;

•challenges in keeping existing, and developing new, customers and business relationships;

•difficulties or delays in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities, and growth prospects from the transaction;

•difficulties in managing the expanded operations of the company;

•unanticipated transaction and integration expenses;

•disruption of operations;

•unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures;

•contingent liabilities (including contingent tax liabilities) that are larger than expected; and

•potential unknown risks and liabilities, adverse consequences and unforeseen increased expenses, including possible adverse tax consequences pursuant to changes in applicable tax laws, regulations, or other administrative guidance.



Many of these factors are outside of our control, and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreased expected revenues, and diversion of management time and energy. The anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may take longer to realize than expected or may not be realized fully. We may also have difficulty integrating and operating businesses in countries and geographies where we do not currently have a significant presence, and acquisitions of businesses having a significant presence outside of the United States or the United Kingdom will increase our exposure to risks of conducting operations in international markets. Similarly, any divestitures will be accompanied by risks commonly encountered in the sale of businesses. As a result, the failure of acquisitions, dispositions, and other strategic transactions to perform as expected could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Future acquisitions or dispositions could also result in the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our financial condition.



We may be subject to antitrust litigation or government investigation in the future, which may result in an award of money damages or force us to change the way we do business.





Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.



Our indebtedness could have significant consequences on our future operations, including:



•making it more difficult for us to satisfy our indebtedness obligations and our other ongoing business obligations, which may result in defaults;









•events of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt instruments, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable or require us to negotiate an amendment to financial or other covenants that could cause us to incur additional fees and expenses;

•sensitivity to interest rate increases on our variable rate outstanding indebtedness, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly;

•reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes;

•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industries in which we operate, and the overall economy;

•placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any of our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; and

•increasing our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions.



Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our debt instruments depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot be certain that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing or any future credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our indebtedness obligations and to fund other liquidity needs. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, for many reasons, including to fund acquisitions. If we add additional indebtedness or other liabilities, the related risks that we face could intensify.



A downgrade to our credit ratings would increase our cost of borrowing under our credit facilities and adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets.





The price of our common shares may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control.



Our share price is likely to fluctuate in the future because of the volatility of the stock market in general and a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Market fluctuations could result in volatility in the price of our common shares, one possible outcome of which could be a decline in the value of your investment. In addition, if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of stock analysts or investors, or if we are perceived by the market to suffer material business or reputational damage, we may experience a significant decline in the trading price of our common shares.



Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our shares to decline.



Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could depress the market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We have entered into a registration rights agreement with certain of our shareholders. These shareholders have the right to demand that we file a registration statement covering the offer and sale of their securities under the Securities Act, for as long as each holds unregistered securities. In addition, many of our largest shareholders are able to sell their common shares in the public market from time to time without registration, subject to limitations on the timing, amount, and method of those sales imposed by securities laws. Sales of common shares by these or any other shareholders, including through the exercise of options and the sale of shares by our employees, could have a material adverse effect on the









trading price of our common shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales and issuances of shares would have on the market price of our common shares.



There is no assurance that the share repurchase programs approved by our Board of Directors will be fully consummated and any share repurchases under such programs may not result in enhanced value to shareholders and may negatively affect our share price.





The U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) may not agree that, after the Merger, IHS Markit should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and/or that we are not subject to certain other adverse U.S. federal income tax laws relating to certain transactions that we may undertake in the future. In addition, future changes to U.S. tax laws could adversely affect us.



Although IHS Markit is incorporated in Bermuda and is and has been treated as tax resident in the United Kingdom, the IRS may assert that IHS Markit should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal income tax purposes pursuant to Section 7874 of the Code (referred to as “Section 7874”).  Section 7874 provides that if, following an acquisition of a U.S. corporation by a non-U.S. corporation, at least 80% of the acquiring non-U.S. corporation’s stock (by vote or value) is considered to be held by former shareholders of the U.S. corporation by reason of holding stock of such U.S. corporation (such percentage referred to as the “ownership percentage” and such test referred to as the “ownership test”) and the “expanded affiliated group” which includes the acquiring non-U.S. corporation does not have substantial business activities in the country in which the acquiring non-U.S. corporation is created or organized, then the non-U.S. corporation would be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes even though it is a corporation created and organized outside the United States.



Moreover, if the ownership percentage is 60% or more (but less than 80%), the acquired U.S. corporation and its U.S. affiliates could be prohibited from using foreign tax credits or other attributes to offset the income or gain recognized by reason of the transfer of property to a foreign related person or any income received or accrued by reason of a license of any property by the acquired U.S. corporation to a foreign related person. In addition, in such case, a combined company may have a limited ability to integrate certain of its non-U.S. operations or access cash earned by the acquired U.S. corporation’s non-U.S. subsidiaries, in each case without incurring substantial U.S. tax liabilities.



We believe that, based on current law, Section 7874 did not to apply to us after the Merger because the former IHS stockholders held, for purposes of the relevant Section 7874 rules, less than 60% of our common shares (by vote and value) after the Merger by reason of holding IHS common stock.  However, there is limited guidance regarding the application of Section 7874, and there can be no assurance that the IRS will agree with the position that the former IHS stockholders will be treated as holding less than 60% of our common shares (by vote and value) after the Merger by reason of holding IHS common stock for purposes of the ownership test.  Further, a subsequent change in law might cause IHS stockholders to be treated as owning either 60% or more, or 80% or more, of our common shares after the Merger for U.S. federal income tax purposes, including with retroactive effect to the date of the Merger.



If IHS stockholders were treated as having acquired 80% of our common shares for U.S. federal income tax purposes, IHS Markit would be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and we could be liable for substantial additional U.S. federal income tax on its operations and income following the closing of the Merger. Additionally, non-U.S.









shareholders would be subject to U.S. withholding tax on the gross amount of any dividends we pay to such shareholders.  If IHS stockholders were treated as having acquired 60% or more (but less than 80%) of our common shares for U.S. federal income tax purposes, while IHS Markit would not be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could be subject to the other adverse tax consequences described above.



Finally, recent legislative proposals have aimed to expand the scope of U.S. corporate tax residence, including in such a way as would cause IHS Markit to be treated as a U.S. corporation if the management and control of IHS Markit and its affiliates were determined to be located primarily in the United States, or would reduce the ownership percentage at or above which IHS Markit would be treated as a U.S. corporation. Thus, the rules under Section 7874 and other relevant provisions of U.S. tax law could change on a prospective or retroactive basis in a manner that could adversely affect us.



Audits, investigations and tax proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.



We are subject to direct and indirect taxes in numerous jurisdictions.  We calculate and provide for such taxes in each tax jurisdiction in which we operate.  The amount of tax we pay is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file.  We have taken and will continue to take tax positions based on our interpretation of tax laws, but tax accounting often involves complex matters and judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for taxes and other tax liabilities.  Although we believe that we have complied with all applicable tax laws, we have been and expect to continue to be subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions, and tax authorities have disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with some of our interpretations of applicable tax law.  We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits to determine the appropriateness of our tax provisions.  However, our judgments may not be sustained on completion of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid could be different from the amounts previously recorded, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.



Future changes in tax laws, including in the rates of taxation, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.















Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our common shares, including enforcing judgments against us or our directors and executive officers.







We have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control.



Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions provide for:



•directors only to be removed for cause;

•restrictions on the time period in which directors may be nominated;

•our Board of Directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preference shares and to issue the preference shares without shareholder approval; and

•an affirmative vote of 66-2/3% of our voting shares for certain “business combination” transactions which have not been approved by our Board of Directors.



These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares.





