10-K


a07-5390_110k.htm

10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

S

ANNUAL REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006

OR

£

TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934

For the transition period from                                   
to

Commission file number:  000-51222

DEXCOM, INC.

(Exact
name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

Registrant’s Telephone Number, including area
code:

(858) 200-0200

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Exchange Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common
  Stock, $0.001 Par Value Per Share

The
  NASDAQ Stock Market LLC

Preferred Stock Purchase
  Rights

The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Exchange Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Exchange Act. Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in definite proxy
or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a
large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See
definition of “accelerated filed and large accelerated filer” in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act. (Check one)

Large accelerated Filer

o

Accelerated
Filer

x

Non-accelerated Filer

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a
shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes

o

No

x

As of February 16, 2007, the aggregate market
value of the registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant
was approximately $219.7 million based on the closing sales price as
reported on the NASDAQ Global Market.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of
the issuer’s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.

Class

Outstanding at February 16, 2007

Common stock,
  $0.001 par value per share

28,237,078 shares

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the documents listed below have been
incorporated by reference into the indicated parts of this reports, as
specified in the responses to the item numbers involved.

Designated
portions of the Proxy Statement relating to the 2007 Annual Meeting of the
Stockholders (the “Proxy Statement”): Part III (Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and
14). Except with respect to information specifically incorporated by reference
in the Form 10-K, the Proxy Statement is not deemed to be filed as
part hereof.

DexCom, Inc.


Page

Number

PART I

ITEM 1.

Business


ITEM 1A.

Risk Factors


ITEM
  1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments


ITEM 2.

Properties


ITEM 3.

Legal Proceedings


ITEM
  4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders


PART II

ITEM
  5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related
  Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities


ITEM 6.

Selected Financial Data


ITEM
  7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
  Condition and Results of Operations


ITEM
  7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
  Risk


ITEM
  8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


ITEM
  9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
  Accounting and Financial Disclosure


ITEM 9A.

Controls and Procedures


ITEM 9B.

Other Information


PART III

ITEM
  10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance


ITEM 11.

Executive Compensation


ITEM
  12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
  Management and Related Stockholders Matters


ITEM
  13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and
  Director Independence


ITEM
  14.

Principal Accounting Fees and Services


PART IV

ITEM
  15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules


PART I

Except for historical financial information contained
herein, the matters discussed in this Form 10-K may be considered
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and subject to the safe harbor created by the
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include declarations
regarding our intent, belief, or current expectations and those of our
management. Prospective investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking
statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of
risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control;
actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such
forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results
to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements
include, but are not limited to:  (i) that
the information is of a preliminary nature and may be subject to further
adjustment; (ii) those risks and uncertainties identified under “Risk
Factors;” and (iii) the other risks detailed from time-to-time in our
reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, or SEC. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to
revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result
of new information, future events or otherwise.

ITEM
1.

BUSINESS

Overview

We are a medical device company focused on the design,
development and commercialization of continuous glucose monitoring systems for
people with diabetes. We were incorporated in Delaware in May 1999. On March 24,
2006, we received approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA,
for our Short-Term Continuous Glucose Monitoring System, or STS

®

, and have launched this
product throughout the United States. Our approval allows for the use of our
STS by adults with diabetes to detect trends and track glucose patterns, to aid
in the detection of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia and to facilitate acute and
long-term therapy adjustments. Hypoglycemia occurs when the body’s blood
glucose, or blood sugar, levels are lower than the normal range, and
hyperglycemia occurs when the body’s blood glucose levels are higher than the
normal range. Our STS is indicated for use as an adjunctive device to
complement, not replace, information obtained from standard home blood glucose
monitoring devices. Our STS must be prescribed by a physician and includes a
disposable sensor, a transmitter and a small cell phone-sized receiver. The
sensor is inserted by a patient and intended to be used continuously for up to
three days, after which it is removed and may be replaced by a new sensor.
However, we are aware of reports from the field that patients have been able to
defeat our three-day software shut-off, enabling them to use sensors for
periods longer than three days. After insertion and initialization, our STS
wirelessly transmits the patient’s blood glucose levels to the receiver at
specific intervals, which allows the patient to view real-time and trended
blood glucose information with the touch of a button and alerts the patient
when glucose levels are inappropriately high or low. Studies have demonstrated
that patients who intensely managed glucose levels delayed the onset and slowed
the progression of diabetes-related complications. Our glucose monitoring
systems are also designed to offer convenience and comfort to diabetes
patients, and to have an intuitive user interface.

We commenced initial commercial shipments of our STS
in the United States on March 28, 2006. To support our national product
launch, we have built a direct sales organization to call on endocrinologists,
physicians and diabetes educators who can educate and influence patient
adoption of continuous glucose monitoring. To complement our direct sales
efforts, we employ clinical specialists who help to educate patients on
continuous glucose monitoring and provide clinical support to endocrinologists,
physicians and diabetes educators who prescribe our products, and we currently
offer 24-hour customer service and technical support. We have recently
expanded our manufacturing capacity in our current facility and have relocated
a portion of our manufacturing operations and research and development to our
new 66,400 square foot facility in San Diego, California.


Since the launch of the STS, we have experienced field
failures, including, but not limited to, periods of higher than expected “out
of box” failure rates for the sensor to initialize and display data to the
patient. We also experienced a component failure in our receiver which
prevented data transmitted from the sensor being received by the handheld
receiver. We do not believe these failures created any patient safety concerns
and we are not aware of any reports of adverse events or incidents related to
these failures. Although we believe we have taken appropriate actions aimed at
reducing or eliminating field failures, there can be no assurances that we will
not experience these or other failures going forward.

We are leveraging our technology platform to enhance
the capabilities of our STS and develop additional continuous glucose
monitoring products. We filed a PMA supplement in the second quarter of 2006
for approval of our next generation STS, which is expected to be used
continuously for up to seven days. In October 2006, we received a written
request from the FDA for additional information, and in November 2006 we
responded to that request. We are currently awaiting additional questions or a
decision from the FDA for this PMA supplement. We are continuing clinical
development of a third generation STS which we expect will further improve
sensor reliability, stability and accuracy over the useful life of the sensor,
may be calibrated using any brand of home blood glucose meter, and will be more
comfortable for patients to wear. We also intend to seek approval for a
pediatric indication (patients under 18 years of age) for our STS product
platform in the future. We are also developing a product platform specifically
for the in-hospital glucose monitoring market, with an initial focus on a
sensor specifically for the critical care market. We conducted initial human
feasibility studies for this product in the first quarter of 2007. Finally,
after review of several months of data from feasibility studies for our long
term continuous glucose monitoring system, we determined that the product’s
performance does not warrant investing in a large pivotal trial to seek
approval for the long term sensor at this time. However, we are utilizing
technology from our long term sensor and members of that development team to
enhance our STS product platform and our in-hospital technology platform.

Our STS does not have broad reimbursement and is
generally not approved for insurance coverage. Until reimbursement or insurance
coverage is established, patients will have to bear the financial cost of our
STS. In order to establish reimbursement or insurance coverage for our STS, we
believe that we need to develop an established base of STS users, gain the
support of advocacy groups and show the benefits of our system through clinical
data generated by clinical trials. We submitted an application to The Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid, or CMS, to establish a Healthcare Common Procedures
Coding System code, or HCPCS code, for continuous glucose monitoring in December 2006.
We intend to vigorously pursue HCPCS coding and the coverage codes required for
reimbursement. We have also begun to add in-house reimbursement expertise to
assist physicians and patients in obtaining reimbursement from private
third-party healthcare payors. We expect to begin having formal meetings and
increase our efforts to create coverage policies with third-party payors during
2007. However, unless government and other third-party payors provide adequate
coverage and reimbursement for our products, patients may not use them.

As of 2000, approximately 171 million people suffered
from diabetes worldwide. In 2005, there were an estimated 20.8 million people
in the United States with diabetes of which 14.6 million have been diagnosed.
We estimate that approximately 4.1 million of these patients were
insulin-dependent. In 2005, 1.5 million new cases of diabetes were diagnosed.
The increased prevalence of diabetes is a result of an aging population,
inappropriate diets and increasingly sedentary lifestyles. According to an
article published in

Diabetes Care

in 2003, diabetes is the fifth leading cause of death by disease in the United
States, and complications related to diabetes include heart disease, limb
amputations, loss of kidney function and blindness.

According to the American
Diabetes Association, or ADA, the direct medical costs and indirect
expenditures attributable to diabetes in the United States were an estimated
$132 billion in 2002 and could reach $156 billion by 2010. Of the $132 billion
in overall expenses, the ADA estimates that approximately $92 billion were
direct medical costs. According to industry sources, the worldwide market for
personal


glucose
monitoring systems and related disposables, which include test strips and
lancets, was approximately $6.2 billion in 2005, and is expected to grow to
$8.9 billion in 2008.

Market Opportunity

Diabetes

Diabetes is a chronic, life-threatening disease for
which there is no known cure. The disease is caused by the body’s inability to
produce or effectively utilize the hormone insulin. This inability prevents the
body from adequately regulating blood glucose levels. Glucose, the primary
source of energy for cells, must be maintained at certain concentrations in the
blood in order to permit optimal cell function and health. Normally, the
pancreas provides control of blood glucose levels by secreting the hormone
insulin to lower blood glucose levels when concentrations are too high. In
people with diabetes, the body does not produce sufficient levels of insulin,
or fails to utilize insulin effectively, causing blood glucose to rise above normal.
This condition is called hyperglycemia and often results in chronic long-term
complications such as heart disease, limb amputations, loss of kidney function
and blindness. When blood glucose levels are high, patients often administer
insulin in an effort to drive blood glucose levels down. Unfortunately, insulin
administration can drive blood glucose levels below the normal range, resulting
in hypoglycemia. In cases of severe hypoglycemia, diabetes patients risk acute
complications, such as loss of consciousness or death. Due to the drastic
nature of acute complications associated with hypoglycemia, many patients are
afraid of driving down blood glucose levels. Consequently, these patients often
remain in a hyperglycemic state, exposing themselves to long-term chronic
complications.

Diabetes is typically classified into two major
groups: Type 1 and Type 2. We estimate that there are approximately 1.5 million
diagnosed Type 1 diabetes patients in the United States. Type 1 diabetes
usually develops during childhood and is characterized by an absence of insulin
resulting from destruction of the insulin producing cells of the pancreas.
Individuals with Type 1 diabetes must rely on frequent insulin injections
in order to regulate and maintain blood glucose levels. Also, in 2005, there
were approximately 13 million people in the United States who had been
diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes, which results when the body is unable to
produce sufficient levels of insulin or becomes insulin resistant. Depending on
the severity of Type 2 diabetes, individuals may require diet and nutrition
management, exercise, oral medications or insulin injections to regulate blood
glucose levels. We estimate that approximately 2.6 million Type 2 patients
use insulin injections.

There are various subgroups of diabetic patients,
including in-hospital and pediatric patients, who present significant
management challenges. According to the U.S. Center for Health Statistics, as
of 1997, there were more than 4.2 million hospitalizations annually among
people with diabetes. Diabetic patients stay in the hospital on average one to
three days longer than patients without diabetes. Additionally, according to a

Diabetes Care

article, as of 1998, as many
as 1.5 million hospitalized patients had significant hyperglycemia but no
history of diabetes. A November 2001 article in the New England Journal of
Medicine summarized results from a study of over 1,500 hospitalized patients,
of which only 13% had a history of diabetes, that concluded that intensive insulin
therapy to maintain blood glucose levels reduced mortality among critically ill
patients in the surgical intensive care unit and improved patient outcomes.

According to the National Diabetes Education Program,
about 75% of all newly diagnosed cases of Type 1 diabetes in the United States
occur in juveniles younger than 18 years of age. More recently, however, Type 2
diabetes is occurring with increasing frequency in young people. The increase
in prevalence is related to an increase in obesity amongst children. As of
1999, approximately 10 to 15% of children and teens were overweight, about
double the number two decades before.

The ADA estimates that the
direct medical costs and indirect expenditures attributable to diabetes in the
United States were $132 billion in 2002, and could reach $156 billion by 2010.
Of the $132 billion in overall expenses, the ADA estimates that approximately
$92 billion were direct medical costs. A portion of


that
amount is attributable to the costs associated with monitoring blood glucose
levels. According to industry sources, the worldwide market for personal
glucose monitoring systems and related disposables, which includes test strips
and lancets, was approximately $6.2 billion in 2005, and is expected to grow to
$8.9 billion in 2008. While we believe our systems will be adopted by patients
and their physicians as a way to manage glucose levels more effectively, we do
not expect that our systems will appeal to all types of diabetes patients, or
that the worldwide market for personal glucose monitoring systems and related
disposables is a direct indication of our market opportunity. In a study of
Type 2 diabetes patients, fewer than 15% of all study patients and 39% of all
insulin dependent study patients tested their glucose levels one or more times
per day. If patients do not perceive our systems to be more convenient and
effective for managing their glucose levels than other devices on the market,
our market may be limited.

Importance of Glucose Monitoring

Blood glucose levels can be affected by many factors,
including the carbohydrate and fat content of meals, exercise, stress, illness
or impending illness, hormonal releases, variability in insulin absorption and
changes in the effects of insulin in the body. Given the many factors that
affect blood glucose levels, maintaining glucose within a normal range is
difficult, resulting in frequent excursions above or below normal blood glucose
levels that can be unpredictable. Patients manage their blood glucose levels by
administering insulin or ingesting carbohydrates throughout the day in order to
maintain blood glucose within normal ranges. Patients frequently overcorrect
and fluctuate between hyperglycemic and hypoglycemic states, often multiple
times during the same day. As a result, many patients with diabetes are
routinely outside the normal blood glucose range. Patients are often unaware
that their glucose levels are either too high or too low, and their inability
to completely control blood glucose levels and the associated serious
complications can be frustrating and, at times, overwhelming.

In an attempt to maintain blood glucose levels within
the normal range, patients with diabetes must first measure their glucose
levels. Often after measuring their blood glucose levels, patients make
therapeutic adjustments. As adjustments are made, additional blood glucose
measurements may be necessary to gauge the individual’s response to the
adjustments. More frequent testing of blood glucose levels provides patients
with information that can be used to better understand and manage their
diabetes. The ADA recommends that patients test their blood glucose levels at
least three or four times per day.

According to the ADA, an
important component of effective diabetes management is frequent monitoring of
blood glucose levels. The landmark 1993 Diabetes Control and Complications
Trial, or DCCT, consisting of patients with Type 1 diabetes, and the 1998 UK
Prospective Diabetes Study, consisting of patients with Type 2 diabetes,
demonstrated that patients who intensely managed blood glucose levels delayed
the onset and slowed the progression of diabetes-related complications. In the
DCCT, a major component of intensive management was monitoring blood glucose
levels at least four times per day using conventional single-point blood
glucose meters. The DCCT demonstrated that intensive management reduced the
risk of complications by 76% for eye disease, 60% for nerve disease and 50% for
kidney disease. However, the DCCT also found that intensive management led to a
three-fold increase in the frequency of hypoglycemic events. In the December 2005
edition of the

New England Journal of
Medicine

, the authors of a peer-reviewed study concluded that
intensive diabetes therapy has long-term beneficial effects on the risk of
cardiovascular disease in patients with Type 1 diabetes. The study showed that
intensive diabetes therapy reduced the risk of cardiovascular disease by 42%
and the risk of non-fatal heart attack, stroke or death from cardiovascular disease
by 57%. Despite evidence that intensive glucose management reduces the
long-term complications associated with diabetes, industry sources estimated in
2001 that people with diabetes test, on average, less than twice per day.


Limitations of Existing Glucose Monitoring Products

Single-point finger
stick devices are the most prevalent devices for glucose monitoring. These
devices require taking a blood sample with a finger stick, placing a drop of
blood on a test strip and inserting the strip into a glucose meter that yields
a single point in time blood glucose measurement. We believe that these devices
suffer from several limitations, including:

·

Inconvenience.

The process of measuring blood glucose levels
with single-point finger stick devices can cause significant disruption in the
daily activities of people with diabetes and their families. Patients using
single-point finger stick devices must stop whatever they are doing several
times per day, self-inflict a painful prick and draw blood to measure blood
glucose levels. To do so, patients must always carry a fully-supplied kit that
may include a spring-loaded needle, or lancet, disposable test strips,
cleansing wipes and the meter, and then safely dispose of the used supplies.
This process is inconvenient and may cause uneasiness in social situations.

·

Limited Information.

Even if patients test several times
each day, each measurement represents a single blood glucose value at a single
point in time. Given the many factors that can affect blood glucose levels,
excursions above and below the normal range often occur between these discrete
measurement points in time. Because patients only have single-point data, they
do not gain sufficient information to indicate the direction of change in their
blood glucose levels. Without the ability to determine whether their blood
glucose level is rising, falling or holding constant, the patient’s ability to
effectively manage and maintain blood glucose levels within normal ranges is
severely limited. In addition, patients cannot test themselves during sleep,
when the risk of hypoglycemia is significantly increased.

The following graph shows
the limited information provided by four single-point measurements during a
single day using a traditional single-point finger stick device, compared to
the data provided by our continuous sensor. The data presented in the graph is
from a clinical trial we completed in 2003 with our long-term continuous
glucose monitoring system, where the patient was blinded to the continuous
glucose data. The continuous data indicates that, even with four finger sticks
in one day, the patient’s blood glucose levels were above the target range of 80-140
mg/dl, or milligrams per deciliter, for a period of 13.5 hours.

Single Day
Continuous Data


·

Difficulty of Use.

To obtain a sample with
single-point finger stick devices, patients generally prick one of their
fingertips or, occasionally, a forearm with a lancet. Patients then squeeze the
area to produce the blood sample and another prick may be required if a sufficient
volume of blood is not obtained the first time. The blood sample is then placed
on a disposable test strip that is inserted into a blood glucose meter. This
task can be difficult for patients with decreased tactile sensation and visual
acuity, which are common complications of diabetes.

·

Pain.

Although the fingertips are rich in blood flow
and provide a good site to obtain a blood sample, they are also densely
populated with highly sensitive nerve endings. This makes the lancing and
subsequent manipulation of the finger to draw blood painful. The pain and
discomfort are compounded by the fact that fingers offer limited surface area,
so tests are often performed on areas that are sore from prior tests. Patients
may also suffer pain when the finger prick site is disturbed during regular
activities.

Several companies have attempted to address the
limitations of single-point finger stick devices by developing continuous
glucose monitoring systems. To date, in addition to the DexCom STS, two other
companies, Cygnus and Medtronic have received approval from the FDA for
continuous glucose monitors and Abbott is seeking approval for another. We
believe that one of the products, originally developed and marketed by Cygnus,
is no longer actively marketed. In addition, Johnson & Johnson
recently announced that it is developing and expects to commence clinical
trials in support of a continuous glucose monitoring system in 2007. We believe
that none of the products that have received FDA approval are labeled for more
than three days of use or for use as a replacement for single-point finger
stick devices.

We believe a significant
market opportunity exists for a glucose monitoring system that provides
continuous glucose information, including trends, and that is convenient and
easy to use.

The DexCom Solution

Our STS offers the
following advantages to diabetes patients:

·

Improved Outcomes

.   Data published in
a peer-reviewed article based on our approval support trial for our STS
demonstrated that patients using the STS showed statistically significant
improvements in their glucose levels when compared to patients relying solely
on single-point finger stick measurements. Additional peer-reviewed data from
our approval support trial for our seven-day STS demonstrated that patients
with access to seven-day continuous glucose data statistically improved glucose
control by further increasing their time spent with glucose levels in the
target range, thereby reducing time spent in both hyperglycemic and
hypoglycemic ranges. Finally, data from our repeated use trial demonstrated a
statistically significant reduction in hemoglobin A1c levels, a measure of the
average amount of sugar in the blood over the last three months, in patients using
our STS compared to patients relying solely on single-point finger stick
measurements.

·

Convenience.

We believe that convenience is the
paramount factor in achieving widespread adoption of a continuous glucose
monitoring system. Our disposable sensors continuously measure and record the
patient’s glucose level and wirelessly transmit glucose values at specific
intervals to a small cell phone-sized receiver throughout the day and night for
up to three days. The patient can check his or her glucose level and trend
information at any time with the touch of a button. Our STS is designed to
measure patients’ glucose levels continuously for three days, and if approved
by the FDA, our next generation STS is expected to be used continuously for up
to seven days.


·

Access to Real-Time Values and Trend Information.

By pushing
a button, patients can view their current glucose value, along with a graphical
display of one-, three- or nine-hour trend information. Without continuous
monitoring, the patient is often unaware if his or her blood glucose is rising,
declining or remaining constant. Access to continuous real-time glucose
measurements provides patients with information that may aid in attaining
better glucose control. Additionally, our STS alerts patients when their
glucose approaches inappropriately high or low levels so that they may
intervene.

·

Intuitive Patient Interface.

We have developed a patient
interface that we believe is intuitive and easy to use. Our receiver’s
ergonomic design includes user-friendly buttons, an easy-to-read display,
simple navigation tools, audible alerts and graphical display of trend
information.

·

Comfort.

Our STS provides patients with the benefits of
continuous monitoring, without having to perform finger stick tests for every measurement.
Additionally, the disposable sensor electrode that is inserted under the skin
is a very thin wire, minimizing potential discomfort associated with inserting
or wearing the disposable sensor. The external portion of the sensor, including
the transmitter, is small, has a low profile and is designed to be easily worn
under clothing. Finally, the wireless receiver is the size of a small cell
phone and can be carried discreetly in a pocket or purse.

While we believe our STS
offers these advantages, patients may not perceive the benefits of continuous
glucose monitoring and may be unwilling to change their current treatment
regimens. Furthermore, we do not expect that our STS will appeal to all types
of diabetes patients. Our STS requires a patient to insert a disposable sensor
electrode under their skin at least every three days, and we are aware of
reports from the field that patients have been able to defeat our three-day
software shut-off, enabling them to use sensors for periods longer than three days.
Patients could find this process to be uncomfortable or inconvenient. Patients
may be unwilling to insert a disposable sensor in their body, especially if
their current diabetes management involves no more than two finger sticks per
day. Additionally, our STS is not approved as a replacement device for
single-point finger stick devices, must be calibrated initially using two
finger sticks and thereafter at least every 12 hours using single-point finger
stick measurements and may be more costly to use. Also, our STS does not have
broad reimbursement and is not approved for insurance coverage. Until
reimbursement or insurance coverage is established, patients will have to bear
the financial cost of our STS. Third-party coverage may be particularly difficult
to obtain if our systems are not approved by the FDA as replacements for
existing single-point finger stick devices. In order to establish reimbursement
or insurance coverage for our STS, we believe that we need to develop an
established base of STS users, gain the support of advocacy groups and show the
benefits of our system through clinical data generated by clinical trials.
However, unless government and other third-party payors provide adequate
coverage and reimbursement for our products, patients may not use them.

Our Strategy

Our objective is to
become the leading provider of continuous glucose monitoring systems and
related products to enable people with diabetes to more conveniently and
effectively manage their disease. To achieve this objective, we are pursuing
the following business strategies:

·

Establish our technology platform as the leading approach to continuous
glucose monitoring

. We have developed proprietary core technology
and expertise that provide a broad platform for the development of innovative
products for continuous glucose monitoring. On March 24, 2006, we received
approval from the FDA for our STS and we are currently in national distribution
with this product. We plan to continue to invest in the development of our
technology platform and to obtain additional FDA approvals for our continuous
glucose monitoring systems for both the ambulatory and in-hospital markets.


·

Drive the adoption of our products through a direct
sales and marketing effort.

We have a direct field sales force to
call directly on endocrinologists, physicians and diabetes educators who can
educate and influence patient adoption of continuous glucose monitoring. To
complement our sales efforts, we employ clinical specialists who will educate
and provide clinical support to patients. We have launched our STS initially in
the United States only.

·

Seek broad reimbursement for our products by Medicare,
Medicaid and third-party payors

. We submitted an application to CMS
for a HCPCS code for continuous glucose monitoring in December 2006. We
intend to vigorously pursue HCPCS coding and the coverage codes required for
reimbursement. We have also begun to add in-house reimbursement expertise to
assist physicians and patients in obtaining reimbursement from private third-party
healthcare payors. We expect to begin having formal meetings and increase our
efforts to create coverage policies with third-party payors during 2007.

·

Expand the use of our products to other patient care
settings and patient demographics.

Our STS is approved for use at
home and in health care facilities by adults (18 years and older) with
diabetes. We believe there is an unmet medical need for continuous glucose
monitoring in the hospital setting. As of 1997, there were more than 4.2
million hospitalizations annually among people with diabetes. In addition, as
of 1998, as many as 1.5 million hospitalized patients in the United States had
significant hyperglycemia but no history of diabetes. A study of over 1,500
hospitalized patients, of which only 13% had a history of diabetes, concluded
that intensive insulin therapy to maintain blood glucose levels reduced
mortality among critically ill patients in the surgical intensive care unit and
improved patient outcomes. To that end, we are developing a specific product
platform for the in-hospital glucose monitoring market, with an initial focus
on a sensor specifically for the critical care market. In addition, we believe
our STS may be beneficial to pediatric diabetes patients and intend to seek
approval for use in patients under 18 in the future.

·

Leverage our product development expertise to rapidly bring products to
market

. We have demonstrated our ability to leverage our platform
and apply our technical expertise to rapidly develop products. In less than two
years, we brought our STS from concept to FDA approval. While our STS PMA was
pending, we began developing a next generation STS intended to extend the
useful life of the STS from three to seven days and completed an approval
support trial. We have filed a PMA supplement for this next generation product
which is currently under review by FDA. We are continuing clinical development
of a third generation STS which we expect will further improve sensor
reliability, stability and accuracy over the useful life of the sensor, may be
calibrated using any brand of home blood glucose meter, and will be more
comfortable for patients to wear. We plan to continue to provide performance
improvements and introduce new products to establish and maintain a leadership
position in the market. In the future, we may develop our technology to support
applications beyond glucose sensing.

·

Provide a high level of customer support, service and education

.
We support our sales and marketing efforts with a customer service program that
includes customer training and support. We provide direct technical support by
telephone and Internet access 24 hours a day to patients, endocrinologists,
physicians and diabetes educators to promote safe and successful use of our
products.

·

Pursue the
highest safety and quality levels for our products

. We have
established an organization that is highly focused on product quality and
patient safety. We have developed in-house engineering, quality assurance,
clinical and regulatory expertise, and data analysis capabilities.
Additionally, we seek to continue to establish credible and open relationships
with regulatory bodies, physician opinion leaders and scientific experts. These
capabilities and relationships will


assist us in
designing products that we believe will meet or exceed expectations for
reliable, safe performance.

Our Technology
Platform

The development of a
continuous glucose monitor requires successful coordination and execution of a
wide variety of technology disciplines, including biomaterials, membrane
systems, electrochemistry, low power microelectronics, telemetry, software,
algorithms, implant tools and sealed protective housings. We have developed
in-house expertise in these disciplines. We believe we have a broad technology
platform that will support the development of multiple products for glucose
monitoring.

Sensor Technology

The key enabling
technologies for our sensors include biomaterials, membrane systems,
electrochemistry and low power microelectronics. Our membrane technology
consists of multiple polymer layers configured to selectively allow the
appropriate mix of glucose and oxygen to travel through the membrane and react
with a glucose specific enzyme to create an extremely low level electrical
signal, measured in pico-amperes. This electrical signal is then translated
into glucose values. We believe that the capability to measure very low levels
of current and to accurately translate those measurements into glucose values
is also a unique and distinguishing feature of our technology. We have also
developed technology to allow sensitive electronics to be packaged in a small,
fully-contained, lightweight sealed unit which minimizes inconvenience and
discomfort for the patient.

Receiver Technology

Our glucose monitoring systems use radiofrequency
telemetry to wirelessly transmit information from the sensor to our platform
receiver. We have developed the technology for reliable transmission and
reception and have consistently demonstrated a high degree of capture of
transmissions from sensor to receiver in our clinical trials. Our receiver then
processes and displays real-time and trended glucose values, and provides
alerts. We have used our extensive database of continuous glucose data from our
clinical trials to create software and algorithms for the display of data to
patients.

In January 2006, the Federal Communications
Commission, or FCC, granted our request for a waiver from certain Medical
Implant Communications Service, or MICS, rules concerning radio frequency
transmissions of our continuous glucose monitoring systems. The waiver provides
clearance for our continuous glucose monitoring systems to wirelessly transmit
data to patients in the MICS band.

Medtronic has filed a
petition with the FCC requesting the FCC establish a bifurcated MICS band which
would require device manufacturers whose products will operate in the main MICS
band to manufacture their devices using listen-before-transmit technology, or
transmit on a side band outside the main MICS band at lower power. Medtronic
and its supporters claim that unless the MICS band is bifurcated, there will
not be sufficient spectrum for medical implant and body-worn devices to use
without being subject to unacceptable levels of interference; and life critical
devices, such as cardiac pacemakers, currently operating in the existing MICS
spectrum, are likely to incur interference from other medical devices that are
less time sensitive, such as glucose monitoring systems. Although our STS does
not comply with existing MICS band listen-before-transmit requirements, the FCC
determined that the likelihood of our device causing interference is low, which
was the basis for the FCC granting us a waiver from these requirements. We have
filed an opposition to Medtronic’s petition asking that the FCC continue to
allow certain non-listen-before-transmit devices to operate in the MICS band,
not to impose more stringent power limits on these devices and not to bifurcate
the spectrum based on unnecessary technology distinctions. If the FCC does
create a separate spectrum and does not extend our waiver to allow us to
continue to operate in the main MICS band, we may be required to re-engineer
our product to transmit


over a
different frequency which may require changes to our regulatory approvals and
may have an adverse impact on the operation of our products.

Other Technology Applications

We have gained our
technology expertise by learning to design implants that can withstand the
rigors of functioning within the human body for extended periods of time. In
addition to the foreign body response, we have overcome other problems related
to operating within the human body, such as device sealing, miniaturization,
durability, sensor geometry and surgical techniques. We believe the expertise
gained in overcoming these problems may support the development of additional
products beyond glucose monitoring.

Our Products

On March 24, 2006, we
received approval from the FDA for our STS, which includes a disposable sensor
that can be inserted by a patient and used continuously for up to three days.
Our approval allows for the use of our STS by adults (18 years and older) with
diabetes to detect trends and track glucose patterns, to aid in the detection
of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia and to facilitate acute and long-term therapy
adjustments. Our STS is indicated for use as an adjunctive device to
complement, not replace, information obtained from standard home blood glucose
monitoring devices. Our STS must be prescribed by a physician and is intended
for use by patients at home and in healthcare facilities. Interpretation of the
STS results should be based on trends and patterns seen with several sequential
readings over time. We filed a PMA supplement in the second quarter of 2006 for
approval of our next generation STS, which is expected to be used continuously
for up to seven days. In October 2006, we received a written request from
the FDA for additional information, and in November 2006 we responded to
that request. We are currently awaiting additional questions or a decision on
from the FDA on this PMA supplement. We are continuing clinical development of
a third generation STS which we expect will further improve sensor reliability,
stability and accuracy over the useful life of the sensor, may be calibrated
using any brand of home blood glucose meter, and will be more comfortable for
patients to wear. We also intend to seek a pediatric indication (patients under
18 years old) for our STS. We are also developing a specific product platform
for the in-hospital glucose monitoring market, with an initial focus on a
sensor specifically for the critical care market. We conducted initial human
feasibility studies for this product in the first quarter of 2007. Finally,
after review of several months of data from feasibility studies for our long
term continuous glucose monitoring system, we determined that the product’s
performance does not warrant investing in a large pivotal trial to seek
approval for the long term sensor at this time. However, we are utilizing technology
from our long term sensor and members of that development team to enhance our
STS product platform and our in-hospital technology platform.

Short-Term Continuous Glucose Monitoring Disposable
Sensor

Our STS includes a tiny wire-like electrode coated
with our sensing membrane system. This disposable sensor comes packaged with an
integrated insertion device and is contained in a small plastic housing
platform, or pod. The base of the pod has adhesive that attaches it to the
skin. The electrode is intended to be easily and reliably inserted by the
patient by exposing the adhesive, placing the pod against the surface of the
skin of the abdomen and pushing down on the insertion device. The insertion
device extends a narrow gauge needle containing the electrode into the
subcutaneous tissue and retracts the needle, leaving behind the electrode in
the tissue and the pod adhered to the skin. The patient then disposes of the
insertion device. After a stabilization period of a few hours, the patient is
required to calibrate the receiver with two measurements from a single-point
finger stick device and the disposable sensor begins wirelessly transmitting
the continuous glucose data at specific intervals to the handheld receiver.
Patients are prompted by the receiver to calibrate our STS twice per day with
finger sticks throughout the three-day usage period to ensure reliable
operation. At this time, our first generation STS will not eliminate the need


for finger sticks for
therapy decisions, although in the future we may seek replacement claim
labeling from the FDA for the use of a future generation STS as the sole basis
for making therapeutic adjustments.

Our disposable sensor is
intended to function for three days after which it may be replaced. After three
days, the patient simply removes the pod and attached electrode from the skin
and discards them. A new sensor and pod can then be inserted and used with the
same receiver and transmitter. We are aware of reports from the field, however,
that patients have been able to defeat our three-day software shut-off,
enabling them to use sensors for periods longer than three days. We have
developed and completed a trial showing a second generation STS can function
reliably for up to seven days and we filed a PMA supplement in the second
quarter of 2006 for approval of this next generation STS. In October 2006,
we received a written request from the FDA for additional information, and in November 2006
we responded to that request. We are currently awaiting additional questions or
a decision from the FDA on this PMA supplement.

Handheld Receiver

Our small cell phone-sized
receiver is carried by the patient and wirelessly receives continuous glucose
values data from the sensor. Proprietary algorithms and software, developed from
our extensive database of continuous glucose data from clinical trials, are
programmed into the receiver to process the glucose data from the sensor and
display it on a user-friendly graphical user interface. With a push of a
button, the patient can access their current glucose value and one-, three- and
nine-hour trended data. Additionally, when glucose values are inappropriately
high or low, the receiver provides an audible alert or vibrates. The receiver
is a self-contained, durable unit with a rechargeable battery.

Clinical
Development Program

Evaluating Continuous Glucose Monitoring Systems

Continuous glucose monitoring is an emerging
technology. There are no clearly established guidelines or universally accepted
measures for evaluating the performance of continuous glucose monitoring
products, especially with respect to accuracy. As a result, analyses of
continuous glucose monitoring products have generally utilized traditional
single-point accuracy measures that were derived from the field of analytical
chemistry to evaluate conventional single-point finger stick devices. However,
we do not know whether the FDA, other regulatory bodies or physicians will
consider these single-point measures to be the appropriate means to demonstrate
the safety and efficacy of continuous glucose monitoring systems for real-time
monitoring of glucose values and trends by patients or as a replacement for
conventional blood glucose meters, nor do we know what threshold levels of
these measures the FDA or others will determine to constitute acceptable
performance. The FDA or others analyzing our clinical results may determine
that different measures from those we have used are better indicators of
accuracy, clinical utility and safety. In reporting data from our clinical trials,
we report those measurements that we believe most appropriately characterize
the performance of our continuous glucose monitoring systems in three primary
areas: accuracy, clinical utility and safety.

Accuracy Measures.

Typically, to
measure accuracy in our clinical trials, we compare the output from our
continuous glucose monitoring systems at a specific point in time to a
reference measurement at the same point in time. These two measurements are
called paired points. The reference value is usually measured by a laboratory
instrument, such as a Yellow Springs Instrument, or a conventional blood
glucose meter using samples from finger sticks. These paired points are then
compared to each other using statistical analyses intended to measure accuracy.


The primary
statistical analyses we use include the following:

·

Bias.

Bias is the result of a mathematical calculation using
a modified linear regression analysis that is designed to evaluate whether a
device’s measurement is systematically too high or too low, when compared to a
reference measurement, usually determined by a single-point finger stick
device. A device with a lower bias is generally considered to be more accurate.

·

Clarke Error Grid.

A Clarke Error Grid is a plot of all
paired points categorized into five areas denoted A, B, C, D and E, with A and
B being the most clinically desirable and D and E being the least clinically
desirable. Devices with higher combined A and B percentages—closer to 100%—and
lower combined D and E percentages—closer to 0%—are considered to have better
performance.

·

Mean Absolute Relative Difference, or MARD.

MARD is the
result of a mathematical calculation that measures the average disparity
between the sensor and the reference measurement. The lower the MARD, the more
accurate the device is considered relative to the reference measurement.

·

R-Value.

An R-value is the result of a mathematical
calculation using linear regression techniques to measure the relationship
between the paired points. The maximum R-value is 1.0. A higher R-value
means a more linear relationship with the reference measurement and is assumed
to be more accurate.

Clinical Utility
Measures.

We have designed our clinical trials
to measure whether the use of real-time continuous glucose data reduces the
time a patient spends in abnormally high and low glucose ranges, and increases
the time spent in the target range. In our studies, we measure a patient’s
glucose level continuously for a defined period of time, using our continuous
glucose monitoring systems, but do not permit the patient to view the data.
These measurements are used to establish a baseline. Subsequently, we measure
the same patient’s glucose level continuously for a similar or longer period of
time, but the patient is allowed to view and utilize the data. These unblinded
glucose levels are then compared to the baseline glucose levels to determine
whether the use of the data from our continuous glucose monitoring system
affected the amount of time the patient’s glucose level was high, low and
within the target range.

Safety Measures.

The safety
profile of any new product must be clearly established before it can be
approved for commercial use. Data must be collected to demonstrate that
patients can use the device safely, the device operates safely and any
procedure associated with the device is also safe. We typically record adverse
events related to the implant or insertion and removal of our sensors, related
to the operation of the systems or related to the patient’s use of the data
from the systems. Of most concern is the occurrence of serious or unexpected
adverse events. The desired result is that adverse events are not more serious
and do not occur more frequently than similar products currently commercially
available and utilized by patients for the same purpose.


Clinical Trials

We
began our first human clinical trial in 2001 and to date have over 10,000
patient days of unblinded clinical use of our devices. Throughout these studies
and trials we have experienced successes and failures, which we have relied
upon in the continual design and development of our products. As a result, we
have developed our STS, which has been approved by the FDA, we have a PMA
supplement for a second generation short-term sensor pending approval by the
FDA and we have a third generation short-term sensor currently being evaluated
in human clinical trials. Throughout these trials, there have been no serious
or unexpected adverse events reported related to the insertion or removal of
the devices or the use of our systems. Given the ongoing process of design and
development, we believe that our more recent clinical trials are most relevant
to an understanding of our current clinical performance. The table below and
the following discussion summarize our primary STS clinical trials that were
completed, and our ongoing clinical trials:

Product

Clinical Trial

Year

Completed

Clinical Trial Sites

Patients

STS

STS Approval Support
  Trial


4 Sites; United States


STS-7

7-Day Approval Support
  Trial


5 Sites; United States


STS

Replacement Feasibility
  Trials


3 Sites; United States


STS

Repeated Use Trial


7 Sites; United States


STS-7

7-Day Accuracy vs YSI


5 Sites, United States


STS-7

JDRF-Sponsored Reimbursement Trial

Ongoing

10 Sites; United States

*

*

expected to
enroll approximately 500 patients

Short Term
Disposable Sensor Trials

STS Approval Support Trial.

In 2005, we
enrolled ninety-one patients at four sites in the United States in a two-arm,
prospective, randomized trial designed to measure the accuracy, safety and
clinical benefits of the STS sensor in improving glycemic control. Patients
were randomized to either a blinded group (control) that wore three successive
sensors for 72 hours each (for a total of nine days), but was blinded to the
continuous data and relied solely on finger stick measurement data to manage
their diabetes, or an unblinded group that wore three successive sensors for 72
hours each (also for a total of nine days) but was allowed to view and utilize
the real-time continuous data to manage their diabetes for the last two
periods, or six days. Patients in both groups inserted the sensors themselves
and wore them at home and at work in their daily activities. To measure the
potential clinical benefit to patients of access to real-time continuous
glucose data, we compared glucose data obtained from patients in the blinded
group to glucose data obtained from patients in the unblinded group. The
results of the comparison demonstrated a statistically significant improvement
in glucose control with a 21% reduction in time spent in a hypoglycemic state
(low glucose), a 23% reduction in time spent in a hyperglycemic state (high
glucose), and a 26% increase in time spent in the target (normal) glucose
range. As an additional measure of the potential clinical benefit to patients
of access to real-time continuous glucose data, we also analyzed glucose data
obtained only from the unblinded group. The unblinded group had both a blinded
and unblinded period. Glucose data for the first three-day period, during which
patients were blinded to the continuous glucose data and relied solely on
finger stick measurements to manage their diabetes, was compared to the last
two three-day periods, during which patients were unblinded to the continuous
glucose data and allowed to use it to manage their diabetes. The results of the
comparison showed statistically significant improvement in glucose control with
a 9% reduction in time spent in a hypoglycemic state, a 15% reduction in time
spent in a hyperglycemic state, and a 16% increase in time spent in the target
glucose range. These data, which were published in a peer-reviewed article in
the January 2006 edition of

Diabetes
Care

, served as the basis for our original PMA for the STS. We
sponsored the trial that is the subject of this article and each of the authors
received research grant funds from us for conducting the trial. None of the
authors received consulting or other fees for conducting the trial or authoring
the article.


Seven-Day STS
Approval Support Trial.

In July 2005,
we enrolled eighty-six insulin-dependent diabetes patients in a study designed
to measure the accuracy, safety and clinical benefits of our second generation
seven day STS sensor. Patients inserted the sensors themselves and wore them at
home and at work in their daily activities for a total of 21 days in three
consecutive seven-day periods. Patients were blinded to continuous data during
the first seven-day period and relied solely on finger stick measurements to
manage their diabetes. During the second and third seven-day periods, patients
were unblinded to the continuous data and were allowed to use continuous
glucose values, trend graphs, and high/low alerts and alarms to manage their
disease. These data were published in a peer-reviewed article in the December 2006
edition of

Diabetes Care

and
served as the basis for our PMA supplement for the seven-day STS. Again in this
clinical trial, patients with access to continuous glucose data statistically
improved glucose control by further increasing the time spent with glucose
levels in the target range, thereby reducing time spent in both hyperglycemic
and hypoglycemic ranges. We sponsored the trial that is the subject of this
article and each of the authors received research grant funds from us for
conducting the trial. None of the authors received consulting or other fees for
conducting the trial or authoring the article.

Replacement
Feasibility Trials.

In 2005, we conducted
two initial feasibility trials to evaluate patients using the STS as the sole
means of decision making to manage their diabetes. Data from this study were
peer-reviewed and presented in an abstract at the Scientific Sessions of the June 2006
Annual Meeting of the ADA. The data from these trials showed that individuals
with Type 1 diabetes more frequently made appropriate self-management decisions
using data from the STS than they did using traditional finger stick
measurement data to manage their diabetes. Study participants maintained better
glycemic control when decision-making was guided by continuous glucose
monitoring. In the first study, 71% of self-management decisions made using
data from the STS were deemed appropriate as compared to 53% using traditional
finger stick monitoring. In the second study, these percentages were 65% of
self-management decisions made using data from the STS were deemed appropriate
as compared to 46% using traditional finger stick monitoring. Currently, no
company has been successful in obtaining approval from the FDA for replacement
claim labeling, nor has the FDA provided any clear guidance on what might be
required for such labeling. We have had productive dialogue with clinicians and
the FDA about appropriate study design and measures for replacement claim
labeling and we would expect to work cooperatively with both groups toward
replacement claim labeling in the future.

Repeated Use Trial.

In
2006, we enrolled a repeated use trial that allowed patients to use our STS for
90 consecutive days, with patients replacing the disposable sensor every three
days. We enrolled approximately 136 patients in seven sites in the United
States. Analysis of the preliminary results in the first 60 of 136 patients,
consisting of both Type 1 and Type 2 patients, to complete the full 90 days in
our Repeated Use Trial demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in
their hemoglobin A1c levels, or A1c levels. A1c levels are a measure of the
average amount of sugar in the blood over the last three months. Preliminary
results of the first 60 patients showed an average 0.49% decrease in A1c
levels. The 20 patients that started the study with an A1c greater than 8%
showed an average 1.03% decrease in A1c levels over the study period. Both
reductions were statistically significant. Results from the UK Prospective
Diabetes Study as published in the January 2002 edition of

Diabetes Care

showed that for every
percentage point decrease in A1c levels, there was a 35% reduction in the risk
for diabetes-related complications. Additionally, each percentage point
reduction also lowered the risk of heart attack by 18%. Preliminary results
from the first 60 of 140 patients in our Repeated Use Trial were published in
abstract in the Late Breaking Clinical Trials section of the Scientific
Sessions of the 2006 Annual Meeting of the ADA in June 2006 and these data
have been submitted for peer-reviewed publication.

Seven-Day STS Accuracy
Compared to YSI Blood Glucose Values.

In 2006, we
enrolled a clinical trial to evaluate the accuracy of our seven day STS
compared to a laboratory method of obtaining blood glucose values using a
Yellow Springs Instrument, or YSI. We enrolled 72 Type 1 and insulin-requiring
Type 2 subjects in a non-randomized study at 5 sites in the United States. Patients
inserted the sensors themselves


and wore them at home and
at work in their daily activities for a total seven days. During the study,
patients participated in one 10-hour in-clinic session with blood draws
every 20 minutes on day 1, 4, or 7 of the study to obtain YSI reference
information in a controlled setting. Results of the study showed an overall
mean ARD of 16.6% and a median ARD of 13.3%, and also showed that accuracy
improved across seven days of patient usage. These data have been submitted in
abstract for publication at the Scientific Sessions of the 2007 Annual Meeting
of the ADA in June 2007 and were submitted as part of our PMA supplement
for the seven-day STS.

JDRF-Sponsored Reimbursement Trial.

We have agreed
to provide product, along with at least two other companies, to support an
independent, randomized clinical trial sponsored by the Juvenile Diabetes
Research Foundation, or JDRF, which is expected to provide data comparing both
health-related and economic outcomes from patients using continuous glucose
monitoring versus patients using only single-point finger stick monitoring. This
clinical trial is expected to enroll several hundred patients and follow these
patients for 12-months. If this independently-conducted study is
successfully enrolled and completed, and demonstrates improved health-related
and economic outcomes for continuous glucose monitoring versus finger stick
monitoring, it could serve as a potential catalyst for wider and more
accelerated reimbursement for continuous glucose monitoring in the future.

Long-Term Sensor Trials

After review of several
months of data from feasibility studies for our long term continuous glucose
monitoring system, we determined that the product’s performance does not
warrant investing in a large pivotal trial to seek approval for the long term
sensor at this time. However, we are utilizing technology from our long term
sensor and members of that development team to enhance our STS product platform
and our in-hospital technology platform.

Clinical Trial Process

We enter into contracts with clinical investigators,
surgeons and clinical trial sites to conduct our clinical trials. These
contracts include terms requiring the parties to comply with regulations and
guidelines issued for the type of study being performed. Generally, we contract
with clinical trial sites to screen and enroll patients, schedule visits for
implants or insertions, conduct in-clinic studies, prepare patient report forms
and collect and aggregate trial data. Clinical trial site fees generally
include a set-up fee, a per-patient trial management fee and an overhead
charge. We contract with clinical investigators to implement our trial
protocol, acquire institutional review board approval, and generally ensure
that the study is conducted in a safe and ethical manner while complying with
all regulations and guidelines related to the clinical trial.

Our research and
development expenses were $12.4 million, $26.8 million and
$19.4 million for 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively.

Sales and Marketing

We have built a direct sales organization to call on
endocrinologists, physicians and diabetes educators who can educate and
influence patient adoption of continuous glucose monitoring. To complement our
direct sales efforts, we employ clinical specialists who help to educate
patients on the benefits of continuous glucose monitoring and provide clinical
support to endocrinologists, physicians and diabetes educators who prescribe
our products. As of December 31, 2006, we employed over 40 direct sales
personnel and clinical education specialists. In addition, we hired our Vice
President of Marketing in April 2006, and we have built a small marketing
team. We continue to evolve our sales and marketing organization as necessary
to support the national commercial launch of our STS. We believe that referrals
by physicians and diabetes educators, together with self-referrals by patients,
have driven and will continue


to drive initial adoption
of our STS. We directly market our products in the United States primarily to
endocrinologists, physicians and diabetes educators. Although the number of
diabetes patients is significant, the number of physicians and educators
influencing these patients is relatively small. As of 2001, there were an
estimated 3,700 endocrinologists in the United States. As a result, we believe
our direct, highly-specialized and focused sales organization is sufficient for
us to support our commercial launch for the foreseeable future.

We intend to use a
variety of marketing tools to drive initial adoption, ensure continued usage
and establish brand loyalty for our continuous glucose monitoring systems by:

·

creating
awareness of the benefits of continuous monitoring and the advantages of our
technology with endocrinologists, physicians, diabetes educators and patients;

·

providing
strong educational and training programs to healthcare providers and patients
to ensure easy, safe and effective use of our systems; and

·

establishing
a readily-accessible telephone and web-based technical and customer
support infrastructure, which we expect to include clinicians, diabetes
educators and reimbursement specialists, to help referring physicians, diabetes
educators and patients as necessary.

Our sales organization
competes with the experienced and well-funded marketing and sales operations of
our competitors. We have limited experience developing and managing a direct
sales organization and we may be unsuccessful in our attempt to do so.
Developing a direct sales organization is a difficult, expensive and time
consuming process. To be successful we must:

·

recruit
and retain adequate numbers of effective sales personnel;

·

effectively train our sales
personnel in the benefits of our products;

·

establish and maintain
successful sales and marketing and education programs that encourage
endocrinologists, physicians and diabetes educators to recommend our products
to their patients; and

·

manage geographically
disbursed operations.

Competition

The market for blood glucose monitoring devices is
intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by
new product introductions. Four companies, Roche Disetronic, a division of
Roche Diagnostics; LifeScan, Inc., a division of Johnson &
Johnson; the MediSense and TheraSense divisions of Abbott Laboratories; and
Bayer Corporation, currently account for substantially all of the worldwide
sales of self-monitored glucose testing systems. These competitors’ products
use a meter and disposable test strips to test blood obtained by pricking the
finger or, in some cases, the forearm. In addition, other companies are
developing or marketing minimally invasive or noninvasive glucose testing
devices and technologies that could compete with our devices. There are also a
number of academic and other institutions involved in various phases of our
industry’s technology development.

Several companies have attempted to address the
limitations of single-point finger stick devices by developing continuous
glucose monitoring systems. To date, in addition to the DexCom STS, two other
companies, Cygnus and Medtronic, have received approval from the FDA for
continuous glucose monitors and Abbott is currently seeking approval for
another. We believe that one of the products, originally developed and marketed
by Cygnus, is no longer actively marketed. In addition, Johnson &
Johnson recently announced that it is developing and expects to commence
clinical trials in support of a continuous glucose monitoring system in 2007.
We believe that none of the products that have received FDA approval are
labeled for more than three days of use or for use as a replacement for
single-point finger stick devices.


A number of companies are developing next generation
real-time continuous glucose monitoring or sensing devices and technologies,
including several companies that are developing non-invasive continuous glucose
monitoring products to measure the patient’s glucose level. The majority of
these non-invasive technologies do not pierce the skin, but instead typically
analyze signatures reflected back from energy that has been directed into the
patient’s skin, tissue or bodily fluids.

Many of our
competitors are either publicly traded or are divisions of publicly-traded
companies, and they enjoy several competitive advantages, including:

·

significantly
greater name recognition;

·

established
relations with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party
payors;

·

established
distribution networks;

·

additional
lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer
higher discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage;

·

greater
experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical
trials, obtaining regulatory approval for products and marketing approved
products; and

·

greater
financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing, and
patent litigation.

As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able
to compete effectively against these companies or their products.

We believe that the
principal competitive factors in our market include:

·

comfort
and ease of use;

·

safe,
reliable and high quality performance of products;

·

cost
of products and eligibility for reimbursement;

·

effective
sales, marketing and distribution;

·

brand
awareness and strong acceptance by healthcare professionals and patients;

·

customer
service and support and comprehensive education for patients and diabetes care
providers;

·

speed
of product innovation and time to market;

·

regulatory
expertise; and

·

technological leadership
and superiority.

Manufacturing

Prior to FDA approval of our STS, we manufactured our
glucose monitoring systems, including our STS, in limited quantities sufficient
to meet the needs for our clinical trials. We currently have limited resources,
facilities and experience in commercially manufacturing sufficient quantities
to meet expected demand for our STS. Since the commercial launch of our STS in March 2006,
we have had difficulty scaling our manufacturing operations to provide a
sufficient supply of product to support our commercialization efforts. As a
result of these product shortages, we have experienced periods of backorder
and, at times, have also had to limit the efforts of our sales force to
introduce the STS to new customers. We have focused significant effort on
continual improvement programs in our manufacturing operations intended to
improve quality, yields and throughput. We have made progress in manufacturing
to enable us to supply


adequate amounts of
product to support our commercialization efforts, however there can be no
assurances that supply will not be constrained going forward.

We currently manufacture our devices at our headquarters
in San Diego, California, and a new facility located nearby. In these
facilities we have more than 5,000 square feet of laboratory space and
approximately 5,000 square feet of controlled environment rooms. In January 2007,
both facilities were subject to a post-approval PMA and QSR audit by the FDA. Based
on the results of this inspection, we believe we are in substantial compliance
with the regulatory requirements for a commercial medical device manufacturer
and there were no major observations from the FDA resulting from this audit. At
the close of the inspection, the FDA issued a Form 483 identifying several
inspectional observations and, although we have no formal requirements or
obligations to provide anything further to the FDA regarding these
observations, we intend to voluntarily provide formal written evidence to the
FDA of our actions taken to address these minor observations no later than May 1,
2007. There are technical challenges to increasing manufacturing capacity,
including equipment design and automation, material procurement, problems with
production yields, and quality control and assurance. We believe we have
addressed the manufacturing challenges we have faced in a timely and effective
manner. Additionally, the production of our continuous glucose monitoring
systems, including our STS, must occur in a highly controlled and clean
environment to minimize particles and other yield- and quality-limiting
contaminants. Moreover, before we can produce product at this new facility for
commercial use, the facility will have to undergo a pre-approval inspection by
the FDA and corresponding state agencies. Developing commercial-scale
manufacturing facilities will require the investment of substantial additional
funds and the hiring and retaining of additional management, quality assurance,
quality control and technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing
experience. Manufacturing is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties
described in detail in “Risk Factors” below.

We manufacture our continuous glucose monitoring
systems with components supplied by outside vendors and with parts manufactured
by us internally. Key components that we manufacture internally include our
wire-based sensors for our STS and software in our receivers and transmitters.
The remaining components and assemblies are purchased from outside vendors. We
then assemble, test, package and ship the finished continuous monitoring
systems, which consist of a sensor, a transmitter and a receiver.

We purchase certain
components and materials from single sources due to quality considerations,
costs or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. Currently, those
single sources are AMI Semiconductor, Inc., which produces the application
specific integrated circuits used in our transmitters; CardioTech, which
manufactures the polymers used to synthesize our polymeric membranes for our
STS; Flextronics International Ltd., which assembles the printed circuit boards
for our transmitters and receivers; The Tech Group, which produces injection
molded components;  and Vita Needle,
which manufactures the insertion needle for our STS. In some cases, agreements
with these and other suppliers can be terminated by either party upon short
notice. We may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement
suppliers for our single-source components, especially after our products are
commercialized, in part because of the FDA approval process and because of the
custom nature of the parts we designed. Any supply interruption from our
vendors or failure to obtain alternate vendors for any of the components would
limit our ability to manufacture our systems, and could have a material adverse
effect on our business.

Third Party
Reimbursement

Our STS does not have broad reimbursement and is not
approved for insurance coverage. The availability of insurance coverage and
reimbursement for newly approved medical devices is uncertain. Until
reimbursement or insurance coverage is established, patients will have to bear
the financial cost of our STS. In the United States, patients using existing
single-point finger stick devices are generally reimbursed all or part of the
product cost by Medicare or other third-party payors. The commercial success


of our products in both
domestic and international markets will be substantially dependent on whether
third-party coverage and reimbursement is available for patients that use our
products. Third-party coverage may be particularly difficult to obtain if our
systems are not approved by the FDA as replacements for existing single-point
finger stick devices. In order to establish reimbursement or insurance coverage
for our STS, we believe that we need to develop an established base of STS
users, gain the support of advocacy groups and show the benefits of our system
through clinical data generated by clinical trials. The lack of reimbursement
or insurance coverage may prevent us from establishing a base of STS users.
Even if we are able to establish a base of users, advocacy groups may not be
supportive of our efforts to obtain reimbursement, or Medicare, Medicaid,
health maintenance organizations and other third-party payors may not agree
with the conclusions of clinical data showing the benefits of our system.

In November 2006, The Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services, or CMS, denied an application made by Medtronic to establish
a Healthcare Common Procedures Coding System code, or HCPCS code, for
continuous glucose monitoring. The HCPCS panel within CMS cited that the
applicant had not demonstrated superior patient outcomes as a result of the use
of the device and that no insurer had identified a national program operating
need to establish the codes. Given our national launch of our STS,
peer-reviewed clinical outcomes data demonstrating the benefits of our STS,
individual patient reports of favorable coverage decisions from third-party
payers, and strong support from Congress, specifically the House and Senate
Diabetes Caucuses, and patient advocacy groups such as the Juvenile Diabetes
Research Foundation, we submitted an application to CMS for a HCPCS code for
continuous glucose monitoring in December 2006. We intend to vigorously
pursue HCPCS coding and the coverage codes required for reimbursement. We have
also begun to add in-house reimbursement expertise to assist physicians and
patients in obtaining reimbursement from private third-party healthcare payors.
We expect to begin having formal meetings and increase our efforts to create
coverage policies with third-party payors during 2007.

Medicare, Medicaid, health maintenance organizations
and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare
costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new medical
devices, and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for
our products. In order to obtain reimbursement arrangements, we may have to
agree to a net sales price lower than the net sales price we might charge in
other sales channels. The continuing efforts of government and third-party
payors to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare may limit our revenue. Our
initial dependence on the commercial success of our STS makes us particularly
susceptible to any cost containment or reduction efforts. Accordingly, unless
government and other third-party payors provide adequate coverage and
reimbursement for our products, patients may not use them.

In some foreign markets,
pricing and profitability of medical devices are subject to government control.
In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and
state proposals for similar controls. Also, the trends toward managed
healthcare in the United States and proposed legislation intended to reduce the
cost of government insurance programs could significantly influence the
purchase of healthcare services and products and may result in lower prices for
our products or the exclusion of our products from reimbursement programs.

Intellectual
Property

Protection of our intellectual property is a strategic
priority for our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and
other intellectual property laws, trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements and
other measures to protect our proprietary rights. As of February 15, 2007,
we had obtained 13 issued U.S. patents, and had 108 additional U.S. patent
applications pending. We believe it will take up to five years, and possibly
longer, for these pending U.S. patent applications to result in issued patents.
As of February 15, 2007, we had 14 open international applications filed
under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, one granted European patent, 18 European
patent applications pending, 13 Japanese


patent applications
pending, one registered U.S. trademark, 14 pending U.S. trademark applications,
four registered European trademarks, four pending European trademark
applications, two registered Japanese trademarks and four pending Japanese
trademark applications.

Together, our patents and patent applications seek to
protect aspects of our core membrane and sensor technologies, and our product
concepts for continuous glucose monitoring. We believe that our patent position
will provide us with sufficient rights to develop, sell and protect our current
and proposed commercial products. However, our patent applications may not
result in issued patents, and we cannot assure you that any patents that have
issued or might issue will protect our intellectual property rights.
Furthermore, we cannot assure you that all of our patents will be upheld. Any
patents issued to us may be challenged by third parties as being invalid or
unenforceable, or third parties may independently develop similar or competing
technology that avoids our patents. We cannot be certain that the steps we have
taken will prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property,
particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary
rights as fully as in the United States.

The medical device industry in general, and the
glucose testing sector of this industry in particular, are characterized by the
existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on
assertions of patent infringement. We are aware of numerous patents issued to
third parties that relate to aspects of our business, including the design and
manufacture of continuous glucose monitoring sensors and membranes, as well as
methods for continuous glucose monitoring. The owners of each of these patents
could assert that the manufacture, use or sale of our continuous glucose
monitoring systems infringes one or more claims of their patents. Each of these
patents contains multiple claims, any one of which may be independently
asserted against us. There may be patents of which we are presently unaware
that relate to aspects of our technology that could materially and adversely
affect our business. In addition, because patent applications can take many
years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us,
which may later result in issued patents that materially and adversely affect
our business.

On August 11, 2005, Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc.,
or Abbott, filed a patent infringement lawsuit against us in the United States
District Court for the District of Delaware, seeking a declaratory judgment
that our short-term glucose monitor infringes certain patents held by Abbott.
We moved to dismiss these claims on August 31, 2005 on the grounds that Abbott’s
complaint was premature. In addition to our motion to dismiss, we also filed
requests for reexamination of the Abbott patents with the United States Patent
and Trademark Office on January 25, 2006 and February 1, 2006. On February 22,
2006, we filed a motion to stay the entirety of the Delaware case pending
decision from the Patent Office on those requests for reexamination, and in March 2006,
the Patent Office ordered reexamination of each of the four patents originally
asserted against us in the litigation. On February 23, 2006, the Court
held a scheduling conference, during which it set a trial date of October 9,
2007. On June 27, 2006, Abbott amended its complaint to include three
additional patents owned or licensed by Abbott which are allegedly infringed by
our short term glucose monitor. On August 18, 2006 the court granted our
motion to stay the lawsuit pending reexamination by the Patent Office of each
of the four patents originally asserted by Abbott, and the court dismissed a
declatory judgment claim. In approving the stay, the court also granted our
motion to strike, or disallow, Abbott’s amended complaint in which Abbott had
sought to add three additional patents to the litigation. On November 11,
2006, the Patent Office issued a non-final rejection of all claims we submitted
for re-examination in one of the Abbott patents cited in the original lawsuit,
and on December 27, 2006, the Patent Office issued a non-final rejection
of all claims we submitted for re-examination in a second of the Abbott patents
cited in the original lawsuit. No decision has yet been published by the Patent
Office on the other two patents cited in the first complaint and currently
under reexamination. Subject to the stay, we intend to continue to vigorously
contest the action.

Subsequent to the court’s ruling, Abbott filed a separate
action in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware alleging patent
infringement of those same three additional patents. We believe this complaint,
like the first, is without merit and we intend to vigorously contest the
action. To that end, we


filed requests with the
Patent Office to reexamine each of the three additional patents cited by Abbott
and on September 7, 2006, we filed a motion to strike Abbott’s new
complaint on the grounds that it is redundant of claims Abbott already improperly
attempted to inject into the original case, and because the original case is
now stayed, Abbott must wait until the court lifts that stay before it can
properly ask the court to consider these claims. Alternatively, we asked the
court to consolidate the new case with the original case and thereby stay the
entirety of the case pending conclusion of the reexamination proceedings in the
Patent Office. In October 2006 and December 2006, the Patent Office
ordered reexamination of two of the three patents cited in this new lawsuit. The
third reexamination request is still under review by the Patent Office.
Although it is our position that Abbott’s assertions of infringement have no
merit, neither the outcome of the litigation nor the amount and range of
potential fees can be assessed. No assurances can be given that we will prevail
in the lawsuit or that we can successfully defend ourselves against the claims
made by Abbott, and we expect to incur significant costs in defending the
action, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our
results of operations regardless of the final outcome of such litigation.

Any adverse determination in litigation or interference
proceedings to which we are or may become a party relating to patents could
subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or require us to seek
licenses from other third parties. Furthermore, if we are found to willfully
infringe third-party patents, we could, in addition to other penalties, be
required to pay treble damages. Although patent and intellectual property
disputes in the medical device area have often been settled through licensing
or similar arrangements, costs associated with such arrangements may be
substantial and could include ongoing royalties. We may be unable to obtain
necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. If we do not obtain
necessary licenses, we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid
infringement and any redesign may not receive FDA approval in a timely manner
if at all. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or
failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and
selling our products, which would have a significant adverse impact on our
business.

We also rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and
continuing innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We seek
to protect our proprietary information and other intellectual property by
generally requiring our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific
collaborators and other advisors to execute non-disclosure and assignment of
invention agreements on commencement of their employment or engagement.
Agreements with our employees also forbid them from bringing the proprietary
rights of third parties to us. We also generally require confidentiality or
material transfer agreements from third parties that receive our confidential
data or materials. We cannot provide any assurance that employees and third
parties will abide by the confidentiality or assignment terms of these
agreements. Despite measures taken to protect our intellectual property,
unauthorized parties might copy aspects of our products or obtain and use
information that we regard as proprietary.

The federal trademark
application for the DEXCOM mark has been opposed, and we intend to vigorously
defend against the opposition. The opposition proceeding only determines the
right to federally register a trademark and cannot result in the award of any
damages. We maintain that we are entitled to a registration for the DEXCOM
mark; however, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in defending
against this opposition. If we are unsuccessful, we could be forced to change
our company name or market our products under a different name, which could
result in a loss of brand recognition, could require us to retrieve product and
interrupt supply and could require us to devote substantial resources to
advertising and marketing our products under the new brand.

Government
Regulation

Our products are medical
devices subject to extensive and ongoing regulation by the FDA and regulatory
bodies in other countries. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA,
and the FDA’s implementing regulations govern product design and development,
pre-clinical and clinical testing, pre


market
clearance or approval, product manufacturing, product labeling, product
storage, advertising and promotion, product sales, distribution, servicing and post-market
clinical surveillance.

FDA Regulation

Unless an exemption applies, each medical device we
wish to commercially distribute in the United States will require either prior
510(k) clearance or prior approval from the FDA through the PMA process.
The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes. Devices requiring
fewer controls because they are deemed to pose lower risk are placed in Class I
or II. Class I devices are subject to general controls such as labeling,
pre market notification, and adherence to the FDA’s Quality System Regulation,
or QSR. Class II devices are subject to special controls such as
performance standards, post market surveillance, FDA guidelines, as well as
general controls. Some Class I and Class II devices are exempted by
regulation from the pre market notification, or 510(k) clearance
requirement or the requirement of compliance with substantially all of the QSR.
Devices are placed in Class III, which requires approval of a PMA
application, if they are deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as
life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices, or to be “not
substantially equivalent” either to a previously 510(k) cleared device or
to a “preamendment” Class III device in commercial distribution before May 28,
1976 for which PMA applications have not been required.

A PMA application must be supported by valid
scientific evidence, which typically requires extensive data, including
technical, pre-clinical, clinical, manufacturing and labeling data, to demonstrate
to the FDA’s satisfaction the safety and efficacy of the device. A PMA
application also must include a complete description of the device and its
components, a detailed description of the methods, facilities and controls used
to manufacture the device, and proposed labeling. After a PMA application is
submitted and found to be sufficiently complete, the FDA begins an in-depth
review of the submitted information. During this review period, the FDA may
request additional information or clarification of information already
provided. Also during the review period, an advisory panel of experts from
outside the FDA may be convened to review and evaluate the application and
provide recommendations to the FDA as to the approvability of the device. In
addition, the FDA generally will conduct a pre-approval inspection of the
manufacturing facility to evaluate compliance with QSR, which requires
manufacturers to implement and follow design, testing, control, documentation
and other quality assurance procedures. In January 2007, both our facilities
were subject to a post-approval PMA and QSR audit by the FDA. Based on the
results of this inspection, we believe we are in substantial compliance with
the regulatory requirements for a commercial medical device manufacturer and
there were no major observations from the FDA resulting from this audit. At the
close of the inspection, the FDA issued a Form 483 identifying several
inspectional observations and, although we have no formal requirements or
obligations to provide anything further to the FDA regarding these
observations, we intend to voluntarily provide formal written evidence to the
FDA of our actions taken to address these minor observations no later than May 1,
2007.

FDA review of a PMA
application generally takes between one and three years, but may take
significantly longer. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a PMA
application for many reasons, including:

·

our
systems may not be safe or effective to the FDA’s satisfaction;

·

the
data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to
support approval;

·

the
manufacturing process or facilities we use may not meet applicable
requirements; and

·

changes
in FDA approval policies or adoption of new regulations may require additional
data.


If an FDA evaluation of a PMA application or
manufacturing facilities is favorable, the FDA will either issue an approval
letter, or approvable letter, which usually contains a number of conditions
which must be met in order to secure final approval of the PMA. When and if
those conditions have been fulfilled to the satisfaction of the FDA, the agency
will issue a PMA approval letter authorizing commercial marketing of a device
for certain indications. If the FDA’s evaluation of a PMA application or
manufacturing facilities is not favorable, the FDA will deny approval of the
PMA or issue a not approvable letter. The FDA may also determine that
additional trials are necessary, in which case the PMA approval may be delayed
for several months or years while the trials are conducted and then the data
submitted in an amendment to the PMA. The PMA process can be expensive,
uncertain and lengthy and a number of devices for which FDA approval has been
sought by other companies have never been approved for marketing.

New PMA applications or PMA supplements may be
required for modifications to the manufacturing process, labeling and device
specifications, materials or design of a device that is approved through the
PMA process. PMA supplements often require submission of the same type of
information as an initial PMA application, except that the supplement is
limited to information needed to support any changes from the device covered by
the approved PMA application and may not require as extensive clinical data or
the convening of an advisory panel.

Clinical trials are
almost always required to support a PMA application and are sometimes required
for a 510(k) clearance. These trials generally require submission of an
application for an IDE to the FDA. The IDE application must be supported by
appropriate data, such as animal and laboratory testing results, showing that
it is safe to test the device in humans and that the testing protocol is
scientifically sound. The IDE application must be approved in advance by the
FDA for a specified number of patients, unless the product is deemed a
non-significant risk device and eligible for more abbreviated IDE requirements.
Generally, clinical trials for a significant risk device may begin once the IDE
application is approved by the FDA and the study protocol and informed consent
are approved by appropriate institutional review boards at the clinical trial
sites. The FDA’s approval of an IDE allows clinical testing to go forward, but
does not bind the FDA to accept the results of the trial as sufficient to prove
the product’s safety and efficacy, even if the trial meets its intended success
criteria. All clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s
IDE regulations which govern investigational device labeling, prohibit
promotion, and specify an array of recordkeeping, reporting and monitoring
responsibilities of study sponsors and study investigators. Clinical trials
must further comply with the FDA’s regulations for institutional review board
approval and for informed consent. Required records and reports are subject to
inspection by the FDA. The results of clinical testing may be unfavorable or,
even if the intended safety and efficacy success criteria are achieved, may not
be considered sufficient for the FDA to grant approval or clearance of a
product. The commencement or completion of any of our clinical trials may be
delayed or halted, or be inadequate to support approval of a PMA application,
for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, the following:

·

the
FDA or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical trial protocol or
a clinical trial, or place a clinical trial on hold;

·

patients
do not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect;

·

patients
do not comply with trial protocols;

·

patient
follow-up is not at the rate we expect;

·

patients
experience adverse side effects;

·

patients
die during a clinical trial, even though their death may not be related to our
products;

·

institutional
review boards and third-party clinical investigators may delay or reject
our trial protocol;


·

third-party
clinical investigators decline to participate in a trial or do not perform a
trial on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial
protocol, good clinical practices or other FDA requirements;

·

third-party
organizations do not perform data collection, monitoring and analysis in a
timely or accurate manner or consistent with the clinical trial protocol or
investigational or statistical plans;

·

regulatory
inspections of our clinical trials or manufacturing facilities, which may,
among other things, require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or
terminate our clinical trials;

·

changes
in governmental regulations or administrative actions;

·

the
interim or final results of the clinical trial are inconclusive or unfavorable
as to safety or efficacy; and

·

the
FDA concludes that our trial design is inadequate to demonstrate safety and
efficacy.

After a device is
approved and placed in commercial distribution, numerous regulatory
requirements apply. These include:

·

establishment
registration and device listing;

·

QSR,
which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation
and other quality assurance procedures;

·

labeling
regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or
off-label uses or indication and impose other restrictions on labeling,
advertising and promotion;

·

medical
device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the
FDA if a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or
malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or
serious injury if it were to recur;

·

voluntary
and mandatory device recalls to address problems when a device is defective
and/or could be a risk to health; and

·

corrections
and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to
the FDA field corrections and product recalls or removals if undertaken to
reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the
FDCA that may present a risk to health.

Also, the FDA may require us to conduct post market
surveillance studies or order us to establish and maintain a system for
tracking our products through the chain of distribution to the patient level.
The FDA and the Food and Drug Branch of the California Department of Health
Services enforce regulatory requirements by conducting periodic, unannounced
inspections and market surveillance. Inspections may include the manufacturing
facilities of our subcontractors.

Failure to comply
with applicable regulatory requirements, including those applicable to the
conduct of our clinical trials, can result in enforcement action by the FDA,
which may lead to any of the following sanctions:

·

warning
letters;

·

fines
and civil penalties;

·

unanticipated
expenditures;

·

delays
in approving or refusal to approve our short-term continuous glucose monitoring
system or other products;

·

withdrawal
of FDA approval;


·

product
recall or seizure;

·

interruption
of production;

·

operating
restrictions;

·

injunctions;
and

·

criminal
prosecution.

We and our contract
manufacturers, specification developers, and some suppliers of components or
device accessories, are also required to manufacture our products in compliance
with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or GMP, requirements set forth in the
QSR. The QSR requires a quality system for the design, manufacture, packaging,
labeling, storage, installation and servicing of marketed devices, and includes
extensive requirements with respect to quality management and organization,
device design, buildings, equipment, purchase and handling of components,
production and process controls, packaging and labeling controls, device
evaluation, distribution, installation, complaint handling, servicing, and
record keeping. The FDA evaluates compliance with the QSR through periodic
unannounced inspections that may include the manufacturing facilities of our
subcontractors. If the FDA believes we or any of our contract manufacturers or
regulated suppliers are not in compliance with these requirements, it can shut
down our manufacturing operations, require recall of our products, refuse to
approve new marketing applications, institute legal proceedings to detain or
seize products, enjoin future violations, or assess civil and criminal
penalties against us or our officers or other employees. Any such action by the
FDA would have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot assure you
that we will be able to comply with all applicable FDA regulations.

Fraud and Abuse Laws

The healthcare industry is subject to various federal
and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse. Violations of these
laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances,
exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs,
including Medicare and Medicaid.

Anti-kickback
Laws.

The
federal Anti-Kickback Statute, prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully
soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration directly or
indirectly to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing,
recommending, or arranging of a good or service, for which payment may be made
under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid. The
definition of “remuneration” has been broadly interpreted to include anything
of value, including such items as gifts, discounts, the furnishing of supplies
or equipment, credit arrangements, waiver of payments, and providing anything
at less than its fair market value. The Department of Health and Human Services
(“HHS”) has issued regulations, commonly known as safe harbors, that set forth
certain provisions which, if fully met, will assure healthcare providers and
other parties that they will not be prosecuted under the federal Anti-Kickback
Statute. The failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit precisely within
one or more safe harbors does not necessarily mean that it is illegal or that
prosecution will be pursued. However, conduct and business arrangements that do
not fully satisfy each applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny
by government enforcement authorities such as the HHS Office of Inspector
General.

The penalties for violating the federal Anti-Kickback
Statute include imprisonment for up to five years, fines of up to $25,000 per
violation and possible exclusion from federal healthcare programs such as Medicare
and Medicaid. Many states have adopted prohibitions similar to the federal
Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for
healthcare services reimbursed by any source, not only by the Medicare and
Medicaid programs.

Federal
False Claims Act.

The
federal False Claims Act prohibits the knowing filing of a false claim or
the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from the federal
government. When an entity is


determined to have
violated the False Claims Act, it must pay three times the actual damages
sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500
and $11,000 for each separate false claim. Suits filed under the False Claims
Act, known as “qui tam” actions, can be brought by any individual on behalf of
the government and such individuals (known as “relators” or, more commonly, as
“whistleblowers”) may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government
in fines or settlement. In addition, certain states have enacted laws modeled
after the federal False Claims Act. Qui tam actions have increased
significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of healthcare companies
to have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be excluded from Medicare,
Medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs as a result of an
investigation arising out of such action.

HIPAA.

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and
false statements relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud statute
prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare
benefit program, including private payors. A violation of this statute is a
felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government
sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully
falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially
false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or
payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute
is a felony and may result in fines or imprisonment.

International Regulation

International sales of medical devices are subject to
foreign government regulations, which may vary substantially from country to
country. The time required to obtain approval in a foreign country may be
longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval, and the requirements may
differ. There is a trend towards harmonization of quality system standards
among the European Union, United States, Canada and various other
industrialized countries.

The primary regulatory
environment in Europe is that of the European Union, which includes most of the
major countries in Europe. Other countries, such as Switzerland, have
voluntarily adopted laws and regulations that mirror those of the European Union
with respect to medical devices. The European Union has adopted numerous
directives and standards regulating the design, manufacture, clinical trials,
labeling and adverse event reporting for medical devices. Devices that comply
with the requirements of a relevant directive will be entitled to bear the CE
conformity marking, indicating that the device conforms to the essential
requirements of the applicable directives and, accordingly, can be commercially
distributed throughout Europe. The method of assessing conformity varies
depending on the class of the product, but normally involves a combination of
self-assessment by the manufacturer and a third party assessment by a “Notified
Body.” This third party assessment may consist of an audit of the manufacturer’s
quality system and specific testing of the manufacturer’s product. An
assessment by a Notified Body of one country within the European Union is
required in order for a manufacturer to commercially distribute the product
throughout the European Union. Outside of the European Union, regulatory
approval needs to be sought on a country-by-country basis in order for us to
market our products.

Environmental Regulation

Our research and
development and clinical processes involve the handling of potentially harmful
biological materials as well as hazardous materials. We are subject to federal,
state and local laws and regulations governing the use, handling, storage and
disposal of hazardous and biological materials and we incur expenses relating
to compliance with these laws and regulations. If violations of environmental,
health and safety laws occur, we could be held liable for damages, penalties
and costs of remedial actions. These expenses or this liability could have a
significant negative impact on our financial condition. We may violate
environmental, health and safety laws in the future as a result of human error,
equipment failure or other causes. Environmental laws could become more
stringent over time, imposing greater compliance


costs
and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations. We are subject
to potentially conflicting and changing regulatory agendas of political,
business and environmental groups. Changes to or restrictions on permitting
requirements or processes, hazardous or biological material storage or handling
might require an unplanned capital investment or relocation. Failure to comply
with new or existing laws or regulations could harm our business, financial
condition and results of operations.

Advisory Boards

We have relied upon the
advice of experts in the development and commercialization of our products.
Though 2004, we had formal clinical and scientific advisory boards assisting us
in various capacities. Since 2005, we have used experts in various disciplines
on a consulting basis as needed to solve problems or accelerate development
pathways. We will continue to engage advisors from the academic, consultancy,
governmental or other areas to assist us as necessary.

Employees

As of December 31,
2006, we had 224 full-time employees and 36 temporary employees. Approximately
82 employees are engaged in research and development, clinical, regulatory and
quality assurance, 99 in manufacturing and 79 in selling, general and
administrative functions. None of our employees is represented by a labor union
or is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have never experienced
any employment-related work stoppages and consider our employee relations
to be good.

Available
Information

Our Internet website address is www.dexcom.com. We
provide free access to various reports that we file with or furnish to the
United States Securities and Exchange Commission through our website, as soon
as reasonably practicable after they have been filed or furnished. These
reports include, but are not limited to, our annual reports on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any
amendments to those reports. Our SEC reports can be accessed through the
investor relations section of our website, or through www.sec.gov. Also available
on our website are printable versions of DexCom’s Audit Committee charter,
Compensation Committee charter, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
charter, and Business Code of Conduct and Ethics. Information on our website
does not constitute part of this annual report on Form 10-K or into any
other report we file or furnish with the SEC. Stockholders may request copies
of these documents from:

DexCom, Inc.

5555 Oberlin Drive

San Diego, CA 92121

(858) 200-0200


ITEM 1A.

RISK
FACTORS

We have a limited
operating history and our STS

®

may
never achieve market acceptance.

We are a medical
device company with a limited operating history. We received approval from the
FDA for our STS on March 24, 2006 and have recently commercialized this
product throughout the United States. We expect that sales of our STS, which
consists of a cell phone-sized receiver, transmitter and disposable sensor,
will account for substantially all of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Through
December 31, 2006, revenues from sales of our STS total approximately $2.2
million. However, we have limited experience in selling our products and we
might be unable to successfully commercialize our STS for a number of reasons,
including:

·

market
acceptance of our STS by physicians and patients will largely depend on our
ability to demonstrate its relative safety, efficacy, reliability,
cost-effectiveness and ease of use;

·

we
may not be able to manufacture our STS in commercial quantities or at an
acceptable cost;

·

patients
do not generally receive reimbursement from third-party payors for their
purchase of our STS, which may reduce widespread use of our STS;

·

our
inexperience in marketing, selling and distributing our products;

·

we
may not have adequate financial or other resources to successfully
commercialize our STS;

·

the
uncertainties associated with establishing and qualifying our new manufacturing
facility;

·

our
STS is not labeled as a replacement for the information that is obtained from
single-point finger stick devices;

·

patients
will need to incur the costs of the STS in addition to single-point finger
stick devices;

·

the
introduction and market acceptance of competing products and technologies;

·

our
inability to obtain sufficient quantities of supplies from our sole source and
other key suppliers; and

·

rapid
technological change may make our technology and our STS obsolete.

Our STS is more invasive than current self-monitored
glucose testing systems, including single-point finger stick devices, and patients
may be unwilling to insert a sensor in their body, especially if their current
diabetes management involves no more than two finger sticks per day. Moreover,
patients may not perceive the benefits of continuous glucose monitoring and may
be unwilling to change their current treatment regimens. In addition,
physicians tend to be slow to change their medical treatment practices because
of perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products. Physicians
may not recommend or prescribe our STS until there is long-term clinical
evidence to convince them to alter their existing treatment methods, there are
recommendations from prominent physicians that our STS is effective in
monitoring glucose levels and reimbursement or insurance coverage is available.
We cannot predict when, if ever, physicians and patients may adopt the use of
our STS. If our STS does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by
patients, physicians and healthcare payors, we may not generate significant
product revenue and we may not become profitable.

Additionally, since the
launch of the STS, we have experienced field failures, including, but not
limited to, periods of higher than expected “out of box” failure rates for the
sensor to initialize and display data to the patient. We also experienced a
component failure in our receiver which prevented data transmitted from the
sensor being received by the handheld receiver. We do not believe these
failures created any patient safety concerns and we are not aware of any
reports of adverse events or incidents related to these


failures.
Although we believe we have taken appropriate actions aimed at reducing or
eliminating field failures, there can be no assurances that we will not
experience these or other failures going forward.

We have incurred losses since inception and anticipate
that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future.

We have incurred net
losses in each year since our inception in May 1999, including a net loss
of $46.6 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006. As of December 31,
2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $130.4 million. We have financed our
operations primarily through private placements of our equity securities and
our public offerings, and have devoted a substantial portion of our resources
to research and development relating to our continuous glucose monitoring
systems, and more recently, we have incurred significant sales and marketing
and manufacturing expenses associated with the commercialization of our STS. In
addition, we expect our research and development expenses to increase in
connection with our clinical trials and other development activities related to
our products. We also expect that our general and administrative expenses will
continue to increase due to the additional operational and regulatory burdens
applicable to public companies. As a result, we expect to continue to incur
significant operating losses for the foreseeable future. These losses, among
other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our
stockholders’ equity.

If we are unable to
establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into
and maintain arrangements with third parties to sell, market and distribute our
STS, our business may be harmed.

To achieve
commercial success for our STS, we must either continue to develop and grow our
sales and marketing organization or enter into arrangements with others to
market and sell our products. We currently employ a small direct sales force to
market our STS in the United States. Our sales organization competes with the
experienced and well-funded marketing and sales operations of our competitors.
We have limited experience developing and managing a direct sales organization
and marketing and distributing our products, and we may be unsuccessful in our
attempt to do so. Developing and managing a direct sales organization is a
difficult, expensive and time consuming process. To be successful we must:

·

recruit
and retain adequate numbers of effective sales personnel;

·

effectively
train our sales personnel in the benefits of our products;

·

establish
and maintain successful sales and marketing and education programs that
encourage endocrinologists, physicians and diabetes educators to recommend our
products to their patients; and

·

manage
geographically disbursed sales and marketing operations.

If we are unable to develop and maintain an adequate
sales and marketing organization, or if our direct sales organization is not
successful, we may have difficulty achieving market awareness and selling our
products.

We may contract with third
parties to market and sell our STS in the United States if we are unable to
develop an adequate direct sales organization. To the extent that we enter into
arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution
services in the United States, our product margins could be lower than if we
directly marketed and sold our STS. Furthermore, to the extent that we enter
into co-promotion or other marketing and sales arrangements with other
companies, any revenue received will depend on the skills and efforts of
others, and we do not know whether these efforts will be successful. If we are
unable to establish and maintain adequate sales, marketing and distribution
capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate
product revenue and may not become profitable.


We have limited manufacturing capabilities and
manufacturing personnel, and if our manufacturing capabilities are insufficient
to produce an adequate supply of products at appropriate quality levels, our
growth could be limited and our business could be harmed.

We currently have limited resources, facilities and
experience in commercially manufacturing sufficient quantities of product to
meet expected demand for our STS.

Since the
commercial launch of our STS in March 2006, we have had difficulty scaling
our manufacturing operations to provide a sufficient supply of product to
support our commercialization efforts. As a result of these product shortages,
we have experienced periods of backorder and, at times, have also had to limit
the efforts of our sales force to introduce the STS to new customers. We have
focused significant effort on continual improvement programs in our
manufacturing operations intended to improve quality, yields and throughput. Although
we believe we have made progress in manufacturing to enable us to supply
adequate amounts of product to support our commercialization efforts, there an
be no assurances that supply will not be constrained going forward.

In
order to produce our STS in the quantities we anticipate will be necessary to
meet market demand, we will need to increase our manufacturing capacity by a
significant factor over the current level. There are technical challenges to
increasing manufacturing capacity, including equipment design and automation,
materials procurement, problems with production yields and quality control and
assurance. Developing commercial-scale manufacturing facilities will require
the investment of substantial additional funds and the hiring and retention of
additional management, quality assurance, quality control and technical
personnel who have the necessary manufacturing experience. Also, the scaling of
manufacturing capacity is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, such as
construction timelines, design, installation and maintenance of manufacturing
equipment, among others, which can lead to unexpected delays. In addition, our
facilities may have to undergo additional inspections by the FDA and
corresponding state agencies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to
develop and expand our manufacturing process and operations or obtain FDA and
state agency approval of our facilities in a timely manner or at all. If we are
unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of our STS or any future products for
which we may receive approval, maintain control over expenses or otherwise
adapt to anticipated growth, or if we underestimate growth, we may not have the
capability to satisfy market demand and our business will suffer.

Additionally, the
production of our STS must occur in a highly controlled and clean environment
to minimize particles and other yield- and quality-limiting contaminants.
Weaknesses in process control or minute impurities in materials may cause a
substantial percentage of defective products in a lot. If we are not able to
maintain stringent quality controls, or if contamination problems arise, our
clinical development and commercialization efforts could be delayed, which
would harm our business and our results of operations.

Our STS does not have reimbursement and is not
approved for insurance coverage. If we are unable to obtain adequate
reimbursement at acceptable prices for our products from third-party payors, we
will be unable to generate significant revenue.

Our STS does not have reimbursement and is not
approved for insurance coverage. The availability of insurance coverage and
reimbursement for newly approved medical devices is uncertain. In the United
States, patients using existing single-point finger stick devices are generally
reimbursed all or part of the product cost by Medicare or other third-party
payors. The commercial success of our STS in both domestic and international
markets will be substantially dependent on whether third-party coverage and
reimbursement is available for patients that use our STS.

In November 2006, CMS denied an application
made by Medtronic to establish a HCPCS code for continuous glucose monitoring.
The HCPCS panel within CMS cited that the applicant had not demonstrated
superior patient outcomes as a result of the use of the device and that no
insurer had identified a national program operating need to establish the
codes.

Third-party coverage may also be difficult to obtain if our STS
is not approved by the FDA as a replacement for existing single-point finger
stick devices. Medicare, Medicaid, health maintenance organizations and other


third-party payors are
increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage
and the level of reimbursement of new medical devices, and, as a result, they
may not cover or provide adequate payment for our STS. In order to obtain
reimbursement arrangements, we may have to agree to a net sales price lower
than the net sales price we might charge in other sales channels. The
continuing efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce
the costs of healthcare may limit our revenue. Our initial dependence on the
commercial success of our STS makes us particularly susceptible to any cost
containment or reduction efforts. Accordingly, unless government and other
third-party payors provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for our STS,
patients may not use it.

In some foreign markets,
pricing and profitability of medical devices are subject to government control.
In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and
state proposals for similar controls. Also, the trends toward managed
healthcare in the United States and proposed legislation intended to reduce the
cost of government insurance programs could significantly influence the
purchase of healthcare services and products and may result in lower prices for
our STS or the exclusion of our products from reimbursement programs.

Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon
third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price
fluctuations, which could harm our business.

We rely on
Flextronics International, Ltd. to manufacture and supply the receiver included
as part of our continuous glucose monitoring systems and the circuit boards for
our short-term sensors; we rely on AMI Semiconductor, Inc. to manufacture
and supply the application specific integrated circuit, or ASIC, that is
incorporated into the transmitter for our continuous glucose monitoring
systems;

we rely on CardioTech, which
manufactures the polymers used to synthesize our polymeric biointerface
membranes for our STS;

we rely on Vita Needle to manufacture and supply
the insertion needle in our STS applicator; and we rely on The Tech Group to
supply our injection molded components. Each of these suppliers is a
sole-source supplier. In some cases, our agreements with these and our other
suppliers can be terminated by either party upon short notice. In other cases
we operate without a written agreement with the supplier. Our contract
manufacturers also rely on sole-source suppliers to manufacture some of the
components used in our products. Our manufacturers and suppliers may encounter
problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to
follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable
regulations, equipment malfunction and environmental factors, any of which
could delay or impede their ability to meet our demand. Our reliance on these
outside manufacturers and suppliers also subjects us to other risks that could
harm our business, including:

·

we
are not a major customer of many of our suppliers, and these suppliers may
therefore give other customers’ needs higher priority than ours;

·

we
may not be able to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially
reasonable terms;

·

our
suppliers may make errors in manufacturing components that could negatively
affect the efficacy or safety of our products or cause delays in shipment of
our products;

·

we
may have difficulty locating and qualifying alternative suppliers for our
sole-source supplies;

·

switching
components may require product redesign and submission to the FDA of a PMA
supplement or possibly a separate PMA, either of which could significantly
delay production;

·

our
suppliers manufacture products for a range of customers, and fluctuations in
demand for the products these suppliers manufacture for others may affect their
ability to deliver components to us in a timely manner; and


·

our
suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand for
components, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet
our requirements.

We may not be able to
quickly establish additional or replacement suppliers, particularly for our
single-source components, in part because of the FDA approval process and
because of the custom nature of various parts we design. Any interruption or
delay in the supply of components or materials, or our inability to obtain
components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely
manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause
them to cancel orders or switch to competitive products.

Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc. has filed a patent
infringement lawsuit against us. If we are not successful in defending against
its claims, our business could be materially impaired.

On August 11, 2005, Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc.,
or Abbott, filed a patent infringement lawsuit against us in the United States
District Court for the District of Delaware, seeking a declaratory judgment
that our short-term glucose monitor infringes certain patents held by Abbott.
We moved to dismiss these claims on August 31, 2005 on the grounds that
Abbott’s complaint was premature. In addition to our motion to dismiss, we also
filed requests for reexamination of the Abbott patents with the United States
Patent and Trademark Office on January 25, 2006 and February 1, 2006.
On February 22, 2006, we filed a motion to stay the entirety of the
Delaware case pending decision from the Patent Office on those requests for
reexamination, and in March 2006, the Patent Office ordered reexamination
of each of the four patents originally asserted against us in the litigation.
On February 23, 2006, the Court held a scheduling conference, during which
it set a trial date of October 9, 2007. On June 27, 2006, Abbott
amended its complaint to include three additional patents owned or licensed by
Abbott which are allegedly infringed by our short term glucose monitor. On August 18,
2006 the court granted our motion to stay the lawsuit pending reexamination by
the Patent Office of each of the four patents originally asserted by Abbott,
and the court dismissed a declatory judgment claim. In approving the stay, the
court also granted our motion to strike, or disallow, Abbott’s amended
complaint in which Abbott had sought to add three additional patents to the
litigation. On November 11, 2006, the Patent Office issued a non-final
rejection of all claims we submitted for re-examination in one of the Abbott
patents cited in the original lawsuit, and on December 27, 2006, the
Patent Office issued a non-final rejection of all claims we submitted for
re-examination in a second of the Abbott patents cited in the original lawsuit.
No decision has yet been published by the Patent Office on the other two
patients cited in the complaint and currently under examination. Subject to the
stay, we intend to continue to vigorously contest the action.

Subsequent to the court’s ruling, Abbott filed a
separate action in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware
alleging patent infringement of those same three additional patents. We believe
this complaint, like the first, is without merit and we intend to vigorously
contest the action. To that end, we filed requests with the Patent Office to
reexamine each of the three additional patents cited by Abbott and on September 7,
2006, we filed a motion to strike Abbott’s new complaint on the grounds that it
is redundant of claims Abbott already improperly attempted to inject into the
original case, and because the original case is now stayed, Abbott must wait
until the court lifts that stay before it can properly ask the court to
consider these claims. Alternatively, we asked the court to consolidate the new
case with the original case and thereby stay the entirety of the case pending conclusion
of the reexamination proceedings in the Patent Office. In October 2006 and
December 2006, the Patent Office ordered reexamination of two of the three
patents cited in this new lawsuit. The third reexamination request is still
under review by the Patent Office.

Although it is our
position that Abbott’s assertions of infringement have no merit, neither the
outcome of the litigation nor the amount and range of potential fees can be
assessed. No assurances can be given that we will prevail in the lawsuit or
that we can successfully defend ourselves against the claims made by Abbott,
and we expect to incur significant costs in defending the action, which could
have a


material
adverse effect on our business and our results of operations regardless of the
final outcome of such litigation. Subject to the stay, Abbott could immediately
seek a preliminary injunction that, if granted, would force us to stop making,
using, selling or offering to sell our STS. Our STS is our only product that is
approved for commercial sale, and if we were forced to stop selling it, our
business and prospects would suffer. We cannot assure you that Abbott will not
file for a preliminary injunction, that we would be successful in defending
against such an action if filed or that we can successfully defend ourselves
against the claim. In addition, defending against this action could have a
number of harmful effects on our business, including those discussed in the
following risk factor, regardless of the final outcome of such litigation.

We are subject to claims of infringement or
misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others, which could
prohibit us from shipping affected products, require us to obtain licenses from
third parties or to develop non-infringing alternatives, and subject us to
substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief.

Other companies, including Abbott could, in the
future, assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect
to our current or future products. Whether a product infringes a patent
involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often
uncertain. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we have not infringed the
intellectual property rights of such third parties or others. Our competitors
may assert that our continuous glucose monitoring systems or the methods we
employ in the use of our systems are covered by U.S. or foreign patents held by
them. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that there are numerous issued
patents and pending patent applications relating to self-monitored glucose
testing systems in the medical technology field. Because patent applications
may take years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are
unaware that may later result in issued patents that our products infringe.
There could also be existing patents of which we are unaware that one or more components
of our system may inadvertently infringe. As the number of competitors in the
market for continuous glucose monitoring systems grows, the possibility of
inadvertent patent infringement by us or a patent infringement claim against us
increases.

Any infringement or
misappropriation claim, including the claim brought by Abbott, could cause us
to incur significant costs, could place significant strain on our financial
resources, divert management’s attention from our business and harm our
reputation. If the relevant patents were upheld as valid and enforceable and we
were found to infringe, we could be prohibited from selling our product that is
found to infringe unless we could obtain licenses to use the technology covered
by the patent or are able to design around the patent. We may be unable to
obtain a license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and we may not be able
to redesign our products to avoid infringement. Even if we are able to redesign
our products to avoid an infringement claim, we may not receive FDA approval
for such changes in a timely manner or at all. A court could also order us to
pay compensatory damages for such infringement, plus prejudgment interest and
could, in addition, treble the compensatory damages and award attorney fees.
These damages could be substantial and could harm our reputation, business,
financial condition and operating results. A court also could enter orders that
temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enjoin us and our customers from
making, using, selling or offering to sell, or could enter an order mandating
that we undertake certain remedial activities. Depending on the nature of the
relief ordered by the court, we could become liable for additional damages to
third parties.

Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual
property could allow our competitors and others to produce products based on
our technology, which could substantially impair our ability to compete.

Our success and our ability to compete is dependent,
in part, upon our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our
technologies. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark law,
and trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual
property. However, such


methods may not be
adequate to protect us or permit us to gain or maintain a competitive
advantage. Our patent applications may not issue as patents in a form that will
be advantageous to us, or at all. Our issued patents, and those that may issue
in the future, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could
limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products.

To protect our proprietary rights, we may in the
future need to assert claims of infringement against third parties to protect
our intellectual property. The outcome of litigation to enforce our
intellectual property rights in patents, copyrights, trade secrets or
trademarks is highly unpredictable, could result in substantial costs and
diversion of resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations regardless of the final outcome of such
litigation. In the event of an adverse judgment, a court could hold that some
or all of our asserted intellectual property rights are not infringed, invalid
or unenforceable, and could award attorney fees.

Despite our efforts to safeguard our unpatented and
unregistered intellectual property rights, we may not be successful in doing so
or the steps taken by us in this regard may not be adequate to detect or deter
misappropriation of our technology or to prevent an unauthorized third party
from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our products, technology or other
information that we regard as proprietary. Additionally, third parties may be
able to design around our patents. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries
may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the
United States. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property
could allow our competitors and others to produce products based on our
technology, which could substantially impair our ability to compete.

The federal trademark
application for the DEXCOM mark has been opposed, and we continue to vigorously
defend against the opposition. The opposition proceeding only determines the
right to federally register a trademark and cannot result in the award of any
damages. We believe that we are entitled to a registration for our DEXCOM mark,
but cannot assure you that we will succeed in these efforts. If we are
unsuccessful, we could be forced to change our company name or market our
products under a different name, which could result in a loss of brand
recognition, could require us to retrieve product and interrupt supply and
could require us to devote substantial resources to advertising and marketing
our products under the new brand.

We operate in a highly competitive market and face
competition from large, well-established medical device manufacturers with
significant resources, and, as a result, we may not be able to compete effectively.

The market for
glucose monitoring devices is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change
and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market
activities of industry participants. In selling our STS, we compete directly
with Roche Disetronic, a division of Roche Diagnostics; LifeScan, Inc., a
division of Johnson & Johnson; the MediSense and TheraSense divisions
of Abbott Laboratories; and Bayer Corporation, each of which manufactures and
markets products for the single-point finger stick device market. Collectively,
these companies currently account for substantially all of the worldwide sales
of self-monitored glucose testing systems. Several companies are developing or
marketing short-term continuous glucose monitoring products that will compete
directly with our STS.

To date, in addition
to our STS, two other companies, Cygnus and Medtronic have received approval
from the FDA for continuous glucose monitors and Abbott is seeking approval for
another. We believe that one of the products, originally developed and marketed
by Cygnus, is no longer actively marketed.

In addition, Johnson &
Johnson recently announced that it is developing and expects to commence
clinical trials in support of a continuous glucose monitoring system in 2007.
Most of the companies developing or marketing competing devices are publicly
traded or divisions of publicly-traded companies, and these companies enjoy
several competitive advantages, including:

·

significantly
greater name recognition;


·

established
relations with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party payors;

·

established
distribution networks;

·

additional
lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer
higher discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage;

·

greater
experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical
trials, obtaining regulatory approval for products and marketing approved
products; and

·

greater
financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing, and
patent litigation.

As a result, we may not be
able to compete effectively against these companies or their products.

No continuous glucose monitoring system, including our
STS, has yet received FDA clearance as a replacement for single-point finger
stick devices, and our products may never be approved for that indication.

Our STS does not eliminate
the need for single-point finger stick devices and our future products may not
be approved for that indication. No precedent for FDA approval of continuous
glucose monitoring systems as a replacement for single-point finger stick
devices has been established. Accordingly, there is no established study design
or agreement regarding performance requirements or measurements in clinical
trials for continuous glucose monitoring systems. We have not yet filed for FDA
approval for replacement claim labeling and we cannot assure you that we will
not experience delays if we do file. If any of our competitors were to obtain
replacement claim labeling for a continuous glucose monitoring system, our STS
may not be able to compete effectively against that system and our business
would suffer.

Technological breakthroughs in the glucose monitoring
market could render our products obsolete.

The glucose monitoring
market is subject to rapid technological change and product innovation. Our
products are based on our proprietary technology, but a number of companies and
medical researchers are pursuing new technologies for the monitoring of glucose
levels. FDA approval of a commercially viable continuous glucose monitor or
sensor produced by one of our competitors could significantly reduce market
acceptance of our systems. Several of our competitors are in various stages of
developing continuous glucose monitors or sensors, including non-invasive and
invasive devices, and the FDA has approved three of these competing products.
In addition, the National Institutes of Health and other supporters of diabetes
research are continually seeking ways to prevent, cure or improve treatment of
diabetes. Therefore, our products may be rendered obsolete by technological
breakthroughs in diabetes monitoring, treatment, prevention or cure.

If we are unable to successfully complete the
pre-clinical studies or clinical trials necessary to support additional PMA
applications, we may be unable to commercialize our continuous glucose
monitoring systems under development, which could impair our financial
position.

Before submitting any additional PMA applications, we
must successfully complete pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that we
believe will demonstrate that the product is safe and effective. Product
development, including pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, is a long,
expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays and failure at any
stage. Furthermore, the data obtained from the studies and trial may be
inadequate to support approval of a PMA application. While we have in the past
obtained, and may in the future obtain, an Investigational Device Exemption, or
IDE, prior to commencing clinical trials for our continuous glucose monitoring
systems, FDA approval of an IDE application permitting us to conduct testing
does not mean that the FDA will consider the data gathered in the trial to be
sufficient to


support approval of a PMA
application, even if the trial’s intended safety and efficacy endpoints are
achieved.

The commencement or completion of any of our clinical
trials may be delayed or halted, or be inadequate to support approval of a PMA
application, for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, the
following:

·

the
FDA or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical trial protocol or
a clinical trial, or place a clinical trial on hold;

·

patients
do not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect;

·

patients
do not comply with trial protocols;

·

patient
follow-up is not at the rate we expect;

·

patients
experience adverse side effects;

·

patients
die during a clinical trial, even though their death may not be related to our
products;

·

institutional
review boards, or IRBs,  and third-party
clinical investigators may delay or reject our trial protocol;

·

third-party
clinical investigators decline to participate in a trial or do not perform a
trial on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the investigator
agreements, clinical trial protocol, good clinical practices or other FDA or
IRB requirements;

·

third-party
organizations do not perform data collection, monitoring and analysis in a
timely or accurate manner or consistent with the clinical trial protocol or
investigational or statistical plans;

·

regulatory
inspections of our clinical trials or manufacturing facilities may, among other
things, require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our
clinical trials;

·

changes
in governmental regulations or administrative actions;

·

the
interim or final results of the clinical trial are inconclusive or unfavorable
as to safety or efficacy; and

·

the
FDA concludes that our trial design is inadequate to demonstrate safety and
efficacy.

The results of
pre-clinical studies do not necessarily predict future clinical trial results,
and predecessor clinical trial results may not be repeated in subsequent
clinical trials. Additionally, the FDA may disagree with our interpretation of
the data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, or may find the
clinical trial design, conduct or results inadequate to prove safety or
efficacy, and may require us to pursue additional pre-clinical studies or
clinical trials, which could further delay the approval of our products. If we
are unable to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products in our clinical
trials, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval to market our products.
The data we collect from our current clinical trials, our pre-clinical studies
and other clinical trials may not be sufficient to support FDA approval.

We depend on clinical investigators and clinical sites
to enroll patients in our clinical trials and other third parties to manage the
trials and to perform related data collection and analysis, and, as a result,
we may face costs and delays that are outside of our control.

We rely on clinical
investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients in our clinical trials and
other third parties to manage the trial and to perform related data collection
and analysis. However, we may not be able to control the amount and timing of
resources that clinical sites may devote to our clinical trials. If


these
clinical investigators and clinical sites fail to enroll a sufficient number of
patients in our clinical trials or fail to ensure compliance by patients with
clinical protocols or fail to comply with regulatory requirements, we will be
unable to complete these trials, which could prevent us from obtaining
regulatory approvals for our products. Our agreements with clinical
investigators and clinical sites for clinical testing place substantial
responsibilities on these parties and, if these parties fail to perform as
expected, our trials could be delayed or terminated. If these clinical
investigators, clinical sites or other third parties do not carry out their
contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the
quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to
their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or
for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated,
or the clinical data may be rejected by the FDA, and we may be unable to obtain
regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our products.

We have not
received, and may never receive, FDA approval to market our continuous glucose
monitoring systems that are under development.

We are continuing
to invest in the development of our technology platform and will seek to obtain
additional FDA approvals for continuous glucose monitoring systems in addition
to our STS, including our seven-day STS, for which we have filed a PMA
supplement during the second quarter of 2006, and our continuous glucose
monitoring system for the in-hospital market. The regulatory approval process
for these continuous glucose monitoring systems that are under development
involves, among other things, successfully completing clinical trials and
obtaining a PMA from the FDA. The PMA process requires us to prove the safety
and efficacy of our continuous glucose monitoring systems to the FDA’s
satisfaction. This process can be expensive and uncertain, requires detailed
and comprehensive scientific and human clinical data, generally takes one to
three years after a PMA application is filed and may never result in the FDA
granting a PMA. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a PMA application for
many reasons, including:

·

our
systems may not be safe or effective to the FDA’s satisfaction;

·

the
data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to
support approval;

·

the
manufacturing process or facilities we use may not meet applicable
requirements; and

·

changes
in FDA approval policies or adoption of new regulations may require additional
data.

Even if approved, our
continuous glucose monitoring systems under development may not be approved for
the indications that are necessary or desirable for successful
commercialization. We may not obtain the necessary regulatory approvals to
market these continuous glucose monitoring systems in the United States or
anywhere else. Any delay in, or failure to receive or maintain, approval for
our continuous glucose monitoring systems under development could prevent us
from generating revenue from these products or achieving profitability.

We may be unable to
continue the commercialization of our STS or the development and commercialization
of our other continuous glucose monitoring systems without additional funding.

Our operations have
consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. We expect to continue to
spend substantial amounts on commercializing our STS, including further
development of a direct sales force and expansion of our manufacturing
capacity, and on research and development, including conducting clinical trials
for our next generation continuous glucose monitoring systems. For the twelve
months ended December 31, 2006, our net cash used in operating activities
was $43.7 million, compared to $22.6 million for the same period in 2005, and
as of December 31, 2006, we had working capital of $52.1 million,
including $54.5 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable
securities. We expect that our cash used by operations will increase
significantly in each of the next several years, and we may


need
additional funds to continue the commercialization of our STS and for the
development and commercialization of other continuous glucose monitoring
systems. Additional financing may not be available on a timely basis on terms
acceptable to us, or at all. Any additional financing may be dilutive to
stockholders or may require us to grant a lender a security interest in our
assets. The amount of funding we will need will depend on many factors,
including:

·

the
revenue generated by sales of our STS and other future products;

·

the
expenses we incur in manufacturing, developing, selling and marketing our
products;

·

our
ability to scale our manufacturing operations to meet demand for our current
and any future products;

·

the
costs to produce our continuous glucose monitoring systems;

·

the
costs and timing of additional regulatory approvals;

·

the
costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and
other intellectual property rights;

·

the
rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and other development
activities;

·

the
success of our research and development efforts;

·

the
emergence of competing or complementary technological developments;

·

the
terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we
may establish; and

·

the
acquisition of businesses, products and technologies, although we currently
have no commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of
transactions.

If adequate funds are not
available, we may not be able to commercialize our STS at the rate we desire
and we may have to delay development or commercialization of our other products
or license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or
technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize. We also may have to
reduce marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products.
Any of these factors could harm our financial condition.

Potential long-term
complications from our STS or other continuous glucose monitoring systems under
development may not be revealed by our clinical experience to date.

If unanticipated long-term
side-effects result from the use of our STS or other glucose monitoring systems
under development, we could be subject to liability and our systems would not
be widely adopted. Our clinical trials have been limited to seven days of
continuous use with our STS. Additionally, we have limited clinical experience
with repeated use of our STS in the same patient. We cannot assure you that
long-term use would not result in unanticipated complications. Furthermore, the
interim results from our current pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may
not be indicative of the clinical results obtained when we examine the patients
at later dates. It is possible that repeated use of our STS will result in
unanticipated adverse effects, potentially even after the device is removed.

If we or our
suppliers fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, or if we
experience unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be
subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market.

Any product for
which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes,
post-approval clinical data and promotional activities for such product, will
be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other
regulatory bodies. The FDA’s medical device reporting, or


MDR,
regulations require that we report to the FDA any incident in which our product
may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or in which our
product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, it would likely
cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. We and our suppliers are
required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, and other
regulations, which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing,
production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage, shipping
and servicing of our products. The FDA enforces the QSR through unannounced
inspections. We currently manufacture our devices at our headquarters in San
Diego, California, and a new facility located nearby. In these facilities we
have more than 5,000 square feet of laboratory space and approximately 5,000
square feet of controlled environment rooms.

In
January 2007, both facilities were subject to a post-approval PMA and QSR
audit by the FDA. Based on the results of this inspection, we believe we are in
substantial compliance with the regulatory requirements for a commercial
medical device manufacturer and there were no major observations from the FDA
resulting from this audit. At the close of the inspection, the FDA issued a
form 483 identifying several inspectional observations and, although we
have no formal requirements or obligations to provide anything further to the
FDA regarding these observations, we intend to voluntarily provide formal
written evidence to the FDA of our actions taken to address these minor
observations no later than May 1, 2007.

Compliance with ongoing
regulatory requirements can be complex, expensive and time-consuming. Failure
by us or one of our suppliers to comply with statutes and regulations
administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, or failure to take
adequate response to any observations, could result in, among other things, any
of the following actions:

·

warning
letters;

·

fines
and civil penalties;

·

unanticipated
expenditures;

·

delays
in approving or refusal to approve our continuous glucose monitoring systems;

·

withdrawal
of approval by the FDA or other regulatory bodies;

·

product
recall or seizure;

·

interruption
of production;

·

operating
restrictions;

·

injunctions;
and

·

criminal
prosecution.

If any of these actions were to occur, it would harm
our reputation and cause our product sales and profitability to suffer. In
addition, we believe MDRs are generally underreported and any underlying
problems could be of a larger magnitude than suggested by the number or types
of MDRs we receive. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently
be or may not continue to be in compliance with applicable regulatory
requirements.

Even if regulatory
approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on
the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain
requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the
safety or efficacy of the product. Later discovery of previously unknown
problems with our products, including software bugs, unanticipated adverse
events or adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, manufacturing
problems, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements such as the QSR,
may result in restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes,
withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recalls,
fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the
imposition of civil or criminal penalties.


We face the risk of
product liability claims and may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance.

Our business exposes us to the risk of product
liability claims that is inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing
of medical devices, including those which may arise from the misuse or
malfunction of, or design flaws in, our products. We may be subject to product
liability claims if our products cause, or merely appear to have caused, an
injury. Claims may be made by patients, healthcare providers or others selling
our products. Although we have product liability and clinical trial liability
insurance that we believe is appropriate, this insurance is subject to
deductibles and coverage limitations. Our current product liability insurance
may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and, if
available, the coverage may not be adequate to protect us against any future
product liability claims. Further, if additional products are approved for
marketing, we may seek additional insurance coverage. If we are unable to
obtain insurance at an acceptable cost or on acceptable terms with adequate
coverage or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we
will be exposed to significant liabilities, which may harm our business. A
product liability claim, recall or other claim with respect to uninsured
liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could result in
significant costs and significant harm to our business.

We may be subject to
claims against us even if the apparent injury is due to the actions of others
or misuse of the device. For example, we rely on the expertise of physicians,
nurses and other associated medical personnel to perform the medical procedure
and related processes to implant our long-term sensor into patients. If these
medical personnel are not properly trained or are negligent, the capabilities
of our products may be diminished or the patient may suffer critical injury,
which may subject us to liability. In addition, our customers, either on their
own or following the advice of their physicians, may use our products in a
manner not described in the products’ labeling and that differs from the manner
in which it was used in clinical studies and approved by the FDA. For example,
our STS is designed to be used by a patient continuously for three days, but
the patient might be able to circumvent the safeguards designed into the STS
and use the product for longer than three days. Off-label use of products by
patients is common, and any such off-label use of our STS could subject us to
additional liability. These liabilities could prevent or interfere with our
product commercialization efforts. Defending a suit, regardless of merit, could
be costly, could divert management attention and might result in adverse
publicity, which could result in the withdrawal of, or inability to recruit,
clinical trial volunteers or result in reduced acceptance of our products in
the market.

We may be subject
to fines, penalties and injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the
use of our products for unapproved off-label uses.

Although we believe our
promotional materials and training methods are conducted in compliance with FDA
and other regulations, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials or
training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, the FDA could request that
we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory
enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction,
seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other
federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they
consider promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an
unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under
other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for
reimbursement.

We conduct business
in a heavily regulated industry and if we fail to comply with these laws and
government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make
significant changes to our operations.

The healthcare
industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations
relating to:

·

billing
for services;


·

financial
relationships with physicians and other referral sources;

·

inducements
and courtesies given to physicians and other health care providers and
patients;

·

quality
of medical equipment and services;

·

confidentiality,
maintenance and security issues associated with medical records and individually
identifiable health information;

·

medical
device reporting;

·

false
claims;

·

professional
licensure; and

·

labeling
products.

These laws and regulations are extremely complex and,
in some cases, still evolving. In many instances, the industry does not have
the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws
and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the
federal, state or local laws and regulations which govern our activities, we
may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation,
including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines or curtailment of our
operations. The risk of being found in violation of these laws and regulations
is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by
the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a
variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws
or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to
incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s time and attention
from the operation of our business.

In addition, healthcare laws and regulations may
change significantly in the future. Any new healthcare laws or regulations may
adversely affect our business. A review of our business by courts or regulatory
authorities may result in a determination that could adversely affect our
operations. Also, the healthcare regulatory environment may change in a way
that restricts our operations.

We are not aware of any
governmental healthcare investigations involving our executives or us. However,
any future healthcare investigations of our executives, our managers or us
could result in significant liabilities or penalties to us, as well as adverse
publicity.

The majority of our
operations are conducted at two facilities in San Diego, California. Any
disruption at these facilities could increase our expenses.

Historically, the majority
of our operations have been conducted at a single location in San Diego,
California. We recently entered into a lease for additional manufacturing
facilities also located in San Diego, California and have

relocated a portion of our manufacturing
operations and research and development to this new facility

. We take
precautions to safeguard our facilities, including insurance, health and safety
protocols, and off-site storage of computer data. However, a natural disaster,
such as a fire, flood or earthquake, could cause substantial delays in our
operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment or inventory, and
cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against fires,
floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters may not be adequate to cover
our losses in any particular case.

We may be liable
for contamination or other harm caused by materials that we handle, and changes
in environmental regulations could cause us to incur additional expense.

Our research and
development and clinical processes involve the handling of potentially harmful
biological materials as well as hazardous materials. We are subject to federal,
state and local laws and regulations governing the use, handling, storage and
disposal of hazardous and biological materials and we


incur
expenses relating to compliance with these laws and regulations. If violations
of environmental, health and safety laws occur, we could be held liable for
damages, penalties and costs of remedial actions. These expenses or this
liability could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition.
We may violate environmental, health and safety laws in the future as a result
of human error, equipment failure or other causes. Environmental laws could
become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing
risks and penalties associated with violations. We are subject to potentially
conflicting and changing regulatory agendas of political, business and
environmental groups. Changes to or restrictions on permitting requirements or
processes, hazardous or biological material storage or handling might require
an unplanned capital investment or relocation. Failure to comply with new or
existing laws or regulations could harm our business, financial condition and
results of operations.

Failure to obtain
regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing our
products abroad.

We may seek to market our
products internationally. Outside the United States, we can market a product
only if we receive a marketing authorization and, in some cases, pricing
approval, from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The approval procedure
varies among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time
required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA
approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks
associated with obtaining FDA approval in addition to other risks. We may not
obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by
the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries,
and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by
regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. We have not
taken any actions to obtain foreign regulatory approvals. We may not be able to
file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to
commercialize our products in any market outside the United States on a timely
basis, or at all.

Our success will
depend on our ability to attract and retain our personnel.

We are highly dependent on our senior management,
especially Andrew P. Rasdal, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Andrew
K. Balo, our Vice President of Clinical and Regulatory Affairs, and Mark
Brister, our Vice President of Advanced Development Teams. Our success will
depend on our ability to retain our current management and to attract and
retain qualified personnel in the future, including sales persons, scientists,
clinicians, engineers and other highly skilled personnel. Competition for senior
management personnel, as well as sales persons, scientists, clinicians and
engineers, is intense and we may not be able to retain our personnel. The loss
of the services of members of our senior management, scientists, clinicians or
engineers could prevent the implementation and completion of our objectives,
including the commercialization of our STS and the development and introduction
of our other products. The loss of a member of our senior management or our
professional staff would require the remaining executive officers to divert
immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. Each of our
officers may terminate their employment at any time without notice and without
cause or good reason.

We expect to continue to
expand our operations and grow our research and development, manufacturing,
sales, product development and administrative operations. This expansion is
expected to place a significant strain on our management and will require
hiring a significant number of qualified personnel. Accordingly, recruiting and
retaining such personnel in the future will be critical to our success. There
is intense competition from other companies and research and academic
institutions for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we fail
to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel, we
may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities.


We have incurred
and will incur increased costs as a result of recently enacted and proposed
changes in laws and regulations relating to corporate governance matters.

Recently enacted and
proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies,
including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted
or proposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, will result in
increased costs to us as we evaluate the implications of any new rules and
regulations and respond to new requirements under such rules and
regulations. We are required to comply with many of these rules and
regulations, and will be required to comply with additional rules and
regulations in the future. As an early commercialization stage company with
limited capital and human resources, we will need to divert management’s time
and attention away from our business in order to ensure compliance with these
regulatory requirements. This diversion of management’s time and attention may
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations.

Valuation of
share-based payments, which we are required to perform for purposes of
recording compensation expense under FAS 123(R), involves significant
assumptions that are subject to change and difficult to predict.

On January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS 123(R), which
requires that we record compensation expense in the statement of income for
share-based payments, such as employee stock options, using the fair value
method. The requirements of SFAS 123(R) have and will continue to have a
material effect on our future financial results reported under GAAP and make it
difficult for us to accurately predict the impact our future financial results.

For instance, estimating the fair value of share-based
payments is highly dependent on assumptions regarding the future exercise
behavior of our employees and changes in our stock price. Our share-based
payments have characteristics significantly different from those of freely
traded options, and changes to the subjective input assumptions of our
share-based payment valuation models can materially change our estimates of the
fair values of our share-based payments. In addition, the actual values
realized upon the exercise, expiration, early termination or forfeiture of
share-based payments might be significantly different that our estimates of the
fair values of those awards as determined at the date of grant. Moreover, we
rely on third parties that supply us with information or help us perform
certain calculations that we employ to estimate the fair value of share-based
payments. If any of these parties do not perform as expected or make errors, we
may inaccurately calculate actual or estimated compensation expense for
share-based payments.

SFAS 123(R) could also adversely impact our
ability to provide accurate guidance on our future financial results as
assumptions that are used to estimate the fair value of share-based payments
are based on estimates and judgments that may differ from period to period. We
may also be unable to accurately predict the amount and timing of the
recognition of tax benefits associated with share-based payments as they are
highly dependent on the exercise behavior of our employees and the price of our
stock relative to the exercise price of each outstanding stock option.

For those reasons, among
others, SFAS 123(R) may create variability and uncertainty in the
share-based compensation expense we will record in future periods, which could
adversely impact our stock price and increase our expected stock price
volatility as compared to prior periods.

Future changes in
financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or
practices may cause adverse unexpected revenue and/or expense fluctuations and
affect our reported results of operations.

A change in accounting
standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices
can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our
reporting of transactions


completed
before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and
varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have
occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the
questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial
results or the way we conduct our business. For example, as a result of changes
approved by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, on January 1,
2006 we began recording compensation expense in our statements of operations
for equity compensation instruments, including employee stock options, using
the fair value method. Our reported financial results beginning for the first
quarter of 2006 and for all foreseeable future periods will be negatively and
materially impacted by this accounting change. Other potential changes in
existing taxation rules related to stock options and other forms of equity
compensation could also have a significant negative effect on our reported
results.

Our loan and
security agreement contains restrictions that may limit our operating
flexibility.

On March 20,
2006, we entered into a loan and security agreement that provides for a loan of
up to $5.0 million to finance various equipment and leasehold improvement
expenses. The agreement imposes certain limitations on us, including
limitations on our ability to:

·

transfer
all or any part of our businesses or properties, other than transfers done in
the ordinary course of business;

·

engage
in any business other than the businesses in which we are currently engaged;

·

relocate
our chief executive offices or state of incorporation;

·

change
our legal name or fiscal year;

·

replace
our chief executive officer or chief financial officer;

·

merge
or consolidate with or into any other business organizations with certain
exceptions;

·

Permit
any person to beneficially own a sufficient number of shares entitling such
person to elect a majority of our board of directors;

·

incur
additional indebtedness, with certain exceptions;

·

incur
liens with respect to any of our properties, with certain exceptions;

·

pay
dividends or make any other distribution or payment on account of or in
redemption, retirement or purchase of any capital stock, other than repurchases
of the stock of former employees;

·

directly
or indirectly acquire or own, or make any investment in, any persons with
certain exceptions;

·

directly
or indirectly enter into or permit to exist any material transaction with any
affiliates except such transactions that are in the ordinary course of business
that are done upon fair and reasonable terms that are no less favorable to us
than would be obtained in an arm’s length transaction with a non-affiliated
company;

·

make
any payment in respect of any subordinated debt, or permit any of our U.S.
domestic subsidiaries to make any such payment, except in compliance with the
terms of such subordinated debt; or

·

store
any equipment or inventory in which the lender has any interest with any
bailee, warehousemen or similar third party unless the third party has been
notified of the lender’s security interest, or become or be controlled by an “investment
company.”


Complying with these
covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our
business strategy and compete against companies who are not subject to such
restrictions.

ITEM 1B.

UNRESOLVED
STAFF COMMENTS.

Not applicable.

ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES

We maintain our
headquarters in San Diego, California in one leased facility of approximately
23,000 square feet, which includes our laboratory, research and development,
manufacturing and general administration functions. The lease for this facility
expires in 2011. We have the right to extend the term of this lease for one
period of five years, and a right of first offer for an adjacent facility as
space becomes available in that facility. We have recently expanded our
manufacturing capacity in our current facility and relocated a portion of our
manufacturing operations and research and development to our new 66,400 square
foot facility which is also in San Diego, California. The lease for this new
facility expires in 2014. In January 2007, both our facilities were
subject to a post-approval PMA and QSR audit by the FDA. Based on the results
of this inspection, we believe we are in substantial compliance with the
regulatory requirements for a commercial medical device manufacturer and there
were no major observations from the FDA resulting from this audit. At the close
of the inspection, the FDA issued a Form 483 identifying several
inspectional observations and, although we have no formal requirements or
obligations to provide anything further to the FDA regarding these
observations, we intend to voluntarily provide formal written evidence to the
FDA of our actions taken to address these minor observations no later than May 1,
2007. We previously leased two smaller facilities of approximately 7,000 square
feet each near our headquarters. One of these leases expired by its terms in November 2006
and we entered into a sublease agreement with an unaffiliated third-party to
lease the other facility from us through the balance of the lease term. We
believe that our existing facilities are adequate to meet our needs for the
foreseeable future, and that suitable additional space will be available in the
future on commercially reasonably terms as needed.

ITEM 3.

LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS.

On August 11, 2005, Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc.,
or Abbott, filed a patent infringement lawsuit against us in the United States
District Court for the District of Delaware, seeking a declaratory judgment
that our short-term glucose monitor infringes certain patents held by Abbott.
We moved to dismiss these claims on August 31, 2005 on the grounds that
Abbott’s complaint was premature. In addition to the our motion to dismiss, we
also filed requests for reexamination of the Abbott patents with the United
States Patent and Trademark Office on January 25, 2006 and February 1,
2006. On February 22, 2006, we filed a motion to stay the entirety of the
Delaware case pending decision from the Patent Office on those requests for
reexamination, and in March 2006, the Patent Office ordered reexamination
of each of the four patents originally asserted against us in the litigation.
On February 23, 2006, the Court held a scheduling conference, during which
it set a trial date of October 9, 2007. On June 27, 2006, Abbott
amended its complaint to include three additional patents owned or licensed by
Abbott which are allegedly infringed by the Company’s short term glucose
monitor. On August 18, 2006 the court granted our motion to stay the
lawsuit pending reexamination by the Patent Office of each of the four patents
originally asserted by Abbott, and the court dismissed a declaratory judgment
claim. In approving the stay, the court also granted our motion to strike, or
disallow, Abbott’s amended complaint in which Abbott had sought to add three
additional patents to the litigation. On November 11, 2006, the Patent
Office issued a non-final rejection of all claims we submitted for
re-examination in one of the Abbott patents cited in the original lawsuit and
on December 27, 2006, the Patent Office issued a non-final rejection of
all claims we submitted for re-examination in a second of the Abbott patents
cited in the original lawsuit. No decision has yet been


published by the Patent
Office on the other two patents cited in the first complaint and currently
under reexamination. Subject to the stay, we intend to continue to vigorously
contest the action.

Subsequent to the court’s
ruling, Abbott filed a separate action in the U.S. District Court for the
District of Delaware alleging patent infringement of those same three
additional patents. We believe this complaint, like the first, is without merit
and we intend to vigorously contest the action. To that end, we filed requests
with the Patent Office to reexamine each of the three additional patents cited
by Abbott and on September 7, 2006, we filed a motion to strike Abbott’s
new complaint on the grounds that it is redundant of claims Abbott already
improperly attempted to inject into the original case, and because the original
case is now stayed, Abbott must wait until the court lifts that stay before it
can properly ask the court to consider these claims. Alternatively, we asked
the court to consolidate the new case with the original case and thereby stay
the entirety of the case pending conclusion of the reexamination proceedings in
the Patent Office. In October 2006 and December 2006, the Patent
Office ordered reexamination of two of the three patents cited in this new
lawsuit. The third reexamination request is still under review by the Patent
Office. Although it is our position that Abbott’s assertions of infringement
have no merit, neither the outcome of the litigation nor the amount and range
of potential fees can be assessed. No assurances can be given that we will
prevail in the lawsuit or that we can successfully defend ourselves against the
claims made by Abbott, and we expect to incur significant costs in defending
the action, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our
results of operations regardless of the final outcome of such litigation.

ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION
OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

Not applicable.


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET
FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.

DexCom’s common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global
Market under the symbol “DXCM.” As of February 16, 2007, there were
approximately 263 stockholders of record, excluding stockholders whose shares
were held in nominee or street name by brokers. We have not paid any cash
dividends and do not currently have plans to do so in the foreseeable future. Additionally,
our loan agreement prohibits us from paying cash dividends without the lender’s
prior written consent.

The following table sets forth the high and low sales
price per share for DexCom’s common stock for the periods indicated:

Year Ended December 31, 2006

High

Low

First Quarter

$

23.70

$

14.31

Second Quarter

$

26.70

$

11.70

Third Quarter

$

14.40

$

10.05

Fourth Quarter

$

12.17

$

8.35

Year Ended December 31, 2005

High

Low

Second Quarter (from April 14, 2005)

$

15.99

$

9.61

Third Quarter

$

13.40

$

9.85

Fourth Quarter

$

16.17

$

10.00

Neither we nor any
affiliated purchaser repurchased any of our equity securities in the fourth
quarter of fiscal year 2006.

Recent
Sales of Unregistered Securities

On December 1, 2006, pursuant
to Section 4(2) of the Act, we issued 22,524 shares of our common stock
upon exercise of an outstanding warrant. The exercise price per share was
$5.38, and the holder elected, in lieu of payment of the exercise price in
cash, to surrender the warrant and receive a net amount of shares based on the
fair market value of our common stock determined as an average of the closing
price for our common stock for the five trading days prior to the date of
exercise, after deduction of the aggregate exercise price.


ITEM 6.

SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA

The statements of operations data for the years ended December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004 and the balance sheet data as of December 31, 2006 and
2005 have been derived from our audited financial statements included elsewhere
in this annual report. The statements of operation data for the years ended December 31,
2003 and 2002 and the balance sheet data as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and
2002 have been derived from our audited financial statements not included in
this annual report. The following selected financial data should be read in
conjunction with our “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” and financial statements and related notes
to those statements included elsewhere in this annual report.

Years Ended December 31,






(in thousands, except per share data)

Statements
  of Operations Data:

Revenues

$

2,170

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

Cost of sales

10,959

—

—

—

—

Gross margin

(8,789

)

—

—

—

—

Operating
  expenses:

Research and development(2)

19,420

26,770

12,470

8,934

6,311

General and administrative(2)

21,111

5,660

1,597

1,250

1,860

Total costs and
  expenses

40,531

32,430

14,067

10,184

8,171

Interest and other
  income, net

2,721

1,662




Net loss

(46,599

)

(30,768

)

(13,946

)

(9,914

)

(7,708

)

Accretion to redemption value of Series B and
  Series C redeemable convertible preferred stock

—

(122

)

(3,235

)

(3,235

)

(2,451

)

Net loss attributable to common stockholders

$

(46,599

)

$

(30,890

)

$

(17,181

)

$

(13,149

)

$

(10,159

)

Basic and diluted net loss per share attributable to common
  stockholders(1)

$

(1.71

)

$

(1.63

)

$

(7.51

)

$

(6.06

)

$

(4.96

)

Shares used to
  compute basic and diluted net loss per share attributable to common
  stockholders(1)

27,235,704

18,944,208

2,286,320

2,169,922

2,046,208

As of December 31,






(in thousands)

Balance Sheet Data:

Cash and cash
  equivalents

$18,167

$

37,247

$

27,229

$

20,016

$

29,844

Working capital

52,127

43,939

25,705

19,152

29,079

Total assets

64,553

56,726

29,358

20,767

30,611

Long term
  obligations

2,118

—

—

—

—

Redeemable
  convertible preferred stock

—

—

76,974

52,384

49,356

Total stockholders’
  equity (deficit)

56,828

49,412

(49,310

)

(32,601

)

(19,485

)

(1)

See Note 2 of the
notes to our financial statements for a description of the method used to
compute basic and diluted net loss per share attributable to common
stockholders.

(2)

For the years ended December 31,
2004 and 2005, certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform
to current period presentation. The separate display of stock-based
compensation expenses associated with research and development and selling,
general, and administrative have been reclassified as components of research
and development and selling, general, and administrative expenses.


ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

CAUTIONARY NOTE
REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This document, including the following Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
contains forward-looking statements that are based upon current expectations. These
forward-looking statements fall within the meaning of the federal securities
laws that relate to future events or our future financial performance. In some
cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,”
“will,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “intend,” “potential”
or “continue” or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking
statements involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results and the timing
of events could differ materially from those anticipated in our forward-looking
statements as a result of many factors, including product performance, a lack
of acceptance in the marketplace by physicians and patients, the inability to
manufacture products in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost, possible
delays in the company’s research and development programs, the inability of
patients to receive reimbursements from third-party payors, inadequate
financial and other resources and the other risks set forth below under “Risk
Factors” and elsewhere in this report. We assume no obligation to update any of
the forward-looking statements after the date of this report or to conform
these forward-looking statements to actual results.

Overview

We are a medical device company focused on the design,
development and commercialization of continuous glucose monitoring systems for
people with diabetes. On March 24, 2006, we received approval from the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for our Short-Term Continuous
Glucose Monitoring System, or STS. We commenced initial commercial shipments of
our STS throughout the United States on March 28, 2006. Our approval
allows for the use of our STS by adults with diabetes to detect trends and
track glucose patterns, to aid in the detection of hypoglycemia and
hyperglycemia and to facilitate acute and long-term therapy adjustments. Our
STS is indicated for use as an adjunctive device to complement, not replace,
information obtained from standard home blood glucose monitoring devices. Our
STS must be prescribed by a physician and includes a disposable sensor, a
transmitter and a small cell phone-sized receiver. The sensor is inserted
by the patient and is intended to be used continuously up to three days after
which it is removed and may be replaced by a new sensor. Our STS transmitter
and receiver are reusable. Since inception, we have devoted substantially all
of our resources to start-up activities, raising capital and research and
development, including product design, testing, manufacturing and clinical
trials. More recently, we have devoted considerable resources for the
commercialization of our STS, as well as the continued development of our
technology platform and future generations of products.

To support our national product launch, we have built
a direct sales organization to call on endocrinologists, physicians and
diabetes educators who can educate and influence patient adoption of continuous
glucose monitoring. To complement our direct sales efforts, we also employ
clinical specialists who educate and provide clinical support in the field.

We are leveraging our technology platform to enhance
the capabilities of our STS and develop additional continuous glucose
monitoring products. We filed a PMA supplement in the second quarter of 2006
for approval of our next generation STS, which is expected to used continuously
for up to seven days. In October 2006, we received a written request from
the FDA for additional information, and in November 2006 we responded to
that request. We are currently awaiting additional questions or a decision from
the FDA for this PMA supplement. We are continuing clinical development of a
third generation STS which we expect will further improve sensor reliability,
stability and accuracy over the useful life of the sensor, may be calibrated
using any brand of home blood glucose meter, and will be more comfortable for
patients to wear. We also intend to seek approval for a pediatric indication
(patients under 18 years of age) for our STS product platform in the future. We
are also developing a product platform specifically for the


in-hospital glucose
monitoring market, with an initial focus on a sensor specifically for the
critical care market. We conducted initial human feasibility studies for this
product in the first quarter of 2007. Our clinical trials may be delayed due to
scheduling issues with patients and investigators, institutional review boards,
sensor performance and manufacturing supply constraints, among other factors.
Support of these clinical trials requires significant resources in research and
development, manufacturing, quality assurance, and clinical and regulatory
personnel. Even if our development and clinical trial efforts are successful,
the FDA may not approve our products, and if approved, we may not achieve
acceptance in the marketplace by physicians and patients.

We currently manufacture our devices at our
headquarters in San Diego, California,  and a new facility located nearby. In these
facilities we have approximately 5,000 square feet of laboratory space and 5,000
square feet of controlled environment rooms.

In
January 2007, both our facilities were subject to a post-approval PMA and
QSR audit by the FDA. Based on the results of this inspection, we believe we
are in substantial compliance with the regulatory requirements for a commercial
medical device manufacturer and there were no major observations from the FDA
resulting from this audit. At the close of the inspection, the FDA issued a
Form 483 identifying several inspectional observations and, although we
have no formal requirements or obligations to provide anything further to the
FDA regarding these observations, we intend to voluntarily provide formal
written evidence to the FDA of our actions taken to address these minor
observations as soon as practical. We manufacture our STS with components
supplied by outside vendors and with parts manufactured by us internally. Key
components that we manufacture internally include our wire-based sensor
for our STS. The remaining components and assemblies are purchased from outside
vendors. We then assemble, test, package and ship the finished product, which
includes a transmitter, a receiver and a disposable sensor. We are expanding
our manufacturing capacity in our two facilities in San Diego, California. Our
capacity expansion could be constrained by the lack of material availability,
equipment design, production and validation, regulatory approval of our new
facility, personnel staffing and other factors.

Revenues are generated from sales of our STS
transmitter and receiver and from the recurring sales of disposable sensors.
The disposable sensor is inserted by the patient and intended to be used
continuously for up to three days, after which it may be replaced with a new
disposable sensor. Our STS transmitter and receiver are reusable. In the event
we establish an installed base of patients using our STS, we expect to generate
an increasing portion of our revenues through recurring sales of our disposable
sensors. We recognize revenue on our products upon shipment and our sales terms
provide for customer payment at the time of order.

Through December 31,
2006, we had generated $2.2 million of revenue, and we have incurred net losses
in each year since our inception in May 1999. Through December 31,
2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $130.4 million. We expect our
losses to continue and increase as we expand our clinical trial activities and
continue commercialization activities. We have financed our operations
primarily through offerings of equity securities. In April 2005, we
completed our initial public offering in which we sold 4,700,000 shares of
common stock for net proceeds of $50.5 million. As of December 31,
2006, we had $3.0 million in borrowings under our loan and security agreement.
In May 2006 we completed a follow-on offering of 2,117,375 shares of our
common stock for net proceeds of $47.0 million.

Financial
Operations

Revenue

Through December 31,
2006, we generated $2.2 million in revenue from the sale of our continuous
glucose monitoring systems after launching our system on March 28, 2006.
We expect that revenues we generate from the sales of our STS will fluctuate
from quarter to quarter.


Cost of Sales

Cost of sales includes
direct labor and material costs related to each product sold or produced
including assembly and test labor and scrap, as well as factory overhead
supporting our manufacturing operations. Factory overhead includes facilities,
material procurement and control, manufacturing engineering, quality control,
supervision and management. These costs are primarily salary, fringe benefits,
stock based compensation, facility expense, supplies and purchased services.
The majority of our costs are currently fixed due to the relatively low
production volumes compared to our potential capacity. From our inception until
December 31, 2005, all of our manufacturing costs were included in
research and development expense due to our development stage. From January 1,
2006 these costs are included in cost of sales.

Research and Development

Our research and
development expenses primarily consist of engineering and research expenses
related to our continuous glucose monitoring technology, clinical trials,
regulatory expenses, materials and products for clinical trials. Until December 31,
2005 our manufacturing costs were included in research and development expense.
Research and development expenses are primarily related to employee
compensation, including salary, fringe benefits, recruitment, stock based
compensation, relocation and temporary employee expenses. We also incur
significant expenses to operate our clinical trials including trial design,
clinical site reimbursement, data management, clinical trial product and
associated travel expenses. Our research and development expenses also include
fees for design services, contractors and development materials. We expect our
research and development expenses to increase as we continue to support the
development and clinical trials of additional products.

Selling, General and Administrative

Our selling, general and
administrative expenses primarily consist of salary, fringe benefits and stock
based compensation for our executive, financial, sales, marketing and
administrative functions. Other significant expenses include trade show
expenses, sales samples, insurance, professional fees for our outside legal
counsel and independent auditors, litigation expenses and expenses for board
meetings. We expect our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase
as we continue to support the commercialization of our STS platform.

Results of Operations

Fiscal year ending December 31, 2006 compared to December 31,

Revenue, Cost of
Sales and Gross Margin.

We recorded
revenues of $2.2 million for the twelve months ending December 31, 2006
after launching our first product on March 28, 2006. No revenues were
recorded in 2005. Cost of sales increased $11.0 million to $11.0 million for
the twelve months ending December 31, 2006 compared to zero for the twelve
months ending December 31, 2005. The $11.0 million of cost of sales for
the twelve months ending December 31, 2006 reflects a $0.7 million
increase compared to the $10.3 million of these expenses that were included in
research and development expense during 2005. Included in the 2005 costs were a
charge of $2.0 million to write down component inventory to the lower of cost
or market value. The increase in fiscal year cost of sales in 2006 was
primarily related to variable costs to produce our revenues including a $1.4
million increase in compensation expense, $1.4 million in increased scrap and
$1.0 million in increased depreciation, offset by $6.9 million in lower
expensed materials and a benefit of $1.3 million for materials purchased in
2005 and utilized in 2006.

Research and
Development.

Research and development expense,
including stock-based compensation, decreased $7.3 million to
$19.4 million for the twelve months ending December 31, 2006,
compared to $26.8 million for the same period in 2005. Development
expenses increased $1.9 million and clinical and


regulatory costs increased
$1.0 million and these increases were more than offset by a $10.3 million
decrease in manufacturing expenses that are now classified in cost of sales for
2006. Changes in research and development and clinical expenses were driven by
$2.1 million in increased compensation expenses, and $847,000 in increased
facility and depreciation costs, partially offset by $1.2 million in lower
outside design costs.

Selling, General
and Administrative.

Selling, general and
administrative expense, including stock-based compensation, increased
$15.5 million to $21.1 million for the twelve months ending December 31,
2006, compared to $5.7 million for the same period in 2005. The increase
was primarily due to $10.7 million in higher sales and marketing costs and
$4.8 million in higher administrative costs. Changes in selling, general and
administrative expense were driven by $9.0 million in increased compensation
costs, primarily in sales and marketing where we have hired a direct sales
force in 2006, $2.8 million in increased advertising and promotions and $1.0
million in increased legal expenses.

Interest Income and Expense, Net.

Interest
income and expense, net, increased $1.1 million to $2.7 million for the twelve
months ending December 31, 2006, compared to $1.7 million for the same
period in 2005. The increase was due to higher combined average cash, cash
equivalents, and short-term marketable securities balances due to our April 2006
follow-on public offering partially offset by $95,000 in interest expense on
our bank equipment line.

Fiscal year ending December 31, 2005 compared to December 31,

Revenue.

We generated
no revenue during 2004 or 2005.

Research and
Development.

Research and development expense, including
stock-based compensation, increased $14.3 million to $26.8 million for the
twelve months ended December 31, 2005, compared to $12.5 million for the
twelve months ended December 31, 2004. The increase was primarily related
to $7.7 million in increased manufacturing expenses, $3.7 million in higher
development costs and $1.9 million in increased clinical and regulatory expense
as we scaled our operations after completing our approval support trial and
submitting our PMA to the FDA. Included in the higher R&D spending were
$6.4 million in higher material procurements which includes a $2.0 million loss
on firm purchase commitments, $4.4 million in increased salary, fringe and
temporary employee expenses, $1.2 million in greater product and tooling design
costs, $1.0 million in higher clinical trial expense and $0.5 million in
increased depreciation. To date, we have expensed purchases of materials, some
of which may be used to generate product sales, if and when we receive FDA
approval.

Selling, General
and Administrative.

Selling, general and
administrative expense, including stock based compensation, increased $4.1
million to $5.7 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005,
compared to $1.6 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004.
The increase was primarily due to $1.4 million in initial marketing costs, $1.2
million related to expenses associated with operating as a public company, and
increased litigation expenses.

Interest and Other Income, Net.

Interest and
other income increased $1.5 million to $1.7 million for the twelve months ended
December 31, 2005, compared to $121,000 for the twelve months ended December 31,
2004. The increase was due to higher combined average cash, cash equivalents,
and short-term marketable securities balances due to our April 2005 IPO
along with higher interest rates.

Liquidity and
Capital Resources

We are in the early commercialization stage and have
incurred losses since our inception in May 1999. As of December 31,
2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $130.4 million and had working
capital of $52.1 million, which included $54.5 million in cash, cash
equivalents and short-term marketable securities. We have funded our operations
primarily from the sale of equity securities and our bank line, raising
aggregate net proceeds of $171.8 million from equity sales through December 31,
2006. In April 2005, we


completed our initial
public offering in which we sold 4,700,000 shares of common stock for net
proceeds of $50.5 million. On March 20, 2006, we entered into a loan
and security agreement that provides for a loan of up to $5.0 million to
finance various equipment purchases. As of December 31, 2006 we had drawn
$3.0 million under our bank equipment loan. On May 2, 2006 we completed
the sale of 2,117,375 shares of common stock for net proceeds of $47.0 million.

Net Cash Used in
Operating Activities.

Net cash used in operating activities increased
$21.2 million to $43.7 million for the twelve months ending December 31,
2006, compared to $22.6 million for the same period in 2005. The increase
in cash used in operations was primarily due to a $15.8 million increase in our
net loss and $8.4 million in lower accounts payable and accrued liabilities, as
well as $1.4 million in higher inventories, partially offset by a $4.2 million
increase in stock based compensation and a $1.6 million increase in
depreciation, which are non-cash expenses.

Net Cash Used in
Investing Activities.

Net cash used in investing activities increased
$8.4 million to $26.6 million for the twelve months ending December 31,
2006, compared to $18.2 million for the same period of 2005. The increase
was primarily due to $9.7 million in net purchases and sales of short-term
marketable securities as we invested the proceeds from our follow-on offering.
For the twelve months ending December 31, 2006, we invested
$3.4 million in equipment and facilities to support manufacturing capacity
increases and sales and marketing expansion, a decrease of $1.3 million
compared to the $4.7 million invested in 2005.

Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities.

Net cash provided by financing
activities increased $473,000 to $51.2 million for the twelve months ending December 31,
2006, compared to $50.7 million for the same period of 2005. The increase was
primarily due to an increase of $0.9 million in proceeds from stock option
exercises and employee stock purchases. The proceeds from our 2006 follow on
offering and our bank line draws in 2006 were approximately equal to our 2005
IPO proceeds.

Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements

We recently commercialized our first product, the STS
Continuous Glucose Monitoring System. However, we anticipate that we will
continue to incur net losses for the next several years as we incur expenses to
commercialize our STS, develop new continuous glucose monitoring products, and
expand our sales, marketing, manufacturing and corporate infrastructure.

We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and
short-term marketable securities balances, and the interest we earn on these
balances, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements with
respect to the commercial launch of our STS, clinical trials, PMA applications
and to meet our other anticipated cash needs for 2007. If our available cash,
cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities and the funds
available under our loan and security agreement are insufficient to satisfy our
liquidity requirements, or if we develop additional products, we may seek to
sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain an additional credit
facility. The sale of additional equity and debt securities may result in
additional dilution to our stockholders. If we raise additional funds through
the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock, these securities could have
rights senior to those of our common stock and could contain covenants that
would restrict our operations. We may require additional capital beyond our
currently forecasted amounts. Any such required additional capital may not be
available on reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain additional
financing, we may be required to reduce the scope of, delay or eliminate some
or all of our planned research, development and commercialization activities,
which could harm our business.

Because of the
numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development and
commercialization of continuous glucose monitoring technologies, we are unable
to estimate the exact amounts of capital outlays and operating expenditures
associated with our current research and


development
and commercialization efforts. Our future funding requirements will depend on
many factors, including, but not limited to:

·

the
revenue generated by sales of our STS and other future products;

·

the
expenses we incur in manufacturing, developing, selling and marketing our
products;

·

the
quality levels of our products and services;

·

potential
reimbursement to purchasers of our products by third-party payors;

·

our
ability to efficiently scale our manufacturing operations to meet demand for
our current and any future products;

·

the
costs to produce our monitoring systems;

·

the
costs and timing of additional regulatory approvals;

·

the
costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and
other intellectual property rights, including, but not limited to, defending
the patent infringement lawsuit filed against us by Abbott;

·

the
rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and other development
activities;

·

the
success of our research and development efforts;

·

the
emergence of competing or complementary technological developments;

·

the
terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we
may establish; and

·

the acquisition of
businesses, products and technologies, although we currently have no
commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions.

Contractual Obligations

In March 2006, the Company entered into a loan
and security agreement that provides for a loan of up to $5.0 million to
finance various equipment and leasehold improvement purchases through March 2007.
As of December 31, 2006, there was an outstanding balance of $3.0 million
on our loan and $2.0 million available for future borrowings that must be accessed
by March 31, 2007. We are required to repay the outstanding balance in
monthly installments beginning April 2007 until September 2009.

In April 2006, we entered into an office lease
agreement for approximately 66,400 square feet of additional facilities located
near our headquarters in San Diego, CA.

We
also have a five-year option to renew the lease upon the expiration of the
initial term. In connection with the lease, we entered into a $664,000 letter
of credit to secure future payments under the lease and paid a security deposit
in the amount of $89,640 in April 2006. E

xcluding real estate taxes
and operating costs, w

e are required to make
future monthly payments as of December 2006 through April 2014
totaling $8.7 million.

Our facility leases have annual rental escalation
clauses and are expensed on a straight-line basis.

We are party to various purchase arrangements related
to components used in production and research and development activities. As of
December 31, 2006, the Company had purchase commitments with certain
vendors totaling approximately $1.4 million due within one year. There are no
purchase commitments due beyond one year.


The
following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations as of December 31,
2006 and the effect those obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and
cash flows in future periods:

Contractual Obligations

Total

Less than

1 Year

1-3 Years

3-5 Years

More than

5 Years

Notes payable

$

3,026,000

$

907,800

$

2,118,200

$

—

$

—

Operating leases

10,797,112

1,166,931

3,271,765

3,181,168

3,177,248

Royalty
  obligations

1,160,000

116,000

232,000

232,000

580,000

Purchase
  commitments

1,366,000

1,366,000

—

—

—

Total

$

16,349,112

$

3,556,731

$

5,621,965

$

3,413,168

$

3,757,248

Off-Balance Sheet
Arrangements

We have not engaged in any
off-balance sheet activities.

Related Party
Transactions

Our Chairman is a director
of Oracle Corporation. We incurred costs

totaling
$38,168, $6,483

, and $10,046 relating to an Oracle ERP system

for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005
and 2004, respectively

. The Chairman was not involved in the selection
of the Company’s ERP system. We believe that the aforementioned arrangement was
at no less favorable rates to us than those that could have been obtained from
unrelated third parties based on review of price quotations with third parties.

Critical Accounting
Policies and Estimates

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition
and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which we have
prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The
preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements as well as the reported revenue and expenses during the reporting
periods. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments. We base
our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors that we
believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the
basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities
that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ
from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

While our significant
accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 to our financial
statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K, we believe
that the following accounting policies and estimates are most critical to a
full understanding and evaluation of our reported financial results.

Share-Based Compensation

Our share-based employee compensation plans are
described in Note 4 to our financial statements. On January 1, 2006, we
adopted SFAS 123(R) which requires the measurement and recognition of
compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees,
non-employee directors, and consultants including employee stock options and
employee stock purchases related to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan based on
estimated fair values. SFAS 123(R) supersedes our previous accounting
under APB 25 and SFAS 123, for periods beginning in fiscal 2006. In March 2005,
the Securities and Exchange Commission issued SAB 107 relating to SFAS 123(R).
We have applied the provisions of SAB 107 in our adoption of SFAS 123(R).

We adopted SFAS 123(R) using the modified
prospective transition method, which requires the application of the accounting
standard as of January 1, 2006, the first day of our fiscal year 2006. Our


Statement of Operations as
of and for the year ended December 31, 2006 reflects the impact of SFAS 123(R).
In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, the Company’s
Statements of Operations for prior periods have not been restated to reflect,
and do not include, the impact of SFAS 123(R). Share-based compensation
expense recognized under SFAS 123(R) for the years ended December 31,
2006 was $5,852,901. Share-based compensation expense of $1,785,729 and
$448,689 for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, was
related to the grant of certain options to employees during 2004 which
represented the difference between the fair value of the common stock and the
option exercise price at the date of grant accounted for in accordance with APB
25. As of December 31, 2006, there was $11.9 million of unrecognized
compensation cost related to outstanding options that is expected to be
recognized as a component of our operating expenses through 2010. Compensation
costs will be adjusted for future changes in estimated forfeitures.

Prior to January 1, 2006, we had adopted the
disclosure-only provision of SFAS 123. Accordingly, we had not previously
recognized compensation expense, except for share-based compensation expense
accounted for in accordance with APB 25.

SFAS 123(R) requires companies to estimate the
fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an
option-pricing model. The value of the portion of the award that is ultimately
expected to vest is recognized as expense over the requisite service periods as
share-based compensation expense in the Company’s Statement of Operations. For
the year ended December 31, 2006, the Statement of Operations included
compensation expense for share-based payment awards granted prior to, but not
yet vested as of December 31, 2005 based on the grant date fair value
estimated in accordance with the pro forma provisions of SFAS 123 and
compensation expense for the share-based payment awards granted subsequent to December 31,
2005 based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the
provisions of SFAS 123(R). In conjunction with the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we
changed our method of attributing the value of share-based compensation to
expense from the accelerated multiple-option approach to the straight-line
single option method. Compensation expense for all share-based payment awards
granted on or prior to December 31, 2005 will continue to be recognized
using the accelerated multiple-option approach while compensation expense for
all share-based payment awards granted subsequent to December 31, 2005 is
recognized using the straight-line single-option method. As share-based
compensation expense recognized in the Statement of Operations in fiscal 2006
is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for
estimated forfeitures. SFAS 123(R) requires forfeitures to be estimated at
the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual
forfeitures differ from those estimates. In our pro forma information required
under SFAS 123 for the periods prior to fiscal 2006, we accounted for
forfeitures as they occurred.

As permitted by SFAS 123(R), we utilize the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model as our method of valuation for share-based
awards granted. The Black-Scholes model was previously utilized for our pro
forma information required under SFAS 123. Our determination of the fair value
of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing
model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number
of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are
not limited to, our expected stock price volatility over the term of the
awards, and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors.
Option-pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded
options that have no vesting or hedging restrictions and are fully
transferable. Because our employee stock options have certain characteristics
that are significantly different from traded options, and because changes in
the subjective assumptions can materially affect the estimated value, the
existing valuation models may not provide an accurate measure of the fair value
of the our employee stock options. Although the fair value of employee stock
options is determined in accordance with SFAS 123(R) using an
option-pricing model, that value may not be indicative of the fair value
observed in a willing buyer/willing seller market transaction.


Prior to the adoption of
SFAS 123(R), we presented deferred compensation as a separate component of
stockholders’ equity. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(R), on January 1,
2006 we reclassified the balance in deferred compensation to additional paid-in
capital on our balance sheet.

Inventory

Inventories are valued at
the lower of cost or market value. We make adjustments to reduce the cost of
inventory to its net realizable value, if required, for estimated excess,
obsolete and potential scrapped inventories. We estimate excess and obsolete
inventories by identifying the amount of on hand and on order materials and
comparing those to expected future sales for the next twelve months, taking
into account clinical trial and development usage along with new product
introductions. We utilize a standard cost system to track inventories on a
part-by-part basis that approximates first in, first out. If necessary,
adjustments are made to the standard materials, standard labor and standard
overhead costs to approximate actual labor and actual overhead costs. The labor
and overhead elements of our standard costs are based on full utilization of
our manufacturing capacity.

Bonus Accrual

For the 2006 bonus pool,
the Compensation Committee authorized an amount of up to 25% of salary and
wages for non sales employees to be awarded from the pool based on the weighted
average achievement measured against certain objectives.

No company wide bonus was paid for 2006 and the
$773,000 that had been accrued in prior quarters was reversed to the Statement
of Operations in the fourth quarter of 2006.

Revenue Recognition

We sell products through a
direct sales force in the United States. We recognize revenue on product sales
upon shipment. We accrue for estimated returns at the time of shipment.

Clinical Trial Accounting

We record accruals for
estimated clinical study expenses, comprising payments for work performed by
contract research organizations, physicians and participating hospitals. These
expenses can be a significant component of research and development expenses.
We accrue expenses for clinical studies performed by contract research
organizations based on estimates of work performed under the contracts.
Expenses for setting up clinical trial sites and study initiation are accrued
immediately. Clinical expenses related to patient enrollment and ongoing
monitoring are accrued as the trials progress.

Warranty Accrual

We accrue for estimated
warranty costs at the time of shipment. We estimate warranty accruals by
analyzing the timing, cost and amount of returned product. We evaluate
assumptions and historical warranty experience on at least a quarterly basis to
determine the continued appropriateness of such assumptions.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In July 2006, the
FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48

Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes

, or FIN 48, which prescribes a
recognition threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial
statements uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax
return. Additionally, FIN 48 provides guidance on the derecognition,
classification, accounting in interim periods and disclosure requirements for
uncertain tax positions. The accounting provisions of FIN 48 will be effective
for us beginning October 1, 2007. Only tax positions that meet the more
likely than not recognition threshold at


the
effective date may be recognized upon adoption of FIN 48. We are in the process
of determining the effect, if any, the adoption of FIN 48 will have on our
financial statements.

ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

The primary objective of our investment activities is
to preserve our capital for the purpose of funding operations while at the same
time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without
significantly increasing risk. To achieve these objectives, our investment
policy allows us to maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term
investments in a variety of securities, including money market funds, U.S.
Treasury debt and corporate debt securities. Due to the short-term nature of
our investments, we believe that we have no material exposure to interest rate
risk.

To date we have recorded
no product sales and have not entered into any agreements denominated in other
than U.S. dollars. Accordingly we believe we have no material exposure to risk
from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

The information required
is set forth under “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,” “Balance
Sheets,” “Statements of Operations,” “Statement of Redeemable Convertible
Preferred Stock and Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit),” “Statements of Cash Flows”
and “Notes to Financial Statements” on pages F-2 to F-13 of
this annual report.


DEXCOM, INC.

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Report of Independent
  Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-2

Balance Sheets

F-3

Statements of
  Operations

F-4

Statements
  of Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock and Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit)

F-5

Statements of
  Cash Flows

F-6

Notes to Financial Statements

F-7

F-


REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of
DexCom, Inc. as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related
statements of operations, redeemable convertible preferred stock and
stockholders’ equity (deficit), and cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2006. Our audits also included the financial
statement schedule listed in the index at Item 15(a). These financial
statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements our audit
also includes, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to
above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
DexCom, Inc. at December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2006 in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in
our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in
all material respects the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements,
effective January 1, 2006, DexCom, Inc. changed its method of
accounting for share-based payments in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123R,

Share-Based
Payment

.

We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of DexCom, Inc.’s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based
on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report
dated February 23, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

San Diego, California

February 23, 2007

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

BALANCE SHEETS

Years Ended December 31,



Assets

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

18,167,066

$

37,247,064

Short-term marketable securities, available-for-sale

36,341,449

13,277,688

Accounts receivable, net

120,477

—

Inventory

1,413,024

—

Prepaid and other current assets

1,313,907

488,015

Total current
  assets

57,355,923

51,012,767

Property and equipment, net

6,117,685

5,463,491

Restricted cash

1,079,000

250,000

Total assets

$

64,552,608

$

56,726,258

Liabilities
  and stockholders’ equity

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities

$

2,763,300

$

6,184,734

Accrued payroll and related expenses

1,557,578

889,362

Current portion of long-term debt

907,800

—

Total current
  liabilities

5,228,678

7,074,096

Deferred rent

377,463

240,099

Long-term debt,
  net of current portion

2,118,200

—

Commitments and
  contingencies (Note 4)

Stockholders’
  equity:

Preferred stock, $0.001 par value, 5,000,000 shares
  authorized; no shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2006 and
  December 31, 2005, respectively.

—

—

Common stock, $0.001 par value, 100,000,000
  authorized; 28,163,690 and 25,416,559 shares issued and outstanding at
  December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively.

28,164

25,417

Additional paid-in capital

187,162,062

134,257,379

Deferred stock-based compensation

—

(1,084,214

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

11,923

(11,928

)

Accumulated deficit

(130,373,882

)

(83,774,591

)

Total
  stockholders’ equity

56,828,267

49,412,063

Total liabilities and
  stockholders’ equity

$

64,552,608

$

56,726,258

See accompanying notes.

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

Years Ended December 31,




Revenues

$

2,169,790

$

—

$

—

Cost of sales

10,958,953

—

—

Gross margin

(8,789,163

)

—

—

Operating
  expenses

Research and development

19,419,550

26,769,514

12,469,842

Selling, general and administrative

21,111,325

5,659,960

1,597,275

Total operating
  expenses

40,530,875

32,429,474

14,067,117

Operating loss

(49,320,038

)

(32,429,474

)

(14,067,117

)

Interest and
  other income, net

2,720,747

1,662,044

120,653

Net loss

(46,599,291

)

(30,767,430

)

(13,946,464

)

Accretion to
  redemption value of Series B, Series C, and Series D
  redeemable convertible preferred stock

—

(122,232

)

(3,234,512

)

Net loss
  attributable to common stockholders

$

(46,599,291

)

$

(30,889,662

)

$

(17,180,976

)

Basic and diluted net loss per share attributable to
  common stockholders

$

(1.71

)

$

(1.63

)

$

(7.51

)

Shares used to compute
  basic and diluted net loss per share attributable to common stockholders

27,235,704

18,944,208

2,286,320

See accompanying notes.

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

STATEMENTS OF REDEEMABLE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(DEFICIT)

Redeemable convertible

preferred stock

Convertible

preferred stock

Common stock

Additional

Deferred

stock-based

Accumulated

other

comprehensive

income

Accumulated

Total

stockholders’

equity

Shares

Amount

Shares

Amount

Shares

Amount

paid-in capital

compensation

(loss)

deficit

(deficit)

Balance at December 31, 2003

24,094,984

$

52,383,934

3,000,000

$

3,000

2,244,088

$

2,244

$

3,097,857

$

—

$

—

$

(35,703,953

)

$

(32,600,852

)

Issuance of Series D redeemable convertible
  preferred stock at $2.69 per share for cash in December 2004, net
  of financing costs of $1,144,000

8,355,886

21,355,894

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Imputed dividends on Series B redeemable
  convertible preferred stock

—

1,139,455

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(1,139,455

)

(1,139,455

)

Imputed dividends on Series C redeemable
  preferred stock

—

2,059,330

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(2,059,330

)

(2,059,330

)

Accretion of stock issuance costs on redeemable
  convertible preferred stock

—

35,727

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(35,727

)

(35,727

)

Exercise of stock options

—

—

—

—

79,212


23,130

—

—

—

23,209

Deferred stock compensation related to employee
  stock option grants

—

—

—

—

—

—

3,097,025

(3,097,025

)

—

—

—

Amortization of deferred stock-based compensation

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

448,689

—

—

448,689

Net loss and comprehensive loss

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(13,946,464

)

(13,946,464

)

Balance at December 31, 2004

32,450,870

$

76,974,340

3,000,000

$

3,000

2,323,300

$

2,323

$

6,218,012

$

(2,648,336

)

—

$

(52,884,929

)

$

(49,309,930

)

Accretion of stock issuance costs on redeemable
  convertible preferred stock

—

122,232

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(122,232

)

(122,232

)

Issuance of stock in initial public offering in
  April 2005 at $12.00 per share for cash, net of offering costs of
  $1,973,088

—

—

—

—

4,700,000

4,700

50,474,212

—

—

—

50,478,912

Conversion of redeemable and convertible preferred
  stock

(32,450,870

)

(77,096,572

)

(3,000,000

)

(3,000

)

17,725,401

17,725

77,081,847

—

—

—

77,096,572

Exercise of options and issuance of common stock for
  cash

—

—

—

661,818


261,707

—

—

—

262,370

Issuance of stock for services

—

—

—

—

6,040


77,993

—

—

—

77,999

Deferred stock compensation related to employee stock
  option and award grants

—

—

—

—

—

—

23,451

(23,451

)

—

—

—

Amortization of deferred stock-based compensation

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

1,587,573

—

—

1,587,573

Compensation expense associated with stock options
  issued to consultants

—

—

—

—

—

—

120,157

—

—

—

120,157

Comprehensive loss:

Unrealized losses on available-for-sale investment
  securities

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(11,928

)

—

(11,928

)

Net loss

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(30,767,430

)

(30,767,430

)

Comprehensive loss

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(30,779,358

)

Balance at December 31, 2005

—

$

—

—

$

—

25,416,559

$

25,417

$

134,257,379

$

(1,084,214

)

$

(11,928

)

$

(83,774,591

)

$

49,412,063

Reclassification of deferred compensation

—

—

—

—

—

—

(1,084,214

)

1,084,214

—

—

—

Issuance of stock in follow-on offering in May 2006
  at $24.00 per share for cash, net of offering costs of $3,833,141

—

—

—

—

2,117,375


46,981,739

—

—

—

46,983,856

Exercise of stock options

—

—

—

—

539,139


551,411

—

—

—

551,973

Issuance for Employee Stock Purchase Plan

—

—

—

—

59,373


602,855

—

—

—

602,914

Cashless exercise of warrant

—

—

—

—

22,524

—

—

—

—

—

—

Share-based compensation for employee stock
  options and award grants

—

—

—

—

—

—

5,725,664

—

—

—

5,725,664

Issuance of stock for services

—

—

—

—

8,720


127,228

—

—

—

127,237

Comprehensive loss:

Unrealized gains on available-for-sale investment
  securities

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

23,851

23,851

Net loss

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(46,599,291

)

(46,599,291

)

Comprehensive loss

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(46,575,440

)

Balance at
  December 31, 2006

—

$

—

—

$

—

28,163,690

$

28,164

$

187,162,062

$

—

$

11,923

$

(130,373,882

)

$

56,828,267

See accompanying notes.

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

Years Ended December 31,




Operating activities

Net loss

$

(46,599,291

)

$

(30,767,430

)

$

(13,946,464

)

Adjustments to reconcile net loss to cash used in
  operating activities:

Depreciation and
  amortization

2,697,912

1,065,007

486,805

Stock-based
  compensation

5,852,901

1,665,572

448,689

Accretion and
  amortization related to investments, net

(372,105

)

(12,979

)

—

Loss on disposal of
  equipment

—

—

29,905

Compensation expense
  associated with stock options issued to consultants

—

120,157

—

Changes in operating assets and liabilities:

Accounts receivable

(120,477

)

—

—

Inventory

(1,413,024

)

—

—

Prepaid and other assets

(285,902

)

(194,836

)

42,872

Restricted cash

(829,000

)

(50,000

)

(200,000

)

Accounts payable and
  accrued liabilities

(3,471,434

)

4,944,980

475,380

Accrued payroll and
  related expenses

668,216

560,886

108,951

Deferred rent

137,364

114,858

125,241

Net cash used in
  operating activities

(43,734,840

)

(22,553,785

)

(12,428,621

)

Investing activities

Purchase of
  available-for-sale marketable securities

(61,733,416

)

(31,573,035

)

—

Proceeds from the
  maturity of available-for-sale marketable securities

38,525,621

18,080,000

—

Purchase of property and
  equipment

(3,352,106

)

(4,676,606

)

(1,757,523

)

Other assets

—

—

20,063

Net cash used in
  investing activities

(26,559,901

)

(18,169,641

)

(1,737,460

)

Financing activities

Net proceeds from
  issuance of common stock

48,188,743

50,741,282

23,209

Net proceeds from
  issuance of preferred stock

—

—

21,355,894

Proceeds from equipment
  loan

3,026,000

—

—

Net cash provided by
  financing activities

51,214,743

50,741,282

21,379,103

Increase (decrease) in
  cash and cash equivalents

(19,079,998

)

10,017,856

7,213,022

Cash and cash
  equivalents, beginning of year

37,247,064

27,229,208

20,016,186

Cash and cash
  equivalents, ending of year

$

18,167,066

$

37,247,064

$

27,229,208

Non-cash
  investing and financing transactions:

Conversion of
  Series A, B, C, and D preferred stock

$

—

$

77,099,572

$

—

Accretion to redemption
  value of Series B, Series C, and Series D redeemable
  convertible preferred stock

$

—

$

122,232

$

3,234,512

Unrealized gain (loss)
  on marketable securities

$

23,851

$

(11,928

)

$

—

Supplemental
  disclosure of cash flow information:

Cash paid during the year for interest

$

79,096

$

—

$

—

See accompanying notes.

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2006

1.

Organization
and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Organization and Business

DexCom, Inc. (the “Company”)
is a medical device company focused on the design, development, and commercialization
of continuous glucose monitoring systems for people with diabetes. On March 24,
2006, the Company received approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration,
or FDA, for its Short-Term Continuous Glucose Monitoring System, or STS

®

.
The Company commenced initial commercial shipments of its STS throughout the
United States on March 28, 2006 and during the quarter ended June 30,
2006 exited the development stage. This approval allows for the use of the STS
by adults with diabetes to detect trends and track glucose patterns, to aid in
the detection of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia and to facilitate acute and
long-term therapy adjustments. The Company has also conducted development
activities on a long-term continuous glucose monitoring system with a sensor
that must be implanted by a physician. The long-term sensor has not received
approval from the FDA and after review of several months of data from
feasibility studies, the Company determined that the product’s performance does
not warrant continued development in its current form. Since inception, the
Company has devoted substantially all of its resources to start-up activities,
raising capital and research and development, including product design,
testing, manufacturing and clinical trials, and more recently, to

the commercialization of the Company’s STS

.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with

U.S.

GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual
results could differ from these estimates. Significant estimates include
estimated excess or obsolete inventories, warranty accruals, employee bonus,
clinical study expenses and allowances for returned product. Excess and
obsolete inventories are estimated by identifying the amount of on hand and on
order materials and comparing those to expected future sales, taking into
account clinical trial and development usage along with new product
introductions. Warranty accruals are estimated by analyzing the timing, cost
and amount of returned product. The 2006 bonus pool authorized an amount of up
to 25% of salary and wages for non sales employees to be awarded from the pool
based on the weighted average achievement measured against certain objectives.

No company wide bonus was paid in 2006 and the
$773,000 that had been accrued in prior quarters was reversed to the Statement
of Operations in the fourth quarter of 2006. Actual costs may differ from
estimated costs based on the achievement of certain objectives.

Clinical
trial expenses are accrued based on estimates of progress under related
contracts and include initial set up costs as well as ongoing monitoring over
multiple sites in the U.S and abroad.

Losses
on firm purchase commitments are based on the excess of the cost of future
materials above the estimate market price of the goods.

An allowance for
refunds is determined by analyzing the timing and amounts of past refund
activity.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

The Company invests its
excess cash in bank deposits, money market accounts, and highly liquid debt
securities. The Company considers all highly liquid investments with an
original maturity of 90 days or less at the time of purchase to be cash
equivalents.

F-


Short-Term Marketable Securities

The Company has classified
its short-term investments as “available-for-sale” and carries them at fair
value with unrealized gains and losses, if any, reported as a separate
component of stockholders’ equity and included in comprehensive loss. Realized
gains and losses are calculated on the specific identification method and
recorded as interest income.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

Financial instruments,
including cash and cash equivalents, prepaid expenses, accounts payable and
accrued liabilities, are carried at cost, which management believes
approximates fair value given their short-term nature.

Letters of Credit

At December 31, 2006
and 2005, the Company had irrevocable letters of credit outstanding with a
commercial bank for approximately $914,000 and $250,000, respectively, securing
its facility leases. The letters of credit are secured by cash and an equal
amount of restricted cash has been separately disclosed in the accompanying
balance sheets.

Concentration of Credit Risk

Financial instruments
which potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist
primarily of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investment securities. The
Company limits its exposure to credit loss by placing its cash with high credit
quality financial institutions. The Company has established guidelines relative
to diversification of its cash and investment securities and their maturities
that are intended to secure safety and liquidity. These guidelines are
periodically reviewed and modified to take advantage of trends in yields and
interest rates and changes in the Company’s operations and financial position.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment is
stated at cost and depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the assets,
generally three to five years, using the straight-line method. Leasehold
improvements are stated at cost and amortized over the shorter of the estimated
useful lives of the assets or the lease term.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

In accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment of Disposable
Long-Lived Assets

, the Company will record impairment losses on long-lived
assets used in operations when events and circumstances indicate that assets
might be impaired and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by
those assets are less than the carrying amount of those assets. The Company has
not experienced any impairment losses on assets used in operations.

Share-Based Compensation

The Company’s share-based employee compensation plans
are described in Note 9. On January 1, 2006, the Company adopted Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based
Payment,” (“SFAS 123(R)”) which requires the measurement and recognition of
compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees,
non-employee directors, and consultants including grants of employee stock options
and stock purchases by employees under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”)
based on estimated fair values. SFAS 123(R) supersedes the Company’s
previous accounting under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees

F-


(“APB 25”) and SFAS 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation

(“SFAS 123”), for
periods beginning in fiscal 2006. In March 2005, the Securities and
Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (“SAB 107”)
relating to SFAS 123(R). The Company has applied the provisions of SAB 107 in
its adoption of SFAS 123(R).

The Company adopted SFAS 123(R) using the
modified prospective transition method, which requires the application of the
accounting standard as of January 1, 2006, the first day of the Company’s
fiscal year 2006. The Company’s Statement of Operations as of and for the year
ended December 31, 2006 reflects the impact of SFAS 123(R). In accordance
with the modified prospective transition method, the Company’s Statements of
Operations for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not
include, the impact of SFAS 123(R). Share-based compensation expense recognized
under SFAS 123(R) for the year ended December 31, 2006 was
$5,852,901. Share-based compensation expense recorded in the Company’s
Statements of Operations of $1,785,729 and $448,689 for the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004 was related to the grant of certain options to employees and
represented the difference between the fair value of the common stock and the
option exercise price at the date of grant accounted for in accordance with APB
25.

Prior
to January 1, 2006, the Company had adopted the disclosure-only provision
of SFAS 123. Accordingly, the Company had not previously recognized compensation
expense, except for stock-based compensation expense accounted for in
accordance with APB 25. The table below reflects net income and diluted net
income per share for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 recognized
under APB 25 compared with net income and diluted net income per share assuming
the Company determined compensation expense consistent with SFAS 123 for
the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.

Years Ended December 31,



Net loss
  attributable to common stockholders, as reported

$

(30,889,662

)

$

(17,180,976

)

Add: Stock-based
  compensation expense included in net loss

1,785,729

448,689

Deduct: Stock-based
  compensation expense determined under fair-value method

(4,291,923

)

(609,685

)

Pro forma net
  loss attributable to common stockholders

$

(33,395,856

)

$

(17,341,972

)

Basic and diluted
  net loss per share attributable to common Stockholders, as reported

$

(1.63

)

$

(7.51

)

Pro forma basic and
  diluted net loss per share attributable to common stockholders

$

(1.76

)

$

(7.59

)

SFAS 123(R) requires companies to estimate the
fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an
option-pricing model. The value of the portion of the award that is ultimately
expected to vest is recognized as expense over the requisite service periods as
stock-based compensation expense in the Company’s Statement of Operations. For
the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company’s Statement of Operations
included compensation expense for share-based payment awards granted prior to,
but not yet vested as of December 31, 2005 based on the grant date fair
value estimated in accordance with the pro forma provisions of SFAS 123 and
compensation expense for the share-based payment awards granted subsequent to December 31,
2005 based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the
provisions of SFAS 123(R). In conjunction with the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the
Company changed its method of attributing the value of share-based compensation
to expense from the accelerated multiple-option approach to the straight-line
single option method. Compensation expense for all share-based payment awards
granted on or prior to December 31, 2005 will continue to be recognized
using the accelerated multiple-option approach while compensation expense for
all share-based payment awards granted subsequent to December 31, 2005 is
recognized using the straight-line single-option method. As share-based
compensation expense recognized in the Statement of Operations during

F-


fiscal 2006 is based
on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for estimated
forfeitures. SFAS 123(R) requires forfeitures to be estimated at the
time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual
forfeitures differ from those estimates. In the Company’s pro forma information
required under SFAS 123 for the periods prior to fiscal 2006, the Company
accounted for forfeitures as they occurred.

As permitted by SFAS 123(R), the Company utilizes the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model (“Black-Scholes model”) as its method of
valuation for share-based awards granted. The Black-Scholes model was
previously utilized for the Company’s pro forma disclosure required under SFAS
123. The Company’s determination of the fair value of share-based payment
awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by the
Company’s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly
complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited
to, the Company’s expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards,
and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors.

Prior to the adoption of
SFAS 123(R), the Company presented deferred compensation as a separate
component of stockholders’ equity. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS
123(R), on January 1, 2006 the Company reclassified the balance in
deferred compensation of $1,084,214 to additional paid-in capital on the
balance sheet.

Revenue Recognition

The Company sells products
through a direct sales force in the United States. Revenue on product sales is
recognized upon shipment of our STS systems and disposable units. The Company
accrues for estimated refunds at the time of shipment based on historical
experience.

Warranty Accrual

Estimated warranty costs
is recorded at the time of shipment. The Company estimates warranty accruals by
analyzing the timing, cost and amount of returned product. Assumptions and
historical warranty experience are evaluated on at least a quarterly basis to
determine the continued appropriateness of such assumptions.

Research and Development

All costs of research and
development are expensed as incurred. Research and development expenses
primarily include salaries and related costs, overhead, part components, and
fees paid to consultants.

Comprehensive Loss

SFAS No. 130,

Reporting Comprehensive Income

, requires
that all components of comprehensive income, including net income, be reported
in the financial statements in the period in which they are recognized. Comprehensive
income is defined as the change in equity during a period from transactions and
other events and circumstances from non-owner sources. Net income and other
comprehensive income, including foreign currency translation adjustments, and
unrealized gains and losses on investments, shall be reported, net of their
related tax effect, to arrive at comprehensive income. The Company’s
comprehensive loss is as follows:

Years Ended December 31,




Net loss

$

(46,599,291

)

$

(30,767,430)

$

(13,946,464

)

Unrealized gain (loss)
  on available-for-sale marketable securities

23,851

(11,928

)

—

Comprehensive loss

$

(46,575,440

)

$

(30,779,358)

$

(13,946,464

)

F-


Inventory

Inventories are valued at
the lower of cost or market value. The Company makes adjustments to reduce the
cost of inventory to its net realizable value, if required, for estimated
excess, obsolete and potential scrapped inventories. Factors influencing these
adjustments include inventories on hand and on order compared to estimated
future usage and sales for existing and new products, as well as judgments
regarding quality control testing data, and assumptions about the likelihood of
scrap and obsolescence. The Company utilizes a standard cost system to track
inventories on a part-by-part basis that approximates first in, first out. If
necessary, adjustments are made to the standard materials, standard labor and
standard overhead costs to approximate actual labor and actual overhead costs.
The labor and overhead elements of the standard costs are based on full
utilization of the Company’s manufacturing capacity.

Deferred Rent

Rent expense is recorded
on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. The difference between
rent expense accrued and amounts paid under the lease agreement is recorded as
deferred rent in the accompanying balance sheets.

Income Taxes

In accordance with SFAS No. 109,

Accounting for Income Taxes

, a
deferred tax asset or liability is determined based on the difference between
the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities as measured by
the enacted tax rates, which will be in effect when these differences reverse.
The Company provides a valuation allowance against net deferred tax assets
unless, based upon the available evidence, it is more likely than not that the
deferred tax assets will be realized.

Reclassifications

Certain prior period
amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. The
separate display of stock-based compensation expenses associated with research
and development and selling, general, and administrative totaling $1,272,767
and $512,962, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2005 and
$291,114 and $157,575, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2004
have been reclassified as components of research and development and selling,
general, and administrative expenses.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In July 2006, the
FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48

Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes

, or FIN 48, which prescribes a
recognition threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial
statements uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax
return. Additionally, FIN 48 provides guidance on the derecognition,
classification, accounting in interim periods and disclosure requirements for
uncertain tax positions. The accounting provisions of FIN 48 will be effective
for the Company beginning January 1, 2007. Only tax positions that meet
the more likely than not recognition threshold at the effective date may be
recognized upon adoption of FIN 48. The Company is in the process of
determining the effect, if any, the adoption of FIN 48 will have on its
financial statements.

2.

Net
Loss Per Common Share

Basic net loss per share attributable to common
stockholders is calculated by dividing the net loss attributable to common
stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding
for the period, without consideration for common stock equivalents. Diluted net
loss per share attributable to common stockholders is computed by dividing the
net loss attributable to common stockholders by the weighted-average
number of common share equivalents outstanding for the period determined using
the

F-


treasury-stock
method. For purposes of this calculation, redeemable convertible preferred
stock, convertible preferred stock, stock options and the outstanding warrant
are considered to be common stock equivalents and are only included in the calculation
of diluted net loss per share when their effect is dilutive.

Historical outstanding anti-dilutive securities
not included in diluted net loss per share attributable to common stockholders
calculation:

December 31,




Redeemable
  convertible preferred stock

—

—

32,450,870

Convertible
  preferred stock

—

—

3,000,000

Warrant

—

87,458

87,458

Options to
  purchase common stock

3, 990,848

3,557,395

3,353,133

Restricted stock

14,813

19,750

—

4,005,661

3,664,603

38,891,461

3.

Financial
Statement Details

Short Term
Marketable Securities, Available for Sale

As
described in Note 1, short-term investment securities, consisting solely of
debt securities with contractual maturities of less than one year, were as
follows:

December 31, 2006

Amortized

Cost

Gross

Unrealized

Gains

Gross

Unrealized

Losses

Estimated

Market Value

U.S. government
  agencies

$

35,331,615

$

12,775

$

(1,351

)

$

35,343,039

Corporate debt

997,911


—

998,410

Total

$

36,329,526

$

13,274

$

(1,351

)

$

36,341,449

December 31, 2005

U.S. government
  agencies

$

13,289,616

$

—

$

(11,928

)

$

13,277,688

Accounts Receivable

December 31,



Accounts
  receivable

$

136,477

$

—

Less allowance
  for doubtful accounts and sales returns

(16,000

)

—

Total

$

120,477

$

—

Inventories

December 31,



Raw materials

$

1,051,988

$

—

Work in process

95,875

—

Finished goods

265,161

—

Total

$

1,413,024

$

—

F-


Property and Equipment

December 31,



Furniture and
  fixtures

$

772,324

$

626,896

Computer
  equipment

2,102,475

1,043,305

Machinery and
  equipment

6,088,398

4,223,200

Leasehold
  improvements

1,761,204

1,478,894

10,724,401

7,372,295

Accumulated
  depreciation and amortization

(4,606,716

)

(1,908,804

)

Property and equipment,
  net

$

6,117,685

$

5,463,491

Depreciation expense for
the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 was $2,697,912,
$1,065,007, and $486,805, respectively.

Accounts Payable and Accrued
  Liabilities

December 31,



Accounts payable
  trade

$

834,897

$

1,636,347

Accrued tax,
  audit, and legal fees

502,636

577,188

Clinical trials

366,228

176,540

Estimated loss on
  purchase commitment

—

1,735,781

Accrued other
  including warranty

1,059,539

2,058,878

Total

$

2,763,300

$

6,184,734

Accrued Payroll and Related
  Expenses

December 31,



Accrued paid time
  off

$

652,954

$

392,024

Accrued wages

363,528

256,041

Other accrued
  employee benefits and taxes

541,096

241,297

Total

$

1,557,578

$

889,362

Accrued Warranty

Year Ended December 31,



Beginning balance

$

—

$

—

Charges to costs
  and expenses

536,572

—

Costs incurred

(487,670

)

—

Ending balance

$

48,902

$

—

Components of interest and
  other income

Year Ended December 31,




Interest income

$

2,815,679

$

1,662,044

$

120,653

Interest expense

(94,932

)

—

—

Total

$

2,720,747

$

1,662,044

$

120,653

4.   Commitments
and contingencies

Loan

In March 2006,
the Company entered into a loan and security agreement that provides for up to
$5,000,000 to finance various equipment purchases through March 2007.
The loan bears an interest rate equal to the lender’s prime rate plus 0.25% and
matures in September 2009. At December 31, 2006, the interest rate
was 8.50%. The agreement requires monthly interest payments. The outstanding
principal balance is amortized and payable over the term of the agreement
beginning the earlier of April 2007 or

F-


when funds are fully drawn. The Company has granted a
security interest in substantially all of its tangible assets as collateral for
the loans under the loan and security agreement. The agreement imposes certain
limitations on the Company’s ability to engage in certain transactions. At December 31,
2006, the Company had borrowings of $3,026,000 under the loan and security
agreement and $1,974,000 was available for future borrowings. Repayment
obligations as of December 31, 2006 were as follows:

Fiscal
  Year Ending


$

907,800


1,210,400


907,800

Total

$

3,026,000

Leases

The Company leases its primary facilities under a
seven-year operating lease agreement that expires on January 13, 2011.

In
April 2006, the Company entered into another lease agreement for
approximately 66,400 square feet of additional facilities located near the
Company’s headquarters in San Diego, CA. The facility leases have annual rental
increases ranging from approximately 2.5% to 4.0%. The difference between the
straight-line expense over the term of the lease and actual amounts paid are
recorded as deferred rent. Rental obligations, excluding real estate taxes,
operating costs, and tenant improvement allowances under all lease agreements
as of December 31, 2006 were as follows:

Fiscal
  Year Ending


$

1,166,931


1,605,884


1,665,881


1,727,630


1,453,538

Thereafter

3,177,248

Total

$

10,797,112

Rent expense for the years
ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 was $1,166,850, $504,307, and
$503,006, respectively.

Litigation

On August 11, 2005, Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc.,
or Abbott, filed a patent infringement lawsuit against the Company in the
United States District Court for the District of Delaware, seeking a
declaratory judgment that our short-term glucose monitor infringes certain
patents held by Abbott. The Company moved to dismiss these claims on August 31,
2005 on the grounds that Abbott’s complaint was premature. In addition to the
motion to dismiss, the Company also filed requests for reexamination of the
Abbott patents with the United States Patent and Trademark Office on January 25,
2006 and February 1, 2006. On February 22, 2006, the Company filed a
motion to stay the entirety of the Delaware case pending decision from the
Patent Office on those requests for reexamination, and in March 2006, the
Patent Office ordered reexamination of each of the four patents originally asserted
against us in the litigation. On February 23, 2006, the Court held a
scheduling conference, during which it set a trial date of October 9, 2007.
On June 27, 2006, Abbott amended its complaint to include three additional
patents owned or licensed by Abbott which are allegedly infringed by the
Company’s short term glucose monitor. On August 18, 2006 the court granted
our motion to stay the lawsuit pending reexamination by the Patent Office of
each of the four patents originally asserted by Abbott, and the court dismissed
one significant infringement claim. In

F-


approving the stay, the
court also granted the Company’s motion to strike, or disallow, Abbott’s
amended complaint in which Abbott had sought to add three additional patents to
the litigation. On November 11, 2006, the Patent Office issued a non-final
rejection of all claims the Company submitted for re-examination in one
of the Abbott patents cited in the original lawsuit and on December 27,
2006, the Patent Office issued a non-final rejection of all claims we submitted
for re-examination in a second of the Abbott patents cited in the original
lawsuit. Although subject to appeal by Abbott, these decisions serve to
invalidate the patent claims cited by Abbott in two of the four original
patents asserted against us. No decision has yet been published by the Patent
Office on the other two patents cited in the first complaint and currently
under reexamination.

Subsequent to the court’s
ruling, Abbott filed a separate action in the U.S. District Court for the
District of Delaware alleging patent infringement of those same three
additional patents. The Company filed requests with the Patent Office to
reexamine each of the three additional patents cited by Abbott and on September 7,
2006, the Company filed a motion to strike Abbott’s new complaint on the
grounds that it is redundant of claims Abbott already improperly attempted to
inject into the original case, and because the original case is now stayed,
Abbott must wait until the court lifts that stay before it can properly ask the
court to consider these claims. Alternatively, the Company asked the court to
consolidate the new case with the original case and thereby stay the entirety
of the case pending decision from the Patent Office on our requests for reexamination
of the three additional patents. In October 2006 and December 2006,
the Patent Office ordered reexamination of two of the three patents cited in
this new lawsuit. The third patent is still under review by the Patent Office. Neither
the outcome of the litigation nor the amount and range of potential fees can be
assessed. No assurances can be given that the Company will prevail in the
lawsuit or that the Company can successfully defend itself against the claims
made by Abbott.

Loss on Purchase Commitments

For the year ended December 31,
2005, the Company recognized losses on firm purchase commitments of $2,033,906
that was included within research and development costs. Losses on firm
purchase commitments are based on the excess of the cost of future materials on
order above the estimate market price of the goods.

Purchase
Commitments

The Company is party to
various purchase arrangements related to its development activities including
materials used in its glucose monitoring systems. As of December 31, 2006,
the Company had purchase commitments with vendors of $1,366,000 due within one
year. There are no purchase commitments due beyond one year.

5.   License
Agreement

In August 2001, the Company acquired the
exclusive right to manufacture and sell products using the SM Technologies, LLC
intellectual property in the field of diabetes. The Company is required to make
minimum advanced royalty payments as noted in the table below. In addition, the
Company shall pay a royalty of $12.00 per unit (subject to an annual 3%
increase after product commercialization), per licensed product sold by the
Company. The intellectual property is currently used in the Company’s long-term
sensor. The license expires concurrent with the last patent to expire.

F-


Future
minimum advanced royalties are as follows:

Fiscal
  Year Ending


$

116,000


116,000


116,000


116,000


116,000

Thereafter

580,000

Total

$

1,160,000

6.   Stockholders’
Equity

Initial Public
Offering

On April 19, 2005,
the Company closed the initial public offering of its common stock in which it
sold 4,700,000 shares of common stock for gross proceeds of $56.4 million. After
deduction of underwriting discounts, commissions and offering expenses, the
Company received net proceeds of $50.5 million.

Convertible
Preferred Stock

Effective April 13,
2005 and in conjunction with the Company’s initial public offering, all
35,450,870 shares of redeemable convertible preferred stock and convertible
series A preferred stock converted to 17,725,401 shares of common stock.

Changes in
Capitalization

Effective April 13,
2005, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes “blank
check” preferred stock, which enables the Board of Directors to designate and
issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with rights senior to
those of common stock.

Follow-on Offering

On May 2, 2006, the
Company and selling stockholders closed a follow-on offering in which they sold
an aggregate of 5,499,875 shares of its common stock. Of the 5,499,875 shares,
2,117,375 were sold by the Company for net proceeds of approximately $47.0
million, after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions and estimated
offering expenses, and 3,382,500 shares were sold by selling stockholders. The
Company did not receive any proceeds from the sale of shares by the selling
stockholders.

Warrant

In December 2004, in
connection with the issuance of the Series D redeemable convertible
preferred stock, the Company issued a warrant to Piper Jaffray & Co.
to purchase 87,458 shares of Series D redeemable convertible preferred
stock at an exercise price of $2.69 per share. In December 2006, the
holder of the warrant completed a cashless exercise for 22,524 common shares. There
were no shares exercisable under the warrant agreement as of December 31,
2006.

7.   Income
Taxes

At December 31, 2006, the Company has federal and
state tax net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $117.1 million
and $90.5 million, respectively. The federal and state tax loss
carryforwards will begin to expire in 2020 and 2007, respectively, unless
previously utilized. Approximately $9.5 million of the State loss
carryforward will expire in 2007. The Company also has federal and state
research and

F-


development tax credit
carryforwards of approximately $2,742,000 and $2,829,000 each, respectively. The
federal research and development tax credit will begin to expire in 2019,
unless previously utilized.

Pursuant to Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal
Revenue Code, annual use of the Company’s net operating loss and credit
carryforwards may be limited in the event that a cumulative change in ownership
of more than 50% has occurred within a three-year period.

Significant
components of the Company’s deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2006
and 2005 are shown below. A valuation allowance of approximately $51.9 million
has been established as of December 31, 2006 to offset the deferred tax
assets, as realization of such assets is uncertain.

December 31,



Deferred tax
  assets:

Net operating loss carryforwards

$

43,291,000

$

27,883,000

Research and development credit carryforwards

4,588,000

3,486,000

Other, net

4,047,000

1,061,000

Total deferred
  tax assets

51,926,000

32,430,000

Valuation
  allowance for deferred tax assets

(51,926,000

)

(32,430,000

)

Net deferred taxes

$

—

$

—

As a
result of the adoption of SFAS 123R the Company recognizes windfall tax
benefits associated with the exercise of stock options directly to
stockholders' equity only when realized. Accordingly, deferred tax assets are
not recognized for net operating loss carryforwards resulting from windfall tax
benefits occurring from January 1, 2006 onward. 
At December 31, 2006, deferred tax assets do not include $2.9 million of
excess tax benefits from share-based compensation.

8.   Related
Party Transactions

The Company’s Chairman is
a director of Oracle Corporation. Costs incurred relating to an Oracle ERP
system

for the years ended December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004 totaled $38,168, $6,483

, and $10,046, respectively. The
Company’s Chairman was not involved in the selection of the Company’s ERP
system.

9.   Employee
Benefit Plans

401(k) Plan

The Company has a defined
contribution 401(k) retirement plan, or the 401(k) Plan, covering
substantially all employees that meet certain age requirements. Employees may
contribute up to 90% of their compensation per year (subject to a maximum limit
by federal tax law). Under the 401(k) Plan, the Company may elect to match
a discretionary percentage of contributions. No such matching contributions have
been made to the 401(k) Plan since its inception.

Employee Stock
Purchase Plan

The Employee Stock
Purchase Plan permits eligible employees of the Company to purchase shares of
common stock, at semi-annual intervals, through periodic payroll deductions. Payroll
deductions may not exceed 10% of the participant’s cash compensation subject to
certain limitations, and the purchase price will not be less than 85% of the
lower of the fair market value of the stock at either the beginning of the
applicable “Offering Period” or the Purchase Date. Except for the First
Offering Period, each Offering Period is 12 months, with new Offering Periods
commencing every six months on the dates of February 1 and August 1
of each year. Each Offering Period consists of two (2) six month purchase
periods (each a “Purchase Period”) during which payroll deductions of the
participants are accumulated under the ESPP.

F-


The last
business day of each Purchase Period is referred to as the “Purchase Date.” The
First Offering Period ran from April 13, 2005 to July 31, 2006 and
included the Purchase Dates of January 31 and July 31 of 2006. Thereafter,
Purchase Dates shall be every six months on the dates of January 31 and July 31.
Annually in January of each year, subject to Board discretion and certain
limitations, shares reserved for the ESPP will automatically be increased by a
number of shares equal to 1% of the total number of issued and outstanding
shares of the Company’s common stock at the preceding year end. On

January 31, 2006, July 31, 2006, and January 31,
2007, the Company issued 35,556, 23,817, and 33,621, respectively, shares of
common stock under the ESPP.

Equity Incentive
Plans

In 2005, the Company adopted the 2005 Equity Incentive
Plan (“2005 Plan”) which replaced the 1999 Incentive Stock Plan and provides
for the grant of incentive and nonstatutory stock options, restricted stock,
stock bonuses, stock appreciation rights, and restricted stock units to
employees, directors or consultants of the Company. Shares reserved include all
shares that were available under the 1999 plan on the day it was terminated. Options
generally vest over four years and expire ten years from the date of grant. In
addition, incentive stock options may not be granted at a price less than the
100% of the fair market value on the date of grant.

The term of the 2005 Plan is scheduled to end
in March 2015. Annually in January of each year, subject to
Board discretion and certain limitations, shares reserved for the 2005 Plan
will automatically be increased by a number of shares equal to 3% of the total
number of issued and outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock during
the preceding year end.

A
summary of the Company’s stock option activity, and related information for the
three years ended December 31, 2006 is as follows:

Number of

Shares

Weighted-Average

Exercise Price

Outstanding at
  December 31, 2003

2,039,337

$

0.28

Granted

1,504,254

$

1.56

Exercised

(79,212

)

$

0.30

Cancelled

(111,246

)

$

0.44

Outstanding at
  December 31, 2004

3,353,133

$

0.92

Granted

1,039,087

$

12.69

Exercised

(632,053

)

$

0.42

Cancelled

(202,772

)

$

2.88

Outstanding at
  December 31, 2005

3,557,395

$

4.33

Granted

1,234,800

$

17.10

Exercised

(539,139

)

$

1.02

Cancelled

(262,208

)

$

13.45

Outstanding at
  December 31, 2006

3,990,848

$

8.13

The weighted average fair values of options granted
was $9.34, $6.98, and $2.67 for the threes years ended December 31, 2006,
2005, and 2004, respectively.

The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon
observed interest rates appropriate for the expected life of the Company’s
employee stock options and stock purchase plan. The dividend yield assumption
is based on the Company’s history and expectation of dividend payouts.

Due to the Company’s limited history as a publicly
traded company that began in April 2005, the Company’s expected volatility
beginning January 1, 2006 is based on both its historical stock prices and
the historical prices of similar companies, as determined by the Company. Accordingly,
the Company used the simplified method allowed under SAB 107 to determine the
expected life.

F-


As share-based
compensation expense recognized in the Statement of Operations for fiscal 2006
is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for
estimated forfeitures. SFAS 123(R) requires forfeitures to be estimated at
the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual
forfeitures differ from those estimates. Forfeitures were estimated based on
historical experience. In the Company’s pro forma information required under
SFAS 123 for the periods prior to fiscal 2006, the Company accounted for
forfeitures as they occurred.

The
following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31,
2006:

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Range of

Exercise Price

Number of

Shares

Weighted

Average

Remaining

Contractual

Life

Weighted

Average

Exercise

Price

Aggregate

Intrinsic

Value

Number of

Shares

Weighted

Average

Exercise

Price

Aggregate

Intrinsic

Value

$  0.30
  - $  2.40

1,989,879

6.7

$

1.12

$

17,400,328

1,502,393

$

0.86

$

13,526,193

$  9.18
  - $11.74

455,513

9.3

$

10.72

17,890

49,830

$

10.16

—

$12.00 - $14.30

890,006

8.8

$

13.16

—

262,616

$

12.96

—

$18.00 - $20.65

495,950

9.3

$

20.06

—

14,443

$

20.38

—

$21.00 - $25.80

159,500

9.4

$

23.07

—

15,552

$

21.61

—

3,990,848

7.9

$

8.13

$

17,418,218

1,844,834

$

3.16

$

13,526,193

The Company defines
in-the-money options at December 31, 2006 as options that had exercise
prices that were lower than the $9.86 closing market price of the Company’s
common stock at that date. The aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding
at December 31, 2006 is calculated as the difference between the exercise
price of the underlying options and the market price of the Company’s common
stock for the 2,016,379 shares that were in-the-money at that date. There were
1,502,393 in-the-money options exercisable at December 31, 2006. The total
intrinsic value of options exercised during the year ended December 31,
2006 was $9,484,123, determined as of the date of exercise.

Valuation and expense information under SFAS
123(R) and SFAS 123

The
following table summarizes share-based compensation expense related to employee
stock options and employee stock purchases under SFAS 123(R) for the year
ended December 31, 2006 and under APB 25 for employee stock options
for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 were allocated as follows:

Years Ended December 31,




Cost of sales

$

335,870

$

—

$

—

Research and
  development

2,258,844

1,272,762

291,114

Selling, general
  and administrative

3,258,187

512,967

157,575

Share-based compensation
  expense included in operating expenses

$

5,852,901

$

1,785,729

$

448,689

The Company
estimated the fair value of each option grant and ESPP purchase rights on the
date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the below
assumptions.

Options:

Years Ended December 31,




Risk free interest rate

4.5 – 5.2

%

3.8 – 4.5

%

3.7

%

Dividend yield


%


%


%

Expected
  volatility of the Company’s stock

0.51

0.60

0.60

Expected life (in years)

6.1



F-


ESPP:

Years Ended December 31,




Risk free
  interest rate

4.6 – 5.2

%

3.3 – 3.8

%

n/a

Dividend yield


%


%

n/a

Expected
  volatility of the Company’s stock

0.43-0.50

0.40-0.49

n/a

Expected life (in years)



n/a

Restricted Stock Awards

During the year ended December 31,
2005, the Company issued 19,750 shares of unvested restricted common stock
awards to certain employees. The grant awards vest 25% annually and are fully
vested following the fourth anniversary of the vesting start date which ranges
between January 3 and February 14, 2009. Vesting is subject to
employment and the Company has the right to repurchase unvested shares at the
original issuance price of $0.001 per share subject to certain terms and
conditions. The shares had a weighted- average fair value of $10.00 per share
at date of grant. As of December 31, 2006, there were 14,813 shares
subject to repurchase with an intrinsic value of $146,041.

Reserved Shares

The
Company has reserved shares of common stock for future issuance as follow:

December 31,



Warrant

—

43,729

Stock options under the
  Company’s plans:

Granted and outstanding

3,990,848

3,557,395

Reserved for future grant

2,059,657

2,269,753

Employee Stock
  Purchase Plan

344,792

150,000

Total

6,395,297

6,020,877

10.

Quarterly
Financial Information (Unaudited)

The
following is a summary of the quarterly results of operations for the years
ended December 31, 2006 and 2005:

For the Three Months Ended

Year ended December 31, 2006

December 31

September 30

June 30

March 31

Revenues

$

834,917

$

841,020

$

479,078

$

14,775

Gross margin

(2,563,597

)

(2,547,655

)

(1,611,466

)

(2,066,445

)

Total operating costs

9,193,646

11,707,925

10,293,778

9,335,526

Net loss attributable to
  common stockholders

(11,073,643

)

(13,437,771

)

(11,168,820

)

(10,919,057

)

Basic and diluted net loss per share attributable to
  common stockholders

$

(0.39

)

$

(0.48

)

$

(0.41

)

$

(0.43

)

For the Three Months Ended

Year ended December 31, 2005

December 31

September 30

June 30

March 31

Revenues

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

Gross margin

—

—

—

—

Total operating costs

12,604,523

6,861,053

6,842,226

6,121,672

Net loss attributable to common stockholders

(12,067,626

)

(6,329,621

)

(6,399,490

)

(6,092,925

)

Basic and diluted net loss per share attributable to
  common stockholders

$

(0.48

)

$

(0.25

)

$

(0.29

)

$

(2.36

)

F-


SCHEDULE
II—VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

Allowance for doubtful accounts(1)

Balance
  December 31, 2005

$

—

Provision for
  doubtful accounts

5,000

Write-off and
  adjustments

—

Recoveries

—

Balance
  December 31, 2006

$

5,000

(1)

There was no activity or
ending balance for the years ended December 31, 2004 or 2005.

F-


ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH
ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We maintain controls and procedures designed to ensure
that we are able to collect the information we are required to disclose in the
reports we file with the SEC, and to record, process, summarize and disclose
this information within the time periods specified in the rules of the
SEC. Based on an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the
end of the period covered by this report conducted by our management, with the
participation of our Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers, the Chief
Executive and Chief Financial Officers believe that these controls and procedures
are effective to ensure that we are able to collect, process and disclose the
information we are required to disclose in the reports we file with the SEC
within the required time periods.

The certifications of our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required under
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act have been filed as Exhibits 31.01
and 31.02 to this report.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There were no changes in
our internal control over financial reporting during our last fiscal quarter
that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect
our internal control over financial reporting.

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our internal control over financial
reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance to our management and
Board of Directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Therefore,
even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable
assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.

Our management, with the participation of the Chief
Executive and Chief Financial Officers, assessed the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. In
making this assessment, our management used the criteria set forth by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in
Internal Control—Integrated Framework. Based on this assessment, our
management, with the participation of the Chief Executive and Chief Financial
Officers, believes that, as of December 31, 2006, our internal control
over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.

Our management’s
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2006, has been audited by Ernst & Young, LLP, the
independent registered public accounting firm who also audited our consolidated
financial statements. Ernst & Young’s attestation report on management’s
assessment of our internal control over financial reporting is included herein.


REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of
Directors and Stockholders

DexCom, Inc.

We have audited management’s assessment, included in
the accompanying Management’s Assessment of Internal Controls Over Financial
Reporting, that DexCom, Inc. maintained effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established
in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). DexCom, Inc.’s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on management’s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention
or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that DexCom, Inc.
maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the COSO criteria.
Also, in our opinion, DexCom, Inc. maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2006, based on the COSO criteria

.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the balance
sheets of DexCom, Inc. as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the
related statements of operations, stockholders’ equity (deficit), and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006 of
DexCom, Inc. and our report dated February 23, 2007 expressed an
unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

San
Diego, California

February 23, 2007


ITEM
9B.

OTHER
INFORMATION.

None.

PART III

ITEM
10.

DIRECTORS,
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The information concerning
our directors required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the section
in our Proxy Statement entitled “Proposal No. 1—Election of Directors.”

The information concerning
our executive officers required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
the section in our Proxy Statement entitled “Executive Officers.”

The information concerning
compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the section in our Proxy
Statement entitled “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance.”

We have adopted a written
code of ethics for financial employees that applies to our principal executive
officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, controller
and other employees of the finance department designated by the company’s Chief
Financial Officer. This code of ethics, titled the “Code of Conduct and Ethics
for Chief Executive Officer and Senior Finance Department Personnel,” is
publicly available on our Internet website at
http://www.shareholder.com/dexcom/governance.cfm. The information contained on
our Internet website is not incorporated by reference into this Report on
Form 10-K.

The information concerning
the audit committee of the Board of Directors required by this Item is
incorporated by reference to information set forth in the Proxy Statement.

The information concerning
material changes to the procedures by which stockholders may recommend nominees
to the Board of Directors required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
information set forth in the Proxy Statement.

ITEM
11.

EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION

The information required
by this Item is incorporated by reference to information set forth in the Proxy
Statement.

ITEM
12.

SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

The information required
by this Item is incorporated by reference to information set forth in the Proxy
Statement under the headings “Principal Stockholders and Stock Ownership by
Management” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information.”

ITEM
13.

CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information required
by this Item with respect to director independence is incorporated by reference
to information set forth in the Proxy Statement.

The information concerning
certain relationships and related transactions required by the Item is
incorporated by reference to the section in our Proxy Statement entitled
“Certain Transactions.”

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES
AND SERVICES

The information concerning principal accountant fees
and services required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the section
in our Proxy Statement entitled “Ratification of Selection of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm.”


PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)           The following documents are filed as
part of this annual report:

1.

Financial
Statements.

The
following financial statement of DexCom, Inc. are incorporated by
reference to Part II, Item 8 of this annual report.

2.

Financial
Statement Schedules.

For the three
fiscal years ended December 31, 2006—Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying
Accounts

Schedules not
listed above have been omitted because information required to be set forth
therein is not applicable or is shown in the financial statements or notes
thereto.

3.

Exhibits.

Incorporated by Reference

Date of

Exhibit

File

First

Exhibit

Provided

Number

Exhibit Description

Form

No.

Filing

Number

Herewith

3.01

Registrants’ Restated Certificate of Incorporation.

S-1

000-


February 1,

3.01

3.02

Registrant’s Restated Bylaws.

S-1/A

000-


March 24,

3.05

4.01

Form of Specimen Certificate for Registrant’s
  common stock.

S-1/A

000-


March 24,

4.01

4.02

Second Amended and Restated Investors’ Rights
  Agreement, dated December 30, 2004.

S-1

000-


February 1,

4.02

4.03

Form of Rights Agreement, between
  DexCom, Inc. and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company,
  including the Certificate of Designations of Series A Junior
  Participating Preferred Stock, Summary of Stock Purchase Rights and Forms of
  Right Certificate attached thereto as Exhibit A, B and C, respectively.

S-1/A

000-


March 24,

4.03

10.01

Form of Indemnity Agreement between Registrant
  and each of its directors and executive officers.

S-1

000-


February 1,

10.01

10.02

1999 Stock Option Plan and related agreements.*

S-1

000-


February 1,

10.02

10.03

2005 Equity Incentive Plan and forms of stock option
  agreement and stock option exercise agreements.*

S-1/A

000-


March 24,

10.03

10.04

2005 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and form of
  subscription agreement.*

S-1/A

000-


March 24,

10.04


10.05

Amended and Restated Executive Change of Control
  Agreement dated January 31, 2005 between DexCom, Inc. and Andrew
  Rasdal.*

S-1/A

000-


March 3,

10.05

10.06

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated
  January 31, 2005 between DexCom, Inc. and Andrew Rasdal.*

S-1/A

000-


March 3,

10.06

10.07

Form of Change of Control Agreement between
  DexCom, Inc. and Andrew K. Balo, James H. Brauker, Mark Brister, and
  Steven J. Kemper.*

S-1/A

000-


March 3,

10.07

10.08

Sorrento Valley Business Park Lease dated
  December 3, 2003 between Hub Properties Trust and DexCom, Inc.

S-1/A

000-


March 25,

10.08

10.09

Exclusive Patent License Agreement dated
  August 17, 2001 between SM Technologies, LLC and DexCom, Inc.**

S-1/A

000-


April 5,

10.09

10.10

Agreement Regarding Terms of Sale dated May 23,
  2003 between AMI Semiconductor, Inc. and DexCom, Inc.**

S-1/A

000-


April 5,

10.10

10.11

Agreement between DexCom, Inc. and Quallion
  LLC, dated May 21, 2003.**

S-1/A

000-


April 5,

10.11

10.12

Lease from Hub Properties Trust to DexCom, Inc.
  dated May 13, 2005.

8-K

000-


May 18, 2005

99.01

10.13

Board Member Agreement between DexCom, Inc. and
  Terrance H. Gregg dated May 19, 2005.

8-K

000-


May 24, 2005

99.01

10.14

Offer letter between DexCom, Inc. and Jorge
  Valdes dated October 17, 2005.*

10-K

000-


February 27,

10.14

10.15

Offer letter between DexCom, Inc. and Rodney
  Kellogg, dated December 12, 2005. *

10-K

000-


February 27,

10.15

10.16

Loan and Security Agreement between Square I Bank
  and DexCom, Inc., dated March 20, 2006.

8-K

000-


March 24,

99.01

10.17

Offer letter between DexCom, Inc. and Tae W.
  Andrews dated March 22, 2006. *

8-K

000-


April 5,

99.01


10.18

Office Lease Agreement, dated April 4, 2006,
  between DexCom, Inc. and Kilroy Realty, L.P.

8-K

000-


April 7,

99.01

10.19

Offer letter between DexCom, Inc. and Steven R.
  Pacelli dated April 10, 2006 *

8-K

000-


April 13,

99.01

10.20

Amendment to Offer Letter Agreement, dated
  March 29, 2006, between the Company and Andy Rasdal *

8-K

000-


April 4,

99.01

14.01

Code of Ethics for Financial Employees

10-K

000-


February 27,

14.01

23.01

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm.

X

24.01

Power of Attorney. (See page    of
  this Form 10-K).

X

31.01

Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to
  Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a).

X

31.02

Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to
  Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a).

X

32.01

Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to
  18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(b).***

X

32.02

Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to
  18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(b).***

X

*

Represents a
management contract or compensatory plan.

**

Confidential
treatment has been granted for certain portions of this document pursuant to an
application for confidential treatment sent to the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Such portions are omitted from this filing and were filed
separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

***

This certification is not
deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act,
or otherwise subject to the liability of that section. Such certification will
not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the
Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the
extent that DexCom specifically incorporates it by reference.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

DEXCOM, INC.

(Registrant)

Dated: February 27,

By:

/s/ STEVEN J. KEMPER

Steven J. Kemper,

Chief
  Financial Officer

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person
whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Andrew P. Rasdal
and Steven J. Kemper, jointly and severally, his attorneys-in-fact,
each with the power of substitution, for him in any and all capacities, to sign
any amendments to this Report on Form 10-K and to file same, with
exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
each of said attorneys-in-fact, or his substitutes, may do or cause
to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in
the capacities and dates indicated.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ ANDREW P.
  RASDAL

President, Chief
  Executive Officer and

February 27,

Andrew
  P. Rasdal

Director

(Principal Executive
  Officer)

/s/

STEVEN J. KEMPER

Chief Financial
  Officer

February 27,

Steven
  J. Kemper

(Principal Financial
  Officer)

/s/

DONALD L. LUCAS

Chairman of the
  Board of Directors

February 27,

Donald
  L. Lucas

/s/

KIM BLICKENSTAFF

Director

February 27,

Kim
  Blickenstaff

/s/

SEAN CARNEY

Director

February 27,

Sean
  Carney

/s/

TERRANCE H. GREGG

Director

February 27,

Terrance
  H. Gregg

/s/

DONALD A. LUCAS

Director

February 27,

Donald
  A. Lucas

/s/

GLEN D. NELSON

Director

February 27,

Glen
  D. Nelson, M.D.

/s/

JAY SKYLER

Director

February 27,

Jay Skyler, M.D.

65