10-K


a06-5268_210k.htm

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED
STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
D.C. 20549

FORM 10 - K

S

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13
OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31,

OR

£

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13
OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period
from                  
to

Commission file
number:  000-51222

DEXCOM,
INC.

(Exact name of Registrant
as Specified in its Charter)

(858) 200-0200

(Registrant’s Telephone
Number, including area code)

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act:  None

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act:  Common Stock, $0.001 Par Value Per Share

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights

Title of Class

Indicate by check mark if
the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.

Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by check mark if
the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Act.

Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by check mark
whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.

Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s
knowledge, in definite proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.

Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by check mark
whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a
non-accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).

Large accelerated Filer

o

Accelerated
  Filer

o

Non-accelerated
  Filer

x

Indicate by check mark
whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act).

Yes

o

No

x

As of June 30, 2005,
the aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $136.0 million based on
the closing sales price as reported on the National Association of Securities
Dealers Automated Quotation System National Market System.

Indicate the number of
shares outstanding of each of the issuer’s classes of common stock, as of the
latest practicable date.

Class

Outstanding at January 30, 2006

Common
  stock, $0.001 par value per share

25,521,860 shares

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the documents
listed below have been incorporated by reference into the indicated parts of
this reports, as specified in the responses to the item numbers involved.

Designated portions of the
Proxy Statement relating to the 2006 Annual Meeting of the Stockholders (the “Proxy
Statement”):  Part III (Items 10,
11, 12, 13 and 14). Except with respect to information specifically
incorporated by reference in the Form 10-K, the Proxy Statement is
not deemed by be filed as part hereof.

DexCom, Inc.


i

PART I

Except for historical financial information contained
herein, the matters discussed in this Form 10-K may be considered
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and subject to the safe harbor created by the
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include declarations
regarding our intent, belief, or current expectations and those of our
management. Prospective investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking
statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of
risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control;
actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such
forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results
to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements
include, but are not limited to:  (i) that
the information is of a preliminary nature and may be subject to further
adjustment; (ii) those risks and uncertainties identified under “Risk
Factors;” and (iii) the other risks detailed from time-to-time in our
reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, or SEC. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to
revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result
of new information, future events or otherwise.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview

We are a medical device company focused on the design
and development of continuous glucose monitoring systems for people with
diabetes. We have developed proprietary technology and expertise that are
enabling us to develop two continuous glucose monitoring systems: a short-term
system with a sensor that can be inserted by a patient and used continuously
for three days, and a long-term system with a sensor that can be implanted by a
physician in a short outpatient procedure requiring only local anesthesia. When
fully developed, our long-term sensor is expected to be used continuously for
up to one year. Both sensors wirelessly transmit the patient’s blood glucose,
or blood sugar, levels to a small cell phone-sized receiver, which allows
the patient to view real-time and trended blood glucose information with the
touch of a button and alerts the patient when glucose levels are
inappropriately high or low. We are also designing and developing our glucose
monitoring systems to offer convenience and comfort to diabetes patients, and to
have an intuitive user interface. Currently, none of our products are approved
for sale in the United States or elsewhere.

Worldwide, approximately 171 million people
suffer from diabetes. In 2005, there were an estimated 20.8 million people in
the United States with diabetes of which 14.6 million have been diagnosed.
Approximately 4.1 million of these patients were insulin-dependent.
The number of diagnosed diabetes patients is expected to rise by more than
1.5 million people each year as a result of an aging population,
inappropriate diets and increasingly sedentary lifestyles. Diabetes is the fifth
leading cause of death by disease in the United States, and complications
related to diabetes include heart disease, limb amputations, loss of kidney
function and blindness. According to the American Diabetes Association, or ADA,
the direct medical costs and indirect expenditures attributable to diabetes in
the United States were an estimated $132 billion in 2002 and could reach
$156 billion by 2010. Of the $132 billion in overall expenses, the
ADA estimates that approximately $92 billion were direct medical costs.
According to industry sources, the worldwide market for personal glucose
monitoring systems and related disposables, which include test strips and
lancets, was approximately $5.6 billion in 2004, and is expected to grow
to $8.9 billion in 2008. While we believe our systems, if approved, will
be adopted broadly in this market as a way to manage glucose levels more
effectively, we do not expect that our systems will appeal to all types of
diabetes patients, or that the worldwide market for personal glucose monitoring
systems and related disposables is a direct indication of our market
opportunity. In a study of Type 2 diabetes patients, fewer than 15% of all
study patients and 39% of all insulin dependent study patients who were insulin
dependent tested their glucose levels one or more times per day. If patients do
not perceive our systems to be more


convenient and effective
for managing their blood glucose levels than other devices on the market, our
market may be limited.

Several clinical studies suggest that more intensive
management reduces the complications associated with diabetes. The overall
objective of diabetes management is to normalize blood sugar levels. In our
pivotal clinical study for our Short-Term Continuous Glucose  Monitoring System (STS

tm

), patients demonstrated
statistically significant improvement in blood sugar levels. In just nine days,
patients who had access to the DexCom STS data spent less time hyperglycemic
(high), less time hypoglycemic (low) and more time in the target range when
compared to patients using only finger stick devices. The full results from the
study were published in a peer reviewed article in the January 2006
edition of

Diabetes Care

, a
publication of the American Diabetes Association.

We filed an application for premarket approval, or
PMA, with the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for our STS in March 2005.
In May 2005 we received notification from the FDA that our PMA was
accepted as filed and granted expedited review status. In July 2005, we
completed our 100-day PMA meeting with the FDA. In August 2005 we
successfully completed the Quality System Regulations (QSR) audit of our
facility and the Biometric Monitoring (BIMO) audit of our clinical data by the
FDA. In August 2005 we received a written request from the FDA for
additional information, and in September 2005 we responded to that
request. We are currently awaiting a decision on approval from the FDA for our
STS PMA.

Since we filed our PMA, we have continued to enroll
patients in clinical trials with our continuous glucose monitoring products. To
date, we have 10,000 patient days of real-time usage by more than 500 patients
with our products in clinical studies.

Submitting a PMA does not
ensure approval. After we submit a PMA application, it could take three years,
or longer, to obtain any approval from the FDA, if approval is received, and to
begin to market our products commercially. Our clinical trials may be delayed
due to scheduling issues with patients and investigators, institutional review
boards, sensor performance and manufacturing supply constraints, among other
factors. Support of these clinical trials requires significant resources in
research and development, manufacturing, quality assurance, and clinical and
regulatory personnel.

Market Opportunity

Diabetes

Diabetes is a chronic, life-threatening disease for
which there is no known cure. The disease is caused by the body’s inability to
produce or effectively utilize the hormone insulin. This inability prevents the
body from adequately regulating blood glucose levels. Worldwide, approximately
171 million people suffer from the disease. In 2005, there were an
estimated 14.6 million diagnosed diabetes patients in the United States.
This number is expected to rise by more than 1.5 million people each year
as a result of an aging population, inappropriate diets and increasingly sedentary
lifestyles. According to a report published in

Diabetes
Care

in 2003, diabetes is the fifth leading cause of death by
disease in the United States. Complications related to diabetes include heart
disease, limb amputations, loss of kidney function and blindness.

Glucose, the primary source of energy for cells, must
be maintained at certain concentrations in the blood in order to permit optimal
cell function and health. Normally, the pancreas provides control of blood
glucose levels by secreting the hormone insulin to lower blood glucose levels
when concentrations are too high. In people with diabetes, the body does not
produce sufficient levels of insulin, or fails to utilize insulin effectively,
causing blood glucose to rise above normal. This condition is called hyperglycemia
and often results in chronic long-term complications such as heart disease,
limb amputations, loss of kidney function and blindness. When blood glucose
levels are high, patients often administer insulin in an effort to


drive blood glucose levels
down. Unfortunately, insulin administration can drive blood glucose levels
below the normal range, resulting in hypoglycemia. In cases of severe
hypoglycemia, diabetes patients risk acute complications, such as loss of
consciousness or death. Due to the drastic nature of acute complications
associated with hypoglycemia, many patients are afraid of driving down blood
glucose levels. Consequently, patients often remain in a hyperglycemic state,
exposing themselves to long-term chronic complications.

Diabetes is typically classified into two major
groups: Type 1 and Type 2. According to the ADA, in 2002 there were
approximately 1.3 million diagnosed Type 1 diabetes patients in the
United States. Type 1 diabetes usually develops in early childhood and is
characterized by an absence of insulin resulting from destruction of the
insulin producing cells of the pancreas. Individuals with Type 1 diabetes must
rely on frequent insulin injections in order to regulate and maintain blood
glucose levels. Also, in 2005, there were approximately 13.0 million
people in the United States who had been diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes,
which results when the body is unable to produce sufficient levels of insulin
or becomes insulin resistant. Depending on the severity of Type 2 diabetes,
individuals may require dieting, exercise, oral medications or insulin
injections to regulate blood glucose levels. As of 2002, approximately
2.8 million Type 2 patients were estimated to be using insulin
injections. In addition to Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes patients,
pregnant women who have never had diabetes before may develop high blood
glucose levels during pregnancy. This condition is known as gestational
diabetes and is caused in some pregnant women by hormonal changes that block
the action of insulin in the mother’s body. Uncontrolled glucose levels can
adversely affect the fetus, leading to neonatal complications. According to the
ADA, approximately 135,000 cases of gestational diabetes occur in the United
States each year. Gestational diabetes usually resolves after pregnancy, but,
according to the ADA, there is a 67% probability that it will return in future
pregnancies. Treatment for gestational diabetes includes special meal plans and
scheduled physical activity, and may also include daily blood glucose testing
and insulin injections.

The ADA estimates that the
direct medical costs and indirect expenditures attributable to diabetes in the
United States were $132 billion in 2002, and could reach $156 billion
by 2010. Of the $132 billion in overall expenses, the ADA estimates that
approximately $92 billion were direct medical care. A portion of that
amount is attributable to the costs associated with monitoring blood glucose
levels. According to industry sources, the worldwide market for personal
glucose monitoring systems and related disposables, which includes test strips
and lancets, was approximately $5.6 billion in 2004, and is expected to
grow to $8.9 billion in 2008. While we believe our systems will be adopted
broadly in this market, if approved, as a way to manage glucose levels more
effectively, we do not expect that our systems will appeal to all types of
diabetes patients, or that the worldwide market for personal glucose monitoring
systems and related disposables is a direct indication of our market
opportunity. In a study of Type 2 diabetes patients, fewer than 15% of all
study patients and 39% of all insulin dependent study patients who were insulin
dependent tested their glucose levels one or more times per day. If patients do
not perceive our systems to be more convenient and effective for managing their
blood glucose levels than other devices on the market, our market may be
limited.

Importance of Glucose Monitoring

Blood glucose levels can be affected by the
carbohydrate and fat content of meals, exercise, stress, illness or impending
illness, hormonal releases, variability in insulin absorption and changes in
the effects of insulin in the body. Given the many factors that affect blood
glucose levels, maintaining glucose within a normal range is difficult,
resulting in frequent excursions above or below normal blood glucose levels
that can be unpredictable. Patients manage their blood glucose levels by
administering insulin or ingesting carbohydrates throughout the day in order to
maintain blood glucose within normal ranges. Patients frequently overcorrect
and fluctuate between hyperglycemic and hypoglycemic states, often multiple
times during the same day. As a result, many patients with diabetes are
routinely outside the normal blood glucose range. Patients are often unaware
that their glucose levels are either too high or too low, and their


inability to completely
control glucose levels and the associated serious complications can be
frustrating and, at times, overwhelming.

In an attempt to maintain blood glucose levels within
the normal range, patients with diabetes must first measure their glucose
levels. Often after measuring their blood glucose levels, patients make
therapeutic adjustments. As adjustments are made, additional blood glucose
measurements may be necessary to gauge the individual’s response to the
adjustments. More frequent testing of blood glucose levels provides patients
with information that can be used to better understand and manage their
diabetes. The ADA recommends that patients test their blood glucose levels at
least three or four times per day.

According to the ADA, an
important component of effective diabetes management is frequent monitoring of
blood glucose levels. The landmark 1993 Diabetes Control and Complications
Trial, or DCCT, consisting of patients with Type 1 diabetes, and the 1998
UK Prospective Diabetes Study, consisting of patients with Type 2
diabetes, demonstrated that patients who intensely managed blood glucose levels
significantly reduced the incidence and severity of diabetes-related
complications. In the DCCT, a major component of intensive management was
monitoring blood glucose levels at least four times per day using conventional
single-point blood glucose meters. The DCCT demonstrated that intensive
management reduced the risk of complications by 76% for eye disease, 60% for
nerve disease and 50% for kidney disease. However, the DCCT also found that
intensive management led to a three-fold increase in the frequency of
hypoglycemic events. Despite evidence that intensive glucose management reduces
the long-term complications associated with diabetes, industry sources estimate
that people with diabetes test, on average, less than twice per day. In the December 2005
edition of the

New England Journal of
Medicine

, the authors of a peer-reviewed study concluded that
intensive diabetes therapy has long-term beneficial effects on the risk of
cardiovascular disease in patients with Type 1 diabetes. The study showed that
intensive treatment reduced the risk of cardiovascular disease by 42% and the
risk of non-fatal myocardial infarction, stroke or death from cardiovascular
disease by 57%.

Limitations of Existing Glucose Monitoring Products

Single-point
finger stick devices are the most prevalent devices for glucose monitoring.
These devices require taking a blood sample with a finger stick, placing a drop
of blood on a test strip and inserting the strip into a glucose meter that
yields a single-point in time blood glucose measurement. We believe that
these devices suffer from several limitations, including:

·

Inconvenience.

The process of measuring blood glucose levels
with single-point finger stick devices can cause significant disruption
in the daily activities of people with diabetes and their families. Patients
using single-point finger stick devices must stop whatever they are doing
several times a day, self-inflict a painful prick and draw blood to measure
blood glucose levels. To do so, patients must always carry a fully-supplied
kit that includes a spring-loaded needle, or lancet, disposable test
strips, cleansing wipes and the meter, and then safely dispose of the used
supplies. This process is inconvenient and may cause embarrassment in social
situations.

·

Limited Information.

Even if patients test several times
each day, each measurement represents a single blood glucose value at a single
point in time. Given the many factors that can affect blood glucose levels,
excursions above and below the normal range often occur between these discrete
measurement points in time. Because patients only have single-point data,
they do not gain sufficient information to indicate the direction of change in
their blood glucose levels. Without the ability to determine whether their
blood glucose level is rising, falling or holding constant, the patient’s
ability to effectively manage and maintain blood glucose levels within normal
ranges is severely limited. In addition, patients cannot test themselves during
sleep, when the risk of hypoglycemia is significantly increased.


The following graph shows
the limited information provided by four single-point measurements during
a single day using a traditional single-point finger stick device,
compared to the data provided by our continuous sensor. The data presented in
the graph is from a clinical trial we completed in 2003 with our long-term
continuous glucose monitoring system, where the patient was blinded to the
continuous glucose data. The continuous data indicates that, even with four
finger sticks in one day, the patient’s blood glucose levels were above the
target range of 80-140 mg/dl, or milligrams per deciliter, for a
period of 13.5 hours.

Single Day Continuous Data

·

Difficulty of Use.

To obtain a sample with single-point
finger stick devices, patients generally prick one of their fingertips or,
occasionally, a forearm with a lancet. Patients then squeeze the area to
produce the blood sample and another prick may be required if a sufficient
volume of blood is not obtained the first time. The blood sample is then placed
on a disposable test strip that is inserted into a blood glucose meter. This
task can be difficult for patients with decreased tactile sensation and visual
acuity, which are common complications of diabetes.

·

Pain.

Although the fingertips are rich in blood flow and
provide a good site to obtain a blood sample, they are also densely populated
with highly sensitive nerve endings. This makes the lancing and subsequent
manipulation of the finger to draw blood painful. The pain and discomfort are
compounded by the fact that fingers offer limited surface area, so tests are
often performed on areas that are sore from prior tests. Patients also suffer
pain when the finger prick site is disturbed during regular activities.

Several companies have attempted to address the
limitations of single-point finger stick devices by developing continuous
glucose monitoring systems. To date, three continuous glucose monitors have
received FDA approval. We believe that one of the products is no longer
actively marketed. Another


continuous glucose monitor
is approved for physician interpretation only, not allowing patients to see
their blood glucose trends real-time. Finally, a third continuous
monitoring device is approved to provide a real-time glucose value and alert
the patient at inappropriately high or low glucose levels. We believe that none
of the products that have received FDA approval are approved for more than
three days of use or for use as a replacement for single-point finger
stick devices.

We believe a significant
market opportunity exists for a glucose monitoring system that provides
continuous blood glucose information and that is convenient and easy-to-use.

The DexCom Solution

We are developing
blood glucose monitoring systems that continuously measure a patient’s blood
glucose level and transmit that information to a small cell phone-sized
receiver. Relying on our broad-based technology platform, we are
developing, and testing in clinical trials, short-term and long-term continuous
blood glucose monitoring systems that are designed to offer the following
advantages to diabetes patients:

·

Convenience.

We believe that convenience is the paramount
factor in achieving widespread adoption of a continuous blood glucose
monitoring system. Our sensors continuously measure and record the patient’s
blood glucose level and wirelessly transmit a blood glucose value at various
intervals to a small cell phone-sized receiver throughout the day and
night. The patient can check his or her blood glucose level and trend
information at any time with the touch of a button. Our short-term sensor
is designed to measure patients’ blood glucose levels continuously for three
days, and when fully developed our long-term sensor is expected to be
used continuously for up to one year.

·

Access to Real-Time Values and Trend Information.

By pushing
a button, patients can view their current glucose value, along with a graphical
display of one-, three- or nine-hour trend information. Without
continuous monitoring, the patient is often unaware if his or her blood glucose
is rising, declining or remaining constant. Access to continuous real-time
glucose measurements provides patients with information that may be used to
attain better glucose control. Additionally, our continuous glucose monitoring
systems are designed to alert patients when their blood glucose approaches
inappropriately high or low levels so that they may intervene.

·

Intuitive Patient Interface.

We have extensive experience in
the clinical trial setting with real-time usage of our continuous glucose
monitoring technology. With knowledge gained from more than 10,000 patient days
of real-time usage in clinical studies, we have developed a patient interface
that we believe is intuitive and easy-to-use. Our receiver’s ergonomic design
includes user-friendly buttons, an easy-to-read display, simple navigation
tools, audible alerts and graphical display of trend information.

·

Comfort.

Our sensors are designed to provide patients with
the benefits of continuous monitoring, without having to perform finger stick
tests for each measurement. Additionally, the short-term sensor electrode that
is inserted under the skin is a very thin wire, minimizing potential discomfort
associated with inserting or wearing the sensor. The external portion of the
short-term sensor, including the transmitter, is small and has a low profile
designed to be easily worn under clothing. Finally, the receiver for both
systems is the size of a small cell phone and can be carried discreetly in a
pocket or purse.

In our pivotal clinical studies supporting our PMA
application for our STS, patients demonstrated statistically significant
improvements in blood sugar levels. When compared to patients relying solely on
single point finger stick measurements, patients with access to continuous data
from the STS reduced time spent hyperglycemic (high) by 23%, reduced time spent
hypoglycemic (low) by 21% and increased time


spent in the target range
by 26% in just nine consecutive days of use. The full results from the study
were published by the clinical investigators in the January 2006 edition of

Diabetes Care

, a publication of the
American Diabetes Association. The peer-reviewed article was entitled

“Improvement in Glycemic Excursions With a
Transcutaneous, Real-Time Continuous Glucose Sensor.”

While we believe our
glucose monitoring systems offer these advantages, patients may not perceive
the benefits of continuous glucose monitoring and may be unwilling to change
their current treatment regimens. Our products, and in particular our long-term
continuous glucose monitoring system, can be more invasive than current
self-monitored glucose testing systems, including single-point finger
stick devices. Our short-term continuous glucose monitoring system requires a
patient to insert a sensor electrode under their skin at least every three
days. Patients could find this process to be uncomfortable or inconvenient.
Patients may be unwilling to insert or implant a sensor in their body,
especially if their current diabetes management involves no more than two
finger sticks per day. Additionally, our systems may not be approved as
replacement devices for single-point finger stick devices and may be more
costly to use.

Our Strategy

Our objective is to
become the leading provider of continuous glucose monitoring systems and
related products to enable people with diabetes to more conveniently and
effectively manage their disease. To achieve this objective, we are pursuing
the following business strategies:

·

Establish our technology platform as the leading approach to continuous
glucose monitoring

. We have developed proprietary core technology
and expertise that provide a broad platform for the development of innovative
products for continuous glucose monitoring. We plan to continue to invest in
the development of our technology platform and to obtain FDA approval for our
short-term and long-term continuous glucose monitoring systems.

·

Leverage our product development expertise to rapidly bring products to
market

. We have demonstrated our ability to leverage our platform
and apply our technical expertise to rapidly develop products. In less than one
year, we brought our STS from concept to a PMA application. While our first PMA
was pending, we developed a second generation STS system intended to extend the
useful life of the STS from three to seven days. In July 2005, we
completed an 86-patient, 21-day trial demonstrating the usage of
the STS could function reliably over a seven-day period. We plan to continue to
provide performance improvements and introduce new products to establish and
maintain a leadership position in the market. In the future, we may develop our
technology to support applications beyond glucose sensing.

·

Pursue the highest safety and quality levels for our products

.
We have established an organization that is highly focused on product quality
and patient safety. We have developed in-house engineering, quality assurance,
clinical and regulatory expertise, and data analysis capabilities. In August 2005
we successfully completed the QSR audit of our facility. Additionally, we seek
to continue to establish credible and open relationships with regulatory
bodies, physician opinion leaders and scientific experts. These capabilities
and relationships will assist us in designing products that we believe will
meet or exceed expectations for reliable, safe performance.

·

Commercialize our products through a direct sales and marketing effort

.
We plan to build a direct sales force to call directly on endocrinologists,
patients, physicians and diabetes educators who can educate and influence
patient adoption of continuous glucose monitoring. To complement our sales
efforts, we intend to employ clinical managers who will educate and provide
clinical support to patients. We plan to launch our products initially in the
United States and then to expand distribution into selected European and Asian
markets. In November 2005 we hired our Vice President of Sales and have
subsequently begun hiring additional sales professionals.


·

Provide a
high level of customer support, service and education

. We plan to
support our sales and marketing efforts with a customer service program that
includes customer training and support. We intend to provide direct technical
support by telephone and internet access 24 hours a day to patients,
physicians and diabetes educators to promote safe and successful use of our
products. We also plan to have in-house reimbursement specialists to assist
physicians and patients in obtaining proper reimbursement from third-party
healthcare payors.

Our Technology Platform

The development of a
continuous glucose monitor requires successful coordination and execution of a
wide variety of technology disciplines, including biomaterials, membrane
systems, electrochemistry, low power microelectronics, telemetry, software,
algorithms, implant tools and sealed protective housings. We have developed in-house
expertise in these disciplines. We believe we have a broad technology platform
that will support the development of multiple products for glucose monitoring.

Sensor Technology

The key enabling technologies for our sensors are
biomaterials, membrane systems, electrochemistry and low power
microelectronics. We have applied our biomaterials expertise by developing a
polymeric biointerface membrane system that modifies the human body’s foreign
body response, which is inherently hostile to implanted objects. When an
implant is placed into the body, it triggers the body to respond by
encapsulating and isolating the implanted object with scar tissue, known as the
foreign body response. Typically, this complete response takes between three
and four weeks, although sensor function may be severely hampered much sooner.
Historically, the challenge with implantable sensors has been their inability
to operate due to the foreign body response because glucose is blocked from
reaching the sensor. Our proprietary polymer membrane technology is designed to
modify the human body’s response, providing for the continual transport of
glucose and oxygen to the sensor. This technology is currently used in our
long-term sensor. While our membrane technology has significantly improved
functionality in our implanted long-term sensors, the technology is still under
development and we have encountered some premature sensor failures in our
clinical trials due to the foreign body response.

Complementing the
biointerface membrane, our sensing membrane technology consists of multiple
polymer layers configured to selectively allow the appropriate mix of glucose
and oxygen to travel through the membrane. Within the sensing membrane, the
glucose and oxygen react with a specific enzyme to create an extremely low
level electrical signal, measured in pico-amperes. This electrical signal is
then translated into glucose measurements. We believe that the capability to
measure very low levels of current and to accurately translate those
measurements into glucose values is also a unique and distinguishing feature of
our technology. These technologies are used in both our long-term and
short-term sensors. We have also developed technology to allow sensitive
electronics to be packaged in a fully-contained, sealed unit that can be
quickly and safely implanted by a physician with our long-term sensor, or
inserted by a patient with our short-term sensor. Our sensors are designed to
function without damage from fluids or other substances in the body and to be quickly
and safely removed.

Receiver Technology

Both our short-term and long-term glucose monitoring
systems use radiofrequency telemetry to wirelessly transmit information from
the sensor to our platform receiver. We have developed the technology for reliable
transmission and reception and have consistently demonstrated a high degree of
capture of transmissions from sensor to receiver in our clinical trials. Our
receiver then processes and displays real-time and trended glucose values, and
provides alerts. We have used our extensive database of continuous glucose data
from our clinical trials to create software and algorithms for the display of
data to patients.


Other Technology Applications

We have gained our
technology expertise by learning to design implants that can withstand the
rigors of functioning within the human body for extended periods of time. In
addition to the foreign body response, we have overcome other problems related
to operating within the human body, such as device sealing, miniaturization,
durability, sensor geometry and surgical techniques. We believe the expertise
gained in overcoming these problems will support the development of additional
products beyond glucose sensing.

Our Products Under Development

We are developing
short-term and long-term continuous blood glucose monitoring systems. These
systems include either a small insertable sensor or an implantable sensor that
continuously measures glucose levels in subcutaneous tissue, and a handheld
receiver to which the sensor wirelessly transmits glucose levels at specified
intervals. Our short-term and long-term systems are based on many of the same
underlying core technologies and are being designed to offer several
performance and ease-of-use advantages to provide continuous blood glucose
monitoring to patients. Our research and development expenses were $25.5
million in 2005, $12.2 million in 2004, and $8.9 million in 2003,
excluding stock-based compensation expenses.

Short-Term Continuous Glucose Monitoring Sensor

Our short-term insertable sensor includes a tiny
wire-like electrode coated with our sensing membrane system. This sensor comes
packaged with an integrated insertion device and is contained in a small
plastic housing platform, or pod. The base of the pod has adhesive that
attaches it to the skin. The electrode is intended to be easily and reliably
inserted by the patient by exposing the adhesive, placing the pod against the surface
of the skin of the abdomen and pushing down on the insertion device. The
insertion device extends a narrow gauge needle containing the electrode into
the subcutaneous tissue and retracts the needle, leaving behind the electrode
in the tissue and the pod adhered to the skin. The patient then disposes of the
insertion device. After a stabilization period of a few hours, the patient is
required to calibrate the receiver with data from a single-point finger
stick device and the sensor begins wirelessly transmitting the continuous
glucose data to the handheld receiver. We anticipate that patients will be
required to calibrate the short-term sensor with finger sticks throughout the
three-day usage period to ensure reliable operation. At this time, we do not
believe our first generation short-term sensor will eliminate the need for
finger sticks, although in the future we intend to seek a claim from the FDA
that allows our short-term system to replace the use of finger stick
devices.

Our short-term sensor is expected to function for
three days before being replaced. After three days, the patient simply removes
the pod and attached electrode from the skin and discards them. A new sensor
and pod can then be inserted and used with the same receiver.

We have developed and
completed a trial showing a second generation STS can function reliably for
seven days. We intend to file a PMA supplement seeking regulatory approval for
this second generation STS, if, and after, we receive approval of our first STS
PMA.

We filed a PMA with the FDA for our STS
in March 2005.

In May 2005 we received notification from the
FDA that our PMA was accepted as filed and granted expedited review status. In July 2005,
we completed our 100-day PMA meeting with the FDA. In August 2005 we
successfully completed the QSR audit of our facility and the BIMO audit of our
clinical data by the FDA. In August 2005 we received a written request
from the FDA for additional information, and in September 2005 we
responded to that request. We are currently awaiting a decision on approval
from the FDA for our STS PMA.


Long-Term Continuous Glucose Monitoring Sensor

Our long-term implantable sensor consists of a multi-layer
membrane system, circuit board, microprocessor, radio transmitter and a battery
sealed in a self-contained unit. Our long-term sensor is currently implanted
under the skin in the lower abdomen by a surgeon using local anesthesia. In the
future we expect that the implant will be performed by trained
endocrinologists. Once the sensor is implanted, it requires a stabilization
period of a few weeks before becoming operational. After the stabilization period,
the patient is required to calibrate the receiver with data from a single-point
finger stick device. We anticipate that patients will be required to calibrate
the long-term sensor with finger sticks throughout the usage period. At this
time, we do not believe our long-term sensor will eliminate the need for finger
sticks, although in the future we could seek a claim from the FDA that allows
our long-term system to replace the use of finger stick devices.

We are designing our long-term sensor to function for
up to one year. We have demonstrated nearly seven months of functional life in
a clinical trial with our first generation long-term sensor and six months of
functional life in a clinical trial with our second generation long-term
sensor. At the end of its life, the sensor can be removed by a physician in a
short procedure, and another sensor inserted.

We have investigational
device exemption (IDE) approval from the FDA to conduct an 80 patient trial
with the G2 sensor. To date, we have enrolled 45 patients. Prior to our QSR
inspection for our STS, we moved our long-term sensor development and
manufacturing to a new facility which has delayed our ability to manufacture
product suitable for human implants. During this delay, we made new innovations
related to our biomaterials that may improve performance. We are currently
evaluating the performance of these new materials on our G3 platform in animals.
We plan to fully evaluate the impact of those improvements, potentially
conducting human feasibility trials outside the United States before enrolling
any additional patients in our U.S. IDE.

Handheld Receiver

We have designed our
receiver to be used with both our short-term and long-term sensors. Our small
cell phone-sized receiver is carried by the patient and wirelessly
receives continuous glucose values data from either sensor. Proprietary
algorithms and software, developed from our extensive database of continuous
glucose data from clinical trials, are programmed into the receiver to process
the glucose data from the sensor and display it on a user-friendly graphical
user interface. With a push of a button, the patient can access their current
glucose value and one-, three- and nine-hour trended data. Additionally,
when glucose values are inappropriately high or low, the receiver provides an
audible alert or vibrates. The receiver is a self-contained, durable unit with
a rechargeable battery.

Clinical Development Program

Evaluating Continuous Glucose Monitoring Systems

Continuous glucose monitoring is an emerging
technology. There are no clearly established guidelines or universally accepted
measures for evaluating the performance of continuous glucose monitoring
products, especially with respect to accuracy. As a result, analyses of continuous
glucose monitoring products have generally utilized traditional single-point
accuracy measures that were derived from the field of analytical chemistry to
evaluate conventional single-point finger stick devices. However, we do
not know whether the FDA, other regulatory bodies or physicians will consider
these single-point measures to be the appropriate means to demonstrate
the safety and efficacy of continuous glucose monitoring systems for real-time
monitoring of glucose values and trends by patients or as a replacement for
conventional blood glucose meters, nor do we know what threshold levels of
these measures the FDA or others will determine to constitute acceptable
performance. The FDA or others analyzing our clinical results may determine
that different measures from those we have used are better indicators of
accuracy, clinical utility and safety. In


reporting data from our
clinical trials, we report those measurements that we believe most
appropriately characterize the performance of our continuous blood glucose
systems in three primary areas: accuracy, clinical utility and safety.

Accuracy Measures.

Typically, to
measure accuracy in our clinical trials, we compare the output from our
continuous glucose monitoring systems at a specific point in time to a
reference measurement at the same point in time. These two measurements are
called paired points. The reference value is usually measured by a laboratory
instrument, such as a Yellow Springs Instrument, or a conventional blood
glucose meter using samples from finger sticks. These paired points are then
compared to each other using statistical analyses intended to measure accuracy.

The primary
statistical analyses we use include the following:

·

Bias.

Bias is the result of a mathematical calculation using
a modified linear regression analysis that is designed to evaluate whether a
device’s measurement is systematically too high or too low, when compared to a
reference measurement, usually determined by a single-point finger stick
device. A device with a lower bias is generally considered to be more accurate.

·

Clarke Error Grid.

A Clarke Error Grid is a plot of all
paired points categorized into five areas denoted A, B, C, D and E, with A and
B being the most clinically desirable and D and E being the least clinically
desirable. Devices with higher combined A and B percentages—closer to 100%—and
lower combined D and E percentages—closer to 0%—are considered to have better
performance.

·

Mean Absolute Relative Difference, or MARD.

MARD is the
result of a mathematical calculation that measures the average disparity
between the sensor and the reference measurement. The lower the MARD, the more
accurate the device is considered.

·

R-Value.

An R-value is the result of a mathematical
calculation using linear regression techniques to measure the relationship
between the paired points. The maximum R-value is 1.0. A higher R-value means a
more linear relationship with the reference measurement and is assumed to be
more accurate.

Clinical Utility
Measures.

We have designed some of our clinical
trials to measure whether the use of real-time continuous glucose data reduces
the time a patient spends in abnormally high and low glucose ranges, and
increases the time spent in the target range. In our studies, we measure a
patient’s blood glucose level continuously for a defined period of time, using
our continuous glucose monitoring systems, but do not permit the patient to
view the data. These measurements are used to establish a baseline.
Subsequently, we measure the same patient’s blood glucose level continuously
for a similar or longer period of time, but the patient is allowed to view and
utilize the data. These unblinded glucose levels are then compared to the
baseline glucose levels to determine whether the use of the data from our
continuous glucose monitoring system affected the amount of time the patient’s
blood glucose level was high, low and within the target range.

Safety Measures.

The safety
profile of any new product must be clearly established before it can be
approved for commercial use. Data must be collected to demonstrate that
patients can use the device safely, the device operates safely and any
procedure associated with the device is also safe. We typically record adverse
events related to the implant or insertion and removal of our sensors, related
to the operation of the systems or related to the patient’s use of the data
from the systems. Of most concern is the occurrence of serious or unexpected
adverse events. The desired result is that adverse events are not more serious
and do not occur more frequently than similar products currently commercially
available and utilized by patients for the same purpose.


Clinical Trials

We began our first human clinical trial in 2001 and to
date have over 10,000 patients days of unblinded clinical use of our devices.
Throughout these studies and trials we have experienced successes and failures,
which we have relied upon in the continual design and development of our
products. As a result, we have developed a first, second and third generation
of our long-term sensor, referred to as G1, G2 and G3, respectively, and a
short-term sensor, or STS, all of which have been or are currently being evaluated
in human clinical trials. Throughout these trials, there have been no serious
or unexpected adverse events reported related to the implant or explant of the
devices or the use of our systems. Given the ongoing process of design and
development, we believe that our more recent clinical trials are most relevant
to an understanding of our current clinical performance. The table below and
the following discussion summarize our primary clinical trials that were
completed in 2004 or later, and our ongoing clinical trials:

Short Term Sensor Trials

Approval Support Trial

Ninety-one patients at four sites in the United States
were enrolled in a two-arm randomized trial intended to support the filing of a
PMA application. A PMA has been submitted and the data from the trial, as
reported in the PMA submission, is summarized below. The trial was designed to
measure the accuracy, safety and possible clinical benefit of the short-term
sensor. Patients were randomized to either a blinded group, or control, which
wore three successive short-term sensors for 72 hours each, for a total of
nine days, but was blinded to the data, or an unblinded group, which wore three
successive short-term sensors for 72 hours each, also for a total of nine
days, but was allowed to view and utilize the real-time continuous data for the
last two periods, or six days. Patients in both groups inserted the short-term
sensors themselves and wore them at home and at work in their daily activities.

The primary efficacy endpoint for the trial was bias.
In order to pass the primary efficacy endpoint, our short-term sensor had to
demonstrate a bias of less than 15 mg/dl when compared to finger-stick
values at 50 mg/dl and 80 mg/dl and less than 15% when compared to
finger-stick values at 100 mg/dl, 150 mg/dl and 200 mg/dl.
Bias is a measure of accuracy used to help determine if there is systematic
error in the device being evaluated.


The
graph below shows the bias of the sensor at each of the measurement values
compared to the upper limit. Our sensor met the primary endpoint of bias. The
results are shown in the graph below.

The trial’s primary safety endpoint was the incidence
of adverse events. There were no serious or unanticipated adverse events
related to the insertion, wearing or removal of, or use of data from, our
short-term sensor.

In
addition to the primary efficacy endpoint of bias, we also measured the
accuracy of our short-term sensor using the traditional single-point
measures of R-value, MARD and Clarke Error Grid. The data as reported in
our PMA application is shown in the table below.

Sensors

Sensors

Clarke Error Grid

Trial

Duration

Patients

Deployed

Analyzed

R-Value

MARD%

A&B%

D&E%

Approval Support

  Days

(216 Hours)




0.88

21.2

95.4

2.1


To measure the
potential clinical benefit to patients of access to real-time continuous
glucose data, we compared blood glucose data obtained from patients in the
blinded group to blood glucose data obtained from patients in the unblinded
group. The results of the comparison are summarized in the figure below.

Differences
in Glucose Profiles—Unblinded Group Compared to Blinded Group


As an additional measure of the potential clinical
benefit to patients of access to real-time continuous glucose data, we also
analyzed blood glucose data obtained only from the unblinded group. The
unblinded group had both a blinded and unblinded period. We compared blood
glucose data for the first three-day period, during which patients were blinded
to the continuous glucose data, and the last three-day period, during which
patients were unblinded to the continuous glucose data. The results of the
comparison are summarized in the figure below.

Improvement
in Glucose Profiles—Unblinded Period Compared to Blinded Period

We have submitted a PMA application for our short-term sensor. We
do not expect that this PMA, if approved, will completely eliminate the need
for finger-sticks. However, in the future, we intend to develop products,
conduct clinical trials and submit for regulatory approvals which move progressively
toward eliminating the need or requirement for finger sticks.

Extended
Life Trials

In July 2005
we

completed an 86-patient, 21-day trial in the United
States with our second generation STS that evaluated performance over three
consecutive seven-day periods. Patients inserted the STS sensors themselves,
wore them in their daily activities at home and work, and were allowed to view
and utilize the real-time continuous glucose data from the STS System. The
study demonstrated that the STS System functioned reliably over a seven-day
period without a decline in sensor performance or any signs of infection at the
insertion site. We plan to request approval for this device by filing a PMA
supplement, if we receive approval of our first PMA. Data related to this trial
has been submitted to the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists
(AACE) and the ADA for potential publication at their Annual Scientific
Sessions in 2006.

Replacement
Claim Trials

We have initiated
feasibility trials to evaluate the study design and sensor performance we
believe may be appropriate for obtaining a replacement claim from the FDA for
our short-term sensor.


Repeated
Use Trials

We are currently enrolling a repeated use trial that
allows patients to use our device continuously for a three-month period. If
fully enrolled, the study would allow us to enroll up to 400 patients at 20
U.S. centers. We have enrolled approximately 130 patients in 7 sites in the
United States.

Long-Term Sensor Trials.

We
have IDE approval from the FDA to conduct an 80 patient trial with the G2
sensor. To date, we have enrolled 45 patients. Prior to our QSR inspection for
our STS, we moved our long-term sensor development and manufacturing to a new
facility which has delayed our ability to manufacture product suitable for
human implants. During this delay, we made new innovations related to our
biomaterials that may improve performance. We are currently evaluating the
performance of these new materials on our G3 platform in animals. We plan to
fully evaluate the impact of those improvements, potentially conducting human
feasibility trials outside the United States before enrolling any additional
patients in our U.S. IDE

.

Clinical Trial Process

We enter into contracts
with clinical investigators, surgeons and clinical trial sites to conduct our
clinical trials. These contracts include terms requiring the parties to comply
with regulations and guidelines issued for the type of study being performed.
Generally, we contract with clinical trial sites to screen and enroll patients,
schedule visits for implants or insertions, conduct in-clinic studies, prepare
patient report forms and collect and aggregate trial data. Clinical trial site
fees generally include a set-up fee, a per-patient trial management fee and an
overhead charge. We contract with surgeons for the implantation and
explantation of our long-term implantable sensor, and we pay a set fee for
these services. We contract with clinical investigators to implement our trial
protocol, acquire institutional review board approval, and generally ensure
that the study is conducted in a safe and ethical manner while complying with
all regulations and guidelines related to the clinical trial.

Sales and Marketing

We have begun to build our sales and marketing
organization. We recently hired our Vice President of Sales. We are in the
process of hiring sales managers, sales representatives and clinical
specialists. We have also hired a director of marketing and have built a small
marketing support team. We expect to continue to grow our sales and marketing
organization as the timing for any potential commercialization becomes more
clear. We believe that referrals by physicians and diabetes educators, together
with self-referrals by patients, will drive initial adoption of our continuous
glucose monitoring systems. We plan to directly market our products in the
United States primarily to endocrinologists, diabetes care educators and
patients. Although the number of diabetes patients is significant, the number
of physicians and educators influencing these patients is relatively small.
There are an estimated 3,700 endocrinologists in the United States. As a
result, we believe a direct, highly-specialized and focused sales force
will be effective for us to reach our target market.

We intend to use a
variety of marketing tools to drive initial adoption, ensure continued usage
and establish brand loyalty for our continuous glucose monitoring systems by:

·

creating
awareness of the benefits of continuous monitoring and the advantages of our
technology with endocrinologists, diabetes educators and patients;

·

providing
strong educational and training programs to healthcare providers and patients
to ensure easy, safe and effective use of our systems; and

·

establishing
a readily-accessible telephone and web-based technical and customer
support infrastructure, which we expect to include clinicians, diabetes
educators and reimbursement specialists, to help referring physicians, diabetes
educators and patients as necessary.


Our sales force will be
competing with the experienced and well-funded marketing and sales operations
of our competitors. Developing a sales force is expensive and time consuming
and could delay or limit the success of any product launch.

Competition

The market for blood glucose monitoring devices is
intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by
new product introductions. Four companies, Roche Disetronic, a division of
Roche Diagnostics; LifeScan, Inc., a division of Johnson &
Johnson; the MediSense and TheraSense divisions of Abbott Laboratories; and
Bayer Corporation, currently account for substantially all of the worldwide
sales of self-monitored glucose testing systems. These competitors’ products
use a meter and disposable test strips to test blood obtained by pricking the
finger or, in some cases, the forearm. In addition, other companies are
developing or marketing minimally invasive or noninvasive glucose testing
devices and technologies that could compete with our devices. There are also a
number of academic and other institutions involved in various phases of our
industry’s technology development.

To date, the FDA has approved three continuous
monitors or sensors including the CGMS System Gold and Guardian RT by
Medtronic, and one by Cygnus, the GlucoWatch. The CGMS System Gold and the
Medtronic Guardian RT are currently in commercial use. Cygnus ceased operations
and sold its remaining assets to Animas. Animas announced its acquisition by
Johnson & Johnson in December 2005. Medtronic’s Guardian RT
System, which received FDA approval in July 2005, does not show trend
values but displays real-time glucose measurements and has the capability to
notify the patient when it detects dangerously high or low levels of blood
glucose.

A number of companies are developing next-generation
real-time continuous glucose monitoring or sensing devices and technologies,
including several companies that are developing non-invasive continuous glucose
monitoring products to measure the patient’s blood glucose level. The majority
of these non-invasive technologies do not pierce the skin, but instead
typically analyze signatures reflected back from energy that has been directed
into the patient’s skin, tissue or bodily fluids. Progress of others developing
continuous glucose monitors is difficult to assess, but we know that Abbott /
TheraSense have submitted applications for real-time continuous monitors or
sensors to the FDA. There can be no assurance when, if ever, any continuous
monitor or sensor will be approved as a replacement for single-point
finger stick devices.

Many of our
competitors are either publicly traded or are divisions of publicly-traded
companies, and they enjoy several competitive advantages, including:

·

significantly
greater name recognition;

·

established
relations with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party
payors;

·

established
distribution networks;

·

additional
lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer
higher discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage;

·

greater
experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical
trials, obtaining regulatory approval for products and marketing approved
products; and

·

greater
financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing, and
patent litigation.

As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able
to compete effectively against these companies or their products.


We believe that the
principal competitive factors in our market include:

·

comfort
and ease of use;

·

safe,
reliable and high quality performance of products;

·

cost
of products and eligibility for reimbursement;

·

customer
service and support and comprehensive education for patients and diabetes care
providers;

·

speed
of product innovation and time to market;

·

effective
sales, marketing and distribution;

·

regulatory
expertise;

·

technological
leadership and superiority; and

·

brand awareness and strong
acceptance by healthcare professionals and patients.

Manufacturing

We manufacture our continuous glucose monitoring
systems with components supplied by outside vendors and with parts manufactured
by us internally. Key components that we manufacture internally include the
electrodes and membranes for our short-term sensors, and our proprietary
biointerface and sensing membranes for our long-term sensors. The remaining
components and assemblies are purchased from outside vendors. We then assemble,
test, package and ship the finished clinical trial sensors and receivers, which
consist of a sensor, a radio-frequency transmitter and a receiver and, in
the case of our short-term sensor, an insertion device.

We purchase certain components and materials from
single sources due to quality considerations, costs or constraints resulting
from regulatory requirements. Currently, those single sources are AMI
Semiconductor, Inc., which produces the application specific integrated
circuits used in our transmitters; Flextronics International Ltd., which
assembles the printed circuit boards for our transmitters and receivers;
Quallion LLC, which produces the batteries for our third generation implantable
long-term sensor and our short-term sensor; The Tech Group, which produces
injection molded components; and Vita Needle, which manufactures the insertion
needle for our short-term continuous glucose monitoring system. Generally,
agreements with these suppliers have non-cancellable portions of approximately
three months. We may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement
suppliers for our single-source components, especially after our products
are commercialized, in part because of the FDA approval process and because of
the custom nature of the parts we designed. Any supply interruption from our
vendors or failure to obtain alternate vendors for any of the components would
limit our ability to manufacture our systems, and could have a material adverse
effect on our business.

Our manufacturing facilities are located in and around
our headquarters in San Diego, California, where we have more than 7,000
square feet of laboratory space and approximately 3,000 square feet of
class 100K clean rooms. This facility was approved for medical device
manufacturing in August 2005 by the Food and Drug Administration. We also
leased additional laboratory and manufacturing space near our headquarters.

We believe that our current facility will be adequate
to manufacture our products upon commercial launch . We currently have limited
resources, facilities and experience to commercially manufacture our products.
In order to produce our continuous glucose monitoring systems in the quantities
we anticipate to meet market demand, we will need to increase our manufacturing
capacity by a significant factor over the current level. We have identified
several options for additional manufacturing facilities and due to lead


times will likely need to
embark on capacity expansion several months before such capacity is forecast to
be required. There are technical challenges to increasing manufacturing
capacity, including equipment design and automation, material procurement,
problems with production yields, and quality control and assurance.
Additionally, the production of our continuous glucose monitoring systems must
occur in a highly controlled and clean environment to minimize particles and
other yield- and quality-limiting contaminants. Developing
commercial-scale manufacturing facilities will require the investment of
substantial additional funds and the hiring and retaining of additional
management and technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing
experience. Even if our products receive regulatory approval, if we are unable
to manufacture a sufficient supply of product, maintain control over expenses
or otherwise adapt to anticipated growth, or if we underestimate growth, we may
not have the capability to satisfy market demand and our business will suffer.

In order to develop
facilities adequate to sustain manufacturing beyond the initial launch, we plan
to lease additional facilities in the future. Our existing facility lease
includes a right of first offer with respect to an adjacent facility that would
become available if the current tenant exits the facility at the end of its
lease in early 2007. In addition, our facility is located in a large industrial
district, and we believe there are several other existing sites that could be
leased for expansion.

Intellectual Property

Protection of our intellectual property is a strategic
priority for our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and
other intellectual property laws, trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements and
other measures to protect our proprietary rights. As of February 2006, we
had obtained eight issued U.S. patents, and had 70 additional U.S. patent
applications pending. We believe it will take up to five years, and possibly
longer, for these pending U.S. patent applications to result in issued patents.
Our issued patents expire between 2006 and 2023. We have 20 pending
international applications filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, 10
European patent applications pending, 10 Japanese patent applications pending
and 6 trademark applications pending.

We also rely on licenses to use various patented
technologies that are material to our business. In addition to our own patents,
we have entered into an exclusive license agreement in the field of implantable
devices for diabetes for nine U.S. patents that cover portions of the
biointerface technologies used in our sensors. We do not own the patents that
underlie these licenses. Our rights to use these technologies and employ the
inventions claimed in the licensed patents are subject to our abiding by the
terms of those licenses. In addition, we do not control the prosecution of the
patents subject to this license or the strategy for determining when such
patents should be enforced. As a result, we are largely dependent upon our
licensor to determine the appropriate strategy for prosecuting and enforcing
those patents.

Together, our patents, patent applications and
exclusive licenses of patents protect aspects of our core membrane and sensor
technologies, and our patent applications cover product concepts for continuous
glucose monitoring. We believe that our patent and license position will
provide us with sufficient rights to develop, sell and protect our proposed
commercial products. However, our patent applications may not result in issued
patents, and we cannot assure you that any patents that have issued or might
issue will protect our intellectual property rights. Furthermore, we cannot
assure you that all of our patents will be upheld. Any patents issued to us may
be challenged by third parties as being invalid or unenforceable, or third
parties may independently develop similar or competing technology that avoids
our patents. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the
misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign
countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in
the United States.


The medical device industry in general, and the
glucose testing sector of this industry in particular, are characterized by the
existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on
assertions of patent infringement. We are aware of numerous patents issued to
third parties that relate to aspects of our business, including the design and
manufacture of continuous glucose monitoring sensors and membranes, as well as
methods for continuous glucose monitoring. The owners of each of these patents
could assert that the manufacture, use or sale of our continuous glucose
monitoring systems infringes one or more claims of their patents. Each of these
patents contains multiple claims, any one of which may be independently
asserted against us on commercialization of our product. There may be patents
of which we are presently unaware that relate to aspects of our technology that
could materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, because patent
applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending
applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that
materially and adversely affect our business.

On August 11, 2005, Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc.
(“Abbott”) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against us in the
United States District Court for the District of Delaware, seeking a
declaratory judgment that our
short-term glucose monitor infringes certain patents held
by Abbott. We moved to dismiss these claims on August 31,
2005. In addition to our motion to dismiss, we
have also filed requests for reexamination
of the Abbott patents with the United States Patent Office on January 25,
2006 and February 1, 2006. On February 22, 2006, we filed a
motion to stay the entirety of the Delaware case pending decision from the
Patent Office on those requests for reexamination. On February 23,
2006, the Court held a scheduling conference, during which it set a trial date
of October 9, 2007. The court has not yet reviewed or ruled
on our motions to dismiss or stay the case. We believe the
complaint is without merit and intend to vigorously contest the action.

Any adverse determination in litigation or
interference proceedings to which we may become a party relating to patents
could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or require us to
seek licenses from other third parties. Furthermore, if we are found to
willfully infringe third-party patents, we could, in addition to other
penalties, be required to pay treble damages. Although patent and intellectual
property disputes in the medical device area have often been settled through
licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with such arrangements may
be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. We may be unable to obtain
necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. If we do not obtain
necessary licenses, we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid
infringement. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding
or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and
selling our products, which would have a significant adverse impact on our
business.

We also rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and
continuing innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We seek
to protect our proprietary information and other intellectual property by
generally requiring our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific
collaborators and other advisors to execute non-disclosure and assignment of
invention agreements on commencement of their employment or engagement.
Agreements with our employees also forbid them from bringing the proprietary
rights of third parties to us. We also generally require confidentiality or
material transfer agreements from third parties that receive our confidential
data or materials. We cannot provide any assurance that employees and third
parties will abide by the confidentiality or assignment terms of these
agreements. Despite measures taken to protect our intellectual property,
unauthorized parties might copy aspects of our products or obtain and use
information that we regard as proprietary.

The federal trademark
application for the DEXCOM mark has been opposed, and DexCom intends to
vigorously defend against the opposition. The opposition proceeding only
determines the right to federally register a trademark and cannot result in the
award of any damages, however, DexCom maintains that it is entitled to a
registration for its DexCom Inc. mark.


Government Regulation

Our products are medical
devices subject to extensive and ongoing regulation by the FDA and regulatory
bodies in other countries. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA,
and the FDA’s implementing regulations govern product design and development,
pre-clinical and clinical testing, premarket clearance or approval, product
manufacturing, product labeling, product storage, advertising and promotion,
product sales and distribution, and post-market clinical surveillance. We do
not have the necessary regulatory approval to market our continuous glucose
monitoring systems or any other products in the United States or in any foreign
market.

FDA Regulation

Unless an exemption applies, each medical device we
wish to commercially distribute in the United States will require either prior
510(k) clearance or prior premarket approval, or PMA, from the FDA. The
FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes. Devices requiring
fewer controls because they are deemed to pose lower risk are placed in Class I
or II. Class I devices are subject to general controls such as
labeling, premarket notification, and adherence to the FDA’s Quality System
Regulation, or QSR. Class II devices are subject to special controls such
as performance standards, postmarket surveillance, FDA guidelines, as well as
general controls. Some Class I and Class II devices are exempted by
regulation from the premarket notification, or 510(k) clearance
requirement or the requirement of compliance with the QSR. Devices are placed
in Class III, which requires approval of a PMA application, if they are
deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining,
life-supporting or implantable devices, or to be “not substantially equivalent”
either to a previously 510(k) cleared device or to a “preamendment” Class III
device in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976 for which PMA
applications have not been required. We believe our long and short-term
continuous glucose monitoring systems will require premarket approval, which
requires a demonstration of the safety and efficacy of the device, and is a
more time-consuming and expensive process than a 510(k) clearance.

A PMA application must be supported by valid
scientific evidence, which typically requires extensive data, including
technical, pre-clinical, clinical, manufacturing and labeling data, to
demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction the safety and efficacy of the device. A
PMA application also must include a complete description of the device and its
components, a detailed description of the methods, facilities and controls used
to manufacture the device, and proposed labeling. After a PMA application is
submitted and found to be sufficiently complete, the FDA begins an in-depth
review of the submitted information. During this review period, the FDA may
request additional information or clarification of information already
provided. Also during the review period, an advisory panel of experts from
outside the FDA may be convened to review and evaluate the application and
provide recommendations to the FDA as to the approvability of the device. In
addition, the FDA generally will conduct a pre-approval inspection of the
manufacturing facility to ensure compliance with QSR, which requires
manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other
quality assurance procedures.

FDA review of a PMA
application generally takes between one and three years, but may take
significantly longer. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a PMA
application for many reasons, including:

·

our
systems may not be safe or effective to the FDA’s satisfaction;

·

the
data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to
support approval;

·

the
manufacturing process or facilities we use may not meet applicable
requirements; and


·

changes in FDA approval policies or adoption
of new regulations may require additional data.

If the FDA evaluations of both the PMA application and
the manufacturing facilities are favorable, the FDA will either issue an
approval letter, or approvable letter, which usually contains a number of
conditions which must be met in order to secure final approval of the PMA. When
and if those conditions have been fulfilled to the satisfaction of the FDA, the
agency will issue a PMA approval letter authorizing commercial marketing of the
device for certain indications. If the FDA’s evaluation of the PMA or
manufacturing facilities is not favorable, the FDA will deny approval of the
PMA or issue a not approvable letter. The FDA may also determine that
additional clinical trials are necessary, in which case the PMA approval may be
delayed for several months or years while the trials are conducted and then the
data submitted in an amendment to the PMA. The PMA process can be expensive,
uncertain and lengthy and a number of devices for which FDA approval has been
sought by other companies have never been approved for marketing.

New PMA applications or PMA supplements may be
required for modifications to the manufacturing process, labeling and device
specifications, materials or design of a device that is approved through the
PMA process. PMA approval supplements often require submission of the same type
of information as an initial PMA application, except that the supplement is
limited to information needed to support any changes from the device covered by
the original PMA application and may not require as extensive clinical data or
the convening of an advisory panel.

Clinical trials are
almost always required to support a PMA application and are sometimes required
for a 510(k) clearance. These trials generally require submission of an
application for an investigational device exemption, or IDE, to the FDA. The
IDE application must be supported by appropriate data, such as animal and
laboratory testing results, showing that it is safe to test the device in
humans and that the testing protocol is scientifically sound. The IDE
application must be approved in advance by the FDA for a specified number of
patients, unless the product is deemed a non-significant risk device and eligible
for more abbreviated IDE requirements. Generally, clinical trials for a
significant risk device may begin once the IDE application is approved by the
FDA and the study protocol and informed consent are approved by appropriate
institutional review boards at the clinical trial sites. The FDA’s approval of
an IDE allows clinical testing to go forward, but does not bind the FDA to
accept the results of the trial as sufficient to prove the product’s safety and
efficacy, even if the trial meets its intended success criteria. All clinical
trials must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s IDE regulations which
govern investigational device labeling, prohibit promotion, and specify an
array of recordkeeping, reporting and monitoring responsibilities of study
sponsors and study investigators. Clinical trials must further comply with the
FDA’s regulations for institutional review board approval and for informed
consent. Required records and reports are subject to inspection by the FDA. The
results of clinical testing may be unfavorable or, even if the intended safety
and efficacy success criteria are achieved, may not be considered sufficient
for the FDA to grant approval or clearance of a product. The commencement or
completion of any of our clinical trials may be delayed or halted, or be
inadequate to support approval of a PMA application, for numerous reasons,
including, but not limited to, the following:

·

the
FDA or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical trial protocol or
a clinical trial, or place a clinical trial on hold;

·

patients
do not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect;

·

patients
do not comply with trial protocols;

·

patient
follow-up is not at the rate we expect;

·

patients
experience adverse side effects;

·

patients
die during a clinical trial, even though their death may not be related to our
products;


·

institutional
review boards and third-party clinical investigators may delay or reject
our trial protocol;

·

third-party
clinical investigators decline to participate in a trial or do not perform a
trial on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial
protocol, good clinical practices or other FDA requirements;

·

third-party
organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate
manner;

·

regulatory
inspections of our clinical trials or manufacturing facilities, which may,
among other things, require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or
terminate our clinical trials;

·

changes
in governmental regulations or administrative actions;

·

the
interim or final results of the clinical trial are inconclusive or unfavorable
as to safety or efficacy; and

·

the
FDA concludes that our trial design is inadequate to demonstrate safety and
efficacy.

We filed a PMA with the FDA for our STS in March 2005.
In May 2005 we received notification from the FDA that our PMA was
accepted as filed and granted expedited review status. In July 2005, we
completed our 100-day PMA meeting with the FDA. In August 2005 we
successfully completed our QSR audit of our facility and our BIMO audit of our
clinical data by the FDA. In August 2005 we received a written request
from the FDA for additional information and in September 2005 we responded
to that request. We are currently awaiting a decision on approval from the FDA
for our STS PMA.

We do not expect our short-term system to be approved
for sale before 2006 at the earliest. Our clinical trials may not generate
favorable data to support any further PMA applications, and we may not be able
to obtain such approvals on a timely basis, or at all. Delays in receipt of or
failure to receive such approvals, the loss of previously received approvals,
or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements would have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations. Even if granted, the approvals may include significant limitations
on the intended use and indications for use for which our products may be
marketed.

After a device is
approved and placed in commercial distribution, numerous regulatory
requirements apply. These include:

·

establishment
registration and device listing;

·

QSR,
which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation
and other quality assurance procedures;

·

labeling
regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or “off-label”
uses and impose other restrictions on labeling;

·

medical
device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the
FDA if a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or
malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or
serious injury if it were to recur; and

·

corrections
and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to
the FDA field corrections and product recalls or removals if undertaken to
reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the
FDCA that may present a risk to health.

Also, the FDA may require us to conduct postmarket
surveillance studies or order us to establish and maintain a system for
tracking our products through the chain of distribution to the patient level.
The FDA and the Food and Drug Branch of the California Department of Health
Services enforce regulatory


requirements by conducting
periodic, unannounced inspections and market surveillance. Inspections may
include the manufacturing facilities of our subcontractors.

Failure to comply
with applicable regulatory requirements, including those applicable to the
conduct of our clinical trials, can result in enforcement action by the FDA,
which may lead to any of the following sanctions:

·

warning
letters;

·

fines
and civil penalties;

·

unanticipated
expenditures;

·

delays
in approving or refusal to approve our short-term continuous glucose monitoring
system or other products;

·

withdrawal
of FDA approval;

·

product
recall or seizure;

·

interruption
of production;

·

operating
restrictions;

·

injunctions;
and

·

criminal
prosecution.

We and our contract
manufacturers, specification developers, and some suppliers of components or
device accessories, are also required to manufacture our products in compliance
with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or GMP, requirements set forth in the
QSR. The QSR requires a quality system for the design, manufacture, packaging,
labeling, storage, installation and servicing of marketed devices, and includes
extensive requirements with respect to quality management and organization,
device design, buildings, equipment, purchase and handling of components,
production and process controls, packaging and labeling controls, device
evaluation, distribution, installation, complaint handling, servicing, and
record keeping. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic unannounced
inspections that may include the manufacturing facilities of our
subcontractors. If the FDA believes we or any of our contract manufacturers or
regulated suppliers is not in compliance with these requirements, it can shut
down our manufacturing operations, require recall of our products, refuse to
approve new marketing applications, institute legal proceedings to detain or
seize products, enjoin future violations, or assess civil and criminal
penalties against us or our officers or other employees. Any such action by the
FDA would have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot assure you
that we will be able to comply with all applicable FDA regulations.

International Regulation

International sales of medical devices are subject to
foreign government regulations, which may vary substantially from country to
country. The time required to obtain approval in a foreign country may be
longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval, and the requirements may
differ. There is a trend towards harmonization of quality system standards
among the European Union, United States, Canada and various other
industrialized countries.

The primary regulatory
environment in Europe is that of the European Union, which includes most of the
major countries in Europe. Other countries, such as Switzerland, have
voluntarily adopted laws and regulations that mirror those of the European
Union with respect to medical devices. The European Union has adopted numerous
directives and standards regulating the design, manufacture, clinical trials,


labeling
and adverse event reporting for medical devices. Devices that comply with the
requirements of a relevant directive will be entitled to bear the CE conformity
marking, indicating that the device conforms to the essential requirements of
the applicable directives and, accordingly, can be commercially distributed
throughout Europe. The method of assessing conformity varies depending on the
class of the product, but normally involves a combination of self-assessment by
the manufacturer and a third party assessment by a “Notified Body.” This third
party assessment may consist of an audit of the manufacturer’s quality system
and specific testing of the manufacturer’s product. An assessment by a Notified
Body of one country within the European Union is required in order for a
manufacturer to commercially distribute the product throughout the European
Union. Outside of the European Union, regulatory approval needs to be sought on
a country-by-country basis in order for us to market our products.

Third-Party Reimbursement

The availability of insurance coverage and
reimbursement for newly approved medical devices is uncertain. In the United
States, patients using existing single-point finger stick devices are
generally reimbursed all or part of the product cost by Medicare or other third-party
payors. The commercial success of our products in both domestic and
international markets will be substantially dependent on whether third-party
coverage and reimbursement is available for patients that use our products.
Third-party coverage may be particularly difficult to obtain if our
systems are not approved by the FDA as replacements for existing single-point
finger stick devices. Medicare, Medicaid, health maintenance organizations and
other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain
healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of
new medical devices, and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate
payment for our products. In order to obtain reimbursement arrangements, we may
have to agree to a net sales price lower than the net sales price we might
charge in other sales channels. The continuing efforts of government and third-party
payors to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare may limit our revenue. Our
initial dependence on the commercial success of our short-term continuous
glucose monitoring system makes us particularly susceptible to any cost
containment or reduction efforts. Accordingly, even if our short-term
continuous glucose monitoring system or future products are approved for
commercial sale, unless government and other third-party payors provide
adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products, patients may not use
them.

In some foreign markets,
pricing and profitability of medical devices are subject to government control.
In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and
state proposals for similar controls. Also, the trends toward managed
healthcare in the United States and proposed legislation intended to reduce the
cost of government insurance programs could significantly influence the
purchase of healthcare services and products and may result in lower prices for
our products or the exclusion of our products from reimbursement programs.

Environmental Regulation

Our research and
development and clinical processes involve the handling of potentially harmful
biological materials as well as hazardous materials. We are subject to federal,
state and local laws and regulations governing the use, handling, storage and
disposal of hazardous and biological materials and we incur expenses relating
to compliance with these laws and regulations. If violations of environmental,
health and safety laws occur, we could be held liable for damages, penalties
and costs of remedial actions. These expenses or this liability could have a
significant negative impact on our financial condition. We may violate
environmental, health and safety laws in the future as a result of human error,
equipment failure or other causes. Environmental laws could become more
stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and
penalties associated with violations. We are subject to potentially conflicting
and changing regulatory agendas of political, business and environmental
groups. Changes to or restrictions on permitting requirements or processes,
hazardous or biological material storage or handling


might
require an unplanned capital investment or relocation. Failure to comply with
new or existing laws or regulations could harm our business, financial
condition and results of operations.

Advisory Boards

Clinical Advisory Board

We
have a clinical advisory board, consisting of individuals with recognized
expertise in related fields. Our members advise us concerning product
development and clinical trial design. Members of our clinical advisory board
meet formally and informally with us. Several members of our clinical advisory
board are employed by academic institutions and may have commitments to, or
agreements with, other entities that may limit their availability to us.
Members of our clinical advisory board may also serve as consultants to other
medical product companies, including those that may be competitive with ours.
The following persons are members of our clinical advisory board:

Scientific Advisory Board

We
have a scientific advisory board, consisting of individuals with recognized
expertise in related fields. Our members advise us concerning technical
approaches to product design and development. Members of our scientific
advisory board meet formally and informally with us. Several members of our
scientific advisory board are employed by academic institutions and may have
commitments to, or agreements with, other entities that may limit their
availability to us. Members of our scientific advisory board may also serve as
consultants to other medical product companies, including those that may be
competitive with ours. The following persons are members of our scientific
advisory board:

Name

Affiliation

James M.
  Anderson, M.D., Ph.D.

Case Western University

Polly
  Matzinger, Ph.D.

National Institute of
  Health, Department of Immunology

Buddy D. Ratner, Ph.D.

University of Washington, Department of
  Bioengineering

Members of these boards
are paid a stipend for attending meetings. No meetings were held in 2005. In
2004, we paid an aggregate of $26,000 in stipends for attending meetings and
consulting fees for specific projects we have requested, and reimbursed an
aggregate of $7,000 in expenses, for all of the members of the clinical
advisory board, and we paid an aggregate of $16,000 in stipends for attending
meetings and consulting fees for specific projects we have requested, and
reimbursed an aggregate of $3,000 in expenses, for all of the members of the scientific
advisory board. None of the members of these boards has any options or warrants
to purchase any of our capital stock.


Employees

As of December 31,
2005, we had 104 employees and 51 temporary employees. Approximately 45
full-time employees are engaged in research and development, 30 in
manufacturing, 18 in clinical, regulatory and quality assurance, and 11 in
selling, general and administrative functions. None of our employees is
represented by a labor union or is covered by a collective bargaining
agreement. We have never experienced any employment-related work
stoppages and consider our employee relations to be good.

ITEM 1A.

RISK
FACTORS

We
are a development stage company and we do not have, and may never have, any
products.

We are a development stage medical device company with
a limited operating history, and we currently do not have any commercialized
products or any source of revenue. We have invested all of our time and
resources in developing our continuous glucose monitoring systems, which we
initially intend to commercialize in the form of a short-term continuous
glucose monitoring system, and subsequently, in the form of a long-term
continuous glucose monitoring system. Our existing products under development
will require additional clinical evaluation, regulatory approval, significant
marketing efforts and substantial additional investment before they can provide
us with any revenue. Our efforts may not lead to commercially successful
products for a number of reasons, including:

·

we
may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our continuous glucose
monitoring systems, or the approved indication for our products may be narrower
than we seek;

·

our
continuous glucose monitoring systems may not prove to be safe and effective in
clinical trials;

·

we
may experience delays in our development program;

·

patients
may not receive sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors to
promote widespread use of our continuous glucose monitoring systems;

·

any
products that are approved may not be accepted in the marketplace by physicians
and patients;

·

we
may not have adequate financial or other resources to complete the development
and commercialization of our continuous glucose monitoring systems or other
products;

·

we
may not be able to manufacture our products in commercial quantities or at an
acceptable cost; and

·

rapid
technological change may make our technology and products obsolete.

We do not expect to be
able to commercialize our short-term continuous glucose monitoring system
before 2006. If we are unable to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or
successfully commercialize our continuous glucose monitoring systems, we will
be unable to generate revenue.

We are subject to claims of
infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others,
which could prohibit us from shipping affected products, require us to obtain
licenses from third parties or to develop non-infringing alternatives, and
subject us to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief.

On August 11, 2005, Abbott Diabetes
Care, Inc. (“Abbott”) filed a patent
infringement lawsuit against us in the United States District Court
for the District of Delaware, seeking a declaratory judgment that our
short-term glucose monitor infringes certain patents held
by Abbott. We moved to dismiss these claims on
August 31, 2005. In addition to our motion
to dismiss, we have also filed requests for reexamination
of the Abbott patents with the United States Patent Office on
January 25, 2006 and February 1, 2006. On February 22, 2006,
we filed a motion to stay the entirety of the Delaware case pending
decision from the


Patent Office on those requests for reexamination.
On February 23, 2006, the Court held a scheduling conference, during which
it set a trial date of October 9, 2007. The court has not yet
reviewed or ruled on our motions to dismiss or stay the case. No
assurances can be given that we will prevail in the lawsuit or that we can
successfully defend ourselves against the claim, and we may not prevail in the
action, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We believe the
complaint is without merit and intend to vigorously contest the action.

Additional third parties could, in the future, assert
infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to our current
or future products. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal
and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Therefore,
we cannot be certain that we have not infringed the intellectual property
rights of such third parties or others. Our competitors may assert that our
continuous glucose monitoring systems or the methods we employ in the use of
our systems are covered by U.S. or foreign patents held by them. This risk is
exacerbated by the fact that there are numerous issued patents and pending
patent applications relating to self-monitored glucose testing systems and implantable
sensors in the medical technology field. Because patent applications may take
years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware
that may later result in issued patents that our products infringe. There could
also be existing patents of which we are unaware that one or more components of
our system may inadvertently infringe. As the number of competitors in the
market for self-monitored glucose testing systems grows, the possibility of
inadvertent patent infringement by us or a patent infringement claim against us
increases.

Any infringement or
misappropriation claim could cause us to incur significant costs, could place
significant strain on our financial resources, divert management’s attention
from our business and harm our reputation. If the relevant patents were upheld
as valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe, we could be prohibited
from selling our product that is found to infringe unless we could obtain
licenses to use the technology covered by the patent or are able to design
around the patent. We may be unable to obtain a license on terms acceptable to
us, if at all, and we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid
infringement. A court could also order us to pay compensatory damages for such
infringement, plus prejudgment interest and could, in addition, treble the
compensatory damages and award attorney fees. These damages could be
substantial and could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and
operating results. A court also could enter orders that temporarily,
preliminarily or permanently enjoin us and our customers from making, using,
selling, offering to sell or importing our products, or could enter an order
mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities. Depending on the
nature of the relief ordered by the court, we could become liable for
additional damages to third parties.

We have incurred losses since
inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the
foreseeable future.

We have incurred net losses
in each year since our inception in May 1999, including net loss
attributable to common stockholders of $30.9 million for the twelve months
ended December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, we had a deficit
accumulated during the development stage of $83.8 million. We have financed our
operations primarily through private placements of our equity securities and
our IPO, and have devoted substantially all of our resources to research and
development relating to our continuous glucose monitoring systems. We expect
our research and development expenses to increase in connection with our
clinical trials and other development activities related to our products. If we
receive approval for marketing of a product by the FDA, we expect to incur
significant sales and marketing expenses, and manufacturing expenses.
Additionally, we expect that our general and administrative expenses will
increase due to the additional operational and regulatory burdens applicable to
public companies. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant and
increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. These losses, among
other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our
stockholders’ equity.


We have not received, and may never receive, FDA
approval to market our continuous glucose monitoring systems.

We do
not have the necessary regulatory approvals to market our continuous glucose
monitoring systems or any other product in the United States or in any foreign
market. We plan initially to launch our products, once approved, in the United
States. The regulatory approval process for our continuous glucose monitoring
systems involves, among other things, successfully completing clinical trials
and obtaining a premarket approval, or PMA, from the FDA. The PMA process
requires us to prove the safety and efficacy of our continuous glucose
monitoring systems to the FDA’s satisfaction. This process can be expensive and
uncertain, requires detailed and comprehensive scientific and human clinical
data, generally takes one to three years after a PMA application is filed and
may never result in the FDA granting a PMA. For example, there is no guarantee
that the PMA application we submitted in March 2005 for our short-term
continuous glucose monitoring system will result in any approval of the system
by the FDA. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a PMA application for
many reasons, including:

·

our
systems may not be safe or effective to the FDA’s satisfaction;

·

the
data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to
support approval;

·

the
manufacturing process or facilities we use may not meet applicable
requirements; and

·

changes
in FDA approval policies or adoption of new regulations may require additional
data.

We filed a PMA with the FDA for our STS in
March 2005. In May 2005 we received notification from the FDA that
our PMA was accepted as filed and granted expedited review status. In
July 2005, we completed our 100-day PMA meeting with the FDA. In
August 2005 we successfully completed our QSR audit of our facility and
our BIMO audit of our clinical data by the FDA. In August 2005 we received
a written request from the FDA for additional information and in
September 2005 we responded to that request. We are currently awaiting a
decision on approval from the FDA for our STS PMA.

Even if approved, our
continuous glucose monitoring systems may not be approved for the indications
that are necessary or desirable for successful commercialization of our
systems. We may not obtain the necessary regulatory approvals to market our
continuous glucose monitoring systems in the United States or anywhere else.
Any delay in, or failure to receive or maintain, approval for our continuous
glucose monitoring systems could prevent us from generating revenue or
achieving profitability.

We expect
to operate in a highly competitive market, we face competition from large,
well-established medical device manufacturers with significant resources, and
we may not be able to compete effectively.

The market for glucose monitoring devices is intensely
competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product
introductions and other market activities of industry participants. If our
products are approved for marketing, we will compete directly with Roche
Disetronic, a division of Roche Diagnostics; LifeScan, Inc., a division of
Johnson & Johnson; the MediSense and TheraSense divisions of Abbott
Laboratories; and Bayer Corporation, each of which manufactures and markets
products for the single-point finger stick device market. Collectively
these companies currently account for substantially all of the worldwide sales
of self-monitored glucose testing systems. Several companies are developing or
marketing early generation short-term continuous glucose monitoring products
that will compete directly with our planned products. These devices include the
Guardian RT and the CGMS System Gold, both of which have received FDA approval
and are currently marketed by Medtronic, Inc., and the Freestyle Navigator
Glucose System, which has not yet received FDA approval and is being developed
by Abbott/TheraSense.

Medtronic’s Guardian
RT System, which received FDA approval in July 2005, does not show trend
values but displays real-time glucose measurements and has the capability to
notify the patient when it detects dangerously high or low levels of blood
glucose.

Furthermore, several other companies are developing
non-invasive continuous glucose monitoring products. One of these non-invasive


devices, the Cygnus
GlucoWatch, now owned by Johnson & Johnson, has received FDA approval.
Most of the companies developing or marketing competing devices are publicly
traded or divisions of publicly-traded companies, and these companies
enjoy several competitive advantages, including:

·

significantly
greater name recognition;

·

established
relations with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party
payors;

·

established
distribution networks;

·

additional
lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer
higher discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage;

·

greater
experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical
trials, obtaining regulatory approval for products and marketing approved
products; and

·

greater
financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing, and
patent litigation.

As a result, we may not be
able to compete effectively against these companies or their products.

No continuous glucose monitoring system
has yet received FDA clearance as a replacement for single-point finger
stick devices, and our products may never be approved for that indication.

We do not expect that our
initial products will eliminate the need for single-point finger stick
devices. We believe that our initial products, if approved, will be indicated
for use by patients to obtain real-time blood glucose levels, trend information
and alerts, but not as a substitute for single-point finger stick
devices. No precedent for FDA approval of continuous glucose monitoring systems
as a substitute for such devices has been established. Accordingly, there is no
established study design or agreement regarding performance requirements or
measurements in clinical trials for continuous glucose monitoring systems. To
our knowledge, the only company to attempt to obtain approval from the FDA for
the replacement of single-point finger stick devices with a continuous
glucose monitoring system has experienced substantial delays, and there can be
no guarantee that we will not also experience such delays.

If we are unable to successfully
complete the pre-clinical studies or clinical trials necessary to support
additional PMA applications, our ability to commercialize our continuous
glucose monitoring systems and our financial position will be impaired.

Before submitting any PMA application, we must
successfully complete pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that we
believe will demonstrate that the product is safe and effective. Product
development, including pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, is a long,
expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays and failure at any
stage. Furthermore, the data obtained from the trial may be inadequate to
support approval of a PMA application. While we obtained an Investigational
Device Exemption, or IDE, prior to commencing the current clinical trial for
our long-term continuous glucose monitoring system, FDA approval of an IDE
application permitting us to conduct testing does not mean that the FDA will
consider the data gathered in the trial sufficient to support approval of a PMA
application, even if the trial’s intended safety and efficacy endpoints are
achieved.

The commencement or
completion of any of our clinical trials may be delayed or halted, or be
inadequate to support approval of a PMA application, for numerous reasons,
including, but not limited to, the following:

·

the
FDA or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical trial protocol or
a clinical trial, or place a clinical trial on hold;

·

patients
do not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect;


·

patients
do not comply with trial protocols;

·

patient
follow-up is not at the rate we expect;

·

patients
experience adverse side effects;

·

patients
die during a clinical trial, even though their death may not be related to our
products;

·

institutional
review boards and third-party clinical investigators may delay or reject
our trial protocol;

·

third-party
clinical investigators decline to participate in a trial or do not perform a
trial on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial
protocol, good clinical practices or other FDA requirements;

·

third-party
organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or
accurate manner;

·

regulatory
inspections of our clinical trials or manufacturing facilities may, among other
things, require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our
clinical trials;

·

changes
in governmental regulations or administrative actions;

·

the
interim or final results of the clinical trial are inconclusive or unfavorable
as to safety or efficacy; and

·

the
FDA concludes that our trial design is inadequate to demonstrate safety and
efficacy.

The results of
pre-clinical studies do not necessarily predict future clinical trial results,
and predecessor clinical trial results may not be repeated in subsequent
clinical trials. We believe the data and performance from each of our last
three clinical trials relating to our long-term system were likely
insufficient to support a PMA application. While these previous trials were not
designed or intended to be used to support a PMA application, our ongoing and
future clinical trials that are designed to support a PMA application may not
be sufficient to do so. Additionally, the FDA may disagree with our
interpretation of the data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials,
or may find the clinical trial design, conduct or results inadequate to prove
safety or efficacy, and may require us to pursue additional pre-clinical
studies or clinical trials, which could further delay the approval of our
products. If we are unable to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our
products in our clinical trials, we will be unable to obtain regulatory
approval to market our products. The data we collect from our current clinical
trials, our pre-clinical studies and other clinical trials may not be
sufficient to support FDA approval. If we are unsuccessful in either filing an
additional PMA application or receiving FDA approval for our first PMA
application related to our glucose monitoring systems, our business strategy
may have to be altered to rely solely on our short-term system.

If we are unable to obtain
acceptable prices or adequate reimbursement for our products from third-party
payors, we will be unable to generate significant revenue.

The availability of insurance coverage and
reimbursement for newly approved medical devices is uncertain. In the United
States, patients using existing single-point finger stick devices are generally
reimbursed all or part of the product cost by Medicare or other third-party
payors. The commercial success of our continuous glucose monitoring systems in
both domestic and international markets will be substantially dependent on
whether third-party coverage and reimbursement is available for patients
that use our systems. Third-party coverage may be particularly difficult
to obtain if our systems are not approved by the FDA as replacements for
existing single-point finger stick devices. Medicare, Medicaid, health
maintenance organizations and other third-party payors are increasingly
attempting to contain


healthcare costs by
limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new medical devices,
and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our
systems. In order to obtain reimbursement arrangements, we may have to agree to
a net sales price lower than the net sales price we might charge in other sales
channels. The continuing efforts of government and third-party payors to
contain or reduce the costs of healthcare may limit our revenue. Our initial
dependence on the commercial success of our short-term continuous glucose
monitoring system makes us particularly susceptible to any cost containment or
reduction efforts. Accordingly, even if our short-term continuous glucose
monitoring system or future products we develop are approved for commercial
sale, unless government and other third-party payors provide adequate
coverage and reimbursement for our products, patients may not use them.

In some foreign markets,
pricing and profitability of medical devices are subject to government control.
In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and
state proposals for similar controls. Also, the trends toward managed
healthcare in the United States and proposed legislation intended to reduce the
cost of government insurance programs could significantly influence the
purchase of healthcare services and products and may result in lower prices for
our products or the exclusion of our products from reimbursement programs.

Our continuous glucose monitoring
systems may never achieve market acceptance even if we obtain regulatory
approvals.

To date, only those
patients and physicians involved in our clinical trials have used our products
and, even if we obtain regulatory approval, people with diabetes or the medical
community may not endorse our short-term or long-term continuous glucose
monitoring systems. The degree of market acceptance of our products will depend
on a number of factors, including:

·

perceived
effectiveness of the systems;

·

convenience
of use;

·

cost
of our continuous glucose monitoring systems;

·

adequacy
of third-party coverage or reimbursement;

·

approved
indications and product labeling;

·

publicity
concerning our products or competitive products;

·

prevalence
and severity of any side effects;

·

potential
advantages over alternative glucose monitoring methods;

·

introduction
and acceptance of competing products or technologies; and

·

extent
and success of our sales, marketing and distribution efforts.

Our products, and in
particular our long-term continuous glucose monitoring system, can be more
invasive than current self-monitored glucose testing systems, including single-point
finger stick devices, and patients may be unwilling to insert or implant a
sensor in their body, especially if their current diabetes management involves
no more than two finger sticks per day. Moreover, patients may not perceive the
benefits of continuous glucose monitoring and may be unwilling to change their
current treatment regimens. In addition, physicians tend to be slow to change
their medical treatment practices because of perceived liability risks arising
from the use of new products and the uncertainty of third party reimbursement.
Physicians may not recommend or prescribe our products until there is long-term
clinical evidence to convince them to alter their existing treatment methods
and there are recommendations from prominent physicians that our products are
effective in monitoring blood glucose levels. We cannot predict when, if ever,
physicians may adopt the use of our products. If our continuous glucose
monitoring systems


are
approved but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by patients,
physicians and healthcare payors, we may not generate significant product
revenue and we may not become profitable.

We depend on clinical
investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients in our clinical trials and
other third parties to manage the trials and to perform related data collection
and analysis, and, as a result, we may face costs and delays that are outside
of our control.

We rely on clinical
investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients in our clinical trials and
other third parties to manage the trial and to perform related data collection
and analysis. However, we may not be able to control the amount and timing of
resources that clinical sites may devote to our clinical trials. If these
clinical investigators and clinical sites fail to enroll a sufficient number of
patients in our clinical trials or fail to ensure compliance by patients with
clinical protocols, we will be unable to complete these trials, which could
prevent us from obtaining regulatory approvals for our products. Our agreements
with clinical investigators and clinical sites for clinical testing place
substantial responsibilities on these parties and, if these parties fail to
perform as expected, our trials could be delayed or terminated. If these
clinical investigators, clinical sites or other third parties do not carry out
their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, or
if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due
to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, our
clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may be unable to
obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our products.

We may be unable to complete the
development and commercialization of our continuous glucose monitoring systems
or other products without additional funding.

Our
operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. We expect
to continue to spend substantial amounts on research and development, including
conducting clinical trials for our continuous glucose monitoring systems. Even
before we receive approval to market one of our continuous glucose monitoring
systems, we expect to spend significant additional amounts on commercializing
the product, including development of a direct sales force and expansion of
manufacturing capacity. For the twelve months ended

December 31

, 2005, our net cash used in operating activities
was $22.6 million, compared to $12.4 million for the same period in 2004. We
expect that our cash used by operations will increase significantly in each of
the next several years, and we may need additional funds to complete the
development and commercialization of both our short-term and long-term
continuous glucose monitoring systems. Additional financing may not be
available on a timely basis on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Any
additional financing may be dilutive to stockholders or may require us to grant
a lender a security interest in our assets. The amount of funding we will need
will depend on many factors, including:

·

the
rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and other development
activities;

·

the
success of our research and development efforts;

·

the
costs and timing of regulatory approval;

·

the
expenses we incur in developing, selling and marketing our products;

·

the
revenue generated by sales of our future products;

·

the
emergence of competing or complementary technological developments;

·

the
costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other
intellectual product rights;

·

the
terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing or other arrangements that we
may establish; and

·

the
acquisition of businesses, products and technologies, although we currently
have no commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of
transactions.


If adequate funds are not
available, we may have to delay development or commercialization of our
products or license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or
technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize. We also may have to
reduce marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products.
Any of these factors could harm our financial condition.

If we are unable to establish
sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into and maintain
arrangements with third parties to sell, market and distribute our continuous
glucose monitoring systems, our business may be harmed.

We plan to build a small
sales organization and have no experience as a company in the sale, marketing
and distribution of glucose monitoring products. To achieve commercial success
for any approved product we must either develop a sales and marketing force or
enter into arrangements with others to market and sell our products. We
currently plan to establish a small direct sales force to market our products
in the United States. Our sales force will be competing with the experienced
and well-funded marketing and sales operations of our competitors. Developing a
sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay or limit the
success of any product launch. We may not be able to develop this capacity on a
timely basis or at all. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing
capabilities, we will need to contract with third parties to market and sell
our approved products in the United States. To the extent that we enter into
arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution
services in the United States, our product revenue could be lower than if we
directly marketed and sold our continuous glucose monitoring systems.
Furthermore, to the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other marketing
and sales arrangements with other companies, any revenue received will depend
on the skills and efforts of others, and we do not know whether these efforts
will be successful. If we are unable to establish and maintain adequate sales,
marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may
not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable.

We have limited manufacturing
capabilities and manufacturing personnel, and if our manufacturing capabilities
are insufficient to produce an adequate supply of products, our growth could be
limited and our business could be harmed.

We currently have limited
resources, facilities and experience to commercially manufacture our products.
In order to produce our continuous glucose monitoring systems in the quantities
we anticipate to meet market demand, we will need to increase our manufacturing
capacity by a significant factor over the current level. There are technical
challenges to increasing manufacturing capacity, including equipment design and
automation, material procurement, problems with production yields, and quality
control and assurance. Developing commercial-scale manufacturing
facilities will require the investment of substantial additional funds and the
hiring and retaining of additional management and technical personnel who have
the necessary manufacturing experience. Also, the scaling of manufacturing
capacity is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, such as
the availability and suitability of facility space, construction timelines,
design, installation and maintenance of manufacturing equipment, among
others, which can lead to unexpected delays. Even if our products receive
regulatory approval, if we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of
product, maintain control over expenses or otherwise adapt to anticipated
growth, or if we underestimate growth, we may not have the capability to
satisfy market demand and our business will suffer.

Additionally, the
production of our continuous glucose monitoring systems must occur in a highly
controlled and clean environment to minimize particles and other yield-
and quality-limiting contaminants. Weaknesses in process control or
minute impurities in materials may cause a substantial percentage of defective
products in a lot. If we are not able to maintain stringent quality controls,
or if contamination problems arise, our clinical development and
commercialization efforts could be delayed, which would harm our business and
our results of operations.Our manufacturing operations are


dependent upon
third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price
fluctuations, which could harm our business.

We rely on
Flextronics to manufacture and supply the handheld personal receiver included
as part of our continuous glucose monitoring systems and the circuit boards for
our short-term and long-term sensors; we rely on AMI Semiconductor to
manufacture and supply the application specific integrated circuit, or ASIC,
that is incorporated into the transmitter for our continuous glucose monitoring
systems; we rely on Quallion to manufacture and supply the battery included in
our short-term sensor and the third generation of our long-term sensor; we rely
on Vita Needle to manufacture and supply the insertion needle in our short-term
continuous glucose monitoring system; and we rely on

The Tech Group, which supplies our injection molded components.

Each
of these suppliers is a sole-source supplier. Generally, our agreements
with these and our other suppliers can be terminated by either party upon short
notice. Our contract manufacturers also rely on sole-source suppliers to
manufacture some of the components used in our products. Our manufacturers and
suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of
reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure
to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunction and environmental
factors, any of which could delay or impede their ability to meet our demand.
Our reliance on these outside manufacturers and suppliers also subjects us to
other risks that could harm our business, including:

·

suppliers
may make errors in manufacturing components that could negatively affect the
efficacy or safety of our products or cause delays in shipment of our products;

·

we
may not be able to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially
reasonable terms;

·

we
may have difficulty locating and qualifying alternative suppliers for our sole-source
supplies;

·

switching
components may require product redesign and submission to the FDA of a PMA
supplement or possibly a separate PMA, either of which could significantly
delay production;

·

our
suppliers manufacture products for a range of customers, and fluctuations in
demand for the products these suppliers manufacture for others may affect their
ability to deliver components to us in a timely manner; and

·

our
suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand for
components, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet
our requirements.

We may not be able to
quickly establish additional or replacement suppliers, particularly for our
single-source components and especially after our products are commercialized,
in part because of the FDA approval process and because of the custom nature of
various parts we design. Any interruption or delay in the supply of components
or materials, or our inability to obtain components or materials from alternate
sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to
meet the demand of our customers and cause them to cancel orders or switch to
competitive products.


Technological
breakthroughs in the glucose monitoring market could render our products
obsolete.

The glucose monitoring
market is subject to rapid technological change and product innovation. Our
products are based on our proprietary technology, but a number of companies and
medical researchers are pursuing new technologies for the monitoring of glucose
levels. FDA approval of a commercially viable continuous glucose monitor or
sensor produced by one of our competitors could significantly reduce market acceptance
of our systems. Several of our competitors are in various stages of developing
continuous glucose monitors or sensors, including non-invasive and invasive
devices, and the FDA has approved three of these products. In addition, the
National Institutes of Health and other supporters of diabetes research are
continually seeking ways to prevent, cure or improve treatment of diabetes.
Therefore, our products may be rendered obsolete by technological breakthroughs
in diabetes monitoring, treatment or prevention.

Potential
long-term complications from our continuous glucose monitoring systems may not
be revealed by our clinical experience to date.

If unanticipated long-term
side-effects result from the use of either of our systems, we could be subject
to liability and our systems would not be widely adopted. Our clinical trials
have been limited to seven months of continuous use with our first generation
long-term sensor, six months of continuous use with our second generation
long-term sensor and seven days of continuous use with our short-term sensor.
Additionally, we have not clinically tested repeated use of our long-term
sensor in the same patient, and we have limited clinical experience with
repeated use of our short-term sensor in the same patient. We cannot assure you
that long-term use would not result in unanticipated complications.
Furthermore, the interim results from our current pre-clinical studies and
clinical trials may not be indicative of the clinical results obtained when we
examine the patients at later dates. It is possible that repeated use of our
short-term or long-term systems, or implantation of our long-term sensor for
more than seven months, will result in unanticipated adverse effects,
potentially even after the device is removed.

Even
if our products are approved by regulatory authorities, if we or our suppliers
fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, or if we experience
unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be subject to
restrictions or withdrawal from the market.

Any product for
which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes,
post-approval clinical data and promotional activities for such product, will
be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other
regulatory bodies. In particular we and our suppliers are required to comply
with the quality system regulation, or QSR, and other regulations, which cover
the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control,
quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products.
The FDA enforces the QSR through unannounced inspections.

Our manufacturing facilities are located in and
around our headquarters in San Diego, California, where we have more than 7,000
square feet of laboratory space and approximately 3,000 square feet of
class 100K clean rooms. This facility was approved for medical device
manufacturing in August 2005 by the Food and Drug Administration.

Failure by us or one of our suppliers to
comply with statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other
regulatory bodies, or failure to take adequate response to any observations,
could result in, among other things, any of the following actions:

·

warning
letters;

·

fines
and civil penalties;

·

unanticipated
expenditures;

·

delays
in approving or refusal to approve our continuous glucose monitoring systems;

·

withdrawal
of approval by the FDA or other regulatory bodies;


·

product
recall or seizure;

·

interruption
of production;

·

operating
restrictions;

·

injunctions;
and

·

criminal
prosecution.

If any of these actions were to occur, it would harm
our reputation and cause our product sales and profitability to suffer.
Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be or may not
continue to be in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements.

Even if regulatory
approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on
the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain
requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the
safety or efficacy of the product. Later discovery of previously unknown
problems with our products, including software bugs, unanticipated adverse
events or adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, manufacturing
problems, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements such as the QSR,
may result in restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes,
withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recalls,
fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the
imposition of civil or criminal penalties.

We
face the risk of product liability claims and may not be able to maintain or
obtain insurance.

Our business exposes us to the risk of product
liability claims that is inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing
of medical devices, including those which may arise from the misuse or
malfunction of, or design flaws in, our products. We may be subject to product
liability claims if our products cause, or merely appear to have caused, an
injury. Claims may be made by patients, healthcare providers or others selling
our products. Although we have product liability and clinical trial liability
insurance that we believe is appropriate, this insurance is subject to
deductibles and coverage limitations. Our current product liability insurance
may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and, if
available, the coverages may not be adequate to protect us against any future
product liability claims. In addition, if any of our products are approved for
marketing, we may seek additional insurance coverage. If we are unable to
obtain insurance at an acceptable cost or on acceptable terms with adequate
coverage or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we
will be exposed to significant liabilities, which may harm our business. A
product liability claim, recall or other claim with respect to uninsured
liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could result in
significant costs and significant harm to our business.

We may be subject to claims against us even if the
apparent injury is due to the actions of others. For example, we rely on the
expertise of physicians, nurses and other associated medical personnel to
perform the medical procedure and related processes to implant our long-term
sensor into patients. If these medical personnel are not properly trained or
are negligent, the capabilities of our products may be diminished or the
patient may suffer critical injury, which may subject us to liability. These
liabilities could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization
efforts. Defending a suit, regardless of merit, could be costly, could divert
management attention and might result in adverse publicity, which could result
in the withdrawal of, or inability to recruit, clinical trial volunteers or
result in reduced acceptance of our products in the market.


We
conduct business in a heavily regulated industry and if we fail to comply with
these laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required
to make significant changes to our operations.

The healthcare
industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations
relating to:

·

billing
for services;

·

financial
relationships with physicians and other referral sources;

·

inducements
and courtesies given to patients;

·

quality
of medical equipment and services;

·

confidentiality,
maintenance and security issues associated with medical records and
individually identifiable health information;

·

medical
device reporting;

·

false
claims;

·

professional
licensure; and

·

labeling
products.

These laws and regulations are extremely complex and,
in some cases, still evolving. In many instances, the industry does not have
the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws
and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the
federal, state or local laws and regulations which govern our activities, we
may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation,
including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines or curtailment of our
operations. The risk of being found in violation of these laws and regulations
is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by
the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a
variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws
or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to
incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s time and attention
from the operation of our business.

In addition, healthcare laws and regulations may
change significantly in the future. Any new healthcare laws or regulations may
adversely affect our business. A review of our business by courts or regulatory
authorities may result in a determination that could adversely affect our
operations. Also, the healthcare regulatory environment may change in a way that
restricts our operations.

We are not aware of any
governmental healthcare investigations involving our executives or us. However,
any future healthcare investigations of our executives, our managers or us
could result in significant liabilities or penalties to us, as well as adverse
publicity.

Our inability to
adequately protect our intellectual property could allow our competitors and
others to produce products based on our technology, which could substantially
impair our ability to compete.

Our success and ability to compete is dependent, in
part, upon our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies.
We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark law, and trade
secrets and nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property.
However, such methods may not be adequate to protect us or permit us to gain or
maintain a competitive advantage. Our patent applications may not issue as
patents in a form that will be advantageous to us, or at all. Our issued
patents, and those that may issue in the future, may be challenged, invalidated
or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from
marketing related products.


To protect our proprietary rights, we may in the
future need to assert claims of infringement against third parties to protect
our intellectual property. The outcome of litigation to enforce our
intellectual property rights in patents, copyrights, trade secrets or
trademarks is highly unpredictable, could result in substantial costs and diversion
of resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations regardless of the final outcome of such
litigation. In the event of an adverse judgment, a court could hold that some
or all of our asserted intellectual property rights are not infringed, invalid
or unenforceable, and could award attorney fees.

Despite our efforts to safeguard our unpatented and
unregistered intellectual property rights, we may not be successful in doing so
or the steps taken by us in this regard may not be adequate to detect or deter
misappropriation of our technology or to prevent an unauthorized third party
from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our products, technology or other
information that we regard as proprietary. Additionally, third parties may be
able to design around our patents. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries
may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the
United States. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property
could allow our competitors and others to produce products based on our
technology, which could substantially impair our ability to compete.

The federal trademark
application for the DEXCOM mark has been opposed, and DexCom intends to
vigorously defend against the opposition. The opposition proceeding only
determines the right to federally register a trademark and cannot result in the
award of any damages, however, DexCom maintains that it is entitled to a
registration for its DexCom Inc. mark.

The prosecution and
enforcement of patents licensed to us by third parties are not within our
control, and without these technologies, our products may not be successful and
our business would be harmed.

We rely on a license from
SM Technologies, LLC to use various technologies that are material to our
business. We do not own the patents that underlie this license. This license
grants us exclusive rights under specific patents related to our biointerface
membranes and our sensor membranes and allows us to use those rights only in
the field of diabetes treatment and management. Our rights to use these
technologies and employ the inventions claimed in the licensed patents are
subject to our abiding by the terms of the license. In addition, we do not
control the prosecution of the patents subject to this license or the strategy
for determining when such patents should be enforced. As a result, we are
largely dependent upon our licensor to determine the appropriate strategy for
prosecuting and enforcing those patents.

The majority of our
operations are conducted at a single location. Any disruption at our facility
could increase our expenses.

The majority of our operations
are conducted at a single location in San Diego, California. We take
precautions to safeguard our facility, including insurance, health and safety
protocols, and off-site storage of computer data. However, a natural disaster,
such as a fire, flood or earthquake, could cause substantial delays in our
operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment or inventory, and
cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against fires,
floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters may not be adequate to cover
our losses in any particular case.

We may be liable
for contamination or other harm caused by materials that we handle, and changes
in environmental regulations could cause us to incur additional expense.

Our research and development
and clinical processes involve the handling of potentially harmful biological
materials as well as hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and
local laws and regulations governing the use, handling, storage and disposal of
hazardous and biological materials and we incur expenses relating to compliance
with these laws and regulations. If violations of environmental, health and
safety laws occur, we could be held liable for damages, penalties and costs of
remedial actions.


These
expenses or this liability could have a significant negative impact on our
financial condition. We may violate environmental, health and safety laws in
the future as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes.
Environmental laws could become more stringent over time, imposing greater
compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations.
We are subject to potentially conflicting and changing regulatory agendas of
political, business and environmental groups. Changes to or restrictions on
permitting requirements or processes, hazardous or biological material storage
or handling might require an unplanned capital investment or relocation.
Failure to comply with new or existing laws or regulations could harm our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

Failure to obtain
regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing our
products abroad.

Following commercial
launch of our products in the United States, we may market our products internationally.
Outside the United States, we can market a product only if we receive a
marketing authorization and, in some cases, pricing approval, from the
appropriate regulatory authorities. The approval procedure varies among
countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain
approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign
regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with
obtaining FDA approval in addition to other risks. We may not obtain foreign
regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not
ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by
one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities
in other foreign countries or by the FDA. We have not taken any actions to
obtain foreign regulatory approvals. We may not be able to file for regulatory
approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products
in any market on a timely basis, or at all.

Our success will
depend on our ability to attract and retain our personnel.

We are highly dependent on our senior management,
especially Andrew P. Rasdal, our President and Chief Executive Officer,
and each of Andrew K. Balo, our Vice President of Clinical and Regulatory
Affairs and Quality Systems, James H. Brauker, our Vice President of
Research and Development, Mark Brister, our Vice President, Advanced
Development Teams, Rodney Kellogg, our Vice President of Sales, Steven J.
Kemper, our Chief Financial Officer, and Jorge Valdes, our Vice President of
Engineering. Our success will depend on our ability to retain our current
management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future,
including sales persons, scientists, clinicians, engineers and other highly
skilled personnel. Competition for senior management personnel, as well as
sales persons, scientists, clinicians and engineers, is intense and we may not
be able to retain our personnel. The loss of the services of members of our
senior management, scientists, clinicians or engineers could prevent the
implementation and completion of our objectives, including the development and
introduction of our products. The loss of a member of our senior management or
our professional staff would require the remaining executive officers to divert
immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. Each of our
officers may terminate their employment at any time without notice and without
cause or good reason.

We expect to rapidly
expand our operations and grow our research and development, product
development, manufacturing, sales and administrative operations. This expansion
is expected to place a significant strain on our management and will require
hiring a significant number of qualified personnel. Accordingly, recruiting and
retaining such personnel in the future will be critical to our success. There
is intense competition from other companies and research and academic
institutions for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we fail
to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel, we
may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities.


We will incur increased costs as a result of recently
enacted and proposed changes in laws and regulations relating to corporate
governance matters.

Recently enacted and
proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies,
including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted
or proposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, will result in
increased costs to us as we evaluate the implications of any new rules and
regulations and respond to new requirements under such rules and
regulations. We will be required to comply with these rules and
regulations. For example, we are evaluating our internal controls systems in
order to allow us to report on, and our independent registered public
accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. While we anticipate being able to fully
implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects
of Section 404 in a timely fashion, we cannot be certain as to the timing
of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact
of the same on our operations since there is no precedent available by which to
measure compliance adequacy. As a development stage company with limited
capital and human resources, we will need to divert management’s time and
attention away from our business in order to ensure compliance with these
regulatory requirements. This diversion of management’s time and attention may
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations.

Changes in or
interpretations of accounting rules and regulations, such as expensing of
stock options, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or require us to
change our compensation policies.

Accounting methods and
policies for business and market practices, including policies regarding
expensing stock options, are subject to further review, interpretation and
guidance from relevant accounting authorities, including the SEC. For example,
we were not required to record stock-based compensation charges if the
employee’s stock option exercise price equals or exceeds the fair value of our
common stock at the date of grant. In December 2004 and as amended in April 2005,
the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued SFAS No. 123
(revised 2004),

Share-Based Payment

which will require all share-based payments to employees, including
grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements
based on their fair values starting at the beginning of 2006. The transition
methods include retroactive and prospective adoption options. Under the
retroactive option, prior periods may be restated either as of the beginning of
the year of adoption or for all periods presented. The prospective method
requires that compensation expense be recorded for all unvested stock options
and restricted stock at the beginning of the first quarter of adoption of SFAS No. 123R,
while the retroactive methods would record compensation expense for all
unvested stock options and restricted stock beginning in the first period
restated. If we elect to adopt the retroactive provisions and to restate all
prior periods presented our operating expenses and reported losses will
increase. We rely heavily on stock options to compensate existing employees and
attract new employees. Upon the adoption, we may choose to reduce our reliance
on stock options as a compensation tool. If we reduce our use of stock options,
it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees.
Although we believe that our accounting practices are consistent with current
accounting pronouncements, changes to or interpretations of accounting methods
or policies in the future may require us to reclassify, restate or otherwise
change or revise our financial statements. We are evaluating the requirements
of SFAS No. 123R and expect that the adoption of SFAS No. 123R will
have a material impact on our results of operations and earnings per share.

ITEM 1B.

UNRESOLVED
STAFF COMMENTS.

Not applicable.


ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES

We maintain our
headquarters in San Diego, California in one leased facility of approximately
23,000 square feet, which includes our laboratory, research and development,
manufacturing and general administration functions. The lease for this facility
expires in 2011. We have the right to extend the term of this lease for one
period of five years, and a right of first offer for an adjacent facility as
space becomes available in that facility. We also lease two smaller facilities
of approximately 7,000 square feet each near our headquarters. We believe that
our existing facility is adequate to meet our needs for the foreseeable future,
and that suitable additional space will be available in the future on commercially
reasonably terms as needed.

ITEM 3.

LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS.

On August 11, 2005, Abbott
Diabetes Care, Inc. (“Abbott”) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against us in
the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, seeking a declaratory
judgment that our short-term glucose monitor infringes certain patents held by Abbott.
We moved to dismiss these claims on August 31, 2005. In addition to our motion
to dismiss, we have also filed requests for reexamination of the Abbott patents
with the United States Patent and Trademark Office on January 25, 2006 and
February 1, 2006. On February 22, 2006, we filed a motion to stay the
entirety of the Delaware case pending decision from the Patent Office on those requests
for reexamination. On February 23, 2006, the Court held a scheduling conference,
during which it set a trial date of October 9, 2007. The court has not yet
reviewed or ruled on our motions to dismiss or stay the case. We believe the
complaint is without merit and intend to vigorously contest the action.

ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION
OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

Not applicable.


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET
FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.

DexCom’s common stock has been traded on the NASDAQ
National Market under the symbol “DXCM” since April 14, 2005. As of January 30,
2006, there were approximately 178 stockholders of record, excluding
stockholders whose shares were held in nominee or street name by brokers. We
have not paid any cash dividends and do not currently have plans to do so in
the foreseeable future.

The
following table sets forth the high and low sales price per share for DexCom’s
common stock for the periods indicated:

Year Ended December 31, 2005

High

Low

Second Quarter
  (from April 14, 2005)

$

15.40

$

9.79

Third Quarter

$

12.58

$

10.00

Fourth Quarter

$

15.99

$

10.84

Purchases
of Equity Securities of the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers

Neither we nor any
affiliated purchaser repurchased any of our equity securities in the fourth
quarter of fiscal year 2005.

Use of Proceeds

Our first Registration Statement on Form S-1
(Reg. No. 333-122454),
as amended, became effective April 13, 2005, and the offering commenced
the same day. The offering terminated subsequent to the sale of 4,700,000
shares of common stock and the underwriters’ overallotment option was not
exercised

.

Piper Jaffray &
Co. acted as book-running manager for the offering and, together with SG Cowen &
Co., LLC, William Blair & Company, L.L.C. and First Albany Capital
Inc., acted as representative of the underwriters.

We registered 4,700,000 shares of common stock at
$0.001 par value per share, plus 705,000 additional shares to cover the
underwriters’ overallotment option. All shares were registered for our account.
The aggregate public offering price of the 4,700,000 shares sold was
$56,400,000.

Expenses incurred in connection with the issuance and
distribution of the securities registered were as follows:

·

Underwriting
discounts and commissions — $3,948,000

·

Other
expenses — $1,973,000

·

Total
expenses — $5,921,000

None of such payments were direct or indirect payments
to directors or officers of the issuer or their associates or to persons owning
10 percent or more of any class of equity securities of the issuer or any of
its affiliates or direct or indirect payments to others. The net offering
proceeds to us after deducting underwriters’ discounts and the total expenses
described above totals approximately $50.5 million.

Of the net proceeds from the offering and existing
cash, we expect to use approximately:

·

$20.0
million for clinical trials and other research and development expenses;

·

$25.0
million for building our commercial infrastructure, including sales and
marketing and manufacturing capacity expansion; and

·

the
remainder for working capital and general corporate purposes.


The amounts actually spent for these purposes may vary
significantly and will depend on a number of factors, including our operating
costs, capital expenditures and other factors described under “Risk Factors”
above. While we have no present understandings, commitments or agreements to
enter into any potential acquisitions, we may also use a portion of the net
proceeds for the acquisition of, or investment in, technologies or products
that complement our business. Accordingly, management will retain broad
discretion as to the allocation of the net proceeds of this offering. As
required by SEC regulations, we will provide further detail on our use of
proceeds from the offering in future periodic reports.

Pending the uses described above, we have invested the
net proceeds of the offering in short-term, interest-bearing, investment-grade
securities. We cannot predict whether the proceeds will yield a favorable
return.

ITEM 6.

SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA

The statements of operations data for the years ended December 31,
2003, 2004 and 2005 and for the period from May 13, 1999 (inception)
through December 31, 2005 and the balance sheet data as of December 31,
2004 and 2005 have been derived from our audited financial statements included
elsewhere in this annual report. The statements of operations data for the
years ended December 31, 2001 and 2002 and the balance sheet data as of December 31,
2001, 2002 and 2003 have been derived from our audited financial statements not
included in this annual report. The following selected financial data should be
read in conjunction with our “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” and financial statements and related notes
to those statements included elsewhere in this annual report.


(1)

See Note 2 of the
notes to our financial statements for a description of the method used to
compute basic and diluted net loss per share attributable to common
stockholders.

ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

CAUTIONARY NOTE
REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This document,
including the following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements that
are based upon current expectations. These forward-looking statements fall
within the meaning of the federal securities laws that relate to future events
or our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking
statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,”
“believe,” “estimate,” “intend,” “potential” or “continue” or the negative of
these terms or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements involve
risks and uncertainties. Our actual results and the timing of events could
differ materially from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements as a
result of many factors, including whether we receive FDA approval for our
technologies, whether we are able to introduce any products to the market or
generate revenue, competition in our marketplace and the other risks those set
forth in the section entitled “Risk Factors “ and elsewhere in this report. We
assume no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the
date of this report or to conform these forward-looking statements to actual
results.

Overview

We are a development stage medical device company
focused on the design and development of continuous glucose monitoring systems
for people with diabetes. Since inception we have devoted substantially all of
our resources to start-up activities, raising capital and research and
development, including product design, testing, manufacturing and clinical
trials. We have focused our development activities on two continuous glucose
monitoring systems: a short-term system with a sensor that can be inserted by a
patient and a long-term system with a sensor that can be implanted by a
physician. Our glucose monitoring systems are designed to provide real-time
continuous blood glucose values, trend data and alerts to assist patients in
managing their blood glucose levels. We have not generated any revenue from our
development activities and will not be able to generate revenue until one of
our products is approved, if ever.

In March 2005, we filed an application for
premarket approval, or PMA, for our short-term continuous glucose monitoring
system, or STS, with the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. Premarket
approval is the FDA process of scientific and regulatory review to evaluate the
safety and efficacy of medical devices like those we are developing. In May 2005
we received notification from the FDA that our PMA was accepted as filed and
granted expedited review status. In July 2005, we completed our 100-day
meeting with the FDA. In August 2005 we received a written request from
the FDA for additional information, and in September 2005 we responded to
that request. Our clinical trials may be


delayed due to scheduling
issues with patients and investigators, institutional review boards, sensor
performance and manufacturing supply constraints, among other factors. Support
of these clinical trials requires significant resources in research and
development, manufacturing, quality assurance, and clinical and regulatory
personnel.

We are currently increasing our manufacturing
capabilities to enable us to produce greater quantities of our devices. Due to
the lead-time associated with increases in capacity, this expansion has been
initiated prior to the approval, if received by the FDA, of our products. Our
capacity expansion could be constrained by the lack of readily available
laboratory and manufacturing space, material availability, equipment design,
production and validation, product changes required by the FDA for approval,
regulatory approval of our factory, personnel staffing and other factors. Prior
to obtaining regulatory approval, we have begun to hire sales and marketing
personnel. If we obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, we plan to launch
our products in the United States with our own direct sales force.

To date, we have not generated any revenue, and we
have incurred net losses in each year since our inception in May 1999.
Through December 31, 2005, we had a deficit accumulated during the
development stage of $83.8 million. We expect our losses to continue and
increase as we expand our clinical trial activities and initiate
commercialization activities. We have financed our operations primarily through
private placements and an initial public offering (IPO) of equity securities. In
April 2005, we completed our IPO in which we sold 4,700,000 shares of
common stock for gross proceeds of $56.4 million. After deduction of
underwriting discounts, commissions and offering expenses, we received net
proceeds of $50.5 million.

Financial Operations

Revenue

To date, we have not generated any revenue from the
sale of our continuous glucose monitoring systems. We do not expect to generate
any revenue from our systems until at least 2006.

Research and Development

Our research and development expenses primarily
consist of engineering and research expenses related to our continuous glucose
monitoring technology, clinical trials, regulatory expenses, materials, and
manufacturing expenses incurred to build our clinical trial glucose monitoring
systems. These expenses are primarily related to employee compensation,
including salary, fringe benefits, recruitment, relocation and temporary
employee expenses. We also incur significant expenses to operate our clinical
trials including trial design, clinical site reimbursement, data management and
associated travel expenses. Our research and development expenses also include
fees for outside design services, contractors and materials, and assembly
expenses for our glucose monitoring systems. From our inception through December 31,
2005, we have incurred $61.6 million in research and development expenses.

Selling, General and Administrative

Our selling, general and administrative expenses
primarily consist of compensation for our executive, financial, marketing and
administrative functions. Other significant expenses include trade show expenses,
insurance, professional fees for our outside legal counsel and our independent
auditors and expenses for board meetings. From our inception through December 31,
2005, we have incurred $12.7 million for selling, general and administrative
expenses.

Stock-Based Compensation

Stock-based
compensation consists of compensation expense related to stock option programs.
This compensation expense is reflected separately in our financial statements
and is allocated among our research and development expenses and selling,
general and administrative expenses. Stock-based


compensation
expense, which is a non-cash charge, results primarily from employee stock
option grants at exercise prices that, for financial reporting purposes, are
deemed to be below the estimated fair value of the underlying common stock on
the date of grant. Prior to our IPO in April 2005, our board of directors
determined the estimated fair value of our common stock on the date of grant.
Stock-based employee compensation equals the difference between the
reassessed estimated fair value per share of our common stock on the date of
grant and the exercise price per share and is amortized on an accelerated basis
over the vesting period of the stock option. Additionally, stock-based
compensation consists of options issued to non-employees and stock issued to directors
that are recorded at their fair value. From inception through December 31,
2005, we have incurred $2.2 million in stock-based compensation expense.

Results of Operations

Years
Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to December 31, 2004.

Revenue.

We generated
no revenue during 2003, 2004 and 2005.

Research and
Development.

Research and
development expense, excluding stock based compensation, increased $13.3
million to $25.5 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005,
compared to $12.2 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004.
The increase was primarily related to $7.7 million in increased manufacturing
expenses, $3.7 million in higher development costs and $1.9 million in
increased clinical and regulatory expense as we scaled our operations after
completing our approval support trial and submitting our PMA to the FDA.
Included in the higher R&D spending were $6.4 million in higher material
procurements which includes a $2.0 million loss on firm purchase commitments,
$3.4 million in increased salary, fringe and temporary employee expenses, $1.2
million in greater product and tooling design costs, $1.0 million in higher
clinical trial expense and $0.5 million in increased depreciation. To date, we
have expensed purchases of materials, some of which may be used to generate
product sales, if and when we receive FDA approval.

Selling, General
and Administrative.

Selling,
general and administrative expense, excluding stock based compensation,
increased $3.7 million to $5.1 million for the twelve months ended December 31,
2005, compared to $1.4 million for the twelve months ended December 31,
2004. The increase was primarily due to $1.4 million in initial marketing
costs, $1.2 million related to expenses associated with operating as a public
company, and increased litigation expenses.

Stock-Based
Compensation.

In connection with the grant of stock
and stock options to employees, consultants and directors, compensation expense
increased $1.3 million to $1.8 million for the twelve months ended December 31,
2005 compared to $449,000 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004. The
increase in compensation expense, which is allocated between research and
development and selling, general, and administrative, was primarily due to the
combination of additional option grants and higher estimated intrinsic fair
values per option grant for options granted subsequent to February 2004.

Interest and Other
Income, Net.

Interest and
other income increased $1.5 million to $1.7 million for the twelve months ended
December 31, 2005, compared to $121,000 for the twelve months ended December 31,
2004. The increase was due to higher combined average cash, cash equivalents,
and short-term marketable securities balances due to our April 2005 IPO
along with higher interest rates.


Years Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to December 31,
2003.

Research and
Development.

Research and
development expense, excluding stock based compensation, increased $3.2 million
to $12.2 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004,
compared to $8.9 million for the twelve months ended December 31,
2003. The increase was related to $1.0 million in increased manufacturing
expenses, $1.0 million in higher development costs and $1.2 million
in increased clinical and regulatory expense as the company progressed in the
development of its short-term sensor. Included in the higher R&D spending
were $1.0 million in increased salary and fringe expenses, $0.8 million
in greater materials and laboratory supplies, $0.5 million in higher
clinical trial costs, and $0.3 million in higher rent for a new facility.

Selling, General
and Administrative.

Selling,
general and administrative expense, excluding stock based compensation,
increased $0.2 million to $1.4 million for the twelve months ended December 31,
2004, compared to $1.2 million for the twelve months ended December 31,
2003. The increase was primarily due to higher salary and facility costs.

Stock-Based
Compensation.

In connection with the grant of stock
and stock options to employees, consultants and directors, compensation expense
increased $0.5 million to $0.5 million for the twelve months ended December 31,
2004 compared to zero for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003. The
increase in compensation expense, which is allocated between research and development
and selling, general, and administrative, was primarily due to the combination
of additional option grants and higher estimated fair values per option grant
for options granted subsequent to February 2004.

Interest and Other Income, Net.

Interest
and other income decreased $149,000 to $121,000 for the twelve months ended December 31,
2004, compared to $270,000 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003.
The decrease was due to lower average cash balances.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We are in the development stage and have incurred
losses since our inception in May 1999. As of December 31, 2005 we
had a deficit accumulated during the development stage of $83.8 million. As
of December 31, 2005, we had working capital of $43.9 million,
including $50.5 million in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term
marketable securities. We have funded our operations solely from the sale of
equity securities, raising aggregate net proceeds of $120.6 million
through December 30, 2005.  On April 19,
2005, we completed our IPO in which we sold 4,700,000 shares of common stock
for gross proceeds of $56.4 million. After deduction of underwriting
discounts, commissions and offering expenses, we received net proceeds of $50.5 million.
Concurrent with the closing of our IPO, all of our outstanding preferred stock
converted into common stock.

Net Cash Used in
Operating Activities.

Net
cash used in operating activities increased $10.2 million to $22.6 million
for the twelve months ended December 31 2005, compared to $12.4 million
for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004. The increase in cash used
in operations was primarily due to our increased net loss as we continued
efforts to seek approval for our products, partially offset by higher accounts
payable and accrued liabilities of $4.5 million, stock-based compensation
of $1.2 million, and depreciation and amortization of $0.6 million.

Net Cash Used in
Investing Activities.

Net cash used in investing
activities increased $16.5 million to $18.2 million for the twelve
months ended December 31, 2005, compared to $1.7 million for the
twelve months ended December 31, 2004. The increase was primarily due to
the purchases of short-term marketable securities. For the twelve-month period
ending December 31, 2005, we invested $4.7 million in capital
equipment and facilities to support manufacturing capacity increases.

Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities.

Net cash
provided by financing activities increased $29.4 million to $50.8 million
for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, compared to $21.4 million


for the twelve
months ended December 31, 2004. The increase was due to the net proceeds
from our April 2005 IPO and the exercise of stock options.

Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements

To date, we have not commercialized any products. We
anticipate that we will continue to incur net losses for the next several years
as we develop our products, expand our clinical development team and corporate
infrastructure, and prepare for the potential launch of our continuous glucose
monitoring systems, if approved by the FDA.

We do not expect to generate significant product
revenue until we successfully obtain marketing approval for and begin selling
our continuous glucose monitoring systems. We believe that our cash, cash
equivalents, and short-term marketable securities balances, and the interest we
earn on these balances, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements
with respect to clinical trials, PMA applications and any initial commercial
launches of our long-term and short-term continuous glucose monitoring systems
and to meet our other anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve
months. If our available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are
insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, or if we develop additional
products, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a
credit facility. The sale of additional equity and debt securities may result
in additional dilution to our stockholders. If we raise additional funds
through the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock, these securities
could have rights senior to those of our common stock and could contain
covenants that would restrict our operations. We may require additional capital
beyond our currently forecasted amounts. Any such required additional capital
may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain
additional financing, we may be required to reduce the scope of, delay or
eliminate some or all of our planned research, development and
commercialization activities, which could harm our business.

Because of the
numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development of continuous
glucose monitoring technologies, such as our short-term and long-term systems,
we are unable to estimate the exact amounts of capital outlays and operating
expenditures associated with our current and anticipated clinical trials. Our
future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not
limited to:

·

the
costs and timing of regulatory approval;

·

our
ability to scale our manufacturing operations;

·

the
costs to produce our monitoring systems;

·

the
expenses we incur in developing, selling and marketing our products;

·

the
costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and
other intellectual product rights;

·

the
rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and other development activities;

·

the
success of our research and development efforts;

·

the
revenue generated by sales of our future products;

·

the
emergence of competing or complementary technological developments;

·

the
terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangement that we
may establish; and

·

the acquisition of
businesses, products and technologies, although we currently have no
commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions.


Contractual Obligations

The
following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations as of December 31,
2005 and the effect those obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and
cash flows in future periods:

Contractual Obligations

Total

Less than

1 Year

1-3 Years

3-5 Years

More than

5 Years

Operating leases

$

2,662,176

$

536,362

$

928,603

$

986,124

$

211,087

Royalty
  obligations

1,276,000

116,000

232,000

232,000

696,000

Purchase
  commitments

11,913,854

11,913,854

—

—

—

Total

$

15,852,030

$

12,566,216

$

1,160,603

$

1,218,124

$

907,087

Off-Balance
Sheet Arrangements

We have not engaged in any
off-balance sheet activities.

Related Party Transactions

Our Chairman retains
one-half ownership in Archipelago Aviation and is also a director of Oracle
Corporation. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we incurred costs
with Archipelago Aviation totaling approximately $191,000 for airline
transportation related to travel activities during our initial public offering
and subsequent clinical site visits. Expenses incurred relating to an Oracle
ERP system

for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004 totaled $6,483 and

$10,046,
respectively. Our Chairman was not involved in the selection of our ERP system.
We believe that the aforementioned arrangements were at no less favorable rates
to us than those that could have been obtained from unrelated third parties
based on review of price quotations with third parties.

Critical
Accounting Policies and Estimates

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition
and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which we have
prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements
requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements as well as the reported revenue
and expenses during the reporting periods. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our
estimates and judgments. We base our estimates on historical experience and on
various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances,
the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying
value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other
sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different
assumptions or conditions.

While our significant
accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 to our financial
statements included elsewhere in this report, we believe that the following
accounting policies and estimates are most critical to a full understanding and
evaluation of our reported financial results.

Stock-Based Compensation

We account for employee stock option and purchase
plans using the intrinsic-value method in accordance with APB No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees

,
FIN No. 44,

Accounting for Certain
Transactions Involving Stock Compensation

, an interpretation of APB No. 25,
and related interpretations. We have adopted the disclosure-only provisions of
SFAS No. 123R,

Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation

, as amended.

Stock-based compensation expense, which is a non-cash
charge, results from employee stock option grants at exercise prices that, for
financial reporting purposes, are deemed to be below the estimated fair


value of the underlying
common stock on the date of grant. Prior to our IPO in April 2005, our
board of directors determined the estimated fair value of our common stock on
the date of grant based on several factors, including progress and milestones
achieved in our business, sales of convertible preferred stock and valuation of
existing comparable publicly-traded companies. Stock-based
compensation expense per share equals the difference between the fair value per
share of our common stock on the date of grant and the exercise price per
share, and is amortized on an accelerated basis over the vesting period of the
option, which is generally four years.

The information regarding
net loss as required by SFAS No. 123, presented in Note 1 to our
financial statements, has been determined as if we had accounted for our
employee stock option and purchase plans under the fair value method. The
resulting effect on net loss pursuant to SFAS No. 123 is not likely to be
representative of the effects on net loss pursuant to SFAS No. 123 in
future years, since future years are likely to include additional grants and the
irregular impact of future years’ vesting.

Clinical Trial Accounting

We record accruals for
estimated clinical study expenses, comprising payments for work performed by
contract research organizations, physicians and participating hospitals. These
expenses are a significant component of research and development expenses. We
accrue expenses for clinical studies performed by contract research
organizations based on estimates of work performed under the contracts.
Expenses for setting up clinical trial sites are accrued immediately. Clinical
expenses related to patient enrollment are accrued as patients are enrolled in
the trial.

Loss on Firm Purchase Commitments

We record accruals for
estimated losses on firm purchase commitments. Losses on firm purchase commitments
are based on the excess of the cost of future materials above the estimated
market price of the goods.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2004 and as amended in April 2005,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised in 2004),

Share-Based Payment

, or SFAS No. 123R, which
replaces SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation

, and supercedes APB Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees

.
SFAS No. 123R requires all share-based payments to employees,
including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial
statements based on their fair value starting

at
the beginning of 2006.

The pro forma disclosures previously permitted
under SFAS No. 123 no longer will be an alternative to financial statement
recognition. Under SFAS No. 123R, we must determine the appropriate fair
value model to be used for valuing share-based payments, the amortization
method for compensation cost and the transition method to be used at date of
adoption. The transition methods include prospective and retroactive adoption
options. Under the retroactive option, prior periods may be restated either as
of the beginning of the year of adoption or for all periods presented. The
prospective method requires that compensation expense be recorded for all
unvested stock options and restricted stock at the beginning of the first
quarter of adoption of SFAS No. 123R, while the retroactive methods would
record compensation expense for all unvested stock options and restricted stock
beginning in the first period restated. We are evaluating the requirements of
SFAS No. 123R and expect that the adoption on January 1, 2006, of
SFAS No. 123R will have a material impact on our results of operations and
earnings per share. We have not yet determined the method of adoption or the
effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R, and we have not determined whether the
adoption will result in amounts that are similar to the current pro forma
disclosures under SFAS No. 123.


In November 2004, the
FASB issued SFAS 151,

Inventory Costs, an
amendment of ARB 43, Chapter 4

. This statement amends previous
guidance as it relates to inventory valuation to clarify that abnormal amounts
of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and spoilage should be
recorded as current-period charges. The effective date of SFAS 151 is January 1,
2006. We have not yet determined the effect of adopting

SFAS No. 151.

ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The primary objective of our investment activities is
to preserve our capital for the purpose of funding operations while at the same
time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly
increasing risk. To achieve these objectives, our investment policy allows us
to maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term investments in a
variety of securities, including money market funds and corporate debt
securities. Due to the short-term nature of our investments, we believe that we
have no material exposure to interest rate risk.

To date we have
recorded no product sales and have not entered into any agreements denominated
in other than U.S. dollars. Accordingly we believe we have no material exposure
to risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL
STATEMENT AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The information required
is set forth under “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,”
“Balance Sheets,” “Statements of Operations,” “Statement of Redeemable
Convertible Preferred Stock and Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit),” “Statements of
Cash Flows” and “Notes to Financial Statements” on pages F-2 to F-25
of this annual report.


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

F-


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM

The Board of Directors and
Stockholders

DexCom, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of
DexCom, Inc. (a development stage company) as of December 31, 2005
and 2004, and the related statements of operations, redeemable convertible
preferred stock and stockholders’ equity (deficit), and cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 and the period from May 13,
1999 (inception) through December 31, 2005. These financial statements are
the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal
control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that
are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting. Accordingly we express no such opinion. An audit also includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

In our opinion, the
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of DexCom, Inc. at December 31, 2005
and 2004, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 and the period from May 13,
1999 (inception) through December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.

/s/ Ernst &
Young LLP

San Diego, California

February 17, 2006

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

BALANCE SHEETS

See accompanying notes.

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

See accompanying notes.

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

STATEMENTS OF REDEEMABLE
CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (DEFICIT)

Redeemable convertible

preferred stock

Convertible

preferred stock

Common stock

Additional

paid-in

Deferred

stock

based

Accumulated

other

comprehensive

Deficit

accumulated

during the

development

Total

stockholders’

equity

Shares

Amount

Shares

Amount

Shares

Amount

capital

compensation

loss

stage

(deficit)

See accompanying notes.

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

STATEMENTS OF REDEEMABLE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(DEFICIT) (Continued)

See accompanying notes.

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

STATEMENTS OF REDEEMABLE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(DEFICIT) (Continued)

See accompanying notes.

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

STATEM

ENTS OF CASH FLOWS

See accompanying notes.

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2005

1.   Organization
and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Organization and Business

DexCom, Inc., or the
Company, is a development stage medical device company focused on the design
and development of continuous glucose monitoring systems for people with
diabetes. Since inception the Company has devoted substantially all of its
resources to start-up activities, raising capital and research and development,
including product design, testing, manufacturing and clinical trials. The
Company has focused its development activities on two continuous glucose
monitoring systems: a short-term system with a sensor that can be inserted by a
patient, and a long-term system with a sensor that can be implanted by a
physician. The Company’s glucose monitoring systems are designed to provide
real-time continuous blood glucose values, trend data and alerts to assist
patients in managing their blood glucose levels. The Company has not generated
any revenue from its development activities and will not be able to generate revenue
until one of its products is approved, if ever.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial
statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from these
estimates.

Significant estimates
include estimated clinical study expenses and estimated of losses on firm
purchase commitments. Estimated clinical study expenses are comprised of
payments for work performed by contract research organizations, physicians and
participating hospitals. Expenses are accrued for clinical studies performed by
contract research organizations based on estimates of work performed under contracts.
Expenses for setting up clinical trial sites are accrued immediately. Clinical
expenses related to patient enrollment are accrued as patients are enrolled in
a trial. Losses on firm purchase commitments are based on the excess of the
cost of future materials above the estimate market price of the goods.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

The Company invests its
excess cash in bank deposits, money market accounts, and highly liquid debt
securities. The Company considers all highly liquid investments with an
original maturity of 90 days or less at the time of purchase to be cash
equivalents.

Short-Term Marketable Securities

The Company has classified
its short-term investments as “available-for-sale” and carries them at fair
value with unrealized gains and losses, if any, reported as a separate
component of stockholders’ equity and included in comprehensive loss. Realized
gains and losses are calculated on the specific identification method and
recorded as interest income.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

Financial instruments,
including cash and cash equivalents, prepaid expenses, accounts payable and
accrued liabilities, are carried at cost, which management believes
approximates fair value given their short-term nature.

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

December 31, 2005

1.

Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
(Continued)

Letter of Credit

At December 31, 2005
and 2004, the Company had irrevocable letters of credit outstanding with a
commercial bank for approximately $250,000 and $200,000, respectively, securing
its facility leases. The Company has deposited an aggregate of $250,000 and
$200,000 at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, of certificates of
deposit securing the letter of credits. An equal amount of restricted cash has
been separately disclosed in the accompanying balance sheets.

Concentration of Credit Risk

Financial instruments
which potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist
primarily of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investment securities. The
Company limits its exposure to credit loss by placing its cash with high credit
quality financial institutions. The Company has established guidelines relative
to diversification of its cash and investment securities and their maturities
that are intended to secure safety and liquidity. These guidelines are
periodically reviewed and modified to take advantage of trends in yields and
interest rates and changes in the Company’s operations and financial position.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment is stated
at cost and depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the assets,
generally three to five years, using the straight-line method. Leasehold
improvements are stated at cost and amortized over the shorter of the estimated
useful lives of the assets or the lease term.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

In accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment of Disposable
Long-Lived Assets

, the Company will record impairment losses on
long-lived assets used in operations when events and circumstances indicate
that assets might be impaired and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be
generated by those assets are less than the carrying amount of those assets. To
date, the Company has not experienced any impairment losses on its long-lived
assets used in operations.

Stock-Based Compensation

The Company accounts for employee stock option and
purchase plans using the intrinsic-value method in accordance with
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 (“APB No. 25”),

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees

,
Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 44 (“FIN No. 44”),

Accounting for Certain Transactions
Involving Stock Compensation, an Interpretation of APB No. 25

,
and related interpretations and has adopted the disclosure-only provisions of
Statement of Financial Standards No. 123 (“SFAS No.123”),

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.

Options or stock awards issued to non-employees are
recorded at their fair value as determined in accordance with SFAS No. 123
and Emerging Issues Task Force No. 96-18 (“EITF No. 96-18”),

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

December 31, 2005

1.

Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

Accounting
for Equity Instruments that are Issued to Other than Employees for Acquiring,
or in Conjunction with Selling Goods and Services

and
recognized over the related service period.

The information regarding net loss as required by SFAS
No. 123, as amended, has been determined as if the Company had accounted
for its employee stock option and purchase plans under the fair-value method.
The resulting effect on net loss pursuant to SFAS No. 123 is not likely to
be representative of the effects on net loss pursuant to SFAS No. 123 in
future periods, since future periods are likely to include additional grants
and the impact of future years’ vesting.

In connection with the grant of certain stock options
and unvested restricted stock to employees during the year ended December 31,
2005 and 2004, the Company recorded deferred stock-based compensation
within stockholders’ equity (deficit) of $197,461 and $3,097,025, respectively,
which represents the difference between the fair value of the common stock and
the option exercise price or the restricted stock purchase price at the date of
grant. Such amount will be amortized over the vesting period of the applicable
options and restricted stock on an accelerated basis. The amount of deferred
stock-based compensation within stockholders’ equity (deficit) of
$197,461 during the year ended December 31, 2005 included the reversal of
$174,010 associated with terminated employees.

The
Company recorded stock-based compensation expense of $1,785,729 and
$448,689 for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Excluding
the potential impact of adopting Statement of Financial Standards No. 123(revised
2004),

Share Based Payment”

, as
amended, the expected future expense for deferred stock-based
compensation for stock options and unvested restricted stock granted through December 31,
2005, is as follows:

Fiscal Year Ending


$

681,282


319,041


83,891

Total

$

1,084,214

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

December 31, 2005

1.

Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

The table below
illustrates the effect on net loss and net loss per share attributable to
common stockholders had the Company applied the fair value provisions of SFAS No. 123
to employee stock compensation.

The
fair value of options granted in connection with stock option plans and rights
granted in connection with the employee stock purchase plan above using the “Black-Scholes”
method have been estimated with the following assumptions:

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

December 31, 2005

1.

Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

Research and Development

All costs of research and
development are expensed as incurred. Research and development expenses
primarily include salaries and related costs, clinical trials, overhead, part
components, and fees paid to consultants.

Comprehensive Loss

SFAS No. 130,

Reporting Comprehensive Income

, requires
that all components of comprehensive income, including net income, be reported
in the financial statements in the period in which they are recognized.
Comprehensive income is defined as the change in equity during a period from
transactions and other events and circumstances from non-owner sources. Net
income and other comprehensive income, including foreign currency translation
adjustments, and unrealized gains and losses on investments, shall be reported,
net of their related tax effect, to arrive at comprehensive income.
Comprehensive loss was not different than net loss for the period from May 13,
1999 (inception) through December 31, 2004.

Deferred Rent

Rent expense is recorded
on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. The difference between
rent expense accrued and amounts paid under the lease agreement is recorded as
deferred rent in the accompanying balance sheets.

Income Taxes

In accordance with SFAS No. 109,

Accounting for Income Taxes

, a
deferred tax asset or liability is determined based on the difference between
the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities as measured by
the enacted tax rates, which will be in effect when these differences reverse.
The Company provides a valuation allowance against net deferred tax assets
unless, based upon the available evidence, it is more likely than not that the
deferred tax assets will be realized.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2004 and as amended in April 2005,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004),

Share-Based Payment,

or SFAS No. 123R, which
replaces SFAS No. 123, and supercedes APB No. 25. SFAS No. 123R
requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of
employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on
their fair values at the fiscal year beginning January 1, 2006, with early
adoption encouraged. The pro forma disclosures previously permitted under SFAS No. 123
no longer will be an alternative to financial statement recognition. Under SFAS
No. 123R, the Company must determine the appropriate fair value model to
be used for valuing share-based payments, the amortization method for compensation
cost and the transition method to be used at date of adoption. The transition
methods include prospective and retroactive adoption options. Under the
retroactive option, prior periods may be restated either as of the beginning of
the year of adoption or for

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

December 31, 2005

1.

Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

all periods presented. The
prospective method requires that compensation expense be recorded for all
unvested stock options and restricted stock at the beginning of the first
quarter of adoption of SFAS No. 123R, while the retroactive methods would
record compensation expense for all unvested stock options and restricted stock
beginning in the first period restated. The Company is evaluating the
requirements of SFAS No. 123R and expects that the adoption of SFAS No. 123R
will have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations and earnings
per share. The Company has not yet determined the method of adoption or the effect
of adopting SFAS No. 123R, and it has not determined whether the adoption
will result in amounts that are similar to the current pro forma disclosures
under SFAS No. 123.

In November 2004, the
FASB issued SFAS 151,

Inventory Costs, an
amendment of ARB 43, Chapter 4

. This statement amends previous
guidance as it relates to inventory valuation to clarify that abnormal amounts
of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and spoilage should be
recorded as current-period charges. The effective date of SFAS 151 is January 1,
2006.

The Company is evaluating the
requirements of SFAS No. 151 and has not completed its assessment of the
impact on future reporting periods.

2.

Net
Loss Per Common Share

Basic net loss per share attributable to common
stockholders is calculated by dividing the net loss attributable to common
stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding
for the period, without consideration for common stock equivalents. Diluted net
loss per share attributable to common stockholders is computed by dividing the
net loss attributable to common stockholders by the weighted-average
number of common share equivalents outstanding for the period determined using
the treasury-stock method. For purposes of this calculation, redeemable
convertible preferred stock, convertible preferred stock, stock options and the
outstanding warrant are considered to be common stock equivalents and are only
included in the calculation of diluted net loss per share when their effect is
dilutive.

Historical
outstanding anti-dilutive securities not included in diluted net loss per
share attributable to common stockholders calculation:

Pro Forma
Net Loss per Share

Management believes that
the additional disclosure below is useful to investors because it shows what
basic loss per share would have been if the conversions of the company’s
preferred stock had occurred at

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

December 31, 2005

2.

Net Loss Per Common Share (Continued)

the beginning of the respective periods being reported
rather than during the periods.

The
calculation of unaudited pro forma basic and diluted net loss per share
attributable to common stockholders assumes the conversion of all shares of Series A
convertible preferred stock, Series B, Series C and Series D
redeemable convertible preferred stock into shares of common stock using the
as-if-converted method, as if such conversion had occurred as of January 1,
2003, or the original issuance date, if later. The actual conversion date was April 13,
2005. The Company’s pro forma net loss per share is as follows:

3.

Financial
Statement Details

Short Term
Marketable Securities, Available for Sale

As described in Note 1, short-term investment
securities, consisting solely of debt securities with contractual maturities of
less than one year, were as follows:

December 31, 2005

Amortized Cost

Gross

Unrealized

Gains

Gross

Unrealized

Losses

Estimated

Market

Value

U.S. Government
  Agencies

$

13,289,616

$

—

$

(11,928

)

$

13,277,688

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

December 31, 2005

3.

Financial Statement Details (Continued)

Property and
Equipment

Property and
equipment consist of the following:

Depreciation expense for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and for the period from May 13,
1999 (inception) through December 31, 2005 was $1,065,007, $486,805,
$353,550, and $2,527,159, respectively.

Accounts Payable
and Accrued Liabilities

Accrued Payroll and
Related Expenses

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

December 31, 2005

4.

Commitments
and contingencies

Leases

The Company leases its
primary facilities under a seven-year operating lease agreement that expires on
January 13, 2011. The Company also leases additional facilities located
near its corporate headquarters. Future minimum lease payments related to the
lease commitments are as follows:

Rent expense for the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, and for the period from May 13,
1999 (inception) through December 31, 2005 was $504,307, $503,006,
$165,451 and $1,674,773, respectively.

Litigation

On August 11, 2005,
Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc. (“Abbott”) filed a patent infringement lawsuit
against us in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware,
seeking a declaratory judgment that the short-term glucose monitor infringes certain
patents held by Abbott. The Company moved to dismiss these claims on
August 31, 2005. In addition to the Company’s motion to dismiss, the
Company has also filed requests for reexamination of the Abbott patents with
the United States Patent and Trademark Office on January 25, 2006 and
February 1, 2006. On February 22, 2006, the Company filed a motion to
stay the entirety of the Delaware case pending decision from the Patent
Office on those requests for reexamination. On February 23, 2006, the
Court held a scheduling conference, during which it set a trial date of
October 9, 2007. The court has not yet reviewed or ruled the
Company’s motions to dismiss or stay the case. DexCom believes the
complaint is without merit and intends to vigorously contest the action.

Loss on Purchase
Commitments

For the year ended December 31,
2005, the Company recognized losses on firm purchase commitments of $2,033,906
that is included within research and development costs. Losses on firm purchase
commitments are based on the excess of the cost of future materials on order
above the estimated market price of the goods.

Purchase
Commitments

The Company is party to
various purchase arrangements related to its development activities including
materials used in its glucose monitoring systems. As of December 31, 2005,
the Company had

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

December 31, 2005

4.

Commitments and contingencies (Continued)

purchase
commitments with vendors of approximately $11,914,000 due within one year. There
are no purchase commitments due beyond one year.

5.   License Agreement

In August 2001, the Company acquired the
exclusive right to manufacture and sell products using the SM Technologies, LLC
intellectual property in the field of diabetes. The Company is required to make
minimum advanced royalty payments as noted in the table below. In addition, the
Company shall pay a royalty of $12.00 per unit (subject to an annual 3%
increase after product commercialization), per licensed product sold by the
Company. The intellectual property is currently used in the Company’s long-term
sensor. The license expires concurrent with the last patent to expire.

Future minimum advanced
royalties are as follows:

6.   Redeemable Convertible
Preferred Stock and Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit)

Stock Split

On March 23, 2005,
the Company effected a 1-for-2 reverse stock split of the
outstanding common stock. The accompanying financial statements and these notes
give retroactive effect to the reverse stock split for all periods presented.

Initial Public
Offering

On April 19, 2005,
the Company closed the initial public offering of its common stock in which it
sold 4,700,000 shares of common stock for gross proceeds of $56.4 million. After
deduction of underwriting discounts, commissions and offering expenses, the
Company received net proceeds of $50.5 million.

Convertible
Preferred Stock

Effective April 13,
2005 and in conjunction with the Company’s initial public offering, all
35,450,870 shares of redeemable convertible preferred stock and convertible
series A preferred stock converted to 17,725,401 shares of common stock.

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

December 31, 2005

6.

Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock and Stockholders’ Equity
(Deficit) (Continued)

Changes in
Capitalization

Effective April 13,
2005, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes “blank
check” preferred stock, which enables the Board of Directors to designate and
issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with rights senior to
those of common stock.

Warrant

In December 2004, in
connection with the issuance of the Series D redeemable convertible
preferred stock, the Company issued a warrant to Piper Jaffray & Co.
to purchase 87,458 shares of Series D redeemable convertible preferred
stock at an exercise price of $2.69 per share. The warrant is exercisable for a
period of 10 years.

7.   Income Taxes

At December 31, 2005, the Company has federal and
state tax net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $68.6 million
and $67.3 million, respectively. The federal and state tax loss
carryforwards will begin to expire in 2019 and 2007, respectively, unless
previously utilized. The Company also has federal and state research and
development tax credit carryforwards of approximately $2.1 million each. The
federal research and development tax credit will begin to expire in 2019,
unless previously utilized.

Pursuant to Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal
Revenue Code, annual use of the Company’s net operating loss and credit
carryforwards may be limited in the event that a cumulative change in ownership
of more than 50% has occurred within a three-year period.

Significant components of
the Company’s deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 are
shown below. A valuation allowance of approximately $32.4 million has been
established as of December 31, 2005 to offset the deferred tax assets, as
realization of such assets is uncertain.

8.   Related Party
Transactions

The Company’s Chairman retains one-half ownership in
Archipelago Aviation

and
is also a director of Oracle Corporation. During the year ended December 31,
2005, the Company incurred costs with Archipelago Aviation totaling $191,288 for airline
transportation related to travel activities during the Company’s initial public
offering and subsequent clinical site visits. Expenses incurred relating to an
Oracle

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

December 31, 2005

8.

Related Party Transactions (Continued)

ERP system

for the years ended December 31, 2005 and
2004,

and

for the period from May 13,
1999 (inception) through December 31, 2005 totaled $6,483

, $10,046,
and $16,529

,

respectively. The
Company’s Chairman was not involved in the selection of the Company’s ERP
system.

The Company has paid fees
for management services totaling $1,743,604 for the period from May 13,
1999 (inception) through the year ended December 31, 2002 to a venture
capital firm, which owns an equity interest in the Company. No fees have been
paid for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, or 2003.

9.   Employee Benefit
Plans

401(k) Plan

The Company has a defined contribution 401(k) retirement
plan, or the 401(k) Plan, covering substantially all employees that meet
certain age requirements. Employees may contribute up to 90% of their
compensation per year (subject to a maximum limit by federal tax law). Under
the 401(k) Plan, the Company may elect to match a discretionary percentage
of contributions. No such matching contributions have been made to the 401(k) Plan
since its inception.

The following plans
became effective April 13, 2005, the effective date of the Company’s
registration statement on Form S-1 for its initial public offering:

·

The 2005 Equity Incentive
Plan - the 2005 Equity Incentive Plan replaced the 1999 equity incentive plan
and includes a reserve of 3,000,000 shares of common stock. The shares reserved
include all shares that were available under the 1999 plan on the day it was
terminated.

·

The 2005 Employee Stock Purchase Plan - the 2005
Employee Stock Purchase has a reserve of reserve of 150,000 shares of common
stock.

Employee Stock
Purchase Plan

Employee Stock Purchase
Plan (the “Purchase Plan”) permits eligible employees of the Company to
purchase shares of common stock, at semi-annual intervals, through periodic
payroll deductions. Payroll deductions may not exceed 10% of the participant’s
cash compensation subject to certain limitations, and the purchase price will
not be less than 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the stock at
either the beginning of the applicable “Offering Period” or the Purchase Date. Except
for the First Offering Period, each Offering Period is 12 months, with new
Offering Periods commencing every six months on the dates of February 1
and August 1 of each year. The First Offering Period runs from April 13,
2005 to July 31, 2006 and includes the Purchase Dates of January 31
and July 31 of 2006. During the year ended December 31, 2005, no
shares had been issued under the Purchase Plan. On

January 31, 2006, the Company issued 35,556 shares of common stock
under the Purchase Plan.

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

December 31, 2005

9.

Employee Benefit Plans (Continued)

Option Plans

In 1999, the Company adopted the 1999 Incentive Stock
Plan (“1999 Plan”), as amended, and reserved 5,037,761 shares of common stock
for grants. The 1999 Plan provided for the grant of incentive and nonstatutory
stock options, stock bonuses and rights to purchase stock to employees,
directors or consultants of the Company.

In 2005, the Company adopted the 2005 Equity Incentive
Plan (“2005 Plan”) which replaced the 1999 Plan and provides for the grant of
incentive and nonstatutory stock options, restricted stock, stock bonuses,
stock appreciation rights, and restricted stock units to employees, directors
or consultants of the Company. Options generally vest over four years and
expire ten years from the date of grant. In addition, incentive stock options
may not be granted at a price less than the 100% of the fair market value on
the date of grant.

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

December 31, 2005

9.

Employee Benefit Plans (Continued)

A summary of the Company’s
stock option activity, and related information for the period December 31,
2002 to December 31, 2005 is as follows:

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

December 31, 2005

9.

Employee Benefit Plans (Continued)

The following table
summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31,
2005:

Restricted Stock
Awards

During the year ended December 31,
2005, the Company issued 19,750 shares of unvested restricted common stock
awards to certain employees. The grant awards vest 25% annually and are fully
vested following the fourth anniversary of the vesting start date which ranges
between January 3 and February 14, 2009. Vesting is subject to
employment and the Company has the right to repurchase unvested shares at the
original issuance price of $0.001 per share subject to certain terms and
conditions. As of December 31, 2005, there were 19,750 shares subject to
repurchase.

Deferred Stock-Based
Compensation

No employee stock
compensation expense was reflected in the Company’s reported net loss in any
period prior to 2004, as all options granted had an exercise price equal to the
estimated fair value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant.
During 2004, stock options were granted with exercise prices that were equal to
the estimated fair value of the common stock at the date of grant as determined
by the Board of Directors. Subsequent to the commencement of the initial public
offering process, the Company determined that certain of the stock options
granted during 2004 were granted at exercise prices that were below the
reassessed fair value of the common stock on the date of grant. With respect to
these options granted, the Company recorded deferred stock-based
compensation of $3,097,025 during the year ended December 31, 2004. During
2005, the Company granted 19,750 shares of unvested restricted common stock
awards to certain employees and recorded deferred stock-based compensation of
$197,461. Deferred stock-based compensation is recognized and amortized
on an accelerated basis in accordance with FIN No. 28,

Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other
Variable Stock Option or Award Plans

, over the vesting period of the
related awards, which is generally four years.

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

December 31, 2005

9.

Employee Benefit Plans (Continued)

Reserved Shares

The
Company has reserved shares of common stock for future issuance as follow:

2005 and 2006 Bonus
Pool

On December 7, 2005,
the Compensation Committee of the Company approved the 2005 Bonus Pool and the
2006 Bonus Pool. Under the 2005 Bonus Pool, the Company’s employees, including
its executive officers, are eligible for cash bonus awards (“Awards”) for their
2005 performance. The Company established a cash bonus pool of an amount up to
$600,000 of which $534,134 was paid as of December 31, 2005. The amounts
of Awards, if any, allocable to individual employees will be at the discretion
of the Chief Executive Officer, except for Awards to executive officers of the
Company, which will be recommended by the Chief Executive Officer and reviewed
and approved by the Committee. The 2006 Bonus Pool includes an amount of at
least $1.9 million, based on 25% of salary and wages for non sales employees,
to be awarded from the pool based on the weighted average achievement measured
against certain objectives.

F-


DEXCOM, INC.

(a development stage company)

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

December 31, 2005

10.   Quarterly
Financial Information (Unaudited)

The
following is a summary of the quarterly results of operations for the years
ended December 31, 2005 and 2004:

For the Three Months Ended

Year ended December 31, 2005

December 31

September 30

June 30

March 31

Total operating costs

$

12,604,523

$

6,861,053

$

6,842,226

$

6,121,672

Net loss attributable to
  common stockholders

(12,067,626

)

(6,329,621

)

(6,399,490

)

(6,092,925

)

Basic and diluted net
  loss per share attributable to common stockholders

$

(0.48

)

$

(0.25

)

$

(0.29

)

$

(2.36

)

For the Three Months Ended

Year ended December 31, 2004

December 31

September 30

June 30

March 31

Total operating
  costs

$

3,800,785

$

3,870,514

$

3,199,314

$

3,196,504

Net loss
  attributable to common stockholders

(4,598,295

)

(4,643,059

)

(3,974,874

)

(3,964,748

)

Basic and diluted net
  loss per share attributable to common stockholders

$

(1.98

)

$

(2.01

)

$

(1.75

)

$

(1.76

)

F-


ITEM
9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation
of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Regulations under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 require public companies to maintain “disclosure
controls and procedures,” which are defined to mean a company’s controls and
other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be
disclosed in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time
periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and
forms. DexCom’s management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief
Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation as of the end of the period covered
by this report of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based
on their evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial
Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective
for this purpose.

Changes
in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There were no changes in
our internal control over the financial reporting during our last fiscal
quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect our internal control over financial reporting.

Limitation
on Effectiveness of Controls

It should be noted that
any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are
met. The design of any control system is based, in part, upon the benefits of
the control system relative to its costs. Control systems can be circumvented
by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or
by management override of the control. In addition, over time, controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of these and other
inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any
design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future
conditions, regardless of how remote.

ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION.

None.


PART III

ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
REGISTRANT

The information concerning our directors required by
this Item is incorporated by reference to the section in our Proxy Statement
entitled “Proposal No. 1—Election of Directors.”

The information concerning our executive officers
required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the section in our Proxy
Statement entitled “Executive Officers.”

The information concerning compliance with Section 16(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 required by this Item is incorporated by
reference to the section in our Proxy Statement entitled “Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance.”

We have adopted a written code of ethics for financial
employees that applies to our principal executive officer, principal financial
officer, principal accounting officer, controller and other employees of the
finance department designated by the company’s Chief Financial Officer. This
code of ethics, titled the “Code of Conduct and Ethics for Chief Executive
Officer and Senior Finance Department 
Personnel,” is attached to this annual report as exhibit 14.01.

The Company’s Board of
Directors has determined that all the members of our Audit Committee are
financial experts (as defined in Item 401 of Regulation S-K of the Exchange
Act) and possess the financial qualifications required of audit committee
members set forth in the NASDAQ’s Marketplace Rules and under the Exchange
Act. In addition, the Company’s Board of Directors has determined that each
member of the Audit Committee is independent as that term is defined under Item
7(d)(3)(iv) of Schedule 14A under the Exchange Act. Additional information
regarding our Audit Committee is incorporated by reference to the section in
our Proxy Statement entitled “Audit Committee Financial Experts.”

ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information concerning
executive compensation required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
the sections in our Proxy Statement entitled “Executive Compensation,” “Compensation
of Directors,” “Employment, Severance and Change of Control Arrangements,” and “Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation.”

ITEM
12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information concerning
security ownership and management and related stockholder matters required by
this Item is incorporated by reference to the section in our Proxy Statement
entitled “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.”
Additional information required by this Item with respect to our equity
compensation plans is incorporated by reference to the section in our Proxy
Statement entitled “Equity Compensation Plan Information.”

ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
TRANSACTIONS

The information concerning
certain relationships and related transactions required by this Item is
incorporated by reference to the section in our Proxy Statement entitled “Certain
Transactions.”

ITEM 14.   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The information concerning
principal accountant fees and services required by this Item is incorporated by
reference to the section in our Proxy Statement entitled “Ratification of
Selection of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.”


PART IV

ITEM 15.   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULES

(a)

The following documents
are filed as part of this annual report:

1.

Financial Statements.

The following financial statement of
DexCom, Inc. are incorporated by reference to Part II, Item 8 of this
annual report.

2.

Financial Statement Schedules.

Not applicable.

3.

Exhibits.

Incorporated by Reference

Exhibit

Number

Exhibit Description

Form

File

No.

Date of

First

Filing

Exhibit

Number

Provided

Herewith

3.01

Registrants’ Restated Certificate
  of Incorporation.

S-1

000-51222

February 1, 2005

3.01

3.02

Registrant’s Restated
  Bylaws.

S-1/A

000-51222

March 24, 2005

3.02

4.01

Form of Specimen
  Certificate for Registrant’s common stock.

S-1/A

000-51222

March 24, 2005

4.01

4.02

Second Amended and
  Restated Investors’ Rights Agreement, dated December 30, 2004.

4.03

Form of Rights
  Agreement, between DexCom, Inc. and American Stock Transfer &
  Trust Company, including the Certificate of Designations of Series A
  Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Summary of Stock Purchase Rights and
  Forms of Right Certificate attached thereto as Exhibit A, B and C,
  respectively.

S-1/A

000-51222

March 24, 2005

4.03

10.01

Form of Indemnity
  Agreement between Registrant and each of its directors and executive
  officers.

S-1

000-5122

February 1, 2005

10.01

10.02

1999 Stock Option Plan
  and related agreements.*

S-1

000-51222

February 1, 2005

10.02

10.03

2005 Equity Incentive
  Plan and forms of stock option agreement and stock option exercise
  agreements.*

S-1/A

000-51222

March 24, 2005

10.03

10.04

2005 Employee Stock
  Purchase Plan and form of subscription agreement.*

S-1/A

000-51222

March 24, 2005

10.04

10.05

Amended and Restated
  Executive Change of Control Agreement dated January 31, 2005 between
  DexCom, Inc. and Andrew Rasdal.*

S-1/A

000-51222

March 2, 2005

10.05

10.06

Amended and Restated
  Employment Agreement dated January 31, 2005 between DexCom, Inc.
  and Andrew Rasdal.*

S-1/A

000-51222

March 2, 2005

10.06

10.07

Form of Change of
  Control Agreement between DexCom, Inc. and Andrew K. Balo, James H.
  Brauker, Mark Brister, and Steven J. Kemper.*

S-1/A

000-51222

March 2, 2005

10.07

10.08

Sorrento Valley Business
  Park Lease dated December 3, 2003 between Hub Properties Trust and
  DexCom, Inc.

S-1/A

000-51222

March 25, 2005

10.08

10.09

Exclusive Patent License
  Agreement dated August 17, 2001 between SM Technologies, LLC and
  DexCom, Inc.**

S-1/A

000-51222

April 5, 2005

10.09

10.10

Agreement Regarding Terms
  of Sale dated May 23, 2003 between AMI Semiconductor, Inc. and
  DexCom, Inc.**

S-1/A

000-51222

April 5, 2005

10.10

10.11

Agreement between
  DexCom, Inc. and Quallion LLC, dated May 21, 2003.**

S-1/A

000-51222

April 5, 2005

10.11

10.12

Lease from Hub Properties
  Trust to DexCom, Inc. dated May 13, 2005.

8-K

N/A

May 18, 2005

99.01

10.13

Board Member Agreement
  between DexCom, Inc. and Terrance H. Gregg dated May 19, 2005.

8-K

N/A

May 24, 2005

99.01

10.14

Offer letter between
  DexCom, Inc. and Jorge Valdes dated October 17, 2005.*

X

10.15

Offer letter between
  DexCom, Inc. and Rodney Kellogg, dated December 12, 2005.*

X

14.01

Code of Ethics for
  Financial Employees

X


23.01

Consent of Independent
  Registered Public Accounting Firm.

X

24.01

Power of Attorney. (See
  page 58 of this Form 10-K).

X

31.01

Certification of Chief
  Executive Officer Pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a).

X

31.02

Certification of Chief
  Financial Officer Pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a).

X

32.01

Certification of Chief
  Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and Securities
  Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(b).***

X

32.02

Certification of Chief
  Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and Securities
  Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(b).***

X

*

Represents a management contract or compensatory plan.

**

Confidential treatment has been granted for certain
portions of this document pursuant to an application for confidential treatment
sent to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such portions are omitted from
this filing and were filed separately with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

***

This certification is not deemed “filed” for purposes
of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the
liability of that section. Such certification will not be deemed to be
incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent that DexCom
specifically incorporates it by reference.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person
whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Andrew P. Rasdal
and Steven J. Kemper, jointly and severally, his attorneys-in-fact,
each with the power of substitution, for him in any and all capacities, to sign
any amendments to this Report on Form 10-K and to file same, with
exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
each of said attorneys-in-fact, or his substitutes, may do or cause
to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities and dates indicated.

58