Item 1. Business.

Business Overview

We store records, primarily paper documents and data backup media, and provide information management services that help organizations
around the world protect their information, lower storage rental costs, comply with regulations, enable corporate disaster recovery, and better use their information for business advantages,
regardless of its format, location or lifecycle stage. We offer comprehensive records and information management services and data management services,
along with the expertise and experience to address complex storage and information management challenges such as rising storage rental costs, and increased litigation, regulatory compliance and
disaster recovery requirements. Founded in an underground facility near Hudson, New York in 1951, Iron Mountain Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, is a trusted partner to more than 155,000
customers throughout North America, Europe, Latin America and the Asia Pacific region. We have a diversified customer base consisting of commercial, legal, banking, healthcare, accounting, insurance,
entertainment and government organizations, including more than 92% of the Fortune 1000. As of December 31, 2014, we operated in 36 countries on five continents and employed over 20,000 people.

Now
in our 64th year, we have experienced tremendous growth, particularly since successfully completing the initial public offering of our common stock in February 1996. We have
grown from a U.S. business operating fewer than 85 facilities (6 million square feet) with limited storage and information management service offerings and annual revenues of
$104.0 million in 1995 into a global enterprise providing storage and a broad range of related records and information management services to customers in markets around the world with
approximately 1,100 facilities (67.8 million square feet) as of December 31, 2014 and total revenues of more than $3.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014. On
January 5, 2009, we were added to the S&P 500 Index. On November 28 2014, we were added to the MSCI REIT index and as of December 31, 2014 we were number 712 on the
Fortune 1000.

REIT Conversion

We are committed to delivering stockholder value. To that end, and supported by our strong cash flows, we initiated a stockholder
payout program in February 2010 and a dividend policy under which we have paid, and in the future intend to pay, cash dividends on our common stock. In April 2011, we announced a three-year strategic
plan to increase stockholder value. A major component of that plan was our commitment to significant stockholder payouts of $2.2 billion through 2013, with $1.2 billion being paid out by
May 2012. We fulfilled the commitment to return $1.2 billion of cash to stockholders by May 2012, and in June 2012, we announced our intention to pursue conversion to a REIT. The plan was
unanimously approved by our board of directors following a thorough analysis and careful consideration of ways to maximize value through alternative financing, capital and tax strategies. Since May
2012, we have returned $2.1 billion of capital to stockholders including $1.0 billion in cash and $1.1 billion in our common stock.

As
part of our plan to convert to a REIT for federal income tax purposes and elect REIT status effective January 1, 2014, we sought private letter rulings ("PLRs") from the United
States Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") relating to numerous technical tax issues, including classification of our steel racking structures as qualified real estate assets. We submitted the PLR
requests in the third quarter of 2012, and on June 25, 2014, we announced that we received the favorable PLRs from the IRS necessary for our conversion to a REIT. After receipt of the PLRs, our
board of directors unanimously approved our conversion to a REIT for our taxable year beginning January 1, 2014.

In
connection with our conversion to a REIT and, in particular, to impose ownership limitations customary for REITs, on January 20, 2015, we completed the merger with our
predecessor and all outstanding shares of our predecessor's common stock were converted into a right to receive an equal









number
of shares of our common stock. Accordingly, references herein to our "common stock" refer to our common stock and the common stock of our predecessor, as applicable.

The Durability of Our Business

We believe that the creation of paper-based information will be sustained, not in spite of, but because of, "paperless" technologies
such as e-mail and the Internet. These technologies have prompted the creation of hard copies of such electronic information and have also led to increased demand for electronic records services, such
as the storage and off-site rotation of backup copies of magnetic media. In addition, we believe that the proliferation of digital information technologies and distributed data networks has created a
growing need for efficient, cost-effective, high quality technology solutions for electronic data protection and the management of electronic documents.

We
believe that the volume of stored physical and electronic records will continue to increase on a global basis for a number of reasons, including: (1) regulatory requirements;
(2) concerns over possible future litigation and the resulting increases in volume and holding periods of records; (3) the continued proliferation of data processing technologies such as
personal computers and networks; (4) inexpensive document producing technologies such as desktop publishing software and desktop printing; (5) the high cost of reviewing records and
deciding whether to retain or destroy them; (6) the failure of many entities to adopt or follow policies on records destruction; and (7) the need to keep backup copies of certain records
in off-site locations for business continuity purposes in the event of disaster.

Business Strategy

Overview

We have transitioned from a growth strategy driven primarily by acquisitions of storage and information management services companies
to a strategy that targets multiple sources of revenue growth. Our current strategy is focused on: (1) increasing revenues in developed markets such as the United States, Canada, Australia and
western Europe, primarily through improved sales and marketing efforts and attractive fold-in acquisitions; (2) establishing and enhancing leadership positions in high-growth emerging markets
such as central and eastern Europe, Latin America and the Asia Pacific region (excluding Australia), primarily through acquisitions; and (3) continuing to identify, incubate and scale emerging
business opportunities to support our long-term growth objectives and drive solid returns on invested capital. In our developed markets, we expect continuous improvement initiatives will generate
modest profit growth, a portion of which we expect to reinvest in our business. In our existing emerging markets, we expect profits will grow as the local businesses scale, and we will look to
reinvest a portion of that improvement to support the growth of these businesses. However, any increases in our international profits will be limited as we seek to make acquisitions in new emerging
markets.

Storage
rental is the key driver of our economics and allows us to expand our relationships with our customers through value-added services that flow from storage rental. Consistent with
our overall strategy, we are focused on increasing incoming volumes on a global basis. There are multiple sources of new volumes available to us, and these sources inform our growth investment
strategy. Our investments in sales and marketing support sales to new customers that do not currently outsource some or all of their storage and information management needs, as well as increased
volumes from existing customers. We also expect to invest in acquisitions of customer relationships and storage and information management services businesses. In our developed markets, we expect that
these acquisitions will primarily be fold-in acquisitions designed to optimize the utilization of existing assets, expand our presence and better serve customers. We also expect to use acquisitions to
expand our presence in attractive, higher growth emerging markets. Finally, we continue to pursue new rental streams through emerging business opportunities.









We
offer our customers an integrated value proposition by providing them with secure storage and comprehensive service offerings, including records and information management services
and data management services. We have the expertise and experience to address complex storage and information management challenges, such as rising storage rental costs and increased litigation,
regulatory compliance and disaster recovery requirements. We expect to maintain a leadership position in the storage and information management services industry around the world by enabling customers
to store, protect and better use their information—regardless of its format, location or lifecycle stage—so they can optimize their business and ensure proper recovery,
compliance and discovery. Our objective is to continue to capitalize on our brand, our expertise in the storage and information management industry and our global network to enhance our customers'
experience, thereby increasing our customer retention rates and attracting new customers. Our overall growth strategy will focus on growing our business organically, making strategic customer
acquisitions, pursuing acquisitions of storage and information management businesses, and developing ancillary businesses and real estate. We continue to expand our portfolio of products and services.
Adding new products and services allows us to strengthen our existing customer relationships and attract new customers in previously untapped markets.

Growth from Existing and New Customers

Our existing customers' storage of physical records contributes to the growth of storage rental and certain records and information
management services revenues because, on average, our existing customers generate additional records at a faster rate than old records are destroyed or permanently removed. The growth in new records
volume from our existing customers has been consistent in the past three years, and we anticipate this growth will be sustained, although we cannot give any assurance as to whether this growth will
continue. In order to maximize growth opportunities from existing customers, we seek to maintain high levels of customer retention by providing premium customer service.

Our
sales coverage model is designed to identify and capitalize on incremental revenue opportunities by strategically allocating our sales resources to our customer base and selling
additional storage, records and information management services and products in new and existing markets. Our sales force is dedicated to three primary objectives: (1) establishing new customer
account relationships; (2) generating additional revenue by expanding existing customer relationships globally; and (3) expanding new and existing customer relationships by effectively
selling a wide array of related services and products. In order to accomplish these objectives, our sales forces draw on our United States and international marketing organizations and senior
management. We are developing tailored marketing strategies to target customers in the healthcare, financial, insurance, legal, life sciences, energy, business services and federal vertical market
segments.

Growth through Acquisitions

The storage and information management services industry is highly fragmented with thousands of competitors in North America and around
the world. Between 1995 and 2004 there was significant acquisition activity in the industry. Acquisitions were a fast and efficient way to achieve scale, expand geographically and broaden service
offerings. After 2004, acquisition activity was reduced as we focused on integrating these recent transactions and diversifying the business.
Beginning again in 2012, we saw opportunities for attractive acquisitions in emerging markets and consolidation opportunities in more developed markets, and resumed acquisition activity. We believe
this ongoing acquisition activity is due to opportunities for large providers to achieve economies of scale and meet customer demands for sophisticated, technology-based solutions. Attractive
acquisition opportunities, in North America and internationally, many of which are small, continue to exist, and we expect to continue to pursue acquisition of these businesses where we believe they
present a good opportunity to create value for our stockholders. Lastly, we have a successful record of acquiring and integrating these businesses.









We
have acquired, and we continue to seek to acquire, storage and information management services businesses in developed markets including the United States, Canada, Australia and
western Europe. Given the relatively small size of most attractive acquisition targets in these markets, future acquisitions are expected to be less significant to our overall revenue growth in these
markets than in the past. Occasionally, however, we may be presented with the opportunity to acquire one of the larger businesses in these markets and will evaluate each opportunity with a focus on
return on invested capital and the creation of stockholder value. Such was the case with our acquisition in October 2013 of Cornerstone Records Management, LLC and its affiliates.

We
expect to continue to make acquisitions and investments in storage and information management services businesses in targeted emerging markets outside the United States, Canada,
Australia and western Europe. We have acquired and invested in, and seek to acquire and invest in, storage and information management services companies in certain countries, and, more specifically,
certain markets within such countries, where we believe there is potential for significant growth. We expect that future acquisitions and investments will focus primarily on expanding priority markets
in central and eastern Europe, Latin America and the Asia Pacific region.

The
experience, depth and strength of local management are particularly important in our emerging market acquisition strategy. Since beginning our international expansion program in
January 1999, we have, directly and through joint ventures, expanded our operations into 35 countries. These transactions have taken, and may continue to take, the form of acquisitions of an entire
business or controlling or minority investments with a long-term goal of full ownership. We believe a joint venture strategy, rather than an outright acquisition, may, in certain markets, better
position us to expand the existing business. The local partners benefit from our expertise in the storage and information management services industry, our multinational customer relationships, our
access to capital and our technology, while we benefit from our local partners' knowledge of the market, relationships with local customers and their presence in the community. In addition to the
criteria we use to evaluate developed market acquisition candidates, when looking at an emerging market acquisition we also evaluate risks uniquely associated with an international investment,
including those risks described below. Our long-term goal is to acquire full ownership of each business in which we make a joint venture investment. We now own more than 98% of our international
operations, measured as a percentage of consolidated revenues.

Our
international investments are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to the indigenous political, social, regulatory, tax and economic structures of other countries, as well as
fluctuations in currency valuation, exchange controls, expropriation and governmental policies limiting returns to foreign investors.

Business Characteristics.

We generate our revenues by renting storage space to a large and diverse customer base in approximately 1,100 facilities representing
67.8 million square feet of real estate as of December 31, 2014 around the globe and providing to our customers an expanding menu of related and ancillary products and services.
Providing outsourced storage is the mainstay of our customer relationships and serves as the foundation for all our revenue growth. Services are a vital part of a comprehensive records management
program and consist primarily of the handling and transportation of stored records and information, shredding, document management solutions ("DMS"), data restoration projects, fulfillment services,
consulting services, technology services, product sales (including specially designed storage containers and related supplies), and recurring project revenues. Shredding consists primarily of the
scheduled collection and shredding of records and documents generated by business operations and the sale of recycled paper resulting from shredding services.









Secure Storage

Our storage operations consist of providing non-dedicated storage rental space to our customers. Non-dedicated space allows our
customers to increase or decrease the volume of their physical storage over the life of the contract based on their storage needs, while also reducing their risk of loss in the event of natural
disaster. Given this non-dedicated space dynamic, the large portfolio of customer contracts, and the fact that no customer accounted for more than 2% of our consolidated revenues as of the year ended
December 31, 2014, we assess the performance of our storage rental business predominantly by analyzing trends in segment level storage rental volume and storage rental revenue.

Renting
secure space to customers for the purpose of storing paper records and data backup media is our largest source of revenue. Records storage consists primarily of the archival
storage of records for long periods of time according to applicable laws, regulations and industry best practices. The secure off-site storage of data backup media is a key component of a company's
disaster recovery and business continuity programs, and storage rental charges are generally billed monthly on a per storage unit basis.

Hard
copy business records are typically stored for long periods of time with limited activity in cartons packed by the customer. For some customers we store individual files on an open
shelf basis, and these files are typically more active. Storage rental charges are generally billed monthly on a per storage unit basis, usually per cubic foot of records, and include the provision of
space, racking systems, computerized inventory and activity tracking, and physical security.

Physical
records may also include critical or irreplaceable data such as master audio and video recordings, film and other highly proprietary information, such as energy data. We
continue to identify additional areas of physical storage that fit with our core competencies in security and transportation, seeking to provide enterprise storage to businesses in much the same
manner that self-storage companies serve consumers. Physical records may require special facilities, either because of the data they contain or the media on which they are recorded. Accordingly, our
charges for providing enhanced security and special climate-controlled environments for these vital records are higher than for typical storage rental.

Physical Records

Physical records may be broadly divided into two categories: active and inactive. Active records relate to ongoing and recently
completed activities or contain information that is frequently referenced. Active records are usually stored and managed on-site by their owners to ensure ready availability. Inactive physical records
are the principal focus of the storage and information management services industry and consist of those records that are not needed for immediate access but which must be retained for legal,
regulatory and compliance reasons or for occasional reference in support of ongoing business operations.

Physical
data management services consist of the rotation of backup computer media as part of corporate disaster recovery and business continuity plans. Computer tapes, cartridges and
disk packs are transported off-site by our courier operations on a scheduled basis to secure, climate-controlled facilities, where they are available to customers 24 hours a day,
365 days a year, to facilitate data recovery in the event of a disaster. Frequently, backup tapes are rotated from our facilities back to our customers' data centers. We also manage tape
library relocations and support disaster recovery testing and execution.

Electronic Records

Electronic records management focuses on the storage of, and related services for, computer media that is either a backup copy of
recently processed data or archival in nature. We believe the issues encountered by customers trying to manage their electronic records are similar to the ones they









face
in their physical records management programs and consist primarily of: (1) storage capacity and the preservation of data; (2) access to and control over the data in a secure
environment; and (3) the need to retain electronic records due to regulatory requirements or for litigation support. Customer needs for data backup and recovery and archiving are distinctively
different. Backup data exists because of the need of many businesses to be able to recover the data in the event of a system failure, casualty loss or other disaster. It is customary (and a best
practice) for data processing groups to rotate backup tapes to offsite locations on a regular basis and to store multiple copies of such information at multiple sites. In addition to the physical
storage and rotation of backup data that we provide, we offer online backup services through partnerships as an alternative way for businesses to store and access data. Online backup is an
Internet-based service that automatically backs up computer data from servers or directly from desktop and laptop computers over the Internet and stores it in secure data centers.

Service Offerings

Central to any records management program is the handling and transportation and the eventual destruction of records upon the
expiration of retention periods. These activities are accomplished through our extensive service and courier operations. Service charges are generally assessed for each activity on a per unit basis.
Courier operations consist primarily of the pickup and delivery of records upon customer request. Charges for courier services are based on urgency of delivery, volume and location and are billed
monthly. As of December 31, 2014, our courier fleet consisted of approximately 3,600 owned or leased vehicles. Our other services include secure shredding, DMS, Compliant Records Management and
Consulting Services, Health Information Storage and Management Solutions, Entertainment Services, Energy Data Services, Discovery Services and other ancillary services.

Our
information destruction services consist primarily of physical secure shredding operations and typically include the scheduled pick-up of loose office records that customers
accumulate in specially designed secure containers we provide. In addition, secure shredding is a natural extension of our hard copy records management services by completing the lifecycle of a record
and involves the shredding of sensitive documents for customers that, in many cases, store their records with us. Complementary to our shredding operations is the sale of the resultant waste paper to
third-party recyclers. Through a combination of plant-based shredding operations and mobile shredding units consisting of custom built trucks, we are able to offer secure shredding services to our
customers throughout the United States, Canada and Latin America. In December 2014, we sold our secure shredding businesses in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Australia, which were much smaller than
our operation in North America, because we did not benefit from scale in these markets.

The
focus of our DMS business is to develop, implement and support comprehensive storage and information management solutions for the complete lifecycle of our customers' information. We
seek to develop solutions that solve our customers' document management challenges by integrating the management of physical records, document conversion and digital storage. Our DMS services
complement our service offerings and enhance our existing customer relationships. We differentiate our offerings from our competitors by providing solutions that complement and expand our existing
portfolio of products and services. The trend towards increased usage of Electronic Document Management ("EDM") systems represents another opportunity for us to manage active records. Our DMS services
provide the bridge between customers' physical documents and their EDM solutions.

We
offer records and information management services that have been tailored for specific industries, such as healthcare, or to address the needs of customers with more specific
requirements based on the critical nature of their records. For example, medical records tend to be more active in nature and are typically stored on specialized open shelving systems that provide
easier access to individual files. In addition to storing medical records, we provide health care information services, which include the handling, filing, processing and retrieval of medical records
used by hospitals, private practitioners and other medical institutions, as well as recurring project work and ancillary services.







Recurring project work involves the on-site removal of aged patient files and related computerized file indexing. Ancillary healthcare information services
include release of information (medical record copying and delivery), temporary staffing, contract coding, facilities management and imaging. We offer a variety of additional services which customers
may request or contract for on an individual basis. These services include conducting records inventories, packing records into cartons or other containers, and creating computerized indices of files
and individual documents. We also provide services for the management of active records programs. We can provide these services, which generally include document and file processing and storage, both
offsite at our own facilities and by supplying our own personnel to perform management functions on-site at a customer's premises. Other services that we provide include fulfillment, professional
consulting services, and technology escrow services.

Business Segments

Our North American Records and Information Management Business, North American Data Management Business, and our International Business
segments offer storage and the information management services discussed above, in their respective geographies. The amount of revenues derived from our North American Records and Information
Management Business, North American Data Management Business, International Business, and Corporate and Other segments and
other relevant data, including financial information about geographic areas and product and service lines, for fiscal years 2012, 2013 and 2014 are set forth in Note 9 to Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.

North American Records and Information Management Business

Our North American Records and Information Management Business segment consists of storage and information management services
throughout the United States and Canada, including the storage of paper documents, as well as other media such as microfilm and microfiche, master audio and videotapes, film, X-rays and blueprints,
including healthcare information services, vital records services, service and courier operations, and the collection, handling and disposal of sensitive documents for corporate customers ("Records
Management"); information destruction services ("Destruction"); DMS; fulfillment services; and technology escrow services that protect and manage source code.

North American Data Management Business

Our North American Data Management Business segment consists of the storage and rotation of backup computer media as part of corporate
disaster recovery plans throughout the United States and Canada, including service and courier operations ("Data Protection & Recovery"), server and computer backup services, digital content
repository systems to house, distribute, and archive key media assets, and storage, safeguarding and electronic or physical delivery of physical media of all types, primarily for entertainment and
media industry clients.

International Business

Our International Business segment consists of storage and information management services throughout Europe, Latin America and Asia
Pacific, including Records Management, Data Protection & Recovery and DMS. Our European operations provide Records Management, Data Protection & Recovery and DMS throughout Europe. Our
Latin America operations provide Records Management, Data Protection & Recovery and DMS throughout Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Peru. Our Asia Pacific operations provide
Records Management, Data Protection & Recovery and DMS throughout Australia, with Records Management and Data
Protection & Recovery also provided in certain cities in India, Singapore, Hong Kong-SAR and China. Prior to December 2014, our International Business segment offered Destruction in the United
Kingdom, Ireland and Australia.









Corporate and Other

Our Corporate and Other segment consists of our data center business in the United States as well as costs related to executive and
staff functions, including finance, human resources and information technology, which benefit the enterprise as a whole. These costs are primarily related to the general management of these functions
on a corporate level and the design and development of programs, policies and procedures that are then implemented in the individual segments, with each segment bearing its own cost of implementation.
Our Corporate and Other segment also includes stock-based employee compensation expense associated with all stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance units and shares of
stock issued under our employee stock purchase plans.

Emerging
Business Opportunities ("EBOs") are prospective business lines that we consider investing in to grow and diversify our business. We are seeking businesses with long-term,
recurring revenue, preferably with storage rental attributes, which are consistent with and will enhance our REIT structure. Our management team is focused on identifying and evaluating these
opportunities. We have established an innovation process so we cautiously and effectively develop opportunities to leverage our capabilities. After we have demonstrated success and met return
thresholds, we may potentially acquire businesses to further accelerate our growth in the relevant opportunity. Importantly, the EBO process includes financial hurdles and decision gates to help us
evaluate whether we scale or scrap these opportunities, consistent with our disciplined approach to capital allocation.

Currently,
our data center business is one example of an EBO where we are assessing the potential for additional investment. The growth rate of critical digital information is
accelerating, driven in part by the use of the Internet as a distribution and transaction medium. The rising cost and increasing importance of storing and managing digital information, coupled with
the increasing availability of telecommunications bandwidth at lower costs, may create meaningful opportunities for us to provide solutions to our customers with respect to their digital records
storage and management challenges.

Our Business Fundamentals

Our business fundamentals are based on the recurring nature of our various revenue streams. We generate attractive returns from our
differentiated storage rental business model because our occupancy costs, whether in a leased or owned building, are incurred per square foot while our storage revenue is generally earned per cubic
foot. The historical predictability of our revenues and the resulting profitability allows us to operate with a high degree of financial leverage. Our business fundamentals consist
of:

•Recurring Revenues.We derive a majority of our
consolidated revenues from fixed periodic, usually monthly, storage rental fees charged to customers based on the volume of their records stored. Once a customer places physical records in storage
with us, and until those records are destroyed or permanently removed (for which we typically receive a service fee), we receive recurring payments for storage rental without incurring additional
labor or marketing expenses or significant capital costs. Similarly, contracts for the storage of electronic backup media involve primarily fixed monthly rental payments. Our annual revenues from
these fixed periodic storage rental fees have grown for 26 consecutive years. This stable and growing storage rental revenue base also provides the foundation for increases in service revenues and
profitability.

A
customer is allocated a certain amount of storage space in our storage facilities but is not allocated a dedicated building or space in a particular building. In practice, we can, and sometimes
will, for a variety of reasons, move records from one facility and into another facility. In order to track net move-in and move-out activity of customer materials, as well as to assess the
optimization of our real estate portfolio, we regularly assess the utilization of our overall real estate portfolio. On a per building basis, we compare the amount of racking that is being used to
store customer materials to the capacity of the entire building assuming it was fully









racked
("Total Building Utilization"). Additionally, we compare the amount of racking that is being used to store customer materials to the capacity of the racking that has been installed ("Total
Racking Utilization"). As of December 31, 2014, our Total Building Utilization and Total Racking Utilization
were approximately 83% and 91%, respectively, for our records management business and our Total Building Utilization and Total Racking Utilization were approximately 68% and 81%, respectively, for our
data management business.We
regularly offer concessions to our customers in order to generate new business opportunities. Such concessions most commonly come in the form of providing free intake costs to transport a
customer's records to one of our facilities, including labor and transportation costs ("Move Costs"), or payments that are made to a customer's current records management vendor in order to terminate
the customer's existing contract with that vendor ("Permanent Withdrawal Fees"). We capitalize Move Costs and Permanent Withdrawal Fees as customer acquisition costs.

•

Historically Non-Cyclical Storage Rental
Business.Historically, we have not experienced significant reductions in our storage rental business as a result of economic downturns.
We believe the durability of our storage rental business is driven by a number of factors, including the trend toward increased records retention, albeit at a lower rate of growth, customer
satisfaction with our services and contractual net price increases. The growth in new records volume from our existing customers has been consistent in the past three years, and we anticipate this
growth will be sustained, although we cannot give any assurance as to whether this growth will continue. Total net volume growth, including acquisitions, was approximately 3%, 6% and 4% on a global
basis for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively.

•

Diversified and Stable Customer Base.As of
December 31, 2014, we had over 155,000 customers in a variety of industries in 36 countries around the world. We currently provide storage and information management services to legal,
financial, healthcare, insurance, life sciences, energy, businesses services and government organizations, including more than 92% of the Fortune 1000. No single customer accounted for as much as 2%
of our consolidated revenues in any of the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014. For each of the three years 2012 through 2014, the average annual volume reduction due to customers
terminating their relationship with us was approximately 2% to 3%.

•

Capital Allocation.All the characteristics of our
business noted above support the durability of our cash flows, which in turn support our dividends and a portion of our investments. Absent a large acquisition or significant investments in real
estate, we generally generate cash flows to support our dividends, maintain our operations and infrastructure and invest in core growth opportunities. We plan on funding acquisitions, EBO investments
and real estate investments primarily through incremental borrowing at a targeted leverage ratio and/or proceeds from the issuance of equity. Below are descriptions of the major types of investments
and other capital expenditures that we have made in recent years or that we are likely to consider in 2015:

Real
Estate:•Capital expenditures for investments in real estate assets that support core business
growth—these expenditures are primarily related to investments in land, buildings, building improvements, leasehold improvements and racking structures that expand
our revenue capacity in existing or new geographies, replace a long-term operational obligation or create operational efficiencies.•Capital expenditures in real estate assets necessary to maintain ongoing business
operations—these expenditures are primarily related to the repair or replacement of real estate assets such as buildings, building improvements, leasehold
improvements and racking structures.









Non-Real
Estate:•Capital expenditures for investments in non-real estate assets that support core business
growth—these expenditures support either (i) the growth of our business and/or an increase of our profitability by investing in either supporting assets such
as carton storage systems, tape storage systems and containers, shredding plants and bins, and technology service storage and processing capacity, or (ii) they are directly related to the
development of new products or services in support of our integrated value proposition and enhancements that support our leadership position in the industry, including items such as increased feature
functionality, security upgrades or system enhancements.•Capital expenditures in non-real estate assets necessary to maintain ongoing business
operations—these expenditures are primarily related to the repair or replacement of customer-facing assets such as containers and shred bins, warehouse equipment,
fixtures, computer hardware, or third-party or internally-developed software assets. This category also includes operational support initiatives such as sales and marketing and information technology
projects to support infrastructure requirements.

The
following table presents our capital spend for 2012, 2013 and 2014 organized by the type of the spending as described above:

Year Ended December 31,Nature of Capital Spend (dollars in thousands)2012(1)2013(1)2014(1)Real Estate:Investment$113,577$135,708$199,663Maintenance47,01361,86357,574​​​​​​​​​​​160,590197,571257,237​​​​​​​​​​​Non-Real Estate:Investment63,72291,79255,991Maintenance24,91522,64419,527​​​​​​​​​​​88,637114,43675,518​​​​​​​​​​​Total$249,227$312,007$332,755​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

(1)Represents
capital expenditures on an accrual basis and may differ from amounts presented on the cash basis in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
included in this Annual Report.

Competition

We are a global leader in the physical storage and information management services industry with operations in 36 countries. We compete
with our current and potential customers' internal storage and information management services capabilities. We can provide no assurance that these organizations will begin or continue to use us for
their future storage and information management services.

We
also compete with numerous storage and information management services providers in every geographic area where we operate. The physical storage and information management services
industry is highly competitive and includes thousands of competitors in North America and around the world. We believe that competition for customers is based on price, reputation for reliability,
quality and security of storage, quality of service and scope and scale of technology, and we believe we generally compete effectively in each of these areas.









Alternative Technologies

We derive most of our revenues from rental fees for the storage of paper documents and computer backup tapes and from storage related
services. Alternative storage technologies exist, many of which require significantly less space than paper documents and tapes, and as alternative technologies are adopted, storage related services
may decline as the physical records or tapes we store become less active and more archived. To date, none of the alternative technologies has replaced paper documents as the primary means for storing
information. However, we can provide no assurance that our customers will continue to store most or a portion of their records as paper documents or in tape format. We continue to provide, primarily
through partnerships, additional services such as online backup, designed to address our customers' need for efficient, cost-effective, high-quality solutions for electronic records and storage and
information management.

Employees

As of December 31, 2014, we employed more than 7,500 employees in the United States and more than 12,500 employees outside of
the United States. At December 31, 2014, an aggregate of 528 employees were represented by unions in California, Georgia and three provinces in Canada.

All
union and non-union employees are generally eligible to participate in our benefit programs, which include medical, dental, life, short and long-term disability, retirement/401(k)
and accidental death and dismemberment plans. Certain unionized employees in California receive these types of benefits through their unions and are not eligible to participate in our benefit
programs. In addition to base compensation and other usual benefits, all full-time employees participate in some form of incentive-based compensation program that provides payments based on revenues,
profits, collections or attainment of specified objectives for the unit in which they work. Management believes that we have good relationships with our employees and unions. All union employees are
currently under renewed labor agreements or operating under an extension agreement.

Insurance

For strategic risk transfer purposes, we maintain a comprehensive insurance program with insurers that we believe to be reputable and
that have adequate capitalization in amounts that we believe to be appropriate. Property insurance is purchased on a comprehensive basis, including flood and earthquake (including excess coverage),
subject to certain policy conditions, sublimits and deductibles. Property is insured based upon the replacement cost of real and personal property, including leasehold improvements, business income
loss and extra expense. Other types of insurance that we carry, which are also subject to certain policy conditions, sublimits and deductibles, include medical, workers' compensation, general
liability, umbrella, automobile, professional, warehouse legal liability and directors' and officers' liability policies.

Our
customer contracts usually contain provisions limiting our liability for damages with respect to loss or destruction of, or damage to, records or information stored with us. Our
liability under physical storage contracts is often limited to a nominal fixed amount per item or unit of storage, such as per cubic foot. Our liability under our DMS services and other service
contracts is often limited to a percentage of annual revenue under the contract. We can provide no assurance that where we have limitation of liability provisions that they will be enforceable in all
instances or would otherwise protect us from liability. Also, some of our contracts with large volume accounts and some of the contracts assumed in our acquisitions contain no such limits or contain
higher limits. In addition to provisions limiting our liability, our standard storage rental and service contracts include a schedule setting forth the majority of the customer-specific terms,
including storage rental and service pricing and service
delivery terms. Our customers may dispute the interpretation of various provisions in their contracts. While we have had relatively few disputes with our customers with regard to the terms of their









customer
contracts, and most disputes to date have not been material, we can give no assurance that we will not have material disputes in the future.

Environmental Matters

We
transfer a portion of our risk of financial loss due to currently undetected environmental matters by purchasing an environmental impairment liability insurance policy, which covers
all owned and leased locations. Coverage is provided for both liability and remediation costs.

Corporate Responsibility

We are committed to transparent reporting on sustainability and corporate responsibility efforts in accordance with the guidelines of
the Global Reporting Initiative. Our corporate responsibility report highlights our progress against key measures of success for our efforts in the community, our environment, and for our people. We
are a trusted partner to more than 92% of the Fortune 1000 companies. Iron Mountain is also a member of the Fortune 1000, ranked at 712 as of December 31, 2014, as well as a member of the FTSE4 Good
Index, MSCI World ESG Index, MSCI ACWI ESG Index and MSCI USA IMI ESG Index in which include companies that meet globally recognized corporate responsibility standards. A copy of our corporate
responsibility report is available on the "Company" section of our website,www.ironmountain.com, under the heading "Corporate Responsibility."

Internet Website

Our Internet address iswww.ironmountain.com. Under the "For Investors" section on our
Internet website, we make available free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") as soon as reasonably practicable after such forms are filed with or
furnished to the SEC. We are not including the information contained on or available through our website as a part of, or incorporating such information by reference into, this Annual Report. Copies
of our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and the charters of our audit, compensation, and nominating and governance committees are available on the "For Investors" section of our
website,www.ironmountain.com, under the heading "Corporate Governance."









