Item 1. Business.

A.    Development of Business.

We provide information management services that help organizations around the world lower the costs, risks and inefficiencies of managing their physical and
digital data. Our solutions enable customers to
protect and better use their information—regardless of its format, location or lifecycle stage—so they can optimize their business and ensure proper recovery, compliance and
discovery. We offer comprehensive records management services, data protection & recovery services and information destruction services, along with the expertise and experience to address
complex information management challenges such as rising storage costs, litigation, regulatory compliance and disaster recovery. Founded in an underground facility near Hudson, New York in 1951, Iron
Mountain is a trusted partner to more than 150,000 corporate clients throughout North America, Europe, Latin America and Asia Pacific. We have a diversified customer base comprised of commercial,
legal, banking, healthcare, accounting, insurance, entertainment and government organizations, including more than 95% of the Fortune 1000. As of December 31, 2010, we provided services in more
than 35 countries on five continents, employed over 19,000 people and operated more than 1,000 facilities.

Now
in our 60th year, we have experienced tremendous growth, particularly since successfully completing the initial public offering of our common stock in February 1996. We have
grown from a business with limited product offerings and annual revenues of $104.0 million in 1995 into a global enterprise providing a broad range of information management services to
customers in markets around the world with total revenues of more than $3.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010. On January 5, 2009, we were added to the S&P 500
Index and as of December 31, 2010 we were number 644 on the Fortune 1000.

Our
success since becoming a public company in 1996 has been driven in large part by our execution of a consistent long-term growth plan to build market leadership by
extending our strategic position through service line and global expansion. This growth plan has been sequenced into three phases. The first phase involved establishing leadership and broad market
access in our core businesses: records management and data protection & recovery, primarily through acquisitions. In the second phase we invested in building a successful selling organization
to access new customers, converting previously unvended demand. While different parts of our business are in different stages of evolution along our three-phase strategy, as an enterprise, we have
transitioned to the third phase of our growth plan, which we call the capitalization phase. In this phase, which we expect will run for a long time to come, we seek to expand our relationships with
our customers to continue solving their increasingly complex information management problems. Doing this well means expanding our service offerings on a global basis while maximizing our solid core
businesses. In doing this, we continue to build what we believe to be a very durable business through disciplined execution.

Consistent
with this strategy, we have transitioned from a growth strategy driven primarily by acquisitions of information management services companies to expansion driven primarily by
internal growth. In 2001, internal revenue growth exceeded growth through acquisitions for the first time since we began our acquisition program in 1996. This has continued to be the case in each year
since 2001 with the exception of 2004. In the absence of unusual acquisition activity, we expect to achieve more of our revenue growth internally in 2011 and beyond.

We
expect to achieve our long-term growth goals by offering our customers integrated services that address their increasingly complex information management needs regardless
of the format, location or lifecycle stage of their information. By doing so we aim to help our customers reduce the costs, risks and complexities associated with managing their data while increasing
their compliance with various laws, regulations, company policies and industry best practices. Consistent with our overall growth











strategy,
we are focused on improving our internal revenue growth trajectory in the near-term primarily through a set of specific growth initiatives. Our
go-to-market initiative is a targeted approach to improving our sales capability. By successfully executing on this initiative, we expect to increase revenues with our existing
customers by selling them new services and by gaining new customers that today do not outsource some or all of their information management service needs. We are also targeting higher growth in our
international businesses as we expand our platform for selling core services and new services in higher growth markets. Finally, we are continuing to expand our services portfolio in the hybrid and
digital markets to capture what we see as larger, faster growing opportunities.

At
this stage in our evolution we are equally focused on driving increased profitability and cash flow through a disciplined management approach and a focus on Operational Excellence.
Comprised of productivity initiatives, pricing program improvements and cost controls, our Operational Excellence strategy has produced significant and visible results. Since 2006, we have compounded
annual growth rates of 12% for adjusted operating income before depreciation, amortization and goodwill impairment ("Adjusted OIBDA"), 18% for Adjusted Earnings per Share and 68% for Free Cash Flows
before Acquisitions and Discretionary Investments ("FCF"). During that same period, we reduced our capex (excluding real estate) as a percent of revenues from 13.6% in 2006, to 8.1% in 2010. For more
detailed definitions and reconciliations of Adjusted OIBDA, Adjusted Earnings per Share and FCF and a discussion of why we believe these measure provide relevant and useful information to our current
and potential investors, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Measures."

We
are committed to delivering shareholder value. To that end, and supported by our increased profitability and strong cash flows, we initiated a stockholder payout program in February
2010 consisting of our first ever quarterly cash dividend of $0.0625 per share, declared in March 2010, June 2010 and September 2010, and a share repurchase authorization of up to
$150.0 million. In October 2010, our board approved an increase to the amount authorized under our existing share repurchase program of up to an additional $200.0 million. In December
2010, the board declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.1875 per share, an increase of 200% over the quarterly dividend previously paid. The increase in our dividend is the result of the success we
have had as an organization driving higher profitability and strong cash flows.

B.    Description of Business.

Overview

Our information management services can be broadly divided into three major service categories: records management services, data
protection & recovery services, and information destruction services. We offer both physical services and technology solutions in each of these categories. Media formats can be broadly divided
into physical and electronic records. We define physical records to include paper documents, as well as all other non-electronic media such as microfilm and microfiche, master audio and
videotapes, film, X-rays and blueprints. Electronic records include email and various forms of magnetic media such as computer tapes and hard drives and optical disks.

Our
physical records management services include: records management program development and implementation based on best-practices to help customers comply with specific
regulatory requirements, implementation of policy-based programs that feature secure, cost-effective storage for all major media, including paper (which is the dominant form of records
storage), flexible retrieval access and retention management. Included within physical records management services are our hybrid services. These services help organizations to gain better access to,
and ultimately control over, their paper records by digitizing, indexing and hosting them in online archives to provide complete information lifecycle solutions. Our technology-based records
management services are comprised primarily of digital











archiving
and related services for secure, legally compliant and cost-effective long-term archiving of electronic records and eDiscovery services. Within the records management
services category, we have developed specialized services for vital records and regulated industries such as healthcare, energy, government and financial services.

Our
physical data protection & recovery services include disaster preparedness, planning, support and secure, off-site vaulting of data backup media for fast and
efficient data recovery in the event of a disaster, human error or virus. Our technology-based data protection & recovery services include online backup and recovery solutions for desktop and
laptop computers and remote servers. Additionally, we serve as a trusted, neutral third party and offer intellectual property escrow services to protect and manage source code and other proprietary
information.

Our
information destruction services are comprised almost exclusively of secure shredding services. Secure shredding services complete the lifecycle of a record and involve the shredding
of sensitive documents in a way that ensures privacy and a secure chain of custody for the records. These services
typically include either the scheduled pick-up of loose office records which customers accumulate in specially designed secure containers we provide or the shredding of documents stored in
records facilities upon the expiration of their scheduled retention periods.

Physical Records

Physical records may be broadly divided into two categories: active and inactive. Active records relate to ongoing and recently
completed activities or contain information that is frequently referenced. Active records are usually stored and managed on-site by the organization that originated them to ensure ready
availability. Inactive physical records are the principal focus of the information management services industry. Inactive records consist of those records that are not needed for immediate access but
which must be retained for legal, regulatory and compliance reasons or for occasional reference in support of ongoing business operations. A large and growing specialty subset of the physical records
market is medical records. These are active and semi-active records that are often stored off-site with and serviced by an information management services vendor. Special
regulatory requirements often apply to medical records. In addition to our core records management services, we provide consulting, facilities management, fulfillment and other outsourcing services.

Electronic Records

Electronic records management focuses on the storage of, and related services for, computer media that is either a backup copy of
recently processed data or archival in nature. Customer needs for data backup and recovery and archiving are distinctively different. Backup data exists because of the need of many businesses to
maintain backup copies of their data in order to be able to recover the data in the event of a system failure, casualty loss or other disaster. It is customary (and a best practice) for data
processing groups to rotate backup tapes to off-site locations on a regular basis and to require multiple copies of such information at multiple sites.

In
addition to the physical rotation and storage of backup data that our physical business segments provide, our Worldwide Digital Business segment offers online backup services as an
alternative way for businesses to transfer data to us, and to access the data they have stored with us. Online backup is a Web-based service that automatically backs up computer data from
servers or directly from desktop and laptop computers over the Internet and stores it in one of our secure data centers. In early 2003, we announced an expansion of the online backup service to
include backup and recovery for personal computer data, answering customers' needs to protect critical business data, which is often unprotected on employee laptop and desktop personal computers. In
November 2004, we acquired Connected Corporation ("Connected"), a market leader in the backup and recovery of this distributed data, and in











December
2005, we acquired LiveVault Corporation ("LiveVault"), a market leader in the backup and recovery of server data.

There
is a growing need for better ways of archiving electronic records for legal, regulatory and compliance reasons and for occasional reference in support of ongoing business
operations. Historically, businesses have relied on backup tapes for storing archived data in electronic format, but this process can be costly and ineffective when attempting to search and retrieve
the data for litigation or other needs. In addition, many industries, such as healthcare and financial services, are facing increased governmental regulation mandating the way in which electronic
records are stored and managed. To help customers meet these growing storage challenges, we introduced digital archiving services in 2003. We have experienced increasing market adoption of these
services, especially for e-mail archiving, which enables businesses to identify and retrieve electronic records quickly and cost-effectively, while maintaining regulatory
compliance.

On
December 1, 2006, changes to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (the "FRCP") were implemented, which provided that electronically stored information was a separate class of
discoverable information in litigation. As a result, businesses have a clear responsibility to produce electronic records. Our customers face increased need for litigation support services as a result
of these changes to the FRCP. We provide both litigation support and eDiscovery services to our customers to help them address this challenge. In December 2007, we acquired Stratify Inc.
("Stratify"), a leading provider of eDiscovery services to assist customers with managing discovery of electronic records.

We
believe the issues encountered by customers trying to manage their electronic records are similar to the ones they face in their physical records management programs and consist
primarily of: (1) storage capacity and the preservation of data; (2) access to and control over the data in a secure environment; and (3) the need to retain electronic records due
to regulatory requirements or for litigation support. Our digital services offerings are representative of our commitment to address evolving records management needs and expand the array of services
we offer.

Growth of Market

We believe that the volume of stored physical and electronic records will continue to increase for a number of reasons, including:
(1) regulatory requirements; (2) concerns over possible future litigation and the resulting increases in volume and holding periods of records; (3) the continued proliferation of
data processing technologies such as personal computers and networks; (4) inexpensive document producing technologies such as facsimile, desktop publishing software and desktop printing;
(5) the high cost of reviewing records and deciding whether to retain or destroy them; (6) the failure of many entities to adopt or follow policies on records destruction; and
(7) the need to keep backup copies of certain records in off-site locations for business continuity purposes in the event of disaster.

We
believe that paper-based information will continue to grow, not in spite of, but because of, "paperless" technologies such as e-mail and the Internet. These technologies
have prompted the creation of hard copies of such electronic information and have also led to increased demand for electronic records services, such as the storage and off-site rotation of
backup copies of magnetic media. In addition, we believe that the proliferation of digital information technologies and distributed data networks has created a growing need for efficient,
cost-effective, high quality technology solutions for electronic data protection, digital archiving and the management of electronic documents.

Consolidation of a Highly Fragmented Industry

There was significant consolidation within the highly fragmented physical information management services industry in North America
from 1995 to 2000 and at a slower but continuing pace since then. Most physical information management services companies serve a single local market and are often either owner-operated or ancillary
to another business, such as a moving and storage company. We











believe
that the consolidation trend in the physical information management industry, both in North America and other international geographies, may continue because of the industry's capital
requirements for growth, opportunities for large information management services providers to achieve economies of scale and customer demands for more sophisticated technology-based solutions.

We
believe that the consolidation trend in this industry is also due to, and may continue as a result of, the preference of certain large organizations to contract with one vendor in
multiple cities and
countries for multiple services. In particular, larger customers increasingly demand a single, sophisticated company to handle all of their important physical records needs. Large national and
multinational companies are better able to satisfy these demands than smaller competitors. We have made, and may continue to make from time to time, acquisitions of our competitors, many of whom are
small, single-city operators.

Description of Our Business

Our
various operating segments offer the products and services discussed below. In general, our North American Physical Business and our International Physical Business segments offer
physical records management services, data protection & recovery services and information destruction services, in their respective geographies. Our Worldwide Digital Business segment includes
our online backup and recovery solutions for server data and personal computers, digital archiving services, eDiscovery services and intellectual property management services and is not limited to any
particular geography. Some of our complementary services and products are offered within all of our segments. The amount of revenues derived from our North American Physical Business, International
Physical Business and Worldwide Digital Business operating segments and other relevant data, including financial information about geographic areas and product and service lines, for fiscal years
2008, 2009 and 2010 are set forth in Note 9 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Service Offerings

Our information management services can be broadly divided into three major categories: records management services, data
protection & recovery services and information destruction services. We offer both physical services and technology solutions in the records management and data protection &











recovery
categories. Currently, we only offer physical services in the information destruction services category.

Records Management Services

By far our largest category of services, records management services are comprised primarily of the archival storage of records, both
physical and digital, for long periods of time according to applicable laws, regulations and industry best practice. Core to any records management program is the handling and transportation of those
records being stored and the destruction of documents stored in records facilities upon the expiration of their scheduled retention periods. For physical records, this is accomplished through our
extensive service and courier operations. Other records management services include: our hybrid services as well as Compliant Records Management and Consulting Services, Health Information Management
Solutions, Film & Sound Archives, Energy Data Services, Discovery Services and other ancillary services.

Hard
copy business records are typically stored in cartons packed by the customer for long periods of time with limited activity. For some customers we store individual files on an open
shelf basis and these files are typically more active. Storage charges are generally billed monthly on a per storage unit basis, usually either per carton or per cubic foot of records, and include the
provision of space, racking, computerized inventory and activity tracking and physical security.

Service
and courier operations are an integral part of our comprehensive records management program for all physical media. They include adding records to storage, temporary removal of
records from storage, refiling of removed records, permanent withdrawals from storage and the destruction of records. Service charges are generally assessed for each activity on a per unit basis.
Courier operations consist primarily of the pick-up and delivery of records upon customer request. Charges for courier services are based on urgency of delivery, volume and location and
are billed monthly. As of December 31, 2010, we were utilizing a fleet of approximately 3,700 owned or leased vehicles.

Our
digital archiving services focus on archiving digital information with long-term preservation requirements. These services represent the digital analogy to our physical
records management services. Because of increased litigation risks and regulatory mandates, such as the changes to the FRCP that explicitly define electronically stored information as a separate class
of discoverable information, companies are increasingly aware of the need to apply the same records management policies and retention schedules to electronic data as they do physical records. Typical
digital records include e-mail, e-statements, images, electronic documents retained for legal or compliance purposes and other data documenting business transactions.

The
growth rate of mission-critical digital information is accelerating, driven in part by the use of the Internet as a distribution and transaction medium. The rising cost and
increasing importance of digital information management, coupled with the increasing availability of telecommunications bandwidth at lower costs, may create meaningful opportunities for us to provide
solutions to our customers with respect to their digital records management challenges. We continue to cultivate marketing and technology partnerships to support this anticipated growth.

The
focus of our hybrid business is to develop, implement and support comprehensive information management solutions for the complete lifecycle of our customers' information. We seek to
develop solutions that solve our customers' document management challenges by integrating the management of physical records, document conversion and digital storage. Our hybrid services complement
our core physical and digital service offerings, leveraging our global footprint and our existing customer relationships. We differentiate our offerings by providing solutions that integrate and
extend our existing portfolio of products and services.









The
trend towards increased usage of Electronic Document Management ("EDM") systems represents another opportunity for us. In addition to our existing archival storage services, there is
increased opportunity to manage active records. Our hybrid services provide the bridge between customers' physical documents and their new EDM solutions.

We
offer records management services that have been tailored for specific industries such as health care, or to address the needs of customers with more specific needs based on the
critical nature of their records. Healthcare information services principally include the handling, storage, filing, processing and retrieval of medical records used by hospitals, private
practitioners and other medical institutions. Medical records tend to be more active in nature and are typically stored on specialized open shelving systems that provide easier access to individual
files. Healthcare information services also include recurring project work and ancillary services. Recurring project work involves the on-site removal of aged patient files and related
computerized file indexing. Ancillary
healthcare information services include release of information (medical record copying and delivery), temporary staffing, contract coding, facilities management and imaging.

Vital
records contain critical or irreplaceable data such as master audio and video recordings, film and other highly proprietary information, such as energy data. Vital records may
require special facilities or services, either because of the data they contain or the media on which they are recorded. Our charges for providing enhanced security and special climate-controlled
environments for vital records are higher than for typical storage services. We provide the same ancillary services for vital records as we provide for our other storage operations.

Our
Discovery Services comprise solutions designed to address the legal discovery and corporate governance needs of our customers. Those services and solutions allow our customers to
collect, prepare, process, review, and produce data that may exist in either paper or digital form in response to internal investigations, litigation or regulatory requests.

Electronic
discovery is the component of legal discovery involving information that is converted into digital data or collected and processed in that form. Our eDiscovery services,
principally embodied by the Iron Mountain Legal Discovery application acquired in the Stratify acquisition, help our customers identify, organize, analyze, and review particularly relevant or
responsive information from within the universe of electronic data generated during the normal course of their business. The ability of current content management technologies to capture and maintain
several copies of documents—including different versions of working drafts—underscores the challenges companies face in managing information for eDiscovery.

Our
consolidated suite of physical and digital discovery services has been designed to deliver a secure, end-to-end chain-of-custody,
while also reducing both risks and costs for our customers.

We
offer a variety of additional services which customers may request or contract for on an individual basis. These services include conducting records inventories, packing records into
cartons or other containers, and creating computerized indices of files and individual documents. We also provide services for the management of active records programs. We can provide these services,
which generally include document and file processing and storage, both off-site at our own facilities and by supplying our own personnel to perform management functions on-site
at the customer's premises.

Other
complementary lines of business that we operate include fulfillment services and professional consulting services. Fulfillment services are performed by our wholly-owned
subsidiary, Iron Mountain Fulfillment Services, Inc. ("IMFS"). IMFS stores customer marketing literature and delivers this material to sales offices, trade shows and prospective customers'
locations based on current and prospective customer orders. In addition, IMFS assembles custom marketing packages and orders and manages and provides detailed reporting on customer marketing
literature inventories. A growing element of the content we manage and fulfill is stored digitally and printed on demand by IMFS.











Digital
print allows marketing materials such as brochures, direct mail, flyers, pamphlets and newsletters to be personalized to the recipient with the variable messages, graphics and content.

We
provide professional consulting services to customers, enabling them to develop and implement comprehensive records and information management programs. Our consulting business draws
on our experience in information management services to analyze the practices of companies and assist them in creating more effective programs of records and information management. Our consultants
work with these customers to develop policies and schedules for document retention and destruction.

We
also sell a full line of specially designed corrugated cardboard storage cartons. We divested ourselves of our commodity data products sales business in 2008 and our domain name
management product line in 2010. Consistent with our treatment of acquisitions, we will eliminate all revenues associated with our data products business from the calculation of our internal growth
rates for 2008 and 2009 and revenues associated with our domain name management product line were eliminated from the calculation of internal growth rate for 2010 and will also be eliminated from that
calculation in 2011.

Data Protection & Recovery Services

Our data protection & recovery services are designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations and to satisfy industry best
practices with regard to the off-site vaulting of data for disaster recovery and business continuity purposes. As is the case with our records management services, we provide data
protection & recovery services for both physical and electronic records. We also offer intellectual property management services in this category.

Physical
data protection & recovery services consist of the storage and rotation of backup computer media as part of corporate disaster recovery and business continuity plans.
Computer tapes, cartridges and disk packs are transported off-site by our courier operations on a scheduled basis to secure, climate-controlled facilities, where they are available to
customers 24 hours a day, 365 days a
year, to facilitate data recovery in the event of a disaster. Frequently, back-up tapes are then rotated from our facilities back to our customers' data centers. We also manage tape
library relocations and support disaster recovery testing and execution.

Online
backup is our Web-based service that automatically backs up computer data from servers or directly from desktop or laptop computers over the Internet and stores it in
one of our secure data centers. Customers use our Connected® backup for PC and Mac software product for online backup of desktop or laptop computer data and our LiveVault®
server data backup and recovery product for online backup of server data. Customers can choose our off-site hosted Software as a Service solution or they can license the software from us
as part of a customer on-site solution.

Through
our intellectual property management services, we act as a trusted, neutral, third party, safeguarding valuable technology assets—such as software source code, object
code and data—in secure, access-protected escrow accounts. Acting in this intermediary role, we help document and maintain intellectual property integrity. The result is increased control
and leverage for all parties, enabling them to protect themselves, while maintaining competitive advantage.

Information Destruction Services

Our information destruction services consist primarily of physical secure shredding operations. Secure shredding is a natural extension
of our hardcopy records management services, completing the lifecycle of a record, and involves the shredding of sensitive documents for corporate customers that, in many cases, also use our services
for management of less sensitive archival records. These services typically include the scheduled pick-up of loose office records which customers accumulate in specially designed secure
containers we provide. Complementary to our shredding operations is the sale of the











resultant
waste paper to third-party recyclers. Through a combination of plant-based shredding operations and mobile shredding units comprised of custom built trucks, we are able to offer secure
shredding services to our customers throughout the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Australia/New Zealand and Latin America.

Financial Characteristics of Our Business

Our financial model is based on the recurring nature of our various revenue streams. The historical predictability of our revenues and
the resulting Adjusted OIBDA allow us to operate with a high degree of financial leverage. Our business has the following financial characteristics:

•

Recurring Revenues.We derive a majority of our
consolidated revenues from fixed periodic, usually monthly, fees charged to customers based on the volume of records stored. Once a customer places physical records in storage with us and until those
records are destroyed or permanently removed (for which we typically receive a service fee), we receive recurring payments for storage fees without incurring additional labor or marketing expenses or
significant capital costs. Similarly, contracts for the storage of electronic backup media consist primarily of fixed monthly payments. Our annual revenues from these fixed periodic storage fees have
grown for 22 consecutive years. For each of the five years 2006 through 2010, storage revenues, which are stable and recurring, have accounted for over 53% or more of our total consolidated revenues.
This stable and growing storage revenue base also provides the foundation for increases in service revenues and Adjusted OIBDA.

•

Historically Non-Cyclical Storage
Business.Historically, we have not experienced any significant reductions in our storage business as a result of economic downturns
although, during recent economic slowdowns, the rate at which some customers added new cartons to their inventory was below historical levels. We believe that companies that have outsourced records
management services are less likely during economic downturns to incur the move-out costs and other expenses associated with accelerating destructions of their records, switching vendors
or moving their records management services programs in-house. However, during the current recession, which is more severe and has lasted longer than other recent downturns, destruction
rates have increased as some customers have been more willing to incur additional short-term service costs in exchange for lower storage costs in the long-term. In addition, we
have experienced longer sales cycles and lower incoming volumes from existing customers, due in large part we believe to high unemployment rates and generally lower levels of business activity.
Combined, these impacts have resulted in lower net volume growth rates in the short-term. The net effect of these factors has been the continued growth of our storage revenue base, albeit
at a lower rate. For each of the five years 2006 through 2010, total net volume growth in North America has ranged from between 1% to 7%.

•

Inherent Growth from Existing Physical Records
Customers.Our physical records customers have, on average, sent us additional cartons at a faster rate than stored cartons have been
destroyed or permanently removed. However, in the current economic downturn, elevated destruction and withdrawal rates have resulted in lower net volume growth in recent quarters. We believe the
continued growth of our physical records storage revenues is the result of a number of factors, including: (1) the trend toward increased records retention; (2) customer satisfaction
with our services; (3) the costs and inconvenience of moving storage operations in-house or to another provider of information management services; and (4) our positive
pricing actions.

•

Diversified and Stable Customer Base.As of
December 31, 2010, we had over 150,000 corporate clients in a variety of industries. We currently provide services to commercial, legal, banking, healthcare, accounting, insurance,
entertainment and government organizations, including more than 95% of the Fortune 1000. No customer accounted for as much as 2% of our consolidated









revenues
in any of the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010. For each of the three years 2008 through 2010, the average volume reduction due to customers terminating their relationship
with us was less than 2%.

•

Capital Expenditures Related Primarily to Business Line Growth and Ongoing
Operations.

Our business requires significant capital expenditures to support our expected revenue growth and ongoing operations as well as new products and services and
increased profitability. As the nature of our business has evolved over time, so has the nature of our capital expenditures. Every year we expend capital to support a number of different objectives.
The majority of our capital goes to support business line growth and our ongoing operations. We also expend capital to support the development and improvement of products and services and projects
designed to increase our profitability. These expenditures are generally smaller and more discretionary in nature. Below are descriptions of the major types of capital expenditures we are likely to
make in a given year:



•

Capital to support business line growth—these expenditures are
primarily related to capacity expansion. This includes investments in new building outfitting, carton storage systems, tape storage systems and containers, shredding plants and bins and technology
service storage and processing capacity.

•

Capital to support ongoing business operations—these
expenditures are primarily related to major repairs and/or the replacement of assets such as facilities, warehouse equipment and computers, previously referred to as maintenance capital expenditures.
This category also includes operational support initiatives such as sales and marketing and information technology projects to support infrastructure requirements.

•

Capital for new product development—these expenditures are
directly related to the development of new products or services in support of our integrated value proposition.

•

Capital for product improvement—these expenditures are
primarily related to product and service enhancements that support our leadership position in the various markets in which we operate. Spending in this area includes items such as increased feature
functionality, security upgrades or system enhancements.

•

Capital to support operational efficiencies—these expenditures
are primarily related to driving increased profitability through cost savings and operating efficiencies and include items such as facility consolidations and systems to support operating process
improvements.

•

Capital to acquire/construct real estate—these expenditures
are directly related to the acquisition of real estate, either through the purchase of a new facility or the exercise of a purchase option in an existing lease, or the construction of a new facility.











Following
is a table presenting our capital expenditures(1)for 2008, 2009 and 2010 organized by the nature of the spending as described above:

Year Ended December 31,Nature of Capital Spend (dollars in millions)2008(3)2009(3)2010(3)Business Line Growth$226$164$125Business Operations(2)$55$63$72Product Development$16$17$15Product Improvement$21$32$33Operational Efficiencies$11$9$8Real Estate$44$36$14Total Capital$373$321$268

We
believe that capital expenditures incurred as a percent of revenues is a meaningful metric for investors as it indicates the efficiency with which we are investing in the growth and
operational efficiency of our business. For the years 2008 through 2010, our total capital expenditures incurred as a percent of revenues were approximately 12%, 11% and 9%, respectively. The decrease
in capital expenditures as percent of revenues since 2008 is due primarily to our disciplined approach to capital management, a mix shift toward less capital intense service revenues and moderating
growth rates in our physical storage business.

Following
is a table presenting our capital expenditures(1)as a percent of total revenues for 2008, 2009 and 2010 organized by the nature of the spending as described
above:

Year Ended December 31,Nature of Capital Spend2008(3)2009(3)2010(3)Business Line Growth7.4%5.4%4.0%Business Operations(2)1.8%2.1%2.3%Product Development0.5%0.6%0.5%Product Improvement0.7%1.0%1.1%Operational Efficiencies0.3%0.3%0.3%Real Estate1.4%1.2%0.5%Total Capital12.2%10.6%8.6%

(1)Represents
accrued capital expenditures and may differ from amounts presented on the cash basis in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.(2)Capital
expended in support of ongoing business operations includes amounts previously referred to as maintenance capital expenditures. This category also
includes capital expended on operational support initiatives such as sales and marketing and information technology projects to support infrastructure requirements.(3)Columns
may not foot due to rounding.

Growth Strategy

We offer our customers an integrated value proposition by providing them with comprehensive records management services, data
protection & recovery services and information destruction services, along with the expertise and experience to address complex information management challenges such as rising storage costs,
litigation, regulatory compliance and disaster recovery. We expect to maintain a leadership position in the information management services industry around the world by enabling











customers
to protect and better use their information—regardless of its format, location or lifecycle stage—so they can optimize their business and ensure proper recovery,
compliance and discovery.

In
the U.S. and Canada, we seek to be one of the largest information management services providers in each of our markets. Internationally, our objectives are to continue to capitalize
on our expertise in the information management services industry and to make additional acquisitions and investments in selected international markets. Our near-term growth objectives are
comprised of a set of specific initiatives including: (1) our go-to-market initiative, which is a targeted, low risk approach to improving our sales capability and
thereby increasing revenues with our existing customers by selling them new services and gaining net new customers that today are unvended; (2) higher growth in our international businesses as
we expand our platform for selling core services and new services in higher growth markets; and (3) continuing to expand our services portfolio in the hybrid and digital markets to capture
those larger, faster growing opportunities. Although the focus will be on growing our business organically, targeted acquisitions will continue to play a role in our overall growth strategy.

Introduction of New Products and Services

We continue to expand our portfolio of products and services. Adding new products and services allows us to further penetrate our
existing customer accounts and attract new customers in previously untapped markets.

In
February, 2010, we acquired Mimosa Systems, Inc. ("Mimosa"), a leader in enterprise-class digital content archiving solutions. Our NearPoint® solution, which was
part of the Mimosa acquisition, is an enterprise archiving platform that manages the retention and disposition of email, files and SharePoint® information in accordance with corporate
governance policy. As
part of our comprehensive portfolio of cloud and on-premise information management solutions, NearPoint content archiving lets companies reduce risk and lower their storage and discovery
costs. In October 2010, our NearPoint solution was positioned in the Leaders Quadrant in Gartner Inc.'s Magic Quadrant for Enterprise Information Archiving 2010 report. Gartner's Magic Quadrant
report positions technology vendors within a particular quadrant based on their completeness of vision and ability to execute when addressing companies' information archiving needs.

Growth from Existing Customers

Our existing customers' storage of physical records contributes to storage and storage-related service revenues growth because, on
average, they generate additional cartons at a faster rate than old cartons are destroyed or permanently removed. In order to maximize growth opportunities from existing customers, we seek to maintain
high levels of customer retention by providing premium customer service through our local account management staff.

Our
sales coverage model is designed to identify and capitalize on incremental revenue opportunities by allocating our sales resources based on a sophisticated segmentation of our
customer base and selling additional records management, data protection & recovery and information destruction services, in new and existing markets, within our existing customer
relationships. We also seek to leverage existing business relationships with our customers by selling complementary services and products. Services include special project work, data restoration
projects, fulfillment services, consulting services and product sales (including software licenses, specially designed storage containers and related supplies). In addition, included in complementary
services revenue is recycled paper revenues.

Addition of New Customers

Our sales forces are dedicated to three primary objectives: (1) establishing new customer account relationships;
(2) generating additional revenue from existing customers in new and existing markets;











and
(3) expanding new and existing customer relationships by effectively selling a wide array of complementary services and products. In order to accomplish these objectives, our sales forces
draw on our U.S. and international marketing organizations and senior management.

Growth through Acquisitions

The goals of our current acquisition program are (1) to supplement internal growth in our physical businesses by expanding our
new service capabilities and industry-specific services and continuing to expand our presence in targeted international markets and (2) to accelerate our leadership and time to market for our
targeted technology services. We have a successful record of acquiring and integrating information management services companies.

Acquisitions in the North American Physical Segment

We substantially completed our geographic expansion in North America in 2003. Given the small number of attractive acquisition targets
in our core physical businesses in North America and our increased revenue base, future acquisitions are expected to be less significant to our overall North American revenue growth than in the past.
Acquisitions in the North American Physical segment will likely focus primarily on expanding our hybrid services capabilities.

Acquisitions in the International Physical Segment

We substantially completed our geographic expansion in Europe and Latin America by 2003 and began our expansion into Asia Pacific in
2005. We expect to continue to make acquisitions and investments in information management services businesses outside North America. We have acquired and invested in, and seek to acquire and invest
in, information management services companies in countries, and, more specifically, markets within such countries, where we believe there is potential for significant growth. Future acquisitions and
investments will focus primarily on developing priority expansion markets in Continental Europe and Asia, with continued leverage of our successful joint venture model. Similar to our strategy in
North America, we will also explore international acquisitions that strengthen our capabilities in areas such as hybrid services and industry-specific services.

The
experience, depth and strength of local management are particularly important in our international expansion and acquisition strategy. Since beginning our international expansion
program in January 1999, we have, directly and through joint ventures, expanded our operations into more than 35 countries in Europe, Latin America and Asia Pacific. These transactions have taken, and
may continue to take, the form of acquisitions of an entire business or controlling or minority investments, with a long-term goal of full ownership. We believe our joint venture strategy,
rather than an outright acquisition, may, in certain markets, better position us to expand the existing business. The
local partner benefits from our expertise in the information management services industry, our multinational customer relationships, our access to capital and our technology, and we benefit from our
local partners' knowledge of the market, relationships with local customers and their presence in the community. In addition to the criteria we use to evaluate North American acquisition candidates,
when looking at an international investment or acquisition, we also evaluate the presence in the potential market of our existing customers as well as the risks uniquely associated with an
international investment, including those risks described below.

Our
long-term goal is to acquire full ownership of each business in which we made a joint venture investment. Since 2007, we acquired the remaining minority equity ownership
in our Brazilian (2008), Greek (2010), Chinese (2010), Hong Kong (2010) and Singapore (2010) operations. In 2010, to better align our operations with our long-term international growth
objectives, we divested our ownership stakes in Indonesia and Sri Lanka. We now own more than 98% of our international operations, measured as a percentage of consolidated revenues.









Our
international investments are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to the indigenous political, social, regulatory, tax and economic structures of other countries, as well as
fluctuations in currency valuation, exchange controls, expropriation and governmental policies limiting returns to foreign investors.

The
amount of our revenues derived from international operations and other relevant financial data for fiscal years 2008, 2009 and 2010 are set forth in Note 9 to Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, we derived approximately 32%, 30% and 31%, respectively, of our total revenues from outside of the U.S.
As of December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, we have long-lived assets of approximately 31%, 34% and 35%, respectively, outside of the U.S.

Acquisitions in the Worldwide Digital Segment

Our focus on technology innovation allows us to bring leading products and services to market designed to solve customer problems in
the areas of data protection, archiving and discovery. Our approach to innovation includes our internal development efforts, partnering with other technology companies and acquisition of new and
existing technologies. We intend to build or develop our own technology in areas core to our strategy in order to protect and extend our position in the market. Examples include, backup and archiving
Software as a Service and data reduction
technologies. We are developing global technology partnerships that complement our product and service offerings, allow us to offer a complete solution to the marketplace and keep us in contact with
emerging technology companies. Our technology acquisition strategy is designed to accelerate our product strategy, leadership and time to market and past examples include the Connected (2004),
LiveVault (2005), Stratify (2007) and Mimosa (2010) acquisitions. We expect our future technology acquisitions will be of two primary types, those that bring us new or improved technologies to enhance
our existing technology portfolio and those that increase our market position through technology and established revenue streams.

Competition

We compete with our current and potential customers' internal information management services capabilities. We can provide no assurance
that these organizations will begin or continue to use an outside company such as Iron Mountain for their future information management services.

We
also compete with multiple information management service providers in all geographic areas where we operate. We believe that competition for customers is based on price, reputation
for reliability, quality of service and scope and scale of technology and that we generally compete effectively in each of these areas.

Alternative Technologies

We derive most of our revenues from the storage of paper documents and storage-related services. This storage requires significant
physical space. Alternative storage technologies exist, many of which require significantly less space than paper documents. These technologies include computer media, microform, CD-ROM
and optical disk. To date, none of these technologies has replaced paper documents as the principal means for storing information. However, we can provide no assurance that our customers will continue
to store most of their records in paper documents format. We continue to invest in additional services such as online backup and digital records management, designed to address our customers' need for
efficient, cost-effective, high quality solutions for electronic records and information management.









Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we employed over 9,800 employees in the U.S. and over 9,600 employees outside of the U.S. At
December 31, 2010, an aggregate of 478 employees were represented by unions in California, Georgia and three provinces in Canada.

All
non-union employees are generally eligible to participate in our benefit programs, which include medical, dental, life, short and long-term disability,
retirement/401(k) and accidental death and dismemberment plans. Unionized employees receive these types of benefits through their unions. In addition to base compensation and other usual benefits, all
full-time employees participate in some form of incentive-based compensation program that provides payments based on revenues, profits, collections or attainment of specified objectives
for the unit in which they work. Management believes that we have good relationships with our employees and unions. All union employees are currently under renewed labor agreements or operating under
an extension agreement.

Insurance

For strategic risk transfer purposes, we maintain a comprehensive insurance program with insurers that we believe to be reputable and
that have adequate capitalization in amounts that we believe to be appropriate. Property insurance is purchased on a comprehensive basis, including flood and earthquake (including excess coverage),
subject to certain policy conditions, sublimits and deductibles. Property is insured based upon the replacement cost of real and personal property, including leasehold improvements, business income
loss and extra expense. Among other types of insurance that we carry, subject to certain policy conditions, sublimits and deductibles are: medical, workers compensation, general liability, umbrella,
automobile, professional, warehouse legal liability and directors and officers liability policies. In 2002, we established a wholly-owned Vermont domiciled captive insurance company as a subsidiary
through which we retain and reinsure a portion of our property loss exposure.

Our
customer contracts usually contain provisions limiting our liability with respect to loss or destruction of, or damage to, records stored with us. Our liability under these contracts
is often limited to a nominal fixed amount per item or unit of storage, such as per cubic foot. We cannot assure you that where we have limitation of liability provisions that they will be enforceable
in all instances or would otherwise protect us from liability. Also, some of our contracts with large volume accounts and some of the contracts assumed in our acquisitions contain no such limits or
contain higher limits. In addition to provisions limiting our liability, our standard storage and service contracts include a schedule setting forth the majority of the customer-specific terms,
including storage and service pricing and service delivery terms. Our customers may dispute the interpretation of various provisions in their contracts. While we have had relatively few disputes with
our customers with regard to the terms of their customer contracts, and any disputes to date have not been material, we can give you no assurance that we will not have material disputes in
the future.

Environmental Matters

Some of our current and formerly owned or leased properties were previously used by entities other than us for industrial or other
purposes that involved the use, storage, generation and/or disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, including petroleum products. In some instances these properties included the operation of
underground storage tanks or the presence of asbestos-containing materials. Although we have from time to time conducted limited environmental investigations and remedial activities at some of our
former and current facilities, we have not undertaken an in-depth environmental review of all of our properties. We therefore may be liable for environmental costs and may be unable to
sell, rent, mortgage or use contaminated real estate owned or leased by us. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, we may be liable for environmental compliance and remediation
costs to address contamination, if any, located at owned and leased properties as well as











damages
arising from such contamination, whether or not we know of, or were responsible for, the contamination, or the contamination occurred while we owned or leased the property. Environmental
conditions for which we might be liable may also exist at properties that we may acquire in the future. In addition, future regulatory action and environmental laws may impose costs for environmental
compliance that do not exist today.

We
transfer a portion of our risk of financial loss due to currently undetected environmental matters by purchasing an environmental impairment liability insurance policy, which covers
all owned and leased locations. Coverage is provided for both liability and remediation costs.

Internet Website

Our Internet address iswww.ironmountain.com. Under the "Investors" section on our
Internet website, we make available through a hyperlink to a third party website, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") as soon as reasonably practicable after such forms are filed with or furnished to the SEC. We are not including the information contained on or available through our
website as a part of, or incorporating such information by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Copies of our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and the
charters of our audit, compensation, and nominating and governance committees are available on the Investors section of our website,www.ironmountain.com, under the heading "Corporate Governance."

