Item 1. Business.

A.    Development of Business.

We store records, primarily paper documents and data backup media, and provide information management services that help organizations around the world protect
their information, lower storage rental costs, comply with regulations, enable corporate disaster recovery, and better use their information for business advantages, regardless of its format, location
or lifecycle stage. We offer comprehensive records management services, data protection & recovery services and information destruction services, along with the expertise and experience to
address complex storage and information management challenges such as rising storage rental costs, and increased litigation, regulatory compliance and disaster recovery requirements. Founded in an
underground facility near Hudson, New York in 1951, Iron Mountain Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, is a trusted partner to more than 155,000 clients throughout North America, Europe, Latin
America and Asia Pacific. We have a diversified customer base consisting of commercial, legal, banking, healthcare, accounting, insurance, entertainment and government organizations, including more
than 94% of the Fortune 1000. As of December 31, 2012, we operated over 1,000 facilities, comprising 64.5 million square feet, in 35 countries on five continents and employed over 17,500
people.

Now
in our 62ndyear, we have experienced tremendous growth, particularly since successfully completing the initial public offering of our common stock in February
1996. We have grown from a U.S. business operating fewer than 85 facilities (6 million square feet) with limited storage and information management service offerings and annual revenues of
$104.0 million in 1995 into a global enterprise providing storage and a broad range of related information management services to customers in markets around the world with over 1,000
facilities (64.5 million square feet) and total revenues of more than $3.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2012. On January 5, 2009, we were added to the
S&P 500 Index, and as of December 31, 2012 we were number 644 on the Fortune 1000.

Our
success since becoming a public company in 1996 has been driven in large part by our execution of a consistent long-term growth plan to build industry leadership by
extending our presence through service line and global expansion. This growth plan has been sequenced into three phases. The first phase involved establishing leadership and broad market access in our
core storage solutions and related records management services and data protection & recovery services, primarily through acquisitions. In the second phase, we invested in building a successful
selling organization to access new customers, converting previously unvended demand. While different parts of our business are in different stages of evolution along our three-phase strategy, in North
America and our more developed international markets, we have transitioned to the third phase of our growth plan, which we call the capitalization phase. In this phase, which we expect to continue for
many years, we seek to expand our relationships with our customers to continue solving their increasingly complex storage and information management problems. Growing our customer relationships means
expanding our global storage and service offerings while maximizing our solid core businesses. In doing this, we continue to build what we believe to be a very durable business through disciplined
execution.

Consistent
with this model, we have transitioned from a growth strategy driven primarily by acquisitions of storage and information management services companies to a growth strategy
that includes multiple sources of revenue growth. These sources of revenue growth include: (i) organic growth comprised of growth from existing customers, sales to new customers and acquiring
customer relationships from third-parties; (ii) acquisitions of storage and information management services businesses; and (iii) the introduction of new rental streams and ancillary
services.

We
expect to achieve our long-term growth goals by focusing on expanding our global core storage rental business through increased incoming volumes and by offering our
customers integrated services









that
address their increasingly complex storage and information management needs regardless of the format, location or lifecycle stage of their information. Storage rental is the key driver of our
economics and allows us to expand our relationships with our customers through value-added services that flow from storage rental. Consistent with our overall strategy, we are focused on increasing
incoming volumes on a global basis. There are multiple sources of new volumes available to us, and these sources inform our growth investment strategy. Our investments in sales and marketing support
sales to new customers that do not currently outsource some or all of their storage and information management needs, as well as increased volumes from existing customers. We also expect to invest in
the acquisitions of customer relationships and acquisitions of storage and information management services businesses. In North America and our more developed international markets, we expect that
these acquisitions will primarily be fold-in acquisitions designed to optimize the utilization of existing assets, expand our presence and better serve customers. We also expect to use
acquisitions to expand our presence in attractive, higher growth emerging markets. Finally, we are continuing to add new rental streams and ancillary services to our portfolio to support our
long-term growth objectives and drive solid returns on invested capital.

We
are committed to delivering stockholder value. To that end, and supported by our increased profitability and strong cash flows, we initiated a stockholder payout program in February
2010 consisting of a share repurchase authorization of up to $150.0 million and a dividend policy under which we have paid, and in the future intend to pay, cash dividends on our common stock.
Our first ever quarterly cash dividend, declared in March 2010, was $0.0625 per share. Subsequently, our board of directors approved an increase in the amount authorized under our share repurchase
program of up to an additional $1.05 billion, bringing the total authorization to $1.2 billion. As of December 31, 2012,









we
have purchased 37.7 million shares of our common stock for approximately $1.1 billion under this program. We have also increased our quarterly dividend on three occasions, including
most recently in June 2012, when we announced an 8% increase to our regular quarterly dividend payments through 2013. The June 2012 increase to our quarterly dividend, to $0.27 per share, represented
a 332% increase over the quarterly dividend amount declared in March 2010.

In
April 2011, we announced a three-year strategic plan to increase stockholder value. The key components of our plan are: (i) sustaining a leadership position in our
North American Business segment; (ii) driving substantial improvements in our International Business segment; and (iii) committing to significant stockholder payouts of
$2.2 billion through 2013, with $1.2 billion being paid out by May 2012. We fulfilled the commitment to return $1.2 billion of capital to stockholders by May 2012. The remaining
$1.0 billion of the stockholder payout plan has been replaced by our regular quarterly dividends and the stockholder distributions and expenditures associated with our plan to convert to a REIT
(the "Conversion Plan"). As part of our strategic plan, in June 2011, we completed the sale of our online backup and recovery, digital archiving and eDiscovery solutions businesses (the "Digital
Business") for approximately $395.4 million in cash. Additionally, in connection with our strategic portfolio review of certain international operations, we sold our New Zealand operations in
October 2011, and we sold our Italian operations in April 2012.

Potential REIT Conversion

In June 2012, we announced our intention to pursue conversion to a REIT. The plan to convert to a REIT was unanimously approved by our
board of directors following a
thorough analysis and careful consideration of ways to maximize value through alternative financing, capital and tax strategies. Assuming we are successful in converting, we would plan to elect REIT
status no sooner than our taxable year beginning January 1, 2014. Any REIT election made by us must be effective as of the beginning of a taxable year; therefore, if, as a calendar year
taxpayer, we are unable to convert to a REIT by January 1, 2014, the next possible conversion date would be January 1, 2015.

Our
Conversion Plan currently includes submitting requests for private letter rulings ("PLR") to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS"). Our PLR requests have multiple components,
and the conversion to a REIT will require favorable rulings from the IRS on numerous technical tax issues, including the characterization of our racking assets as real estate. We submitted our PLR
requests to the IRS during the third quarter of 2012, but the IRS may not provide a favorable response to our PLR requests until the second half of 2013 or at all.

Our
ability to qualify as a REIT will depend upon our continuing compliance following our conversion to a REIT with various requirements, including requirements related to the nature of
our assets, the sources of our income and the distributions to our stockholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates. Even if we
qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to some federal, state, local and foreign taxes on our income and property. In particular, while state income tax regimes often parallel the U.S.
federal income tax regime for REITs described above, many states do not completely follow U.S. federal rules and some may not follow them at all.

We
believe that electing REIT status will maximize our enterprise value as we advance our strategy and provide significant benefits to our stockholders. A key component of our overall
strategic plan is our capital allocation strategy to return excess cash to our stockholders, and we believe operating as a REIT aligns well with this strategy. In November 2012, we paid a
$700.0 million special dividend (the "Special Dividend") representing the initial distribution to satisfy the requirement that we pay to stockholders our accumulated earnings and profits which
is estimated to be approximately $1.0 billion to $1.5 billion (the "E&P Distribution") in connection with our potential conversion to a REIT. The Special Dividend consisted of
$140.0 million paid in cash and $560.0 million in common stock value.









We
issued 17.0 million new shares in connection with the Special Dividend. We also believe that through conversion to a REIT we may be able to expand our shareholder base and lower our cost of
financing through increased ownership of currently leased real estate. We expect our long-term capital allocation strategy as a REIT will naturally shift toward increased use of equity to
support lower leverage, though our leverage may increase in the short-term to fund the costs to support the Conversion Plan.

See
Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview" and "—Liquidity and Capital Resources" of this
Annual Report for more information regarding our possible conversion to a REIT, including anticipated costs associated with the Conversion Plan, and Item 1A. "Risk Factors—Risks
Related to the Proposed REIT Conversion" of this Annual Report for a discussion of risks associated with our conversion to a REIT, including impediments to a conversion.

B.    Description of Business.

Overview

We provide cost-effective secure storage for all major media, including paper (which is the primary form of records storage
we provide), as well as secure off-site storage of data backup media. Our related information management services can be broadly divided into three major categories: records management
services, data protection & recovery services, and information destruction services. Media formats can be broadly divided into physical and electronic records. We define physical records to
include paper documents, as well as all other non-electronic media such as microfilm and microfiche, master audio and videotapes, film, X-rays and blueprints. Electronic
records include e-mail and various forms of magnetic media such as computer tapes, hard drives and optical disks.

Our
records management services include: flexible retrieval access, retention management and records management program development and implementation based on best practices to help
customers comply with specific regulatory requirements and policy-based programs. Also included within records management services are our Document Management Solutions ("DMS"). DMS helps
organizations gain better access to, and ultimately control over, their paper records by digitizing, indexing and hosting them in online archives to provide complete information lifecycle solutions.
Within the records management services category, we have developed specialized services for vital records and regulated industries such as healthcare, energy, government and financial services.

Our
data protection & recovery services include the secure handling and transportation of data backup media for fast and efficient data recovery in the event of a disaster, human
error or virus as well as disaster preparedness, planning and support. Our technology-based data protection & recovery services include online backup and recovery solutions for desktop and
laptop computers and remote servers. Since our sale of the Digital Business, we offer these technology-based services primarily through partnerships. Additionally, we serve as a trusted, neutral third
party and offer technology escrow services to protect and manage source code and other proprietary information.

Our
information destruction services almost exclusively consist of secure shredding services. Secure shredding services complete the lifecycle of a record and involve the shredding of
sensitive documents in a way that ensures privacy and a secure chain of custody for the records. These services typically include either the scheduled pick-up of loose office records,
which customers accumulate in specially designed secure containers that we provide, or the shredding of documents stored in our records facilities upon the expiration of their scheduled retention
periods.









Physical Records

Physical records may be broadly divided into two categories: active and inactive. Active records relate to ongoing and recently
completed activities or contain information that is frequently referenced. Active records are usually stored and managed on-site by their owners to ensure ready availability. Inactive
physical records are the principal focus of the storage and information management services industry and consist of those records that are not needed for immediate access but which must be retained
for legal, regulatory and compliance reasons or for occasional reference in support of ongoing business operations. A large and growing specialty subset of the physical records market is medical
records. These are active and semi-active records that are often stored off-site with, and serviced by, a storage and information management services vendor. Special regulatory
requirements often apply to medical records. In addition to our core records management services, we provide consulting, facilities management, fulfillment and other outsourcing services relating to
storage and information management.

Electronic Records

Electronic records management focuses on the storage of, and related services for, computer media that is either a backup copy of
recently processed data or archival in nature. We believe the issues encountered by customers trying to manage their electronic records are similar to the ones they face in their physical records
management programs and consist primarily of: (1) storage capacity and the preservation of data; (2) access to and control over the data in a secure environment; and (3) the need
to retain electronic records due to regulatory requirements or for litigation support. Customer needs for data backup and recovery and archiving are distinctively different. Backup data exists because
of the need of many businesses to maintain backup copies of their data in order to be able to recover the data in the event of a system failure, casualty loss or other
disaster. It is customary (and a best practice) for data processing groups to rotate backup tapes to off-site locations on a regular basis and to require multiple copies of such
information at multiple sites. In addition to the physical storage and rotation of backup data that we provide, we offer online backup services through partnerships as an alternative way for
businesses to store and access data. Online backup is a Web-based service that automatically backs up computer data from servers or directly from desktop and laptop computers over the
Internet and stores it in secure data centers.

Growth of Market

We believe that the volume of stored physical and electronic records will continue to increase on a global basis for a number of
reasons, including: (1) regulatory requirements; (2) concerns over possible future litigation and the resulting increases in volume and holding periods of records; (3) the
continued proliferation of data processing technologies such as personal computers and networks; (4) inexpensive document producing technologies such as desktop publishing software and desktop
printing; (5) the high cost of reviewing records and deciding whether to retain or destroy them; (6) the failure of many entities to adopt or follow policies on records destruction; and
(7) the need to keep backup copies of certain records in off-site locations for business continuity purposes in the event of disaster.

We
believe that the creation of paper-based information will be sustained, not in spite of, but because of, "paperless" technologies such as e-mail and the Internet. These
technologies have prompted the creation of hard copies of such electronic information and have also led to increased demand for electronic records services, such as the storage and
off-site rotation of backup copies of magnetic media. In addition, we believe that the proliferation of digital information technologies and distributed data networks has created a growing
need for efficient, cost-effective, high quality technology solutions for electronic data protection and the management of electronic documents.









Acquisitions in a Highly Fragmented Industry

The storage and information management services industry has long been and remains a highly fragmented industry with thousands of
competitors in North America and around
the world. Between 1995 and 2004 there was significant acquisition activity in the industry. Acquisitions were a fast and efficient way to achieve scale, expand geographically and broaden service
offerings. We believe this acquisition activity, which is ongoing, is due to the opportunities for large providers to achieve economies of scale and meet customer demands for sophisticated,
technology-based solutions. Attractive acquisition opportunities, many of which are small, in North America and internationally continue to exist, and we may pursue acquisition of these businesses
where we believe they present a good opportunity to create value for our stockholders.

Characteristics of Our Business

In
general, our North American Business and our International Business segments offer storage and the information management services discussed below, in their respective geographies.
The amount of revenues derived from our North American Business and International Business segments and other relevant data, including financial information about geographic areas and product and
service lines, for fiscal years 2010, 2011 and 2012 are set forth in Note 9 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Secure Storage

We provide cost-effective secure storage for all major media, including paper (which is the primary form of records storage
we provide) as well as secure
off-site vaulting of data backup media. Renting secure space to customers for the purpose of storing paper records and data backup media is by far our largest source of revenue. Records
storage consists primarily of the archival storage of records for long periods of time according to applicable laws, regulations and industry best practices. The secure off-site storage of
data backup media is a key component of a company's disaster recovery and business continuity programs and storage rental charges are generally billed monthly on a per storage unit basis.

Hard
copy business records are typically stored for long periods of time with limited activity in cartons packed by the customer. For some customers we store individual files on an open
shelf basis, and these files are typically more active. Storage rental charges are generally billed monthly on a per









storage
unit basis, usually per cubic foot of records, and include the provision of space, racking systems, computerized inventory and activity tracking and physical security.

Vital
records contain critical or irreplaceable data such as master audio and video recordings, film and other highly proprietary information, such as energy data. Vital records may
require special facilities, either because of the data they contain or the media on which they are recorded. Accordingly, our charges for providing enhanced security and special climate-controlled
environments for vital records are higher than for typical storage rental.

Service Offerings

Our information management services can be broadly divided into three major categories: records management services, data
protection & recovery services and information destruction services. We offer both physical services and technology solutions in the records management and data protection & recovery
categories. Currently, we offer only physical services in the information destruction services category.

Records Management Services

Central to any records management program is the handling and transportation of stored records and the eventual destruction of those
records upon the expiration of their scheduled retention periods. This is accomplished through our extensive service and courier operations. Other records management services include our DMS services
as well as Compliant Records Management and Consulting Services, Health Information Storage and Management Solutions, Entertainment Services, Energy Data Services, Discovery Services and other
ancillary services.

Service
and courier operations are an integral part of our comprehensive records management program for all physical media and include adding records to storage, temporarily removing
records from storage, refiling of removed records, permanently withdrawing records from storage and destroying records. Service charges are generally assessed for each activity on a per unit basis.
Courier operations consist primarily of the pick-up and delivery of records upon customer request. Charges for courier services are based on urgency of delivery, volume and location and
are billed monthly. As of December 31, 2012, our fleet consisted of approximately 3,700 owned or leased vehicles.

The
growth rate of mission-critical digital information is accelerating, driven in part by the use of the Internet as a distribution and transaction medium. The rising cost and
increasing importance of storing and managing digital information, coupled with the increasing availability of telecommunications bandwidth at lower costs, may create meaningful opportunities for us
to provide solutions to our customers with respect to their digital records storage and management challenges. We continue to cultivate marketing and technology partnerships to support this
anticipated growth.

The
focus of our DMS business is to develop, implement and support comprehensive storage and information management solutions for the complete lifecycle of our customers' information. We
seek to develop solutions that solve our customers' document management challenges by integrating the management of physical records, document conversion and digital storage. Our DMS services
complement our core service offerings and enhance our existing customer relationships. We differentiate our offerings from our competitors by providing solutions that integrate and expand our existing
portfolio of products and services. The trend towards increased usage of Electronic Document Management ("EDM") systems represents another opportunity for us to manage active records. Our DMS services
provide the bridge between customers' physical documents and their EDM solutions.

We
offer records management services that have been tailored for specific industries, such as health care, or to address the needs of customers with more specific requirements based on
the critical nature of their records. For example, medical records tend to be more active in nature and are typically









stored
on specialized open shelving systems that provide easier access to individual files. In addition to storing medical records, we provide health care information services, which include the
handling, filing, processing and retrieval of medical records used by hospitals, private practitioners and other medical institutions, as well as recurring project work and ancillary services.
Recurring project work involves the on-site removal of aged patient files and related computerized file indexing. Ancillary healthcare information services include release of information
(medical record copying and delivery), temporary staffing, contract coding, facilities management and imaging.

We
offer a variety of additional services which customers may request or contract for on an individual basis. These services include conducting records inventories, packing records into
cartons or other containers, and creating computerized indices of files and individual documents. We also provide services for the management of active records programs. We can provide these services,
which generally include document and file processing and storage, both off-site at our own facilities and by supplying our own personnel to perform management functions on-site
at the customer's premises. We also sell a full line of specially designed corrugated cardboard storage cartons.

Other
complementary lines of business that we operate include fulfillment services and professional consulting services. Fulfillment services are performed by our wholly owned
subsidiary, Iron Mountain Fulfillment Services, Inc. ("IMFS"). IMFS stores marketing literature and other materials for its customers and delivers this material to sales offices, trade shows
and prospective customers' locations based on current and prospective customer needs. In addition, IMFS assembles custom marketing packages and orders and manages and provides detailed reporting on
customer marketing literature inventories. A growing element of the content we manage and fulfill is stored digitally and printed on demand by IMFS. Digital print allows marketing materials such as
brochures, direct mail, flyers, pamphlets and newsletters to be personalized to the recipient with variable messages, graphics and content.

We
provide professional consulting services to customers, enabling them to develop and implement comprehensive storage and information management programs. Our consulting business draws
on our experience in storage solutions and information management services to analyze the practices of companies and assist them in creating more effective programs to store records and manage
information. Our consultants work with these customers to develop policies and schedules for document retention and destruction.

We
sold our domain name management product line in 2010 and the Digital Business, including our former wholly owned subsidiaries, Mimosa Systems, Inc. and Stratify, Inc.,
and our New Zealand operations in 2011. Also, we sold our Italian operations in April 2012. Consistent with our treatment of acquisitions, we eliminated all revenues associated with these businesses,
which have all been reflected as discontinued operations for financial reporting purposes, from the calculation of our internal growth rates for 2010, 2011 and 2012.

Data Protection & Recovery Services

Our data protection & recovery services are designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations and to satisfy industry best
practices with regard to disaster recovery and business continuity purposes. We provide data protection & recovery services for both physical and electronic records. We also offer technology
escrow services in this category.

Physical
data protection & recovery services consist of the rotation of backup computer media as part of corporate disaster recovery and business continuity plans. Computer tapes,
cartridges and disk packs are transported off-site by our courier operations on a scheduled basis to secure, climate-controlled facilities, where they are available to customers
24 hours a day, 365 days a year, to facilitate data recovery in the event of a disaster. Frequently, backup tapes are rotated from our facilities back to









our
customers' data centers. We also manage tape library relocations and support disaster recovery testing and execution.

Online
backup is a Web-based service that automatically backs up computer data from servers or directly from desktop or laptop computers over the Internet and stores it in
secure data centers. After the sale of the Digital Business, we continue to offer this service pursuant to a reseller agreement with Autonomy Corporation plc, a corporation formed under the
laws of England and Wales ("Autonomy").

Through
our technology escrow services business, we act as a trusted, neutral, third party, safeguarding valuable technology assets—such as software source code, object code
and data—in secure, access-protected escrow accounts. Acting in this intermediary role, we help document and maintain intellectual property integrity. The result is increased control and
leverage for all parties, enabling them to protect themselves, while maintaining competitive advantage.

Information Destruction Services

Our information destruction services consist primarily of physical secure shredding operations. Secure shredding is a natural extension
of our hard copy records management services, completing the lifecycle of a record, and involves the shredding of sensitive documents for customers that, in many cases, also use our services for
management of archival records. These services typically include the scheduled pick-up of loose office records that customers accumulate in specially designed secure containers we provide.
Complementary to our shredding operations is the sale of the resultant waste paper to third-party recyclers. Through a combination of plant-based shredding operations and mobile shredding units
consisting of custom built trucks, we are able to offer secure shredding services to our customers throughout the U.S., Canada, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia and Latin America.

Financial Characteristics of Our Business

Our financial model is based on the recurring nature of our various revenue streams. The historical predictability of our revenues and
the resulting Adjusted OIBDA allow us to operate with a high degree of financial leverage. Our business has the following financial characteristics:

•

Recurring Revenues.We derive a majority of our
consolidated revenues from fixed periodic, usually monthly, storage rental fees charged to customers based on the volume of their records stored. Once a customer places physical records in storage
with us, and until those records are destroyed or permanently removed (for which we typically receive a service fee), we receive recurring payments for storage rental without incurring additional
labor or marketing expenses or significant capital costs. Similarly, contracts for the storage of electronic backup media involve primarily fixed monthly rental payments. Our annual revenues from
these fixed periodic storage rental fees have grown for 24 consecutive years. For each of the three years 2010 through 2012, storage rental revenues, which are stable and recurring, have accounted for
over 55% or more of our total consolidated revenues. This stable and growing storage rental revenue base also provides the foundation for increases in service revenues and Adjusted OIBDA.

•

Historically Non-Cyclical Storage Rental
Business.Historically, we have not experienced significant reductions in our storage rental business as a result of economic downturns
although, during recent economic slowdowns, the rate at which some customers added new cartons to their inventory was below historical levels. However, during the recent economic downturn, which was
more severe and lasted longer than other recent downturns, destruction rates increased as some customers have been more willing to incur additional short-term service costs in exchange for
lower storage rental costs in the long-term. In addition, we have experienced longer sales cycles and lower incoming volumes from existing customers, due in large part, we believe, to high
unemployment rates and generally lower levels of business activity. Combined, these impacts have resulted in lower net volume growth rates. The net effect of these factors has been the continued
growth of our storage rental revenue base, albeit at a lower rate. For each of the three years 2010 through 2012, total net volume growth has been approximately 2% on a global basis.









•

Inherent Growth from Existing Physical Records
Customers.Our physical records customers have, on average, sent us additional cartons at a faster rate than stored cartons have been
destroyed or permanently removed. However, during the recent economic downturn, the combination of lower incoming volumes from existing customers, due in large part, we believe, to high unemployment
rates and generally lower business activity, and increased destruction rates, as described above, resulted in lower consolidated net volume growth in recent quarters, including negative net volume
growth from existing customers at times in certain markets. Since reaching unusually high levels in 2009, our destruction rates have stabilized at rates closer to historical norms. After the economy
has improved, we expect our growth from existing customers should improve although we cannot give any assurance as to how much, if any, improvement we will realize. We believe the continued growth of
our physical records storage rental revenues is the result of a number of factors, including the trend toward increased records retention, albeit at a lower rate of growth, customer satisfaction with
our services and net price increases.

•

Diversified and Stable Customer Base.As of
December 31, 2012, we had over 155,000 clients in a variety of industries in 35 countries around the world. We currently provide storage and information management services to commercial,
legal, banking, healthcare, accounting, insurance, entertainment and government organizations, including more than 94% of the Fortune 1000. No single customer accounted for as much as 2% of our
consolidated revenues in any of the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012. For each of the three years 2010 through 2012, the average annual volume reduction due to customers terminating
their relationship with us was less than 3%.

•

Capital Expenditures Related Primarily to Business Line Growth and Ongoing
Operations.

Our business requires significant capital expenditures to support our expected storage rental revenue and service revenue
growth and ongoing operations, new products and services and increased profitability. As the nature of our business has evolved over time, so has the nature of our capital expenditures. Every year we
expend capital to support a number of different objectives. The majority of our capital goes to support business line growth and our ongoing operations. Additionally, we invest capital to acquire or
construct real estate. We also expend capital to support the development and improvement of products and services and projects designed to increase our profitability. These expenditures are generally
relatively small and discretionary in nature. Below are descriptions of the major types of capital expenditures we are likely to make in a given year:



•Capital to support business line growth—these expenditures are
primarily related to capacity expansion such as investments in new building outfitting, carton storage systems, tape storage systems and containers, shredding plants and bins and technology service
storage and processing capacity.•Capital to acquire/construct real estate—these expenditures
are directly related to the acquisition of real estate, either through the purchase or construction of a new facility or the buyout of an existing lease.•Capital to support ongoing business operations—these
expenditures are primarily related to major repairs and/or the replacement of assets, such as facilities, warehouse equipment and computers. This category also includes operational support initiatives
such as sales and marketing and information technology projects to support infrastructure requirements.•Capital for new product development—these expenditures are
directly related to the development of new products or services in support of our integrated value proposition.•Capital for product improvement—these expenditures are
primarily related to product and service enhancements that support our leadership position in the industry. Spending in this area includes items such as increased feature functionality, security
upgrades or system enhancements.









•Capital to support operational efficiencies—these expenditures
are primarily related to driving increased profitability through cost savings and operating efficiencies and include items such as facility consolidations and systems to support operating process
improvements.

Following
is a table presenting our capital expenditures for 2010, 2011 and 2012 organized by the nature of the spending as described above:

Year Ended December 31,Nature of Capital Spend (dollars in millions)2010(1)(2)2011(1)(2)2012(1)(2)Business Line Growth$116$81$61Real Estate142054Business Operations(3)658475Product Development1024Product Improvement311412Operational Efficiencies81842Total Capital$244$218$248Less: Real Estate and REIT Capital Expenditures(14)(20)(66)Total Capital, Net of Real Estate and REIT Capital Expenditures$230$198$182

We
believe that capital expenditures, net of real estate and capital expenditures that are part of our REIT Costs, incurred as a percent of revenues is a meaningful metric for investors
because it indicates the efficiency with which we are investing in the growth and operational efficiency of our business. For the years 2010 through 2012, our total capital expenditures, net of real
estate and capital expenditures that are part of our REIT Costs, incurred as a percent of revenues were approximately 8%, 7% and 6%, respectively. This decrease since 2010 is due primarily to our
disciplined approach to capital management, a shift toward less capital intensive service revenues and moderating growth rates in our physical storage rental business.

Following
is a table presenting our capital expenditures as a percent of total revenues for 2010, 2011 and 2012 organized by the nature of the spending as described above:

Year Ended December 31,Nature of Capital Spend2010(1)(2)2011(1)(2)2012(1)(2)Business Line Growth4.0%2.7%2.0%Real Estate0.5%0.7%1.8%Business Operations(3)2.2%2.8%2.5%Product Development0.3%0.1%0.1%Product Improvement1.1%0.5%0.4%Operational Efficiencies0.3%0.6%1.4%Total Capital8.4%7.2%8.3%Less: Real Estate and REIT Capital Expenditures(0.5)%(0.7)%(2.2)%Total Capital, Net of Real Estate and REIT Capital Expenditures7.9%6.6%6.1%

(1)Represents
capital expenditures on an accrual basis and may differ from amounts presented on the cash basis in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.(2)Columns
may not foot due to rounding.(3)Capital
expended in support of ongoing business operations includes amounts previously referred to as maintenance capital expenditures. This category
includes capital expended on operational support initiatives such as sales and marketing and information technology projects to support infrastructure requirements.









Growth Strategy

We offer our customers an integrated value proposition by providing them with secure storage and comprehensive information management
services, including records management services, data protection & recovery services and information destruction services. We have the expertise and experience to address complex storage and
information management challenges such as rising storage rental costs and increased litigation, regulatory compliance and disaster recovery requirements. We expect to maintain a leadership position in
the storage and information management services industry around the world by enabling customers to store, protect and better use their information—regardless of its format, location or
lifecycle stage—so they can optimize their business and ensure proper recovery, compliance and discovery.

Our
objectives are to continue to capitalize on our expertise in the storage and information management industry and to make additional fold-in acquisitions in more developed
markets and acquisitions and investments to establish an industry-leading presence in selected emerging markets. Our near-term growth objectives include a set of specific initiatives:
(1) increasing our incoming storage volumes with a targeted, low risk approach to improving our sales effectiveness, thereby increasing revenues from our existing customers and gaining new
customers; (2) driving higher volume growth in our international businesses as we expand our platform for selling storage, core services and new services in higher growth markets; and
(3) continuing to add new rental streams and ancillary services to our portfolio to support our long-term growth objectives and drive solid returns on invested capital. Our overall
growth strategy will focus on growing our business organically, making strategic customer acquisitions and pursuing acquisitions of storage and information management businesses.

Introduction of New Products and Services

We continue to expand our portfolio of products and services. Adding new products and services allows us to strengthen our existing
customer relationships and attract new customers in previously untapped markets.

Growth from Existing Customers

Our existing customers' storage of physical records contributes to the growth of storage rental and certain records management services
revenues because, on average, our existing customers generate additional cartons at a faster rate than old cartons are destroyed or permanently removed. However, during the recent economic downturn,
the combination of lower incoming volumes from existing customers, due in large part, we believe, to high unemployment rates and generally lower business activity, and increased destruction rates,
resulted in lower consolidated net volume growth in recent quarters, including negative net volume growth from existing customers at times in certain markets. Since reaching unusually high levels in
2009, our destruction rates have stabilized at rates closer to historical norms. After the economy has improved, we expect our growth from existing customers should improve although we cannot give any
assurance as to how much, if any, improvement we will realize. In order to maximize growth opportunities from existing customers, we seek to maintain high levels of customer retention by providing
premium customer service through our local account management staff.

Our
sales coverage model is designed to identify and capitalize on incremental revenue opportunities by strategically allocating our sales resources to our customer base and selling
additional storage, information management services and products in new and existing markets within our existing customer relationships. These services and products include special project work, data
restoration projects, fulfillment services, consulting services, technology services and product sales (including specially designed storage containers and related supplies).









Expanding New and Existing Customer Relationships

Our sales forces are dedicated to three primary objectives: (1) establishing new customer account relationships;
(2) generating additional revenue by expanding existing customer relationships globally; and (3) expanding new and existing customer relationships by effectively selling a wide array of
complementary services and products. In order to accomplish these objectives, our sales forces draw on our U.S. and international marketing organizations and senior management.

Growth through Acquisitions

The goal of our current acquisition program is to supplement internal growth by continuing to expand our presence in targeted emerging
markets, continuing to make fold-in acquisitions in North America and more developed international markets and expanding our rental streams, new service capabilities and industry-specific
services. We have a successful record of acquiring and integrating storage and information management services companies.

Acquisitions in the North American Business Segment

We have acquired, and we continue to seek to acquire, storage and information management services businesses in the U.S. and Canada.
Given the relatively small size of most acquisition targets in our core physical businesses in North America, where we believe they present a good opportunity to create value for our stockholders,
future acquisitions are expected to be less significant to our overall North American Business segment revenue growth than in the past.

Acquisitions in the International Business Segment

We expect to continue to make acquisitions and investments in storage and information management services businesses in targeted
markets outside North America, particularly emerging markets. We have acquired and invested in, and seek to acquire and invest in, storage and information management services companies in certain
countries, and, more specifically, certain markets within such countries, where we believe there is potential for significant growth. Future acquisitions and investments will focus primarily on
expanding priority markets in Continental Europe, Latin America and Asia Pacific, with continued leverage of our successful joint venture model.

The
experience, depth and strength of local management are particularly important in our international expansion and acquisition strategy. Since beginning our international expansion
program in January 1999, we have, directly and through joint ventures, expanded our operations into more than 30 countries in Europe, Latin America and Asia Pacific. These transactions have taken, and
may continue to take, the form of acquisitions of an entire business or controlling or minority investments with a long-term goal of full ownership. We believe a joint venture strategy,
rather than an outright acquisition, may, in certain markets, better position us to expand the existing business. The local partners benefit from our expertise in the storage and information
management services industry, our multinational customer relationships, our access to capital and our technology, while we benefit from our local partners' knowledge of the market, relationships with
local customers and their presence
in the community. In addition to the criteria we use to evaluate North American acquisition candidates, when looking at an international investment or acquisition, we also evaluate risks uniquely
associated with an international investment, including those risks described below.

Our
long-term goal is to acquire full ownership of each business in which we make a joint venture investment. Since 2008, we have acquired the remaining minority equity
ownership in our Greece (2010), China (2010), Hong Kong (2010) and Singapore (2010) operations and increased our equity ownership interest in our Switzerland (2012) and Turkey (2012) operations. In
2010, to better align our operations with our long-term international growth objectives, we sold our equity ownership interest in Indonesia and Sri Lanka. We now own more than 97% of our
international operations, measured as a percentage of consolidated revenues. In connection with the strategic review of certain of our









international
businesses, we sold our New Zealand operations in October 2011 and our Italian operations in April 2012.

Our
international investments are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to the indigenous political, social, regulatory, tax and economic structures of other countries, as well as
fluctuations in currency valuation, exchange controls, expropriation and governmental policies limiting returns to foreign investors.

The
amount of our revenues derived from international operations and other relevant financial data for fiscal years 2010, 2011 and 2012 are set forth in Note 9 to Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, we derived approximately 32%, 34% and 35%, respectively, of our total revenues from outside of the U.S.
As of December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, we had long-lived assets of approximately 36%, 36% and 37%, respectively, outside of the U.S.

Competition

We are a global leader in the physical storage and information management services industry with operations in 35 countries. We compete
with our current and potential customers' internal storage and information management services capabilities. We can provide
no assurance that these organizations will begin or continue to use an outside company such as Iron Mountain for their future storage and information management services.

We
also compete with numerous storage and information management services providers in every geographic area where we operate. The physical storage and information management services
industry is highly competitive and includes thousands of competitors in North America and around the world. We believe that competition for customers is based on price, reputation for reliability,
quality and security of storage, quality of service and scope and scale of technology and that we generally compete effectively in each of these areas.

Alternative Technologies

We derive most of our revenues from rental fees for the storage of paper documents and records management services. This storage
requires significant physical space. Alternative storage technologies exist, many of which require significantly less space than paper documents. These technologies include computer media, microform,
CD-ROM and optical disk. To date, none of these technologies has replaced paper documents as the primary means for storing information. However, we can provide no assurance that our
customers will continue to store most of their records as paper documents. We continue to provide additional services such as online backup, primarily through partnerships, designed to address our
customers' need for efficient, cost-effective, high quality solutions for electronic records and storage and information management.

Employees

As of December 31, 2012, we employed over 8,500 employees in the U.S. and over 9,000 employees outside of the U.S. At
December 31, 2012, an aggregate of 445 employees were represented by unions in California, Georgia and three provinces in Canada.

All
non-union employees are generally eligible to participate in our benefit programs, which include medical, dental, life, short and long-term disability,
retirement/401(k) and accidental death and dismemberment plans. Unionized employees receive these types of benefits through their unions. In addition to base compensation and other usual benefits, all
full-time employees participate in some form of incentive-based compensation program that provides payments based on revenues, profits, collections or attainment of specified objectives
for the unit in which they work. Management believes









that
we have good relationships with our employees and unions. All union employees are currently under renewed labor agreements or operating under an extension agreement.

Insurance

For strategic risk transfer purposes, we maintain a comprehensive insurance program with insurers that we believe to be reputable and
that have adequate capitalization in amounts that we believe to be appropriate. Property insurance is purchased on a comprehensive basis, including flood and earthquake (including excess coverage),
subject to certain policy conditions, sublimits and deductibles. Property is insured based upon the replacement cost of real and personal property, including leasehold improvements, business income
loss and extra expense. Other types of insurance that we carry, which are also subject to certain policy conditions, sublimits and deductibles, include: medical, workers' compensation, general
liability, umbrella, automobile, professional, warehouse legal liability and directors' and officers' liability policies.

Our
customer contracts usually contain provisions limiting our liability with respect to loss or destruction of, or damage to, records or information stored with us. Our liability under
physical storage contracts is often limited to a nominal fixed amount per item or unit of storage, such as per cubic foot. Our liability under our DMS services and other service contracts is often
limited to a percentage of annual revenue under the contract. We cannot provide assurance that where we have limitation of liability provisions that they will be enforceable in all instances or would
otherwise protect us from liability. Also, some of our contracts with large volume accounts and some of the contracts assumed in our acquisitions contain no such limits or contain higher limits. In
addition to provisions limiting our liability, our standard storage rental and service contracts include a schedule setting forth the majority of the customer-specific terms, including storage rental
and service pricing and service delivery terms. Our customers may dispute the interpretation of various provisions in their contracts. While we have had relatively few disputes with our customers with
regard to the terms of their customer contracts, and most disputes to date have not been material, we can give no assurance that we will not have material disputes in the future.

Environmental Matters

Some of our current and formerly owned or leased properties were previously used by entities other than us for industrial or other
purposes that involved the use, storage, generation and/or disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, including petroleum products. In some instances this prior use involved the operation of
underground storage tanks or the presence of asbestos-containing materials. Although we have from time to time conducted limited environmental investigations and remedial activities at some of our
former and current facilities, we have not undertaken an in-depth environmental review of all of our properties. We therefore may be potentially liable for environmental costs and may be
unable to sell, rent, mortgage or use contaminated real estate owned or leased by us. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, we may be liable for environmental compliance and
remediation costs to address contamination, if any, located at owned and leased properties as well as damages arising from such contamination, whether or not we know of, or were responsible for, the
contamination, or the contamination occurred while we owned or leased the property. Environmental conditions for which we might be liable may also exist at properties that we may acquire in the
future. In addition, future regulatory action and environmental laws may impose costs for environmental compliance that do not exist today.

We
transfer a portion of our risk of financial loss due to currently undetected environmental matters by purchasing an environmental impairment liability insurance policy, which covers
all owned and leased locations. Coverage is provided for both liability and remediation costs.









Internet Website

Our Internet address iswww.ironmountain.com. Under the "For Investors" section on our
Internet website, we make available through a hyperlink to a third party website, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") as soon as reasonably practicable after such forms are filed with or furnished to the SEC. We are not including the information contained on or available through our
website as a part of, or incorporating such information by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Copies of our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and the
charters of our audit, compensation, and nominating and governance committees are available on the "For Investors" section of our website,www.ironmountain.com, under the heading "Corporate Governance."

