Item 1. Business.

Business Overview

Now in our 67th year, we have experienced tremendous growth, particularly since successfully completing the initial public offering of our common stock in February 1996, at which time we operated fewer than 85 facilities (6 million square feet) with limited storage and information management service offerings and annual revenues of approximately $104.0 million. We are now a global enterprise providing storage, data center space and a broad range of related records and information management and data center solutions, as well as entertainment, arts and media storage and services, to customers in markets around the world with over 1,400 facilities (87.5 million square feet) and total revenues of more than $3.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2017. We are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") and on the Australian Stock Exchange ("ASX"). We are a constituent of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index and the MSCI REIT index and, as of December 31, 2017, we were number 729 on the Fortune 1000.

We have been organized and have operated as a REIT beginning with our taxable year ended December 31, 2014. Our financial model is based on the recurring nature of our storage rental revenues and resulting storage net operating income. Supported by consistent and predictable storage rental revenues, we generate durable, low-volatility growth.

Recall Acquisition

On May 2, 2016 (Sydney, Australia time), we completed the Recall Transaction. We purchased Recall, a multi-national records and information management company for approximately $2.2 billion, comprising of $331.8 million in cash and approximately 50.2 million shares of our common stock based on the closing price of our common stock as of April 29, 2016 (the last day of trading on the NYSE prior to the closing of the Recall Transaction) of $36.53 per share.

The Durability of Our Business

A significant amount of activity generated in the information management industry is the result of legislative requirements. To varying degrees across the world, organizations are required by law to create certain records and to retain them for a specified period of time. These laws may also impose more stringent requirements on personal information regarded as being sensitive, such as financial and medical information. As a third party provider, we assist customers to improve data security and establish programs to ensure compliance with their regulatory obligations. Storage of information can be performed in-house by businesses or governments (unvended) or it can be outsourced, in whole or in part, to a third party provider (vended). We believe the in-house portion still represents a majority of the total global information management market, offering a substantial unvended opportunity even in developed geographic markets with lower rates of economic growth.









We believe that the creation of document-based information will be sustained, as "paperless" technologies have prompted the creation of hard copies and have also led to increased demand for electronic records storage and services, such as the storage and off-site rotation of computer backup media. In addition, we believe that the proliferation of digital information technologies and distributed data networks has created a growing need for efficient, cost-effective, high quality technology solutions for electronic data protection and the management of electronic documents. We expect that the volume of stored physical and electronic records will continue to increase on a global basis for a number of reasons, including: (1) regulatory requirements; (2) requirements to support current and possible future litigation and the resulting increases in volume and holding periods of records; (3) the continued growth in data as a result of enhanced data processing technologies; (4) inexpensive document producing technologies; (5) the high cost of reviewing records and deciding whether to retain or destroy them; (6) the failure of many entities to adopt or follow policies on records destruction; (7) the need to keep backup copies of certain records in off-site locations for business continuity purposes in the event of disaster; and (8) the opportunity for companies to monetize the value that may reside in stored data and information for new commercial purposes.

Business Strategy

Overview

We have transitioned from a growth strategy driven primarily by organic growth and acquisitions of storage and information management services companies to a strategy that targets multiple sources of revenue growth. Our growth strategy is focused on: (1) increasing revenues in developed markets such as the United States, Canada, Australia and western Europe, primarily through improved sales and marketing efforts and attractive fold-in acquisitions; (2) establishing and enhancing leadership positions in high-growth emerging markets such as central and eastern Europe, Latin America, Africa and Asia, primarily through acquisitions; and (3) continuing to identify, incubate and scale adjacent business opportunities ("ABOs") to support our long-term growth objectives and drive solid returns on invested capital. In our developed markets, we expect continuous improvement initiatives will generate modest profit growth. In our existing emerging markets, we expect profits will grow as the local businesses scale, and we will look to reinvest a portion of that improvement to support the growth of these businesses. We have made significant progress through acquisitions and organic growth in scaling our data center business, which began as an ABO but now has achieved such a size that we no longer consider it an ABO. In addition, we continue to pursue other businesses adjacent to our core such as entertainment, fine art and consumer storage and services.

Storage rental is the key driver of our economics and allows us to expand our relationships with our customers through value-added services that flow from storage rental. Consistent with our overall strategy, we are focused on increasing incoming volumes on a global basis. There are multiple sources of new volumes available to us, and these sources inform our growth investment strategy. Our investments in sales and marketing support sales to new customers that do not currently outsource some or all of their storage and information management needs, as well as increased volumes from existing customers. We also expect to invest in acquisitions of customer relationships and storage and information management services businesses. In our developed markets, we expect that these acquisitions will primarily be fold-in acquisitions designed to optimize the utilization of existing assets, expand our presence and better serve customers. We also expect to use acquisitions to expand our presence in attractive, higher growth emerging markets. Finally, we continue to pursue new rental streams through data centers and ABOs.

We offer our customers an integrated value proposition by providing them with secure storage and comprehensive service offerings, including records and information management services, data management services and archival cloud storage for digital records. We have the expertise and experience to address complex storage and information management challenges, such as rising storage rental costs, increased litigation, regulatory compliance and disaster recovery requirements. Our objective is to continue to capitalize on our brand, our expertise in the storage and information management industry and our global network to enhance our customers' experience, thereby maintaining our strong customer retention rates and attracting new customers. Our overall growth strategy will focus on growing our business organically, making strategic customer acquisitions, pursuing acquisitions of storage and information management businesses, developing adjacent businesses (organically and through acquisitions) and optimizing our real estate portfolio. We continue to expand our portfolio of products and services, based on our customers' evolving requirements. Adding new products and services allows us to strengthen our existing customer relationships and attract new customers in previously untapped markets.









Growth from Existing and New Customers

Our existing customers' storage of physical records contributes to the growth of storage rental and certain records and information management services revenues because, on average, our existing customers generate additional records at a faster rate than old records are destroyed or permanently removed. We seek to maintain high levels of customer retention by providing premium customer service and a variety of services tied to records management and information governance. While the rate of growth of new physical records from existing customers in our more mature markets has been declining, we seek to maintain revenue growth from existing customers through sales of services, further penetration of unvended customers in the mid-market and United States federal government vertical market segments and revenue management programs.

Our sales coverage model is designed to identify and capitalize on incremental revenue opportunities by strategically allocating our sales resources to our customer base and selling additional storage, records and information management services and products in new and existing markets. Our sales force is dedicated to three primary objectives: (1) establishing new customer account relationships; (2) generating additional revenue by expanding existing customer relationships globally; and (3) expanding new and existing customer relationships by effectively selling a wide array of related service and product offerings. In order to accomplish these objectives, our sales forces draw on our United States and international marketing organizations and senior management. We have developed tailored marketing strategies to target customers in the healthcare, financial, insurance, legal, life sciences, energy, business services and United States federal government vertical market segments.

Growth through Acquisitions in our Core Business

The storage and information management services industry is highly fragmented with thousands of competitors in North America and around the world. Between 1995 and 2004 there was significant consolidation in the industry. Acquisitions were a fast and efficient way to achieve scale, expand geographically and broaden service offerings. After 2004, our acquisition activity was reduced as we focused on integrating those transactions and diversifying the business. Beginning again in 2012, we saw opportunities for attractive acquisitions in emerging markets and consolidation opportunities in more developed markets, and resumed acquisition activity. We believe this ongoing acquisition activity is due to opportunities for large providers to achieve economies of scale and meet customer demands for sophisticated, technology-based solutions. Attractive acquisition opportunities, in North America and internationally, continue to exist, and we expect to continue to pursue acquisitions of businesses we believe present good returns and good opportunities to create value for our stockholders. Lastly, we have a successful record of acquiring and integrating these businesses.

We have acquired, and we continue to seek to acquire, storage and information management services businesses in developed markets including the United States, Canada, Australia and western Europe. Given the relatively small size of most attractive acquisition targets in these markets, future acquisitions are expected to be less significant to our overall revenue growth in these markets than in the past.

On May 2, 2016, we completed the acquisition of Recall for approximately $2,166.9 million. In connection with the Recall Transaction, we acquired the entirety of Recall's global operations, including all facilities, vehicles, employees and customer assets (excluding certain operations of Recall that we were required to divest subsequent to the closing of the Recall Transaction in accordance with agreements with regulatory authorities in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom). We believe the acquisition of Recall accelerates our growth strategy. After the Recall Transaction, with our broader footprint, stronger infrastructure, increased exposure to high growth emerging markets and small to mid-size enterprise customers, and increased economies of scale, we believe we are well suited to address unmet document storage and information management needs around the globe.

We expect to continue to make acquisitions and investments in storage and information management services businesses in targeted emerging markets outside the United States, Canada, Australia and western Europe. We have acquired and invested in, and seek to acquire and invest in, storage and information management services companies in certain countries, and, more specifically, certain markets within such countries, where we believe there is potential for significant growth. We expect that future acquisitions and investments in our emerging markets will focus primarily on expanding priority markets in central and eastern Europe, Latin America and Asia.









The experience, depth and strength of local management are particularly important to our emerging markets acquisition strategy. Since beginning our international expansion program in January 1999, we have, directly and through joint ventures, expanded our operations such that, as of December 31, 2017, we operated in 53 countries. These transactions have taken, and may continue to take, the form of acquisitions of an entire business or controlling or minority investments generally with a long-term goal of full ownership. We believe a joint venture strategy, rather than an outright acquisition, may, in certain markets, better position us to expand the existing business. Our local partners benefit from our expertise in the storage and information management services industry, our multinational customer relationships, our access to capital and our technology, while we benefit from our local partners' knowledge of the market, relationships with their local customers and their presence in the community. In addition to the criteria we use to evaluate developed market acquisition candidates, when looking at an emerging market acquisition, we also evaluate risks uniquely associated with an international investment, including those risks described below. Our long-term goal is generally to acquire full ownership of each business in which we make a joint venture investment. We own more than 98% of our international operations, measured as a percentage of consolidated revenues.

Our emerging market investments are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to the indigenous political, social, regulatory, tax and economic structures of other countries, as well as fluctuations in currency valuation, exchange controls, expropriation and governmental policies limiting returns to foreign investors.

Growth of our Data Center Business

With the rapid acceleration of growth in digital data and use of cloud storage, highly regulated companies and public sector organizations are selecting third-party providers such as us to host their data center infrastructure. The primary benefits of outsourcing include the ability to make more efficient use of real estate and the benefits of professional management. In addition, data center outsourcing provides improved connectivity, increased operational efficiency, predictable cost structure, consumption-based pricing, and flexibility with access to seamless expansion.

We have been providing customers, primarily in highly regulated industries, with colocation and wholesale data center space and solutions for more than 15 years. We seek to differentiate ourselves from the competition due to our experience with highly regulated industries, chief compliance officers and customers who are particularly focused on data security and mitigating risk. Our commitment to and reputation for highly secure operations was a major driver behind our agreement announced in October 2017 to acquire two data centers from Credit Suisse in London and Singapore for an aggregate cash purchase price of approximately $100.0 million (see Note 6 to Notes to Financial Consolidated Statements included in this Annual Report). We intend to continue to expand our data center capabilities to service customers in multiple geographies, focused on the top 20 global data center markets based on space absorption. We expect to grow through organic expansion within our existing footprint, greenfield development in the largest United States markets such as our campus in Manassas, Virginia, and targeted acquisitions of properties with customer profiles that closely mirror our own, such as the acquisition of Fortrust, a Denver based data center provider, in September 2017 for a total aggregate purchase price of approximately $137.5 million.

On December 11, 2017, we entered into a purchase agreement to acquire the United States operations of IO Data Centers, LLC (“IODC”), a leading data center colocation space and solutions provider based in Phoenix, Arizona, including the land and buildings associated with four state-of-the-art data centers in Phoenix and Scottsdale, Arizona, Edison, New Jersey, and Columbus, Ohio, for an aggregate cash purchase price of $1,315.0 million (the “Initial IODC Consideration”), plus up to $60.0 million of additional proceeds (including (i) $25.0 million of contingent consideration (the “IODC Contingent Consideration”) and (ii) $35.0 million of contingent payments associated with the execution of future customer contracts), subject to certain adjustments as set forth in the purchase agreement (the “IODC Transaction”).

On January 10, 2018, we completed the IODC Transaction. At the closing of the IODC Transaction, we paid approximately $1,340.0 million of total consideration, consisting of the Initial IODC Consideration and the full amount of the IODC Contingent Consideration. We financed the consideration for the IODC Transaction with the proceeds from the Equity Offering, the Over-Allotment Option and the issuance of the 5¼% Notes (each as defined in Notes 4 and 13 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report). The existing data center space in the four owned facilities totals 728,000 square feet, providing 62 megawatts ("MW") of capacity with expansion potential of an additional 77 MW in Arizona and New Jersey. This acquisition marks a transformative step toward addressing our customers’ data center needs by dramatically expanding our platform and capabilities. It positions us as a leading data center company with an expanded platform and ability to offer colocation space in certain leading markets. With this transaction and following the closing of the aforementioned Credit Suisse acquisition expected in early 2018, our data center portfolio will total more than 90 MW of existing capacity, with an additional 26 MW of capacity currently under construction and planned and future expansion potential of another 135 MW.









Growth through ABOs

ABOs, which currently primarily consist of our entertainment and fine art storage and services businesses, include business lines that we consider investing in to grow and diversify our business. We are seeking businesses with long-term, recurring revenues, preferably with storage rental attributes, which are consistent with, and will enhance, our REIT structure. A dedicated team is focused on identifying and evaluating these opportunities.  If we are able to demonstrate success and meet return thresholds, we may acquire businesses to further accelerate our growth in the relevant ABO. Importantly, the ABO process includes financial hurdles and decision gates to help us evaluate whether we scale or discontinue investments in these opportunities, consistent with our disciplined approach to capital allocation.

We have been in the entertainment storage and services business for a number of years, providing storage and solutions to entertainment and media companies in North America. Entertainment and media companies around the globe require specialized storage facilities and solutions for protecting and preserving their intellectual property ("IP") while maintaining accessibility with changing technology and uses. Essential to those needs are secure, climate-controlled vaults for physical media preservation (art, film and audio/video tape) as well as a digital environment capable of protecting that IP from hackers and data loss. Having a single provider - the physical and digital storage, as well as the capabilities to transform content to new media formats for monetization and longer-term preservation - provides chain-of-custody for these companies. We are well positioned to meet these customer needs.

On December 1, 2015 we completed the acquisition of Crozier Fine Arts ("Crozier"), a storage, logistics and transportation business for high-value paintings, photographs and other types of art belonging to individual collectors, galleries and art museums. Crozier is a leader in art storage and an industry advocate for worldwide standards. This acquisition builds upon our expertise in storing, protecting and managing high-value items and supports our strategy to leverage our real estate network to accelerate growth. In addition, since our acquisition of Crozier, we have expanded our fine arts storage business by acquiring the assets of two art storage and handling companies in the United States: Fairfield Fine Arts in Ridgefield, Connecticut and Cirkers Brooklyn in Brooklyn, New York.

We believe the fine art storage industry is a growing, but fragmented, industry marked by increasing international interest and changes in purchasing habits by collectors and museums. We believe the increase in contemporary art as a focus for collectors has caused a spike in storage needs, while the increase in auction “turnover” - the rate at which catalogs, collections and individual pieces are made available for auction - has heightened the need for transportation, shipping, and related services. Taken together, we believe these factors will result in continued growth of the fine art storage industry.

On September 29, 2017, we completed the acquisition of Bonded Services of America, Inc. and Bonded Services Acquisition, Ltd. (together, "Bonded"), providers of media asset storage and management services for global entertainment and media companies, for approximately 62.0 million British pounds sterling (or approximately $83.0 million, based upon the exchange rate between the British pound sterling and the United States dollar on the closing date of the acquisition of Bonded), subject to customary adjustments.  Bonded provides storage and services for media content preservation, management and distribution, including fine art vaults and shipping; logistics and distribution; supply chain; and related services for high value physical and digital assets, including works of art, film, audio and video. Bonded managed more than 10 million of these assets for its 2,000 clients worldwide, with offices in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands and Hong Kong, capable of providing in-house digital services that help media and entertainment companies extend their content across digital platforms. This acquisition scales our existing entertainment storage and services business and broadens our geographic footprint.









Business Characteristics

We generate our revenues by renting storage space to a large and diverse customer base around the globe and providing an expanding menu of related and ancillary products and services. Providing outsourced storage is the mainstay of our customer relationships and serves as the foundation for the majority of our revenue growth. Services are a complementary part of a comprehensive records management program and consist primarily of the handling and transportation of stored records and information, shredding, the scanning, imaging and document conversion services of active and inactive records ("Information Governance and Digital Solutions"), data restoration projects, the storage, assembly, reporting and delivery of customer marketing literature, or fulfillment services ("Fulfillment Services"), consulting services, product sales (including specially designed storage containers and related supplies), technology escrow services, and recurring project revenues.

Secure Storage

Our storage operations, our largest source of revenue, consist of providing non-dedicated storage rental space to our customers. Non-dedicated space allows our customers to increase or decrease the volume of their physical storage over the life of the contract based on their storage needs, while also reducing their risk of loss in the event of natural disaster. Given this non-dedicated space dynamic, the large portfolio of customer contracts, and the fact that no customer accounted for more than 1% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017, we assess the performance of our storage rental business predominantly by analyzing trends in segment-level storage rental volume and storage rental revenue. Additionally, our storage operations include technology escrow services.

Records storage consists primarily of the archival storage of records for long periods of time according to applicable laws, regulations and industry best practices. The secure off-site storage of data backup media is a key component of a company's disaster recovery and business continuity programs. Storage rental charges are generally billed monthly on a per storage unit basis and include the provision of space, racking systems, computerized inventory and activity tracking, and physical security.

Physical Records Storage

Physical records may be broadly divided into two categories: active and inactive. Active records relate to ongoing and recently completed activities or contain information that is frequently referenced. Active records are usually stored and managed on-site by their owners to ensure ready availability. Inactive physical records are the principal focus of the storage and information management services industry and consist of those records that are not needed for immediate access but which must be retained for legal, regulatory and compliance reasons or for occasional reference in support of ongoing business operations. Inactive physical records are typically stored for long periods of time with limited activity in cartons packed by the customer. For some customers, we store individual files on an open shelf basis as these files are typically more active.

Physical records may also include critical or irreplaceable data such as film, fine art and other highly proprietary information, such as energy data. We continue to identify additional areas of physical storage that fit with our core competencies in security and transportation, seeking to provide enterprise storage to businesses in much the same manner that self-storage companies serve consumers. Physical records may require special facilities, either because of the data they contain or the media on which they are recorded. Accordingly, our charges for providing enhanced security and special climate-controlled environments for these vital records are higher than for typical storage rental.

Electronic Records Storage

Electronic records management focuses on the storage of, and related services for, computer media that is either a backup copy of recently processed data or archival in nature and data backup and storage on our proprietary cloud. Computer tapes, cartridges and disk packs are transported off-site by our courier operations on a scheduled basis to secure, climate-controlled facilities, where they are available to customers 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, to facilitate data recovery in the event of a disaster. Frequently, backup tapes are rotated from our facilities back to our customers' data centers. We also manage tape library relocations and support disaster recovery testing and execution. Electronic storage consists of (i) storage and rotation of backup computer media as part of corporate disaster recovery plans; (ii) server and computer backup services; (iii) digital content repository systems to house, distribute, and archive key media assets; and (iv) storage, safeguarding and electronic or physical delivery of physical media of all types, primarily for entertainment and media industry clients.









In 2017, we launched Iron Mountain Iron Cloud. Iron Cloud is our enterprise-class cloud storage platform and services offering for comprehensive data protection, preservation, restoration and recovery. With Iron Cloud, organizations can deploy a hybrid data management strategy with the benefits of a cloud service, but with predictable cost models and integrated security that scales for enterprises of all sizes, as well as data accessibility through a self-service portal providing transparency and control for efficient storage operations. Iron Cloud provides on demand block and object storage, accessible through secure connectivity from the enterprise to Iron Mountain's network of secure data centers. Iron Cloud addresses the critical stages of enterprise data management with advanced orchestration and automation for managing data sprawl, while securing data in motion and at rest and catering to the unique security and operational needs of medical imaging, surveillance video and other specialty media.

Cloud services are increasingly becoming an integral part of many organizations' IT and data environments. As companies continue to transform their businesses with technology, they are facing data growth and complex challenges of determining what data to retain, where to store it and how to manage data access. Seeking to address these challenges, organizations are systematically replacing the practice of retaining data on premises and opting for hybrid models that require reliable and secure cloud storage. As a cloud storage platform for end-to-end data management, Iron Cloud addresses where to store data and the challenges of protecting, preserving and accessing data to address business requirements. Our approach to data management also enables organizations to manage risk by complying with industry standards and implementing advanced schemes to protect against cyberattacks.

Service Offerings

Complementary to any records management program is the handling and transportation and the eventual destruction of records upon the expiration of retention periods. These activities are accomplished through our complementary service and courier operations. Service charges are generally assessed for each activity on a per unit basis. Courier operations consist primarily of the pickup and delivery of records upon customer request. Charges for courier services are based on urgency of delivery, volume and location and are billed monthly. As of December 31, 2017, our courier fleet consisted of approximately 4,700 owned or leased vehicles. Our other services include information destruction services (primarily secure shredding) ("Destruction"), Information Governance and Digital Solutions, Compliant Records Management and Consulting Services, and other ancillary services.

Information Destruction Services

Our Destruction services consist primarily of (1) secure shredding operations which typically include the scheduled pick-up of loose office records that customers accumulate in specially designed secure containers we provide and (2) secure IT asset destruction. In addition, secure shredding is a natural extension of our hard copy records management services by completing the lifecycle of a record and involves the shredding of sensitive documents for customers that, in many cases, store their records with us. Complementary to our shredding operations is the sale of the resultant waste paper to third-party recyclers. Through a combination of plant-based shredding operations and mobile shredding units consisting of custom built trucks, we are able to offer secure shredding services to our customers throughout the United States, Canada, Australia, and Latin America.









Information Governance and Digital Solutions

The focus of our Information Governance and Digital Solutions business is to develop, implement and support comprehensive storage and information management solutions for the complete lifecycle of our customers' information. We seek to develop solutions that solve our customers' document management challenges by integrating the management of physical records, document conversion and digital storage. Our Information Governance and Digital Solutions offerings complement our service offerings and enhance our existing customer relationships. We differentiate our offerings from our competitors by providing solutions that complement and expand our existing portfolio of products and services. The trend towards increased usage of Electronic Document Management ("EDM") systems represents another opportunity for us to manage active records. Our Information Governance and Digital Solutions offerings provide the bridge between customers' physical documents and their EDM solutions.

Industry Tailored Services

We offer records and information management services that have been tailored for specific industries, such as healthcare, or to address the needs of customers with more specific requirements based on the critical nature of their records. For example, medical records tend to be more active in nature and are typically stored on specialized open shelving systems that provide easier access to individual files. In addition to storing medical records, we provide health care information services, which include the handling, filing, processing and retrieval of medical records used by hospitals, private practitioners and other medical institutions, as well as recurring project work and ancillary services. Our industry tailored services include Health Information Management Solutions, Entertainment Services and Energy Data Services.

Other Ancillary Services

Other services we provide include recurring project work, such as the on-site removal of aged patient files and related computerized file indexing. Ancillary healthcare information services include release of information (medical record copying and delivery), temporary staffing, contract coding, facilities management and imaging. We offer a variety of additional services which customers may request or contract for on an individual basis. These services include conducting records inventories, packing records into cartons or other containers, and creating computerized indices of files and individual documents. We also provide services for the management of active records programs. We can provide these services, which generally include document and file processing and storage, both offsite at our own facilities and by supplying our own personnel to perform management functions on-site at a customer's premises. Other services that we provide include Fulfillment Services and Compliant Records Management and Consulting Services.

Business Segments

Our North American Records and Information Management Business, North American Data Management Business, Western European Business, Other International Business and Global Data Center Business segments offer the storage and information management services discussed above, in their respective geographies. The amount of revenues derived from our North American Records and Information Management Business, North American Data Management Business, Western European Business, Other International Business, Global Data Center Business and Corporate and Other Business segments and other relevant data, including financial information about geographic areas and product and service lines, for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, are set forth in Note 9 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.

North American Records and Information Management Business

Our North American Records and Information Management Business segment provides records and information management services, including the storage of physical records, including media such as microfilm and microfiche, film, X-rays and blueprints, including healthcare information services, vital records services, service and courier operations, and the collection, handling and disposal of sensitive documents for corporate customers (“Records Management”); Destruction; and Information Governance and Digital Solutions throughout the United States and Canada; as well as fulfillment services and technology escrow services in the United States.

North American Data Management Business

Our North American Data Management Business segment provides storage and rotation of backup computer media as part of corporate disaster recovery plans, including service and courier operations (“Data Protection & Recovery”); server and computer backup services; and related services offerings, including our Iron Cloud solutions.









Western European Business

Our Western European Business segment provides records and information management services, including Records Management, Data Protection & Recovery and Information Governance and Digital Solutions throughout Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom (consisting of our operations in England, Northern Ireland and Scotland), as well as Information Governance and Digital Solutions in Sweden (the remainder of our business in Sweden is included in the Other International Business segment described below).



Other International Business

Global Data Center Business

Our Global Data Center segment provides data center facilities to protect mission-critical assets and ensure the continued operation of our customers’ IT infrastructures, with secure and reliable colocation and wholesale options. As of December 31, 2017, we had data center operations in five markets in the United States including: Denver, Colorado; Kansas City, Missouri; Boston, Massachusetts; Boyers, Pennsylvania; and Manassas, Virginia and had binding agreements to acquire data center operations in Arizona, New Jersey and Ohio as well as London and Singapore.

Corporate and Other Business

Our Corporate and Other Business segment primarily consists of the storage, safeguarding and electronic or physical delivery of physical media of all types and digital content repository systems to house, distribute, and archive key media assets, primarily for entertainment and media industry clients (“Entertainment Services”), throughout the United States, Canada, France, Hong Kong, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, as well as our fine art storage businesses and consumer storage businesses in the United States. These businesses represent the primary product offerings of our Adjacent Businesses operating segment. Additionally, our Corporate and Other Business segment includes costs related to executive and staff functions, including finance, human resources and IT, which benefit the enterprise as a whole. These costs are primarily related to the general management of these functions on a corporate level and the design and development of programs, policies and procedures that are then implemented in the individual segments, with each segment bearing its own cost of implementation. Our Corporate and Other Business segment also includes stock-based employee compensation expense associated with all stock options, restricted stock units, performance units and shares of stock issued under our employee stock purchase plan.









Our Business Fundamentals

Our business fundamentals are based on the recurring nature of our various revenue streams. We generate attractive returns from our differentiated storage rental business model because our occupancy costs, whether in a leased or owned building, are incurred per square foot while our storage revenue is generally earned per cubic foot. The historical predictability of our revenues and the resulting profitability allows us to operate with a high degree of financial leverage. Our business fundamentals consist of:

•Recurring Revenues.We derive a majority of our consolidated revenues from fixed periodic, usually monthly, storage rental fees charged to customers based on the volume of their records stored. Once a customer places physical records in storage with us, and until those records are destroyed or permanently removed (for which we typically receive a service fee), we receive recurring payments for storage rental without incurring additional labor or marketing expenses or significant capital costs. Similarly, contracts for the storage of electronic backup media involve primarily fixed monthly rental payments. This storage rental revenue base also provides the foundation for our service revenues and increases in profitability.

A customer is allocated a certain amount of storage space in our storage facilities but is not allocated a dedicated building or space in a particular building. In practice, we can, and sometimes will, for a variety of reasons, move records from one facility and into another facility. In order to track net move-in and move-out activity of customer materials, as well as to assess the optimization of our real estate portfolio, we regularly assess the utilization of our overall real estate portfolio. On a per building basis, we compare the amount of racking that is being used to store customer materials to the capacity of the entire building assuming it was fully racked ("Total Building Utilization"). Additionally, we compare the amount of racking that is being used to store customer materials to the capacity of the racking that has been installed ("Total Racking Utilization").

We occasionally offer inducements to our customers in order to generate new business opportunities. Such inducements most commonly come in the form of providing free intake costs to transport a customer's records to one of our facilities, including labor and transportation costs ("Move Costs"), or payments that are made to a customer's current records management vendor in order to terminate the customer's existing contract with that vendor, or direct payments to a customer ("Permanent Withdrawal Fees"). We capitalize Move Costs and Permanent Withdrawal Fees (collectively, "Customer Inducements") as customer acquisition costs.

•Historically Non-Cyclical Storage Rental Business.Historically, we have not experienced significant reductions in our storage rental business as a result of economic downturns. We believe the durability of our storage rental business is driven by a number of factors, including the trend toward increased records retention, albeit at a lower rate of growth of incoming volume from our existing customers, as well as customer satisfaction with our services and contractual net price increases. On a global basis, the absolute number of new document storage cartons from our existing customers has been consistent in the past five years, and we anticipate this level will be sustained, although the rate of growth is slightly declining, given the continued growth in the total records volume. Total net volume growth, including acquisitions, was approximately 2%, 26% and 2% on a global basis for 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively. The total net volume growth in 2016 was primarily driven by the impact of the Recall Transaction.



•Diversified and Stable Customer Base.As of December 31, 2017, we had more than 225,000 customers in a variety of industries in 53 countries around the world. We currently provide storage and information management services to commercial, legal, financial, healthcare, insurance, life sciences, energy, businesses services, entertainment and government organizations, including approximately 95% of the Fortune 1000. No single customer accounted for more than 1% of our consolidated revenues in any of the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017. For each of the three years 2015 through 2017, the average annual volume reduction due to customers terminating their relationship with us was approximately 2%.









•Capital Allocation.All the characteristics of our business noted above support the durability of our cash flows, which in turn support our dividends and a portion of our investments. Absent a large acquisition or significant investments in real estate, we typically generate cash flows to support our dividends, maintain our operations and infrastructure and invest in core growth opportunities. We plan on funding acquisitions, data center expansion, ABO investments and real estate investments primarily through incremental borrowings, proceeds from real estate sales and/or proceeds from the issuance of debt or equity securities (including our At The Market (ATM) Equity Program (as defined below), dependent on market conditions. We made two changes to our capital expenditure categories in 2017. We now separately identify two additional capital expenditure categories,Innovation and Growth Investment Capital Spend(previously included withinNon-Real Estate Investment) andData Center Capital Spend(previously primarily included inReal Estate InvestmentandNon-Real Estate Investment). We have reclassified the categorization of our prior year capital expenditures to conform with our current presentation. Below are descriptions of the major types of investments and other capital expenditures that we have made in recent years or that we are likely to consider in 2018:

Real Estate:

•Investment:Real estate assets that support core business growthprimarily related to investments in land, buildings, building improvements, leasehold improvements and racking structures that expand our revenue capacity in existing or new geographies, replace a long-term operational obligation or create operational efficiencies, or Real Estate Investment.



•Maintenance:Real estate assets necessary to maintain ongoing business operations primarily related to the repair or replacement of real estate assets such as buildings, building improvements, leasehold improvements and racking structures, or Real Estate Maintenance.

Non-Real Estate:

•Investment:Non-real estate assets that either (i) support the growth of our business, and/or increase our profitability, such as customer-inventory technology systems, and technology service storage and processing capacity, or (ii) are directly related to the development of core products or services in support of our integrated value proposition and enhance our leadership position in the industry, including items such as increased feature functionality, security upgrades or system enhancements, or Non-Real Estate Investment.



•Maintenance:Non-real estate assets necessary to maintain ongoing business operations primarily related to the repair or replacement of customer-facing assets such as containers and shred bins, warehouse equipment, fixtures, computer hardware, or third-party or internally-developed software assets. This category also includes capital to support initiatives such as sales and marketing and IT projects to support infrastructure requirements, or Non-Real Estate Maintenance.

Data Center Investment and Maintenance:

•Defined as capital expenditures that support data center business growth, primarily related to investments in new construction of data center facilities (including the acquisition of land and development of facilities) or capacity expansion in existing buildings, as well as capital expenditures that are expected to support incremental improvements to our data center business, through either increasing revenue, improving operating efficiency, or extending the useful life of our real estate operating assets. This also includes capital expenditures necessary to maintain ongoing business operations primarily related to the repair or maintenance of assets, as well as for the re-configuration of existing assets.

Innovation and Growth Investment:

•Defined as discretionary capital expenditures in significant new products and services in new, existing or adjacent business opportunities.











The following table presents our capital spend for 2015, 2016 and 2017 organized by the type of the spending as described above:

Year Ended December 31,Nature of Capital Spend (in thousands)201520162017Real Estate:Investment$151,695$133,079$139,822Maintenance52,82663,54377,660Total Real Estate Capital Spend204,521196,622217,482Non-Real Estate:Investment46,41140,50956,297Maintenance23,37220,64229,721Total Non-Real Estate Capital Spend69,78361,15186,018Data Center Investment and Maintenance Capital Spend20,62472,72892,597Innovation and Growth Investment Capital Spend—8,57320,583Total Capital Spend (on accrual basis)294,928339,074416,680Net (decrease) increase in prepaid capital expenditures(362)3741,629Net (increase) decrease accrued capital expenditures(1)(4,317)(10,845)(75,178)Total Capital Spend (on cash basis)$290,249$328,603$343,131

_______________________________________________________________________________



(1)The amount at December 31, 2017 includes approximately $66,800 related to a capital lease associated with our data center in Manassas, Virginia.

Competition

We are a global leader in the physical storage and information management services industry with operations in 53 countries as of December 31, 2017. We compete with our current and potential customers' internal storage and information management services capabilities. We compete with numerous storage and information management services providers in every geographic area where we operate. The physical storage and information management services industry is highly competitive and includes thousands of competitors in North America and around the world. We believe that competition for records and information customers is based on price, reputation and reliability, quality and security of storage, quality of service and scope and scale of technology, and we believe we generally compete effectively in these areas.

We also compete with numerous data center developers, owners and operators, many of whom own properties similar to ours in some of the same metropolitan areas where our facilities are located.  We believe that competition for data center customers is based on available power, security considerations, location, connectivity and rental rates, and we believe we generally compete effectively in each of these areas.

Alternative Technologies

We derive most of our revenues from rental fees for the storage of physical records and computer backup tapes and from storage related services. Alternative storage technologies exist, many of which require significantly less space than physical documents and tapes, and as alternative technologies are adopted, storage related services may decline as the physical records or tapes we store become less active and more archived. While storage of physical documents continues to grow, we continue to provide, primarily through partnerships, additional services such as online backup, designed to address our customers' need for efficient, cost-effective, high-quality solutions for electronic records and storage and information management.

Employees

As of December 31, 2017, we employed more than 8,400 employees in the United States and more than 15,600 employees outside of the United States. At December 31, 2017, approximately 700 employees were represented by unions in North America (in California, Illinois, Georgia, New Jersey and Pennsylvania and three provinces in Canada) and approximately 3,600 employees were represented by unions in Latin America (in Argentina, Brazil and Chile).









All union and non-union employees are generally eligible to participate in our benefit programs, which include medical, dental, life, short and long-term disability, retirement/401(k) and accidental death and dismemberment plans. Certain unionized employees in California receive these types of benefits through their unions and are not eligible to participate in our benefit programs. In addition to base compensation and other usual benefits, a significant portion of full-time employees participate in some form of incentive-based compensation program that provides payments based on revenues, profits or attainment of specified objectives for the unit in which they work. All union employees are currently under renewed labor agreements or operating under an extension agreement.

Insurance and Contractual Limitations on Liability

For strategic risk transfer purposes, we maintain a comprehensive insurance program with insurers that we believe to be reputable and that have adequate capitalization in amounts that we believe to be appropriate. Property insurance is purchased on a comprehensive basis, including flood and earthquake (including excess coverage), subject to certain policy conditions, sublimits and deductibles. Property is insured based upon the replacement cost of real and personal property, including leasehold improvements, business income loss and extra expense. Other types of insurance that we carry, which are also subject to certain policy conditions, sublimits and deductibles, include medical, workers' compensation, general liability, umbrella, automobile, professional, warehouse legal liability and directors' and officers' liability policies.

Environmental Matters

We transfer a portion of our risk of financial loss due to currently undetected environmental matters by purchasing an environmental impairment liability insurance policy, which covers all owned and leased locations. Coverage is provided for both liability and remediation costs.









Corporate Responsibility

We are committed to transparent reporting on sustainability and corporate responsibility efforts in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. Our corporate responsibility report highlights our progress against key measures of success for our efforts in the community, our environment, and for our people. We are a trusted partner to approximately 95% of the Fortune 1000. We are a member of the FTSE4 Good Index, Dow Jones Sustainability Index, MSCI World ESG Index, MSCI ACWI ESG Index and MSCI USA IMI ESG Index, each of which include companies that meet globally recognized corporate responsibility standards. A copy of our corporate responsibility report is available on the "About Us" section of our website,www.ironmountain.com, under the heading "Corporate Social Responsibility."

Internet Website

Our Internet address iswww.ironmountain.com. Under the "Investors" section on our website, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") as soon as reasonably practicable after such forms are filed with or furnished to the SEC. We are not including the information contained on or available through our website as a part of, or incorporating such information by reference into, this Annual Report. Copies of our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and the charters of our audit, compensation, finance, nominating and governance, and risk and safety committees are available on the "Investors" section of our website,www.ironmountain.com, under the heading "Corporate Governance."













