Item 1. Business.

A.    Development of Business.

We store records, primarily paper documents and data backup media, and provide information management services that help organizations around the world protect
their information, lower storage rental costs, comply with regulations, enable corporate disaster recovery, and better use their information for business advantages, regardless of its format, location
or lifecycle stage. We offer comprehensive records and information management services and data management services, along with the expertise and experience to address complex storage and information
management challenges such as rising storage rental costs, and increased litigation, regulatory compliance and disaster recovery requirements. Founded in an underground facility near Hudson, New York
in 1951, Iron Mountain Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, is a trusted partner to more than 155,000 clients throughout North America, Europe, Latin America and the Asia Pacific region. We have a
diversified customer base consisting of commercial, legal, banking, healthcare, accounting, insurance, entertainment and government organizations, including more than 95% of the Fortune 1000. As of
December 31, 2013, we operated in 36 countries on five continents and employed over 19,500 people.

Now
in our 63rd year, we have experienced tremendous growth, particularly since successfully completing the initial public offering of our common stock in February 1996. We have
grown from a U.S. business operating fewer than 85 facilities (6 million square feet) with limited storage and information management service offerings and annual revenues of
$104.0 million in 1995 into a global enterprise providing storage and a broad range of related records and information management services to customers in markets around the world with over
1,000 facilities (66.9 million square feet) and total revenues of more than $3.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2013. On January 5, 2009, we were added to the
S&P 500 Index, and as of December 31, 2013 we were number 644 on the Fortune 1000.

We
have transitioned from a growth strategy driven primarily by acquisitions of storage and information management services companies to a strategy that targets multiple sources of
revenue growth. Our current strategy is focused on: (i) increasing revenues in developed markets such as the United States, Canada, Australia and western Europe through improved sales and
marketing efforts and attractive fold-in acquisitions; (ii) establishing and enhancing leadership positions in high-growth emerging markets such as central and eastern Europe, Latin America and
the Asia Pacific region (excluding Australia), primarily through acquisitions; and (iii) continuing to identify, incubate and scale emerging business opportunities to support our long-term
growth objectives and drive solid returns on invested capital.

Storage
rental is the key driver of our economics and allows us to expand our relationships with our customers through value-added services that flow from storage rental. Consistent with
our overall strategy, we are focused on increasing incoming volumes on a global basis. There are multiple sources of new volumes available to us, and these sources inform our growth investment
strategy. Our investments in sales and marketing support sales to new customers that do not currently outsource some or all of their storage and information management needs, as well as increased
volumes from existing customers. We also expect to invest in the acquisitions of customer relationships and acquisitions of storage and information management services businesses. In our developed
markets, we expect that these acquisitions will primarily be fold-in acquisitions designed to optimize the utilization of existing assets, expand our presence and better serve customers. We also
expect to use acquisitions to expand our presence in attractive, higher growth emerging markets. Finally, we continue to pursue new rental streams through emerging business opportunities.

At
this stage in our evolution we have completed the initial optimization of our existing business operations. Consisting of productivity initiatives, pricing program improvements and
cost controls, our









optimization
strategy has produced significant and visible results. First, between 2006 and 2010, we focused on the North American Business segment, our largest business, and drove nearly 800 basis
points of improvement in that segment's Adjusted OIBDA margin (as defined below). Since 2010, our objective has been to sustain this segment's high margins while investing to support the revenue
growth. Following the optimization of our North American Business segment, and using many of the same initiatives and techniques, we achieved 700 basis points of improvement in the Adjusted OIBDA
margins of our International Business segment between 2010 and 2013. Beyond 2013, we expect to grow our consolidated Adjusted OIBDA margins at a much slower rate. In our developed markets, continuous
improvement initiatives will generate modest margin improvement, a portion of which we expect to reinvest in our business. In our existing emerging markets, margins should expand as the local
businesses scale, and we will look to reinvest a portion of that improvement to support the growth of these businesses. Further growth in our international margins will likely be limited as we seek to
add new emerging markets to the portfolio. Additionally, since 2006, we improved capital efficiency and reduced our capital expenditures (excluding real estate and REIT Costs, as defined below) as a
percent of revenues from 13.4% in 2006 to 7.4% in 2013.

Adjusted
OIBDA is defined as operating income before (1) depreciation and amortization, (2) intangible impairments, (3) (gain) loss on disposal/write-down of
property, plant and equipment, net and (4) costs associated with our 2011 proxy contest, the work of the former Strategic Review Special Committee of our board of directors (the "Special
Committee") and the proposed REIT conversion, discussed below (collectively "REIT Costs"). Adjusted OIBDA margin is defined as Adjusted OIBDA as a percent of revenues. For more detailed definitions
and reconciliations of Adjusted OIBDA and a discussion of why we believe this measure provides relevant and useful information to our current and potential investors, see "Item 7. Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Measures" of this Annual Report.

We
are committed to delivering stockholder value. To that end, and supported by our increased profitability and strong cash flows, we initiated a stockholder payout program in February
2010 and a dividend policy under which we have paid, and in the future intend to pay, cash dividends on our common stock. Our first ever quarterly cash dividend, declared in March 2010, was $0.0625
per share. We have since increased our quarterly dividend on three occasions, including most recently in June 2012, when we announced an 8% increase to our regular quarterly dividend payments through
2013. The June 2012 increase to our quarterly dividend, to $0.27 per share, represented a 332% increase over the quarterly dividend amount declared in March 2010.

In
April 2011, we announced a three-year strategic plan to increase stockholder value. A major component of that plan was our commitment to significant stockholder payouts of
$2.2 billion through
2013, with $1.2 billion being paid out by May 2012. We fulfilled the commitment to return $1.2 billion of cash to stockholders by May 2012. The remaining $1.0 billion of the
stockholder payout plan has been replaced by our regular quarterly dividends and the stockholder distributions and expenditures associated with our plan to convert to a REIT (the "Conversion Plan").
Since May 2012 we have returned $1.1 billion of capital to stockholders including $490.5 million in cash and $560.0 million in common stock. As part of this earlier strategic
plan, in June 2011, we completed the sale of our online backup and recovery, digital archiving and eDiscovery solutions businesses (the "Digital Business") for approximately $395.4 million in
cash. Additionally, in connection with our strategic portfolio review of certain international operations, we sold our New Zealand operations in October 2011, and we sold our Italian operations in
April 2012.

Potential REIT Conversion

In June 2012, we announced our intention to pursue conversion to a REIT. The Conversion Plan was unanimously approved by our board of
directors following a thorough analysis and careful consideration of ways to maximize value through alternative financing, capital and tax strategies, and









after
the unanimous approval of the Special Committee. Our Conversion Plan includes submitting PLR requests to the IRS. Our PLR requests have multiple components, and the conversion to a REIT will
require favorable rulings from the IRS on numerous technical tax issues, including the characterization of our racking structure assets as real estate. We submitted our PLR requests to the IRS during
the third quarter of 2012, but the IRS may not provide a favorable response to our PLR requests until sometime in 2014, or at all.

Even
though we have not yet determined if we will be able to convert to a REIT, we began operating our business in a manner consistent with being a REIT effective January 1, 2014
so that we and our stockholders will benefit from our status (our "REIT Status") as a REIT under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") in 2014 if we are ultimately successful
in becoming a REIT for 2014. Any REIT election made by us must be effective as of the beginning of a taxable year; therefore, if, as a calendar year taxpayer, we are unable to convert to a REIT
effective January 1, 2014, the next possible conversion date would be January 1, 2015.

Our
ability to qualify as a REIT will depend upon our continuing compliance following our conversion to a REIT with various requirements, including requirements related to the nature of
our assets, the sources of our income and the distributions to our stockholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will
be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to some federal, state, local and foreign taxes on our income and
property. In particular, while state income tax regimes often parallel the U.S. federal income tax regime for REITs described above, many states do not completely follow U.S. federal rules and some
may not follow them at all. We will continue to make estimated tax payments in compliance with applicable corporate U.S. federal income tax laws and regulations until we are successful in converting
to a REIT.

We
believe that electing REIT Status will maximize our enterprise value as we advance our strategy and provide significant benefits to our stockholders. A key component of our capital
allocation strategy is to return excess cash to our stockholders, and we believe operating as a REIT aligns well with this strategy. In November 2012, we paid a $700.0 million special dividend
(the "Special Dividend") representing the initial distribution to satisfy the requirement that we pay to stockholders our accumulated earnings and profits which is estimated to be approximately
$1.2 billion to $1.7 billion (the "E&P Distribution") in connection with our potential conversion to a REIT. The Special Dividend consisted of $140.0 million paid in cash and
$560.0 million in common stock value. We issued 17.0 million new shares in connection with the Special Dividend. We also believe that through conversion to a REIT we may be able to
expand our shareholder base and lower our cost of financing through increased ownership of currently leased real estate. We expect our long-term capital allocation strategy as a REIT will naturally
shift toward increased use of equity to support lower leverage, though our leverage may increase in the short-term to fund the costs to support the Conversion Plan.

See
Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview" and "—Liquidity and Capital Resources" of this
Annual Report for more information regarding our possible conversion to a REIT, including anticipated costs associated with the Conversion Plan, and Item 1A. "Risk Factors—Risks
Related to the Proposed REIT Conversion" of this Annual Report for a discussion of risks associated with our conversion to a REIT, including impediments to a conversion.

B.    Description of Business.

Overview

We provide cost-effective secure storage for all major media, including paper (which is the primary form of records storage we
provide), as well as secure off-site storage of data backup media. Our related information management services can be broadly divided into two major categories: records and









information
management services and data management services. Media formats can be broadly divided into physical and electronic records. We define physical records to include paper documents, as well
as all other non-electronic media such as microfilm and microfiche, master audio and videotapes, film, X-rays and blueprints. Electronic records include e-mail and various forms of magnetic media such
as computer tapes, hard drives and optical disks.

Our
records and information management services include: flexible retrieval access, retention management, including the destruction of documents stored in our records facilities upon the
expiration of their scheduled retention periods, and records management program development and implementation based on best practices to help customers comply with specific regulatory requirements
and policy-based programs. Also included within records and information management services are our secure shredding services and our scanning, imaging and document conversion services of active and
inactive records, or Document Management Solutions ("DMS"). Shredding services involve the secure shredding of sensitive documents in a way that ensures privacy and a secure chain of custody for the
records. This service typically includes the scheduled pick-up of loose office records, which customers accumulate in specially designed secure containers that we provide, and the on-site destruction
of those records in specially designed vehicles or the off-site destruction at one of our secure shred plants. DMS helps organizations gain better access to, and ultimately control over, their paper
records by digitizing, indexing and hosting them in online archives to provide complete information lifecycle solutions. Within the records management services category, we have developed specialized
services for vital records and regulated industries such as healthcare, energy, government and financial services.

In
addition to our core records and information management services, we provide consulting, facilities management, fulfillment and other outsourcing services relating to storage and
information management.

Our
data management services include the secure handling and transportation of data backup media for fast and efficient data recovery in the event of a disaster, human error or virus as
well as disaster preparedness, planning and support. We also provide secure destruction of media and IT equipment. Our technology-based data management services include online backup and recovery
solutions for desktop and laptop computers and remote servers. Since our sale of the Digital Business, we offer these technology-based services primarily through partnerships. Additionally, we serve
as a trusted, neutral third party and offer technology escrow services to protect and manage source code and other proprietary information.

Physical Records

Physical records may be broadly divided into two categories: active and inactive. Active records relate to ongoing and recently
completed activities or contain information that is frequently referenced. Active records are usually stored and managed on-site by their owners to ensure ready availability. Inactive physical records
are the principal focus of the storage and information management services industry and consist of those records that are not needed for immediate access but which must be retained for legal,
regulatory and compliance reasons or for occasional reference in support of ongoing business operations. A large and growing specialty subset of the physical records market is medical records. These
are active and semi-active records that are often stored off-site with, and serviced by, a storage and information management services vendor. Special regulatory requirements often apply to medical
records.

Electronic Records

Electronic records management focuses on the storage of, and related services for, computer media that is either a backup copy of
recently processed data or archival in nature. We believe the issues encountered by customers trying to manage their electronic records are similar to the ones they









face
in their physical records management programs and consist primarily of: (1) storage capacity and the preservation of data; (2) access to and control over the data in a secure
environment; and (3) the need to retain electronic records due to regulatory requirements or for litigation support. Customer needs for data backup and recovery and archiving are distinctively
different. Backup data exists because of the need of many businesses to be able to recover the data in the event of a system failure, casualty loss or other disaster. It is customary (and a best
practice) for data processing groups to rotate backup tapes to off-site locations on a regular basis and to require multiple copies of such information at multiple sites. In addition to the physical
storage and rotation of backup data that we provide, we offer online backup services through partnerships as an alternative way for businesses to store and access data. Online backup is a Web-based
service that automatically backs up computer data from servers or directly from desktop and laptop computers over the Internet and stores it in secure data centers.

Growth of Market

We believe that the volume of stored physical and electronic records will continue to increase on a global basis for a number of
reasons, including: (1) regulatory requirements; (2) concerns over possible future litigation and the resulting increases in volume and holding periods of records; (3) the
continued proliferation of data processing technologies such as personal computers and networks; (4) inexpensive document producing technologies such as desktop publishing software and desktop
printing; (5) the high cost of reviewing records and deciding whether to retain or destroy them; (6) the failure of many entities to adopt or follow policies on records destruction; and
(7) the need to keep backup copies of certain records in off-site locations for business continuity purposes in the event of disaster.

We
believe that the creation of paper-based information will be sustained, not in spite of, but because of, "paperless" technologies such as e-mail and the Internet. These technologies
have prompted the creation of hard copies of such electronic information and have also led to increased demand for electronic records services, such as the storage and off-site rotation of backup
copies of magnetic media. In addition, we believe that the proliferation of digital information technologies and distributed data networks has created a growing need for efficient, cost-effective,
high quality technology solutions for electronic data protection and the management of electronic documents.

Acquisitions in a Highly Fragmented Industry

The storage and information management services industry has long been and remains a highly fragmented industry with thousands of
competitors in North America and around the world. Between 1995 and 2004 there was significant acquisition activity in the industry. Acquisitions were a fast and efficient way to achieve scale, expand
geographically and broaden service offerings. We believe this acquisition activity, which is ongoing, is due to the opportunities for large providers to achieve economies of scale and meet customer
demands for sophisticated, technology-based solutions. Attractive acquisition opportunities, many of which are small, in North America and internationally continue to exist, and we expect to continue
to pursue acquisition of these businesses where we believe they present a good opportunity to create value for our stockholders.

Characteristics of Our Business

We generate our revenues by renting storage space to a large and diverse customer base in 66.9 million square feet of real
estate around the globe and providing to our
customers an expanding menu of related and ancillary products and services. Providing outsourced storage is the mainstay of our customer relationships and serves as the foundation for all our revenue
growth. Services are a vital part of a comprehensive records management program and consist primarily of the handling and transportation of stored records and information, shredding, DMS, data
restoration projects, fulfillment services, consulting services, technology services, product sales (including specially designed storage containers and related supplies), and recurring project
revenues. Shredding consists primarily of the









scheduled
collection and shredding of records and documents generated by business operations and the sale of recycled paper resulting from shredding services.

In
general, our North American Business and our International Business segments offer storage and the information management services discussed below, in their respective geographies.
The amount of revenues derived from our North American Business and International Business segments and other relevant data, including financial information about geographic areas and product and
service lines, for fiscal years 2011, 2012 and 2013 are set forth in Note 9 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Secure Storage

Renting secure space to customers for the purpose of storing paper records and data backup media is by far our largest source of
revenue. Records storage consists primarily of the archival storage of records for long periods of time according to applicable laws, regulations and industry best practices. The secure off-site
storage of data backup media is a key component of a company's disaster recovery and business continuity programs and storage rental charges are generally billed monthly on a per storage unit basis.

Hard
copy business records are typically stored for long periods of time with limited activity in cartons packed by the customer. For some customers we store individual files on an open
shelf basis, and these files are typically more active. Storage rental charges are generally billed monthly on a per storage unit basis, usually per cubic foot of records, and include the provision of
space, racking systems, computerized inventory and activity tracking, and physical security.

Vital
records contain critical or irreplaceable data such as master audio and video recordings, film and other highly proprietary information, such as energy data. Vital records may
require special facilities,
either because of the data they contain or the media on which they are recorded. Accordingly, our charges for providing enhanced security and special climate-controlled environments for vital records
are higher than for typical storage rental.

Service Offerings

Our services can be broadly divided into two major categories: records and information management services and data management
services. We offer both physical services and technology solutions in the records and information management and data management categories.

Records and Information Management Services

Central to any records management program is the handling and transportation of stored records and the eventual destruction of those
records upon the expiration of their scheduled retention periods. This is accomplished through our extensive service and courier operations. Our other records and information management services
include shredding services, DMS services, Compliant Records Management and Consulting Services, Health Information Storage and Management Solutions, Entertainment Services, Energy Data Services,
Discovery Services and other ancillary services.

Service
and courier operations are an integral part of our comprehensive records management program for all physical media and include adding records to storage, temporarily removing
records from storage, refiling of removed records, permanently withdrawing records from storage and destroying records. Service charges are generally assessed for each activity on a per unit basis.
Courier operations consist primarily of the pick-up and delivery of records upon customer request. Charges for courier services are based on urgency of delivery, volume and location, and are billed
monthly. As of December 31, 2013, our fleet consisted of approximately 3,800 owned or leased vehicles.

Our
information destruction services consist primarily of physical secure shredding operations. Secure shredding is a natural extension of our hard copy records management services,
completing the









lifecycle
of a record, and involves the shredding of sensitive documents for customers that, in many cases, also use our services for management of archival records. These services typically include
the scheduled pick-up of loose office records that customers accumulate in specially designed secure containers we provide. Complementary to our shredding operations is the sale of the resultant waste
paper to third-party recyclers. Through a combination of plant-based shredding operations and mobile shredding units consisting of custom built trucks, we are able to offer secure shredding services
to our customers throughout the U.S., Canada, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia and Latin America.

The
focus of our DMS business is to develop, implement and support comprehensive storage and information management solutions for the complete lifecycle of our customers' information. We
seek to develop solutions that solve our customers' document management challenges by integrating the management of physical records, document conversion and digital storage. Our DMS services
complement our service offerings and enhance our existing customer relationships. We differentiate our offerings from our competitors by providing solutions that integrate and expand our existing
portfolio of products and services. The trend towards increased usage of Electronic Document Management ("EDM") systems represents another opportunity for us to manage active records. Our DMS services
provide the bridge between customers' physical documents and their EDM solutions.

We
offer records and information management services that have been tailored for specific industries, such as health care, or to address the needs of customers with more specific
requirements based on the critical nature of their records. For example, medical records tend to be more active in nature and are typically stored on specialized open shelving systems that provide
easier access to individual files. In addition to storing medical records, we provide health care information services, which include the handling, filing, processing and retrieval of medical records
used by hospitals, private practitioners and other medical institutions, as well as recurring project work and ancillary services. Recurring project work involves the on-site removal of aged patient
files and related computerized file indexing. Ancillary healthcare information services include release of information (medical record copying and delivery), temporary staffing, contract coding,
facilities management and imaging.

We
offer a variety of additional services which customers may request or contract for on an individual basis. These services include conducting records inventories, packing records into
cartons or other containers, and creating computerized indices of files and individual documents. We also provide services for the management of active records programs. We can provide these services,
which generally include document and file processing and storage, both off-site at our own facilities and by supplying our own personnel to perform management functions on-site at the customer's
premises. We also sell a full line of specially designed corrugated cardboard storage cartons.

Other
services that we provide include fulfillment and professional consulting services. Fulfillment services are performed by our wholly owned subsidiary, Iron Mountain Fulfillment
Services, Inc. ("IMFS"). IMFS stores marketing literature and other materials for its customers and delivers this material to sales offices, trade shows and prospective customers' locations
based on current and
prospective customer needs. In addition, IMFS assembles custom marketing packages and orders and manages and provides detailed reporting on customer marketing literature inventories. A growing element
of the content we manage and fulfill is stored digitally and printed on demand by IMFS. Digital print allows marketing materials such as brochures, direct mail, flyers, pamphlets and newsletters to be
personalized to the recipient with variable messages, graphics and content.

We
provide professional consulting services to customers, enabling them to develop and implement comprehensive storage and information management programs. Our consulting business draws
on our experience in storage solutions and information management services to analyze the practices of companies and assist them in creating more effective programs to store records and manage
information. Our consultants work with these customers to develop policies and schedules for document retention and destruction.









The
growth rate of critical digital information is accelerating, driven in part by the use of the Internet as a distribution and transaction medium. The rising cost and increasing
importance of storing and managing digital information, coupled with the increasing availability of telecommunications bandwidth at lower costs, may create meaningful opportunities for us to provide
solutions to our customers with respect to their digital records storage and management challenges. We continue to cultivate marketing and technology partnerships to support this anticipated growth.

We
sold our domain name management product line in 2010 and the Digital Business, including our former wholly owned subsidiaries, Mimosa Systems, Inc. and Stratify, Inc.,
and our New Zealand operations in 2011. Also, we sold our Italian operations in April 2012. Consistent with our treatment of acquisitions, we eliminated all revenues associated with these businesses,
which have all been reflected as discontinued operations for financial reporting purposes, from the calculation of our internal growth rates for 2011, 2012 and 2013.

Data Management Services

Our data management services are designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations and to satisfy industry best practices with
regard to disaster recovery and business continuity purposes. We provide data management services for both physical and electronic records. We also offer technology escrow services in this category.

Physical
data management services consist of the rotation of backup computer media as part of corporate disaster recovery and business continuity plans. Computer tapes, cartridges and
disk packs are transported off-site by our courier operations on a scheduled basis to secure, climate-controlled facilities, where they are available to customers 24 hours a day,
365 days a year, to facilitate data recovery in the event of a disaster. Frequently, backup tapes are rotated from our facilities back to our customers' data centers. We also manage tape
library relocations and support disaster recovery testing and execution.

Online
backup is a Web-based service that automatically backs up computer data from servers or directly from desktop or laptop computers over the Internet and stores it in secure data
centers. After the sale of the Digital Business, we continue to offer this service pursuant to a reseller agreement with Autonomy Corporation plc, a corporation formed under the laws of England
and Wales ("Autonomy").

Through
our technology escrow services business, we act as a trusted, neutral, third party, safeguarding valuable technology assets—such as software source code, object code
and data—in secure, access-protected escrow accounts. Acting in this intermediary role, we help document and maintain intellectual property integrity. The result is increased control and
leverage for all parties, enabling them to protect themselves, while maintaining competitive advantage.

Financial Characteristics of Our Business

Our financial model is based on the recurring nature of our various revenue streams. The historical predictability of our revenues and
the resulting Adjusted OIBDA allow us to operate with a high degree of financial leverage. Our business has the following financial characteristics:

•Recurring Revenues.We derive a majority of our
consolidated revenues from fixed periodic, usually monthly, storage rental fees charged to customers based on the volume of their records stored. Once a customer places physical records in storage
with us, and until those records are destroyed or permanently removed (for which we typically receive a service fee), we receive recurring payments for storage rental without incurring additional
labor or marketing expenses or significant capital costs. Similarly, contracts for the storage of electronic backup media involve primarily fixed monthly rental payments. Our annual revenues from
these fixed periodic storage rental fees have grown for 25 consecutive years. During the three years 2011 through 2013,









storage
rental revenues, which are stable and recurring, have increased from approximately 56% to 59% of our total consolidated revenues. This stable and growing storage rental revenue base also
provides the foundation for increases in service revenues and Adjusted OIBDA.

•

Historically Non-Cyclical Storage Rental
Business.Historically, we have not experienced significant reductions in our storage rental business as a result of economic downturns
although, during recent economic slowdowns, the rate at which some customers added new cartons to their inventory was below historical levels. However, during the most recent economic downturn, which
was more severe and lasted longer than other recent downturns, destruction rates increased as some customers were more willing to incur additional short-term service costs in exchange for lower
storage rental costs in the long-term. In addition, we experienced longer sales cycles and lower incoming volumes from existing customers, due in large part, we believe, to high unemployment rates and
generally lower levels of business activity. Combined, these impacts resulted in lower net volume growth rates. The net effect of these factors has been the continued growth of our storage rental
revenue base, albeit at a lower rate. Total net volume growth, including acquisitions, was approximately 2%, 3% and 6% on a global basis for 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively.

•

Inherent Growth from Existing Physical Records
Customers.Our physical records customers have, on average, sent us additional cartons at a faster rate than stored cartons have been
destroyed or permanently removed. However, during the most recent economic downturn, the combination of lower incoming volumes from existing customers and increased destruction rates, as described
above, resulted in lower consolidated net volume growth in recent quarters, including negative net volume growth from existing customers at times in certain markets. Since reaching unusually high
levels in 2009, our destruction rates have stabilized at rates closer to historical norms. Following improvement in the economy, we expect our growth from existing customers will improve, although we
cannot give any assurance as to how much, if any, improvement we will realize. We believe the continued growth of our physical records storage rental revenues is the result of a number of factors,
including the trend toward increased records retention, albeit at a lower rate of growth, customer satisfaction with our services and contractual net price increases.

•

Diversified and Stable Customer Base.As of
December 31, 2013, we had over 155,000 clients in a variety of industries in 36 countries around the world. We currently provide storage and information management services to commercial,
legal, banking, healthcare, accounting, insurance, entertainment and government organizations, including more than 95% of the Fortune 1000. No single customer accounted for as much as 2% of our
consolidated revenues in any of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013. For each of the three years 2011 through 2013, the average annual volume reduction due to customers terminating
their relationship with us was less than 3%.

•

Capital Expenditures Related Primarily to Business Line Growth and Ongoing
Operations.Our business requires significant capital expenditures to support our expected storage rental revenue and service revenue
growth and ongoing operations, new products and services and increased profitability. As the nature of our business has evolved over time, so has the nature of our capital expenditures. Every year we
expend capital to support a number of different objectives. The majority of our capital goes to support business line growth and our ongoing operations. Additionally, we invest capital to acquire or
construct real estate. We also expend capital to support the development and improvement of products and services and projects designed to increase our profitability. These expenditures are generally
relatively small and discretionary in









nature.
Below are descriptions of the major types of capital expenditures we are likely to make in a given year:

•

Capital to support business line growth—these expenditures are
primarily related to capacity expansion such as investments in new racking structures, carton storage systems, tape storage systems and containers, shredding plants and bins and technology service
storage and processing capacity.

•

Capital to acquire/construct real estate—these expenditures
are directly related to the acquisition of real estate, either through the purchase or construction of a new facility or the buyout of an existing lease.

•

Capital to support ongoing business operations—these
expenditures are primarily related to major repairs and/or the replacement of assets, such as facilities, warehouse equipment and computers. This category also includes operational support initiatives
such as sales and marketing and information technology projects to support infrastructure requirements.

•

Capital for new product development—these expenditures are
directly related to the development of new products or services in support of our integrated value proposition.

•

Capital for product improvement—these expenditures are
primarily related to product and service enhancements that support our leadership position in the industry. Spending in this area includes items such as increased feature functionality, security
upgrades or system enhancements.

•

Capital to support operational efficiencies—these expenditures
are primarily related to driving increased profitability through cost savings and operating efficiencies and include items such as facility consolidations and systems to support operating process
improvements.

Following
is a table presenting our capital expenditures for 2011, 2012 and 2013 organized by the nature of the spending as described above:

Year Ended December 31,Nature of Capital Spend (dollars in millions)2011(1)(2)2012(1)(2)2013(1)(2)Business Line Growth$81$61$73Real Estate205466Business Operations(3)847591Product Development242Product Improvement141213Operational Efficiencies184267​​​​​​​​​​​Total Capital$218$248$312Less: Real Estate and REIT Capital Expenditures(20)(66)(89)​​​​​​​​​​​Total Capital, Net of Real Estate and REIT Capital Expenditures$198$182$223​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

(1)Represents
capital expenditures on an accrual basis and may differ from amounts presented on the cash basis in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.(2)Columns
may not foot due to rounding.(3)Capital
expended in support of ongoing business operations includes amounts previously referred to as maintenance capital expenditures. This category
includes capital expended on operational support initiatives such as sales and marketing and information technology projects to support infrastructure requirements.







We believe that capital expenditures, net of real estate and capital expenditures that are part of our REIT Costs, incurred as a percent of revenues is a
meaningful metric for investors because it indicates the efficiency with which we are investing in the growth and operational efficiency of our business. For the years 2011 through 2013, our total
capital expenditures, net of real estate and capital expenditures that are part of our REIT Costs, incurred as a percent of revenues were approximately 6.6%, 6.1% and 7.4%, respectively. The increase
in 2013 is due primarily to capital expenditures associated with recent acquisitions, the relocation of our Boston headquarters and certain capital projects that were accelerated from 2014 into 2013.

Following
is a table presenting our capital expenditures as a percent of total revenues for 2011, 2012 and 2013 organized by the nature of the spending as described above:

Year Ended December 31,Nature of Capital Spend2011(1)(2)2012(1)(2)2013(1)(2)Business Line Growth2.7%2.0%2.4%Real Estate0.7%1.8%2.2%Business Operations(3)2.8%2.5%3.0%Product Development0.1%0.1%0.1%Product Improvement0.5%0.4%0.4%Operational Efficiencies0.6%1.4%2.2%​​​​​​​​​​​Total Capital7.2%8.3%10.3%Less: Real Estate and REIT Capital Expenditures(0.7)%(2.2)%(2.9)%​​​​​​​​​​​Total Capital, Net of Real Estate and REIT Capital Expenditures6.6%6.1%7.4%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

(1)Represents
capital expenditures on an accrual basis and may differ from amounts presented on the cash basis in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.(2)Columns
may not foot due to rounding.(3)Capital
expended in support of ongoing business operations includes amounts previously referred to as maintenance capital expenditures. This category
includes capital expended on operational support initiatives such as sales and marketing and information technology projects to support infrastructure requirements.

Growth Strategy

We offer our customers an integrated value proposition by providing them with secure storage and comprehensive service offerings,
including records and information management services and data management services. We have the expertise and experience to address complex storage and information management challenges, such as
rising storage rental costs and increased litigation, regulatory compliance and disaster recovery requirements. We expect to maintain a leadership position in the storage and information management
services industry around the world by enabling customers to store, protect and better use their information—regardless of its format, location or lifecycle stage—so they can
optimize their business and ensure proper recovery, compliance and discovery.

Our
objective is to continue to capitalize on our brand, our expertise in the storage and information management industry and our global network to enhance our customers' experience,
thereby increasing our customer retention rates and attracting new customers. Our near-term growth objectives include a set of specific initiatives: (i) increasing revenues in developed markets
such as the United States, Canada, Australia and western Europe through improved sales and marketing efforts and attractive
fold-in acquisitions; (ii) establishing and enhancing leadership positions in high-growth emerging markets such as central and eastern Europe, Latin America and the Asia Pacific region









(excluding
Australia), primarily through acquisitions; and (iii) continuing to identify, incubate and scale emerging business opportunities to support our long-term growth objectives and drive
solid returns on invested capital. Our overall growth strategy will focus on growing our business organically, making strategic customer acquisitions and pursuing acquisitions of storage and
information management businesses and developing ancillary businesses.

Introduction of New Products and Services

We continue to expand our portfolio of products and services. Adding new products and services allows us to strengthen our existing
customer relationships and attract new customers in previously untapped markets.

Growth from Existing Customers

Our existing customers' storage of physical records contributes to the growth of storage rental and certain records and information
management services revenues because, on average, our existing customers generate additional cartons at a faster rate than old cartons are destroyed or permanently removed. However, during the most
recent economic downturn, the combination of lower incoming volumes from existing customers, due in large part, we believe, to high unemployment rates and generally lower business activity, and
increased destruction rates, resulted in lower consolidated net volume growth in recent quarters, including negative net volume growth from existing customers at times in certain markets. Since
reaching unusually high levels in 2009, our destruction rates have stabilized at rates closer to historical norms. Following the improvement in the economy, we expect our growth from existing
customers will improve, although we cannot give any assurance as to how much, if any, improvement we will realize. In order to maximize growth opportunities from existing customers, we seek to
maintain high levels of customer retention by providing premium customer service through our local account management staff.

Our
sales coverage model is designed to identify and capitalize on incremental revenue opportunities by strategically allocating our sales resources to our customer base and selling
additional storage, records and information management services and products in new and existing markets within our existing customer relationships. These services and products include special project
work, data restoration projects, fulfillment services, consulting services, technology services and product sales (including specially designed storage containers and related supplies).

Expanding New and Existing Customer Relationships

Our sales forces are dedicated to three primary objectives: (1) establishing new customer account relationships;
(2) generating additional revenue by expanding existing customer relationships globally; and (3) expanding new and existing customer relationships by effectively selling a wide array of
related services and products. In order to accomplish these objectives, our sales forces draw on our U.S. and international marketing organizations and senior management.

Growth through Acquisitions

The goal of our acquisition program is to supplement internal growth by continuing to expand our presence in targeted emerging markets,
continuing to make fold-in acquisitions in developed markets and expanding our rental streams, new service capabilities and industry-specific services. We have a successful record of acquiring and
integrating storage and information management services companies.

Acquisitions in Developed Markets

We have acquired, and we continue to seek to acquire, storage and information management services businesses in developed markets
including the United States, Canada, Australia and western









Europe.
Given the relatively small size of most acquisition targets in our core physical businesses in these markets, where we believe they present a good opportunity to create value for our
stockholders, future acquisitions are expected to be less significant to our overall revenue growth in these markets than in the past. Occasionally, however, we may be presented with the opportunity
to acquire one of the larger businesses in these markets and will evaluate each opportunity with a focus on return on invested capital and the creation of stockholder value. Such was the case with our
acquisition in October 2013 of Cornerstone Records Management, LLC and its affiliates ("Cornerstone").

Acquisitions in the Emerging Markets

We expect to continue to make acquisitions and investments in storage and information management services businesses in targeted
emerging markets outside the United States, Canada, Australia and western Europe. We have acquired and invested in, and seek to acquire and invest in, storage and information management services
companies in certain countries, and, more specifically, certain markets within such countries, where we believe there is potential for significant growth. Future acquisitions and investments will
focus primarily on expanding priority markets in central and eastern Europe, Latin America and the Asia Pacific region.

Our
international investments are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to the indigenous political, social, regulatory, tax and economic structures of other countries, as well as
fluctuations in currency
valuation, exchange controls, expropriation and governmental policies limiting returns to foreign investors.

The
amount of our revenues derived from international operations and other relevant financial data for fiscal years 2011, 2012 and 2013 are set forth in Note 9 to Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, we derived approximately 34%, 35% and 36%, respectively, of our total revenues from outside of the U.S.
As of December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, we had long-lived assets of approximately 36%, 37% and 36%, respectively, outside of the U.S.

Competition

We are a global leader in the physical storage and information management services industry with operations in 36 countries. We compete
with our current and potential customers' internal storage and information management services capabilities. We can provide no assurance that these organizations will begin or continue to use an
outside company such as Iron Mountain for their future storage and information management services.









We also compete with numerous storage and information management services providers in every geographic area where we operate. The physical storage and
information management services industry is highly competitive and includes thousands of competitors in North America and around the world. We believe that competition for customers is based on price,
reputation for reliability, quality and security of storage, quality of service and scope and scale of technology and that we generally compete effectively in each of these areas.

Alternative Technologies

We derive most of our revenues from rental fees for the storage of paper documents and computer backup tapes and from storage related
services. This storage requires significant physical space, which we provide through our owned and leased facilities. Alternative storage technologies exist, many of which require significantly less
space than paper documents and tapes. These technologies include computer media, microform, CD-ROM and optical disk and use of the cloud for electronic data. To date, none of these technologies has
replaced paper documents as the primary means for storing information. However, we can provide no assurance that our customers will continue to store most of their records as paper documents. We
continue to provide additional services
such as online backup, primarily through partnerships, designed to address our customers' need for efficient, cost-effective, high quality solutions for electronic records and storage and information
management.

Employees

As of December 31, 2013, we employed over 8,500 employees in the U.S. and over 11,000 employees outside of the U.S. At
December 31, 2013, an aggregate of 529 employees were represented by unions in California, Georgia and three provinces in Canada.

All
union and non-union employees are generally eligible to participate in our benefit programs, which include medical, dental, life, short and long-term disability, retirement/401(k)
and accidental death and dismemberment plans, except for certain unionized employees in California, who receive these types of benefits through the unions. In addition to base compensation and other
usual benefits, all full-time employees participate in some form of incentive-based compensation program that provides payments based on revenues, profits, collections or attainment of specified
objectives for the unit in which they work. Management believes that we have good relationships with our employees and unions. All union employees are currently under renewed labor agreements or
operating under an extension agreement.

Insurance

For strategic risk transfer purposes, we maintain a comprehensive insurance program with insurers that we believe to be reputable and
that have adequate capitalization in amounts that we believe to be appropriate. Property insurance is purchased on a comprehensive basis, including flood and earthquake (including excess coverage),
subject to certain policy conditions, sublimits and deductibles. Property is insured based upon the replacement cost of real and personal property, including leasehold improvements, business income
loss and extra expense. Other types of insurance that we carry, which are also subject to certain policy conditions, sublimits and deductibles, include: medical, workers' compensation, general
liability, umbrella, automobile, professional, warehouse legal liability and directors' and officers' liability policies.

Our
customer contracts usually contain provisions limiting our liability with respect to loss or destruction of, or damage to, records or information stored with us. Our liability under
physical storage contracts is often limited to a nominal fixed amount per item or unit of storage, such as per cubic foot. Our liability under our DMS services and other service contracts is often
limited to a percentage of annual revenue under the contract. We cannot provide assurance that where we have limitation of liability provisions that they will be enforceable in all instances or would
otherwise protect us from









liability.
Also, some of our contracts with large volume accounts and some of the contracts assumed in our acquisitions contain no such limits or contain higher limits. In addition to provisions
limiting our liability, our standard storage rental and service contracts include a schedule setting forth the majority of the customer-specific terms, including storage rental and service pricing and
service delivery terms. Our customers may dispute the interpretation of various provisions in their contracts. While we have had relatively few disputes with our customers with regard to the terms of
their customer contracts, and most disputes to date have not been material, we can give no assurance that we will not have material disputes in the future.

Environmental Matters

Some of our current and formerly owned or leased properties were previously used by entities other than us for industrial or other
purposes that involved the use, storage, generation and/or disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, including petroleum products. In some instances this prior use involved the operation of
underground storage tanks or the presence of asbestos-containing materials. Although we have from time to time conducted limited environmental investigations and remedial activities at some of our
former and current facilities, we have not undertaken an in-depth environmental review of all of our properties. We therefore may be potentially liable for environmental costs and may be unable to
sell, rent, mortgage or use contaminated real estate owned or leased by us. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, we may be liable for environmental compliance and remediation
costs to address contamination, if any, located at owned and leased properties as well as damages arising from such contamination, whether or not we know of, or were responsible for, the
contamination, or the contamination occurred while we owned or leased the property. Environmental conditions for which we might be liable may also exist at properties that we may acquire in the
future. In addition, future regulatory action and environmental laws may impose costs for environmental compliance that do not exist today.

We
transfer a portion of our risk of financial loss due to currently undetected environmental matters by purchasing an environmental impairment liability insurance policy, which covers
all owned and leased locations. Coverage is provided for both liability and remediation costs.

Internet Website

Our Internet address iswww.ironmountain.com. Under the "For Investors" section on our
Internet website, we make available free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") as soon as reasonably practicable after such forms are filed with or
furnished to the SEC. We are not including the information contained on or available through our website as a part of, or incorporating such information by reference into, this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. Copies of our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and the charters of our audit, compensation, and nominating and governance committees are available on the "For
Investors" section of our website,www.ironmountain.com, under the heading "Corporate Governance."

