Item 1. Business.

A.    Development of Business.

We are a leading information management services company. We help organizations around the world reduce the risks, costs and inefficiencies associated with
storing and using their physical and digital
data. We offer comprehensive records management services, data protection & recovery services and information destruction services, along with the expertise and experience to address complex
information management challenges such as rising storage costs, litigation, regulatory compliance and disaster recovery. Founded in an underground facility near Hudson, New York in 1951, Iron Mountain
is a trusted partner to more than 140,000 corporate clients throughout North America, Europe, Latin America and Asia Pacific. We have a diversified customer base comprised of commercial, legal,
banking, healthcare, accounting, insurance, entertainment and government organizations, including more than 97% of the Fortune 1000 and more than 93% of the FTSE 100. As of December 31,
2009, we provided services in 38 countries on five continents, employed over 20,000 people and operated more than 1,000 facilities.

Now
in our 59th year, we have experienced tremendous growth, particularly since successfully completing the initial public offering of our common stock in February 1996. We have
grown from a business with limited product offerings and annual revenues of $104 million in 1995 into a global enterprise providing a broad range of information management services to customers
in markets around the world with total revenues of $3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. On January 5, 2009, we were added to the S&P 500 Index and we are
currently number 681 on the Fortune 1000.

Our
success since becoming a public company in 1996 has been driven in large part by our execution of a consistent long-term growth plan to build market leadership by
extending our strategic position through service line and global expansion. This growth plan has been sequenced into three phases. The first phase involved establishing leadership and broad market
access in our core businesses: records management and data protection & recovery, primarily through acquisitions. In the second phase we invested in building a successful selling organization
to access new customers, converting previously unvended demand. While different parts of our business are in different stages of evolution along our three-phase strategy, as an enterprise, we have
transitioned to the third phase of our growth plan, which we call the capitalization phase. In this phase, which we expect will run for a long time to come, we seek to expand our relationships with
our customers to continue solving their increasingly complex information management problems. Doing this well means expanding our service offerings on a global basis while maximizing our solid core
businesses. In doing this, we continue to build what we believe to be a very durable business through disciplined execution.

Consistent
with this strategy, we have transitioned from a growth strategy driven primarily by acquisitions of information management services companies to expansion driven primarily by
internal growth. In 2001, internal revenue growth exceeded growth through acquisitions for the first time since we began our acquisition program in 1996. This has continued to be the case in each year
since 2001 with the exception of 2004. In the absence of unusual acquisition activity, we expect to achieve more of our revenue growth internally in 2010 and beyond.

In
February, 2010, we acquired Mimosa Systems, Inc. ("Mimosa"), a leader in enterprise-class digital content archiving solutions, for approximately $112 million in cash.
Mimosa, based in Santa Clara, California, provides an on-premises integrated archive for email, SharePoint data and files, and complements our existing enterprise-class, cloud-based
digital archive services. NearPoint®, Mimosa's enterprise archiving platform, has applications for retention and disposition, electronic discovery ("eDiscovery"), compliance supervision,
classification, recovery, and
end-user search, enabling customers to reduce risk, and lower their eDiscovery and storage costs.









We
expect to achieve our internal revenue growth objectives primarily through a sophisticated sales and account management coverage model. This model is designed to drive incremental
revenues by acquiring new customer relationships and increasing business with new and existing customers by selling them our products and services in new geographies and selling additional products
and services such as information destruction, digital data protection, document management services and eDiscovery services. We intend our selling efforts to be augmented and supported by expanded
marketing programs, which include product management as a core discipline. We also plan to continue developing an extensive worldwide network of channel partners through which we are selling a wide
array of technology solutions. Our sales and account coverage model and our go-to-market strategy will continue to evolve to meet the needs of our customers.

B.    Description of Business.

Overview

Our information management services can be broadly divided into three major service categories: records management services, data
protection & recovery services, and information destruction services. We offer both physical services and technology solutions in each of these categories. Media formats can be broadly divided
into physical and electronic records. We define physical records to include paper documents, as well as all other non-electronic media such as microfilm and microfiche, master audio and
videotapes, film, X-rays and blueprints. Electronic records include email and various forms of magnetic media such as computer tapes and hard drives and optical disks.

Our
physical records management services include: records management program development and implementation based on best-practices to help customers comply with specific
regulatory requirements, implementation of policy-based programs that feature secure,
cost-effective storage for all major media, including paper (which is the dominant form of records storage), flexible retrieval access and retention management. Included within physical
records management services is Document Management Solutions ("DMS"). This suite of services helps organizations to gain better access to and, ultimately, control over their paper records by
digitizing, indexing and hosting them in online archives to provide complete information life-cycle solutions. Our technology-based records management services are comprised primarily of
digital archiving and related services for secure, legally compliant and cost-effective long-term archiving of electronic records and eDiscovery services. Within the records
management services category, we have developed specialized services for vital records and regulated industries such as healthcare, energy, government and financial services.

Our
physical data protection & recovery services include disaster preparedness, planning, support and secure, off-site vaulting of data backup media for fast and
efficient data recovery in the event of a disaster, human error or virus. Our technology-based data protection & recovery services include online backup and recovery solutions for desktop and
laptop computers and remote servers. Additionally, we serve as a trusted, neutral third party and offer intellectual property escrow services to protect and manage source code and other proprietary
information.

Our
information destruction services are comprised almost exclusively of secure shredding services. Secure shredding services complete the life cycle of a record and involve the
shredding of sensitive documents in a way that ensures privacy and a secure chain of custody for the records. These services typically include either the scheduled pick-up of loose office
records which customers accumulate in specially designed secure containers we provide or the shredding of documents stored in records facilities upon the expiration of their scheduled retention
periods.

Physical Records

Physical records may be broadly divided into two categories: active and inactive. Active records relate to ongoing and recently
completed activities or contain information that is frequently referenced. Active records are usually stored and managed on-site by the organization that originated them to











ensure
ready availability. Inactive physical records are the principal focus of the information management services industry. Inactive records consist of those records that are not needed for
immediate access but which must be retained for legal, regulatory and compliance reasons or for occasional reference in support of ongoing business operations. A large and growing specialty subset of
the physical records market is medical records. These are active and semi-active records that are often stored off-site with and serviced by an information management services
vendor. Special regulatory requirements often apply to medical records. In addition to our core records
management services, we provide consulting, facilities management, fulfillment and other outsourcing services.

Electronic Records

Electronic records management focuses on the storage of, and related services for, computer media that is either a backup copy of
recently processed data or archival in nature. Customer needs for data backup and recovery and archiving are distinctively different. Backup data exists because of the need of many businesses to
maintain backup copies of their data in order to be able to recover the data in the event of a system failure, casualty loss or other disaster. It is customary (and a best practice) for data
processing groups to rotate backup tapes to off-site locations on a regular basis and to require multiple copies of such information at multiple sites.

In
addition to the physical rotation and storage of backup data that our physical business segments provide, our Worldwide Digital Business segment offers online backup services as an
alternative way for businesses to transfer data to us, and to access the data they have stored with us. Online backup is a Web-based service that automatically backs up computer data from
servers or directly from desktop and laptop computers over the Internet and stores it in one of our secure data centers. In early 2003, we announced an expansion of the online backup service to
include backup and recovery for personal computer data, answering customers' needs to protect critical business data, which is often unprotected on employee laptop and desktop personal computers. In
November 2004, we acquired Connected Corporation ("Connected"), a market leader in the backup and recovery of this distributed data, and in December 2005, we acquired LiveVault Corporation
("LiveVault"), a market leader in the backup and recovery of server data.

There
is a growing need for better ways of archiving electronic records for legal, regulatory and compliance reasons and for occasional reference in support of ongoing business
operations. Historically, businesses have relied on backup tapes for storing archived data in electronic format, but this process can be costly and ineffective when attempting to search and retrieve
the data for litigation or other needs. In addition, many industries, such as healthcare and financial services, are facing increased governmental regulation mandating the way in which electronic
records are stored and managed. To help customers meet these growing storage challenges, we introduced digital archiving services in 2003. We have experienced increasing market adoption of these
services, especially for e-mail archiving, which enables businesses to identify and retrieve electronic records quickly and cost-effectively, while maintaining regulatory
compliance.

On
December 1, 2006, changes to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure ("FRCP") were implemented; as a result, electronically stored information was explicitly defined as a separate
class of discoverable information in litigation. There is no longer any ambiguity about whether digital data constitutes a "document" and businesses now have the clear responsibility to produce
electronic records. In
December 2007, we acquired Stratify Inc. ("Stratify"), a leading provider of eDiscovery services to assist customers with managing discovery of electronic records.

We
believe the issues encountered by customers trying to manage their electronic records are similar to the ones they face in their physical records management programs and consist
primarily of: (1) storage capacity and the preservation of data; (2) access to and control over the data in a secure environment; and (3) the need to retain electronic records due
to regulatory requirements or for











litigation
support. Our digital services offerings are representative of our commitment to address evolving records management needs and expand the array of services we offer.

Growth of Market

We believe that the volume of stored physical and electronic records will continue to increase for a number of reasons, including:
(1) regulatory requirements; (2) concerns over possible future litigation and the resulting increases in volume and holding periods of records; (3) the continued proliferation of
data processing technologies such as personal computers and networks; (4) inexpensive document producing technologies such as facsimile, desktop publishing software and desktop printing;
(5) the high cost of reviewing records and deciding whether to retain or destroy them; (6) the failure of many entities to adopt or follow policies on records destruction; and
(7) the need to keep backup copies of certain records in off-site locations for business continuity purposes in the event of disaster.

We
believe that paper-based information will continue to grow, not in spite of, but because of, "paperless" technologies such as e-mail and the Internet. These technologies
have prompted the creation of hard copies of such electronic information and have also led to increased demand for electronic records services, such as the storage and off-site rotation of
backup copies of magnetic media. In addition, we believe that the proliferation of digital information technologies and distributed data networks has created a growing need for efficient,
cost-effective, high quality technology solutions for electronic data protection, digital archiving and the management of electronic documents.

Consolidation of a Highly Fragmented Industry

There was significant consolidation within the highly fragmented physical information management services industry in North America
from 1995 to 2000 and at a slower but continuing pace in recent years. Most physical information management services companies serve a single local market, and are often either owner-operated or
ancillary to another business, such as a moving and storage company. We believe that the consolidation trend in the physical information management industry, both in North America and other
international geographies, will continue because of the industry's capital requirements for growth, opportunities for large information management services providers to achieve economies of scale and
customer demands for more sophisticated technology-based solutions.

We
believe that the consolidation trend in this industry is also due to, and will continue as a result of, the preference of certain large organizations to contract with one vendor in
multiple cities and countries for multiple services. In particular, larger customers increasingly demand a single, sophisticated company to handle all of their important physical records needs. Large
national and multinational companies are better able to satisfy these demands than smaller competitors. We have made, and may continue to make from time to time, acquisitions of our competitors, many
of whom are small, single-city operators.

Description of Our Business

We generate our revenues by providing storage (both physical and electronic records in a variety of information media formats), core
records management, data protection & recovery, information destruction services and an expanding menu of complementary products and services to a large and diverse customer base. Providing
outsourced information management services is the mainstay of our customer relationships and provides the foundation for our revenue growth. Core services, which are a vital part of a comprehensive
records management program, consist primarily of the handling and transportation of stored records and information. In our secure shredding operations, core services consist primarily of the scheduled
collection and shredding of records and documents generated by business operations. As is the case with storage revenues, core service revenues are highly recurring in nature. In 2009, our storage and
core service revenues represented approximately 88% of our total consolidated revenues. In addition to our core services, we offer a wide array of complementary











products
and services, including special project work, data restoration projects, fulfillment services, consulting services and product sales (including software licenses, specially designed storage
containers and related supplies). In addition, included in complementary services revenue is recycled paper
revenues. These services address more specific needs and are designed to enhance our customers' overall records management programs. These services complement our core services; however, they are more
episodic and discretionary in nature. Revenue generated by all of our operating segments includes both core and complementary components.

Our
various operating segments offer the products and services discussed below. In general, our North American Physical Business and our International Physical Business segments offer
physical records management services, data protection & recovery services and information destruction services, in their respective geographies. Our Worldwide Digital Business segment includes
our online backup and recovery solutions for server data and personal computers, digital archiving services, eDiscovery services and intellectual property management services and is not limited to any
particular geography. Some of our complementary services and products are offered within all of our segments. The amount of revenues derived from our North American Physical Business, International
Physical Business and Worldwide Digital Business operating segments and other relevant data, including financial information about geographic areas and product and service lines, for fiscal years
2007, 2008 and 2009 are set forth in Note 9 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Service Offerings

Our information management services can be broadly divided into three major categories: records management services, data
protection & recovery services and information destruction services. We offer both physical services and technology solutions in the records management and data protection & recovery
categories. Currently, we only offer physical services in the information destruction services category.

Records Management Services

By far our largest category of services, records management services are comprised primarily of the archival storage of records, both
physical and digital, for long periods of time according to applicable laws, regulations and industry best practice. Core to any records management program is the handling and transportation of those
records being stored and the destruction of documents stored in records facilities upon the expiration of their scheduled retention periods. For physical records, this is accomplished through our
extensive service and courier operations. Other records management services include: Compliant Records Management and Consulting Services, DMS, Health Information Management Solutions, Film &
Sound Archives, Energy Data Services, Discovery Services and other ancillary services.

Hard
copy business records are typically stored for long periods of time in cartons packed by the customer with limited activity. For some customers we store individual files on an open
shelf basis and these files are typically more active. Storage charges are generally billed monthly on a per storage unit basis, usually either per carton or per cubic foot of records, and include the
provision of space, racking, computerized inventory and activity tracking and physical security.

Service
and courier operations are an integral part of our comprehensive records management program for all physical media. They include adding records to storage, temporary removal of
records from storage, refiling of removed records, permanent withdrawals from storage and the destruction of records. Service charges are generally assessed for each procedure on a per unit basis.
Courier operations consist primarily of the pick-up and delivery of records upon customer request. Charges for courier services are based on urgency of delivery, volume and location and
are billed monthly. As of December 31, 2009, we were utilizing a fleet of approximately 3,700 owned or leased vehicles.









Our
digital archiving services focus on archiving digital information with long-term preservation requirements. These services represent the digital analogy to our physical
records management services. Because of increased litigation risks and regulatory mandates, such as the changes to the FRCP that explicitly define electronically stored information as a separate class
of discoverable information, companies are increasingly aware of the need to apply the same records management policies and retention schedules to electronic data as they do physical records. Typical
digital records include e-mail, e-statements, images, electronic documents retained for legal or compliance purposes and other data documenting business transactions.

The
growth rate of mission-critical digital information is accelerating, driven in part by the use of the Internet as a distribution and transaction medium. The rising cost and
increasing importance of digital information management, coupled with the increasing availability of telecommunications bandwidth at lower costs, may create meaningful opportunities for us to provide
solutions to our customers with respect to their digital records management challenges. We continue to cultivate marketing and technology partnerships to support this anticipated growth.

The
focus of our DMS business is to develop, implement and support comprehensive document management solutions for the complete lifecycle of our customers' information. We seek to
develop solutions that solve our customers' document management challenges by integrating the management of physical records, document conversion and digital storage. DMS complements our core physical
and digital service offerings, leveraging our global footprint and our existing customer relationships. We differentiate our offerings by providing solutions that integrate and extend our existing
portfolio of products and services.

The
trend towards increased usage of Electronic Document Management ("EDM") systems represents another opportunity for us. In addition to our existing archival storage services, there is
increased opportunity to manage active records. Our DMS services provide the bridge between customers' physical documents and their new EDM solutions.

We
offer records management services that have been tailored for specific industries such as health care, or to address the needs of customers with more specific needs based on the
critical nature of their records. Healthcare information services principally include the handling, storage, filing, processing and retrieval of medical records used by hospitals, private
practitioners and other medical institutions. Medical records tend to be more active in nature and are typically stored on specialized open shelving systems that provide easier access to individual
files. Healthcare information services also include recurring project work and ancillary services. Recurring project work involves the on-site removal of aged patient files and related
computerized file indexing. Ancillary healthcare information services include release of information (medical record copying and delivery), temporary staffing, contract coding, facilities management
and imaging.

Vital
records contain critical or irreplaceable data such as master audio and video recordings, film and other highly proprietary information, such as energy data. Vital records may
require special facilities or services, either because of the data they contain or the media on which they are recorded. Our charges for providing enhanced security and special climate-controlled
environments for vital records are higher than for typical storage services. We provide the same ancillary services for vital records as we provide for our other storage operations.

Our
Discovery Services comprise solutions designed to address the legal discovery and corporate governance needs of our customers. Those services and solutions allow our customers to
collect, prepare, process, review, and produce data that may exist in either paper or digital form in response to internal investigations, litigation or regulatory requests.

Electronic
discovery is the component of legal discovery involving information that is converted into digital data or collected and processed in that form. Our eDiscovery services,
principally embodied by the Stratify® Legal Discovery application, help our customers identify, organize, analyze, and review











particularly
relevant or responsive information from within the universe of electronic data generated during the normal course of their business. The ability of current content management technologies
to capture and maintain several copies of documents—including different versions of working drafts—underscores the challenges companies face in managing information for
eDiscovery.

Our
consolidated suite of physical and digital discovery services has been designed to deliver a secure, end-to-end chain-of-custody,
while also reducing both risks and costs for our customers.

We
offer a variety of additional services which customers may request or contract for on an individual basis. These services include conducting records inventories, packing records into
cartons or other containers, and creating computerized indices of files and individual documents. We also provide services for the management of active records programs. We can provide these services,
which generally include document and file processing and storage, both off-site at our own facilities and by supplying our own personnel to perform management functions on-site
at the customer's premises.

Other
complementary lines of business that we operate include fulfillment services and professional consulting services. Fulfillment services are performed by our wholly-owned
subsidiary, Iron Mountain Fulfillment Services, Inc. ("IMFS"). IMFS stores customer marketing literature and delivers this material to sales offices, trade shows and prospective customers'
locations based on current and prospective customer orders. In addition, IMFS assembles custom marketing packages and orders, and manages and provides detailed reporting on customer marketing
literature inventories. A growing element of the content we manage and fulfill is stored digitally and printed on demand by IMFS. Digital print allows marketing materials such as brochures, direct
mail, flyers, pamphlets and newsletters to be personalized to the recipient with the variable messages, graphics and content.

We
provide professional consulting services to customers, enabling them to develop and implement comprehensive records and information management programs. Our consulting business draws
on our experience in information management services to analyze the practices of companies and assist them in creating more effective programs of records and information management. Our consultants
work with these customers to develop policies and schedules for document retention and destruction.

We
also sell a full line of specially designed corrugated cardboard storage cartons. In 2008 we divested ourselves of our commodity data products sales business. Consistent with our
treatment of acquisitions, we eliminated all revenues associated with our data products business from the calculation of our internal growth in 2008 and 2009.

Data Protection & Recovery Services

Our data protection & recovery services are designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations and to satisfy industry best
practices with regard to the off-site vaulting of data for disaster recovery and business continuity purposes. As is the case with our records management services, we provide data
protection & recovery services for both
physical and electronic records. We also offer intellectual property management services in this category.

Physical
data protection & recovery services consist of the storage and rotation of backup computer media as part of corporate disaster recovery and business continuity plans.
Computer tapes, cartridges and disk packs are transported off-site by our courier operations on a scheduled basis to secure, climate-controlled facilities, where they are available to
customers 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, to facilitate data recovery in the event of a disaster. Frequently, back-up tapes are then rotated from our facilities back to our
customers' data centers. We also manage tape library relocations and support disaster recovery testing and execution.

Online
backup is our Web-based service that automatically backs up computer data from servers or directly from desktop or laptop computers over the Internet and stores it in
one of our secure data centers. Customers use our Connected® backup for PC software product for online backup of desktop or laptop computer data and our LiveVault® server data
backup and recovery product for online











backup
of server data. Customers can choose our off-site hosted Software as a Service solution or they can license the software from us as part of a customer on-site solution.

Through
our intellectual property management services, we act as a trusted, neutral, third party, safeguarding valuable technology assets—such as software source code, object
code and data—in secure, access-protected escrow accounts. Acting in this intermediary role, we help document and maintain intellectual property integrity. The result is increased control
and leverage for all parties, enabling them to protect themselves, while maintaining competitive advantage.

Information Destruction Services

Our information destruction services consist primarily of our physical secure shredding operations. Secure shredding is a natural
extension of our hardcopy records management services, completing the life cycle of a record, and involves the shredding of sensitive documents for corporate customers that, in many cases, also use
our services for management of less sensitive archival records. These services typically include the scheduled pick-up of loose office records which customers accumulate in specially
designed secure containers we provide. Complementary to our shredding operations is the sale of the resultant waste paper to third-party recyclers. Through a combination of plant-based shredding
operations and mobile shredding units comprised of custom built trucks, we are able to offer secure shredding services to our customers throughout the U.S., Canada, the U.K. and Australia/New Zealand.

Financial Characteristics of Our Business

Our financial model is based on the recurring nature of our various revenue streams. The historical predictability of our revenues and
the resulting adjusted operating income before depreciation and amortization ("Adjusted OIBDA") allow us to operate with a high degree of financial leverage. For a more detailed definition and
reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA and a discussion of why we believe this measure provides relevant and useful information to our current and potential investors, see Item 7. "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Measures." Our business has the following financial
characteristics:

•

Recurring Revenues.We derive a majority of our
consolidated revenues from fixed periodic, usually monthly, fees charged to customers based on the volume of records stored. Once a customer places physical records in storage with us and until those
records are destroyed or permanently removed (for which we typically receive a service fee) we receive recurring payments for storage fees without incurring additional labor or marketing expenses or
significant capital costs. Similarly, contracts for the storage of electronic backup media consist primarily of fixed monthly payments. Our annual revenues from these fixed periodic storage fees have
grown for 21 consecutive years. For each of the five years 2005 through 2009, storage revenues, which are stable and recurring, have accounted for over 54% or more of our total consolidated revenues.
This stable and growing storage revenue base also provides the foundation for increases in service revenues and Adjusted OIBDA.

•

Historically Non-Cyclical Storage
Business.Historically, we have not experienced any significant reductions in our storage business as a result of economic downturns
although, during recent economic slowdowns, the rate at which some customers added new cartons to their inventory was below historical levels. We believe that companies that have outsourced records
management services are less likely during economic downturns to incur the move-out costs and other expenses associated with accelerating destructions of their records, switching vendors
or moving their records management services programs in-house. However, during this current recession, destruction rates have increased as some customers have been more willing to incur
additional short-term service costs in exchange for lower storage costs in the long-term. This phenomenon results in lower net volume growth rates in the
short-term. The net effect of these factors has been the continued growth of our storage revenue base, albeit at a lower rate. For









each
of the five years 2005 through 2009, total net volume growth in North America has ranged between 1% and 8%.

•

Inherent Growth from Existing Physical Records
Customers.Our physical records customers have, on average, generated additional cartons at a faster rate than stored cartons have been
destroyed or permanently removed. We believe the consistent growth of our physical records storage revenues is the result of a number of factors, including: (1) the trend toward increased
records retention; (2) customer satisfaction with our services; (3) the costs and inconvenience of moving storage operations in-house or to another provider of information
management services; and (4) our positive pricing actions.

•

Diversified and Stable Customer Base.As of
December 31, 2009, we had over 140,000 corporate clients in a variety of industries. We currently provide services to commercial, legal, banking, healthcare, accounting, insurance,
entertainment and government organizations, including more than 97% of the Fortune 1000 and 93% of the FTSE 100. No customer accounted for as much as 2% of our consolidated revenues in any of
the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009. For each of the three years 2007 through 2009, the average volume reduction due to customers terminating their relationship with us was less
than 2%.

•

Capital Expenditures Related Primarily to Growth.

Growth Strategy

Our objective is to maintain a leadership position in the information management services industry around the world, protecting and
storing our customers' information and enabling them to better use it without regard to media format or geographic location. In the U.S. and Canada, we seek to be one of the largest information
management services providers in each of our markets. Internationally, our objectives are to continue to capitalize on our expertise in the information management services industry and to make
additional acquisitions and investments in selected international markets. We intend that our primary avenues of growth will continue to be: (1) the introduction of new products and services
such as secure shredding, online backup, eDiscovery and DMS; (2) increased business with existing customers; (3) the addition of new customers; and (4) selective acquisitions in
new and existing markets.









Introduction of New Products and Services

We continue to expand our portfolio of products and services. Adding new products and services allows us to further penetrate our
existing customer accounts and attract new customers in previously untapped markets.

In
2009, we introduced two new technology solutions: Virtual File Store™ ("VFS"), an enterprise-class, cloud-based digital storage archiving service and
eVantage™, an on-premises eDiscovery early case assessment solution. VFS is an on-demand, long-term storage service that reduces total cost of ownership
for storing and managing static data files. As companies search for cost-effective solutions to manage large amounts of digital information, our VFS solution offers secure,
long-term storage of inactive data at off-site data centers, greatly reducing the investment in an expensive on-site storage infrastructure and supporting
regulatory and compliance initiatives. Stratify's eVantage solution safeguards corporate proprietary information and allows general counsel to reduce the cost and risk of eDiscovery by going beyond
statistical data culling with advanced technologies that drive more intelligent qualitative analysis on all matters and internal investigations in their eDiscovery portfolio.

Growth from Existing Customers

Our existing customers storing physical records contribute to storage and storage-related service revenues growth because, on average,
they generate additional cartons at a faster rate than old cartons are destroyed or permanently removed. In order to maximize growth opportunities from existing customers, we seek to maintain high
levels of customer retention by providing premium customer service through our local account management staff.

Our
sales coverage model is designed to identify and capitalize on incremental revenue opportunities by allocating our sales resources based on a sophisticated segmentation of our
customer base and selling additional records management, data protection & recovery and information destruction services, in new and existing markets, within our existing customer
relationships. We also seek to leverage existing business relationships with our customers by selling complementary services and products. Services include special project work, data restoration
projects, fulfillment services, consulting services and product sales (including software licenses, specially designed storage containers and related supplies). In addition, included in complementary
services revenue is recycled paper revenues.

Addition of New Customers

Our sales forces are dedicated to three primary objectives: (1) establishing new customer account relationships;
(2) generating additional revenue from existing customers in new and existing markets; and (3) expanding new and existing customer relationships by effectively selling a wide array of
complementary services and products. In order to accomplish these objectives, our sales forces draw on our U.S. and international marketing organizations and senior management.

Growth through Acquisitions

The goals of our current acquisition program are (1) to supplement internal growth in our physical businesses by expanding our
new service capabilities and industry-specific services and continuing to expand our presence in targeted international markets; and (2) to accelerate our leadership and time to market in our
digital businesses. We have a successful record of acquiring and integrating information management services companies. We substantially completed our geographic expansion in North America, Europe and
Latin America by 2003 and began our expansion into Asia Pacific in 2005.









Acquisitions in the North American Physical Segment

Given the small number of attractive acquisition targets in our core physical businesses in North America and our increased revenue
base, future acquisitions are expected to be less significant to our overall North American revenue growth than in the past. Acquisitions in the North American Physical segment will likely focus
primarily on expanding our DMS capabilities and enhancing industry-specific services such as health information management solutions.

Acquisitions in the International Physical Segment

We expect to continue to make acquisitions and investments in information management services businesses outside North America. We have
acquired and invested in, and seek to acquire and invest in, information management services companies in countries, and, more specifically, markets within such countries, where we believe there is
potential for significant growth. Future acquisitions and investments will focus primarily on developing priority expansion markets in Continental Europe and Asia, with continued leverage of our
successful joint venture model. Similar to our strategy in North America, we will also explore international acquisitions that strengthen our capabilities in areas such as DMS and industry-specific
services.

The
experience, depth and strength of local management are particularly important in our international expansion and acquisition strategy. Since beginning our international expansion
program in January 1999, we have, directly and through joint ventures, expanded our operations into 36 countries in Europe, Latin America and Asia Pacific. These transactions have taken, and may
continue to take, the form of acquisitions of an entire business or controlling or minority investments, with a long-term goal of full ownership. We believe our joint venture strategy,
rather than an outright acquisition, may, in certain markets, better position us to expand the existing business. The local partner benefits from our expertise in the information management services
industry, our multinational customer relationships, our access to capital and our technology, and we benefit from our local partners' knowledge of the market, relationships with local customers and
their presence in the community. In addition to the criteria we use to evaluate North American acquisition candidates, when looking at an international investment or acquisition, we also evaluate the
presence in the potential market of our existing customers as well as the risks uniquely associated with an international investment, including those risks described below.

Our
long-term goal is to acquire full ownership of each business in which we made a joint venture investment. In 2008, we acquired the remaining minority equity ownership in
our Brazilian operations and we now own more than 98% of our international operations, measured as a percentage of consolidated revenues.

Our
international investments are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to the indigenous political, social, regulatory, tax and economic structures of other countries, as well as
fluctuations in currency valuation, exchange controls, expropriation and governmental policies limiting returns to foreign investors.

The
amount of our revenues derived from international operations and other relevant financial data for fiscal years 2007, 2008 and 2009 are set forth in Note 9 to Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, we derived approximately 32%, 32% and 30%, respectively, of our total revenues from outside of the U.S.
As of December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, we have long-lived assets of approximately 34%, 31% and 34%, respectively, outside of the U.S.

Acquisitions in the Worldwide Digital Segment

Our focus on technology innovation allows us to bring leading products and services to market designed to solve customer problems in
the areas of data protection, archiving and discovery. Our











approach
to innovation includes our internal development efforts, partnering with other technology companies and acquisition of new and existing technologies. We intend to build or develop our own
technology in areas core to our strategy in order to protect and extend our position in the market. Examples include, back up and archiving Software as a Service and data reduction technologies. We
are developing global technology partnerships that complement our product and service offerings, allow us to offer a complete solution to the marketplace and keep us in contact with emerging
technology companies. Our technology acquisition strategy is designed to accelerate our product strategy, leadership and time to market and past examples include the Connected (2004), LiveVault
(2005), Stratify (2007) and Mimosa (2010) acquisitions. We expect our future technology acquisitions will be of two primary types, those that bring us new or improved technologies to enhance our
existing technology portfolio and those that increase our market position through technology and established revenue streams.

Competition

We compete with our current and potential customers' internal information management services capabilities. We can provide no assurance
that these organizations will begin or continue to use an outside company such as Iron Mountain for their future information management services.

We
also compete with multiple information management service providers in all geographic areas where we operate. We believe that competition for customers is based on price, reputation
for reliability, quality of service and scope and scale of technology and that we generally compete effectively in each of these areas.

Alternative Technologies

We derive most of our revenues from the storage of paper documents and storage-related services. This storage requires significant
physical space. Alternative storage technologies exist, many of which require significantly less space than paper documents. These technologies include computer media, microform, CD-ROM
and optical disk. To date, none of these technologies has replaced paper documents as the principal means for storing information. However, we can provide no assurance that our customers will continue
to store most of their records in paper documents format. We continue to invest in additional services such as online backup and digital records management, designed to address our customers' need for
efficient, cost-effective, high quality solutions for electronic records and information management.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, we employed over 10,500 employees in the U.S. and over 9,600 employees outside of the U.S. At
December 31, 2009, an aggregate of 518 employees were represented by unions in California, Georgia and five cities in Canada.

All
non-union employees are generally eligible to participate in our benefit programs, which include medical, dental, life, short and long-term disability,
retirement/401(k) and accidental death and dismemberment plans. Unionized employees receive these types of benefits through their unions. In addition to base compensation and other usual benefits, all
full-time employees participate in some form of incentive-based compensation program that provides payments based on revenues, profits, collections or attainment of specified objectives
for the unit in which they work. Management believes that we have good relationships with our employees and unions. All union employees are currently under renewed labor agreements or operating under
an extension agreement.









Insurance

For strategic risk transfer purposes, we maintain a comprehensive insurance program with insurers that we believe to be reputable and
that have adequate capitalization in amounts that we believe to be appropriate. Property insurance is purchased on a comprehensive basis, including flood and earthquake (including excess coverage),
subject to certain policy conditions, sublimits and deductibles. Property is insured based upon the replacement cost of real and personal property, including leasehold improvements, business income
loss and extra expense. Among other types of insurance that we carry, subject to certain policy conditions, sublimits and deductibles are: medical, workers compensation, general liability, umbrella,
automobile, professional, warehouse, legal and directors and officers liability policies. In 2002, we established a wholly-owned Vermont domiciled captive insurance company as a subsidiary through
which we retain and reinsure a portion of our property loss exposure.

Our
customer contracts usually contain provisions limiting our liability with respect to loss or destruction of, or damage to, records stored with us. Our liability under these contracts
is often limited to a nominal fixed amount per item or unit of storage, such as per cubic foot. We cannot assure you that where we have limitation of liability provisions that they will be enforceable
in all instances or would otherwise protect us from liability. Also, some of our contracts with large volume accounts and some of the contracts assumed in our acquisitions contain no such limits or
contain higher limits. In
addition to provisions limiting our liability, our standard storage and service contracts include a schedule setting forth the majority of the customer-specific terms, including storage and service
pricing and service delivery terms. Our customers may dispute the interpretation of various provisions in their contracts. While we have had relatively few disputes with our customers with regard to
the terms of their customer contracts, and any disputes to date have not been material, we can give you no assurance that we will not have material disputes in the future.

Environmental Matters

Some of our current and formerly owned or leased properties were previously used by entities other than us for industrial or other
purposes that involved the use, storage, generation and/or disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, including petroleum products. In some instances these properties included the operation of
underground storage tanks or the presence of asbestos-containing materials. Although we have from time to time conducted limited environmental investigations and remedial activities at some of our
former and current facilities, we have not undertaken an in-depth environmental review of all of our properties. We therefore may be potentially liable for environmental costs and may be
unable to sell, rent, mortgage or use contaminated real estate owned or leased by us. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, we may be potentially liable for environmental
compliance and remediation costs to address contamination, if any, located at owned and leased properties as well as damages arising from such contamination, whether or not we know of, or were
responsible for, the contamination, or the contamination occurred while we owned or leased the property. Environmental conditions for which we might be liable may also exist at properties that we may
acquire in the future. In addition, future regulatory action and environmental laws may impose costs for environmental compliance that do not exist today.

We
transfer a portion of our risk of financial loss due to currently undetected environmental matters by purchasing an environmental impairment liability insurance policy, which covers
all owned and leased locations. Coverage is provided for both liability and remediation costs.

Reincorporation

On May 27, 2005, Iron Mountain Incorporated, a Pennsylvania corporation ("Iron Mountain PA"), reincorporated as a Delaware
corporation. The reincorporation was effected by means of a statutory merger (the "Merger") of Iron Mountain PA with and into Iron Mountain Incorporated, a Delaware











corporation
("Iron Mountain DE"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Iron Mountain PA. In connection with the Merger, Iron Mountain DE succeeded to and assumed all of the assets and liabilities of Iron
Mountain PA. Apart from the change in its state of incorporation, the Merger had no effect on Iron Mountain PA's business, board composition, management, employees, fiscal year, assets or liabilities,
or location of its facilities, and did not result in any relocation of management or other employees. The Merger was approved at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 26, 2005. Upon
consummation of the Merger, Iron Mountain DE succeeded to Iron Mountain PA's reporting obligations and continued to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "IRM."

Internet Website

Our Internet address iswww.ironmountain.com. Under the "Investors" section on our
Internet website, we make available through a hyperlink to a third party website, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") as soon as reasonably practicable after such forms are filed with or furnished to the SEC. We are not including the information contained on or available through our
website as a part of, or incorporating such information by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Copies of our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and the
charters of our audit, compensation, and nominating and governance committees are available on the Investors section of our website,www.ironmountain.com,under the heading "Corporate Governance."

