Item 1.    Business

We are a leading designer and manufacturer of a wide range of standby generators for the residential, industrial and commercial
markets. As the only significant market participant focused exclusively on these products, we have one of the leading market positions in the standby generator market in the United States and Canada.
We design, engineer and manufacture generators with an output of between 800W and 9mW of power. We design, manufacture, source and modify engines, alternators, automatic transfer switches and other
components necessary for our products. Our generators are fueled by natural gas, liquid propane, gasoline, diesel and Bi-Fuel™.

We
have what we believe is an industry leading, multi-layered distribution network, and our products are available in thousands of outlets across the United States and Canada. We
distribute our generators through independent residential and industrial dealers, electrical wholesalers, national accounts, private label arrangements, retailers, catalogs and e-commerce
merchants. We currently sell our products primarily in North America. We have a significant market share in the residential and light commercial generator markets, which we believe are currently under
penetrated. We believe that our leading market position is largely attributable to our strategy of providing a broad product line of high-quality, innovative and affordable products
through our extensive and multi-layered distribution network.

We
own and operate three manufacturing plants and one distribution facility in Eagle, Wisconsin, Waukesha, Wisconsin and Whitewater, Wisconsin, totaling approximately 1,000,000 total
square feet. We also maintain inventory warehouses in the United States that accommodate the rapid response requirements of our customers.

History

CCMP transactions

In November 2006, affiliates of CCMP Capital Advisors, LLC, or CCMP, together with affiliates of Unitas Capital Ltd., or
Unitas, and members of our management, purchased an aggregate of $689 million of our equity capital. In addition, on November 10, 2006, Generac Power Systems











borrowed
an aggregate of $1,380 million, consisting of an initial drawdown of $950 million under a $1.1 billion first lien secured credit facility and $430 million under a
$430 million second lien secured credit facility. With the proceeds from these equity and debt financings, together with cash on hand at Generac Power Systems, we (1) acquired all of the
capital stock of Generac Power Systems and repaid certain pre-transaction indebtedness of Generac Power Systems for $2.0 billion, (2) paid $66 million in transaction
costs related to the transaction and (3) retained $3.0 million for general corporate purposes.

We
refer to the foregoing transactions collectively as the "CCMP Transactions."

Initial public offering and corporate reorganization

On February 17, 2010, we completed our initial public offering (IPO) of 18,750,000 shares of our common stock at a price of
$13.00 per share. In addition, on March 18, 2010, the underwriters exercised their option and purchased an additional 1,950,500 shares of our common stock from us. We received approximately
$224.1 million in net proceeds at the initial closing, and approximately $23.8 million in net proceeds from the underwriters' option exercise, after deducting the underwriting discount
and total expenses related to the offering. The proceeds from the initial closing were used entirely to pay down our second lien credit facility in full and to repay a portion of our
first lien credit facility. Proceeds from the option exercise are to be used for general corporate purposes, including debt repayment.

Our
capitalization prior to the IPO consisted of Series A Preferred Stock, Class B Common Stock and Class A Common Stock. In connection with the IPO, we effected a
corporate reorganization in which, after giving effect to a 3.294 for one reverse Class A Common Stock split, our Class B Common Stock and Series A Preferred Stock was converted
into Class A Common Stock and our Class A Common Stock was then reclassified as common stock. Following the IPO, we have only one class of common stock outstanding. We refer to these
transactions, as the "Corporate Reorganization." For more information regarding our Corporate Reorganization, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations—Corporate reorganization."

Our products

We design, engineer and manufacture generators with an output of between 800W and 9mW. In the manufacturing process for our generators,
we design, manufacture, source and modify engines, alternators, transfer switches and other components necessary to production. We classify our products into three classes based on similar range of
power output and similar primary customer usage: residential power products; industrial and commercial power products; and other products. The following summary outlines our portfolio of products,
including their key attributes and customer applications.

Residential power products

Our automatic residential standby generators range in output from 8kW to 60kW, with manufacturer's suggested retail prices, or MSRPs,
from approximately $2,000 to $15,000.
They operate on either natural gas or liquid propane and are permanently installed with an automatic transfer switch, which we also manufacture. Our residential standby generators powered by
air-cooled engines range in outputs from 8kW to 20kW and are available in steel and aluminum enclosures. Our generators powered by liquid-cooled engines range in outputs from 22kW to 60kW,
including the Guardian® Series and the premium Quietsource® Series, with a quiet, low-speed engine and a standard aluminum enclosure.

We
provide portable generators fueled by gasoline that range in size from 800W to 17,500W. Following the expiration of a non-compete agreement in 2007, we expanded our
portable product offering to introduce portable generators below 12,500W. We currently have four portable product lines:











the GP
series, targeted at homeowners, ranging from 1,850W to 17,500W; the XG series, targeted at the premium homeowner markets, ranging from 4,000 to 10,000W; the XP series, targeted at the
professional contractor market, ranging from 4,000 to 8,000W; and the iX series, targeted at the recreational market, ranging from 800W to 2,000W.

Residential
power products comprised 55.2%, 57.9% and 63.0%, respectively, of total net sales in 2007, 2008 and 2009.

Industrial and commercial power products

Our light-commercial standby generators include a full range of affordable generators from 22kW to 150kW and related transfer switches,
providing three-phase power that is sufficient for most small and mid-sized businesses including grocery stores, convenience stores, restaurants, gas stations, pharmacies, retail banks,
small health care facilities. Our light-commercial generators run on natural gas or liquid propane, which avoids the fuel spillages, spoilage, environmental or odor concerns that are common with
traditional diesel units.

We
manufacture a broad line of standard and configured standby generators and related transfer switches for industrial applications. Our single-engine industrial generators range in
output from 10kW to 600kW with our Modular Power System (MPS) technology extending our product range up to 9mW. We offer four fuel options including diesel, natural gas, liquid propane or
Bi-Fuel™. Bi-Fuel™ generators run on both diesel and natural gas to allow our customers the advantage of multiple fuel sources and extended run times.

Our
MPS technology combines the power of several smaller generators to produce the output of a larger generator, providing our customers with redundancy and scalability in a
cost-effective manner. For larger industrial applications, our MPS products offer customers an efficient, affordable way to scale their standby power needs. By offering a series of smaller
Generac generators integrated with Generac's proprietary PowerManager control system, we provide a lower cost alternative to traditional large, single-engine generators. The MPS product line also
offers superior functionality due to the redundancy and scalability of the generator systems.

We
provide the telecommunications market our full range of generator systems, ranging from 20kW air-cooled generators to 3mW MPS.

Industrial
and commercial power products comprised 37.0%, 36.2% and 31.9%, respectively, of total net sales in 2007, 2008 and 2009.

Other power products

Our RV generators range in size from 3.4kW to 8.5kW and are available in gasoline, liquid propane or diesel fuel models. These
generators are sold directly to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, as well as aftermarket dealers. We also sell our proprietary air-cooled engines to third-party equipment
OEMs and sell after-market generator service parts to our dealers.

Other
power products comprise 7.8%, 5.9% and 5.1%, respectively, of total net sales in 2007, 2008 and 2009.

Distribution channels and customers

We distribute our product through several channels to increase awareness of our product categories and the Generac® brand,
and to ensure our products reach a broad customer base. This distribution network includes independent residential and industrial dealers, electrical wholesalers, national accounts, private label
arrangements, retailers, catalogs and e-commerce merchants. We believe our distribution network is a competitive advantage that we have strengthened over the last decade by











expanding
our network from our base of industrial dealers to include other channels of distribution as we have increased our product offerings. Our network is well balanced with no single sales
channel providing more than 24% of our sales and no customer providing more than 8% of our sales in 2009.

Our
dealer network, which is located principally in the United States and Canada, is the industry's largest network of independent generator contractors.

Our
residential dealer network sells, installs and services our residential and commercial products to end users. We have developed a number of proprietary dealer management systems to
evaluate, manage and incentivize our dealers, which we believe has improved the level of customer service provided to end customers. These systems include both technical and sales training programs,
under which we train new and existing dealers about our products, service and installation. We regularly perform market analyses to determine if a given market is either under-served or has poor
independent distributor representation. Within these locations, we selectively add distribution or invest resources in existing dealer support and training to improve dealer performance.

Our
industrial dealer network provides industrial and commercial end-users with on-going, local and nationwide product support. Our sales group works in
conjunction with our industrial dealers to ensure that national accounts receive engineering support, competitive pricing and nationwide service. We promote our industrial generators through the use
of traveling demonstrations, specifying engineer education events, dealer forums and training events. In recent years, we have been particularly focused on expanding our industrial dealer network in
Canada and Latin America in order to expand our international sales opportunities.

Our
electrical wholesaler network consists of selling branches of both national and local distribution houses. Our electrical wholesalers distribute our residential, light-commercial and
industrial generators and are a key introduction to the standby generator category for electrical contractors who may not be Generac dealers.

On
a selective basis, we have established arrangements with private label partners to provide residential, light-commercial and industrial generators. The partners include leading HVAC
equipment, electrical equipment and construction machinery companies, each of which provides access to incremental channels of distribution for our products. We have multi-year contracts
with certain of these partners with terms of between three and four years establishing the terms of these arrangements.

Our
retail distribution network includes thousands of locations, which includes regional and national home improvement chains, retailers, clubs, buying groups and farm supply stores.
This is supplemented with a number of catalogue and e-commerce retailers. This network sells our residential standby, portable and light-commercial generators. In some cases, we have
worked with our retail partners to create installation programs using our dealers to support the sale and installation of standby generator products sold at retail. We also use a combination of
advertising through our partners and other national retail accounts to promote our products within the network.

We
also sell generators and air-cooled engines directly to OEM manufacturers and after-market dealers for use in the RV and lawn and garden industries.

Manufacturing

Our excellence in manufacturing reflects our philosophy of high standards, continuous improvement and commitment to quality. Our
facilities showcase our advanced manufacturing techniques and demonstrate the effectiveness of lean manufacturing.

We
are focused on low-cost production techniques and technology and continually seek to reduce manufacturing costs while improving product quality. We deliver an affordable
product to our customers through our low-cost design philosophy, our foreign sourcing strategy, our scale, and











adherence
to lean manufacturing principles. We believe we have sufficient capacity to achieve our business goals for the foreseeable future without the need for significant expansion.

Our
product quality is essential to maintaining a leading market position. Incoming shipments from our suppliers are tested to ensure engineering specifications are met. Purchased
components are tested for quality at the supplier's factory and before entering production lines and are continuously tested
throughout the manufacturing process. Internal product and production audits are performed to ensure a quality product and process. We test finished products under a variety of simulated conditions at
each of our manufacturing facilities.

Research and development and intellectual property

Our primary focus on generators drives technological innovation, specialized engineering and manufacturing competencies. Research and
development is a core competency and includes a staff of over 100 engineers working on numerous active projects. Our sponsored research and development expense was $9.6 million,
$9.9 million and $10.8 million for the years ended December 2007, 2008 and 2009. Research and development is conducted at each of our manufacturing facilities and additionally at our
technical center in Suzhou, China with dedicated teams for each product line. Research and development is focused on developing new technologies and product enhancements as well as maintaining product
competitiveness by improving manufacturing costs, safety characteristics, reliability and performance while ensuring compliance with governmental standards. We have had over 30 years of
experience using natural gas engines and have developed specific expertise with fuel systems and emissions technology. In the residential market we have developed proprietary engines, cooling
packages, controls and fuel and emissions systems.

We
rely on a combination of patents and trademarks to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our commitment to research and development has resulted in a portfolio of
approximately 50 U.S. and international patents and patent applications. Our patents expire between June 2012 and January 2027 and protect certain features and technologies we have developed
for use in our products including fuel systems, air flow, electronics and controls, noise reduction and air-cooled engines. U.S. trademark registrations generally have a perpetual duration
if they are properly maintained and renewed. New U.S. patents that are issued generally have a life of 20 years from the date the patent application is initially filed. We believe the existence
of these patents and trademarks, along with our ongoing processes to register additional patents and trademarks, protect our intellectual property rights and enhance our competitive position. We also
use proprietary manufacturing processes that require customized equipment.

Suppliers of raw materials

Our primary raw material inputs are steel, copper and aluminum, all of which are purchased from third parties and, in many cases, as
part of machined or manufactured components. We have developed an extensive network of reliable, low-cost suppliers in the United States and abroad. In 2009, we sourced more than half of
our components from outside the United States.

Competition

The market for onsite generators is competitive. We face competition from a variety of large diversified industrial companies as well
as smaller generator manufacturers abroad. However, most of the traditional participants in the standby generator market compete on a more specialized basis, focused on specific applications within
their larger diversified product mix. We are the only significant market participant focused exclusively on standby and portable generators with broad capabilities across the residential, industrial
and light-commercial generator markets. We believe that our engineering











capabilities
and core focus on generators provide us with manufacturing flexibility and enable us to maintain a first-mover advantage over our competition for product innovation.

Our
competitors include Briggs & Stratton, Caterpillar, Cummins, Honda, Kohler, MTU (Katolight division), and Techtronics International (TTI). In the market for standby industrial
and commercial generators, our primary competitors are Caterpillar, Cummins, Kohler and MTU, most of which focus on the market for diesel generators as they are also diesel engine manufacturers. In
the market for residential standby generators, our primary competitors include Briggs & Stratton, Cummins (Onan division) and Kohler, which also have broad operations in other manufacturing
businesses. In the portable generator market, our primary competitors include Briggs & Stratton, Honda and Techtronics International (TTI), along with a number of smaller domestic and foreign
competitors.

There
are a number of other standby generator manufacturers located outside North America, but most supply their products mainly to their respective regional markets. In a continuously
evolving sector, we believe our size and broad capabilities make us well positioned to remain competitive. Furthermore, we view several of these international manufacturers as potential candidates for
future strategic partnerships.

We
compete primarily on the basis of brand reputation, quality, reliability, pricing, innovative features, breadth of product and product availability.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, we had 1,354 employees (1,293 full time and 61 part-time and temporary employees). Of
those, 738 employees were directly involved in manufacturing at our manufacturing facilities.

We
have had an "open shop" bargaining agreement for the past 45 years. Our current agreement is with the Communication Workers of America, Local 5503. The current agreement, which
expires October 14, 2011, covers our Waukesha and Eagle facilities. Currently, 2% of our workforce is a member of a labor union. Our facility in Whitewater, Wisconsin is not unionized.

Regulation, including environmental matters

As a manufacturing company, our operations are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and
safety laws and regulations including those governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to water, noise and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of
waste and other materials. In addition, our products are subject to various laws and regulations relating to, among other things, emissions and fuel requirements, as well as labeling and marketing.

Our
products are regulated by the EPA and CARB. These governing bodies continuously pass regulations that require us to meet more stringent emission standards. With the adoption of a
recent regulation covering stationary propane and natural gas-fueled generators, the EPA now regulates all products we produce for sale in the United States. New regulations could require
us to redesign our products and could affect market growth for our products. For example, the EPA has developed multiple phases of national emission standards for small air-cooled engines.
In 2008, the EPA adopted a proposed Phase III regulation that further reduces permitted exhaust emissions from small engines and also requires the engines and equipment in which engines are
used to meet new evaporative emission standards. The EPA's Phase III program requires the use of evaporative controls that must be phased in starting in 2009 and take full effect in 2011 for
Class II engines (225 cubic center displacement and larger) and 2012 for Class I engines (less than 225 cubic center displacement). The Phase III program's more stringent exhaust
emission requirements also apply starting in 2011 for Class II engines and 2012 for Class I engines. The Phase III standards are similar to the CARB's











Tier 3
emission standards which were fully phased in during fiscal year 2008. CARB's Tier 3 regulation required additional reductions to engine exhaust emissions as well as new controls
on evaporative emissions from small engines.

We
believe that our operations and our products are in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including environmental and workplace safety regulations. We are not
subject to any pending investigations, claims, or proceedings by any foreign, federal, state, or local governmental agency or administration that would materially impact our financial condition or our
results.

Segment information

We refer you to Note 2, "Significant Accounting Policies—Segment Reporting," to our consolidated financial
statements included in Item 8 of this annual report for financial information about our business segment and geographic areas.

Executive officers

The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers:

NameAgePositionAaron Jagdfeld38Chief Executive Officer and DirectorYork A. Ragen38Chief Financial OfficerDawn Tabat57Chief Operating OfficerClement Feng46Senior Vice President, MarketingAllen Gillette53Senior Vice President, EngineeringRoger Schaus, Jr.55Senior Vice President, Service OperationsRoger Pascavis49Senior Vice President, OperationsTerrence J. Dolan*44Senior Vice President, Sales

*Mr. Dolan
commenced work on January 18, 2010.

Aaron Jagdfeldhas served as our Chief Executive Officer since September 30, 2008 and as a director since November 2006. Prior to
becoming Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Jagdfeld worked for Generac for 15 years. He began his career in the finance department in 1994 and became our Chief Financial Officer in 2002. In
2007, he was appointed president and was responsible for sales, marketing, engineering and product development. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Jagdfeld worked in the audit practice of the
Milwaukee, Wisconsin office of Deloitte & Touche LLP. Mr. Jagdfeld holds a Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting from the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater.

York A. Ragenhas served as our Chief Financial Officer since September 30, 2008. Prior to becoming Chief Financial Officer,
Mr. Ragen held Director of Finance and Vice President of Finance positions at Generac. Prior to joining Generac in 2005, Mr. Ragen was Vice President, Corporate Controller at
APW Ltd., a spin-off from Applied Power Inc., now known as Actuant Corporation. Mr. Ragen began his career in the Audit division of Arthur Andersen's Milwaukee office.
Mr. Ragen holds a Bachelor of Business Administration from the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater.

Dawn Tabathas served as our Chief Operating Officer since 2002. Ms. Tabat joined Generac in 1972 and served as Personnel Manager
and Personnel Director before being promoted to Vice President of Human Resources in 1992. During this period, Ms. Tabat was responsible for creating the human resource function within Generac,
including recruiting, compensation, training and workforce relations. In her current position, Ms. Tabat oversees manufacturing, logistics, global supply chain, quality, safety, information
services and human resources.









Clement Fenghas served as our Chief Marketing Officer and Executive Vice President since 2007. Prior to joining
Generac, Mr. Feng was the Vice President of Marketing at Broan-NuTone from 2003 to 2007. From 2000-2003 Mr. Feng was the Vice President of Marketing for Vermont American, a
division of Robert Bosch Tool Corporation. From 1994 to 2000, Mr. Feng was the Director of Marketing at Mast Lock Company. Mr. Feng holds an M.B.A from the University of Chicago School
of Business, a B.S. in Chemical Engineering from Stanford University.

Allen Gilletteis our Senior Vice President of Engineering. Mr. Gillette joined Generac in 1998 and has served as Engineering
Manager, Director of Engineering and Vice President of Engineering. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Gillette was Manager of Engineering at Transamerica Delaval Enterprise Division, Chief
Engineer—High-Speed Engines at Ajax-Superior Division and Manager of Design & Development, Cooper-Bessemer Reciprocating Products Division.
Mr. Gillette holds an M.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Purdue University and a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Gonzaga University.

Roger Schaus, Jr.serves as our Senior Vice President of Service Operations. Mr. Schaus joined Generac in 1988 and has served as
Director of Manufacturing Services, Vice President of Manufacturing Services and Senior Vice President of Operations. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Schaus was a Manufacturing Area Manager for
Harley Davidson Motor Company in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin and a Plant Manager for Custom Products in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin. Mr. Schaus holds a B.S. in Agricultural Economics from the
University of Wisconsin, Madison.

Roger Pascavishas served as our Senior Vice President of Operations since January 2008. Mr. Pascavis joined Generac in 1995 and
has served as Director of Materials and Vice President of Operations. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Pascavis was a Plant Manager for MTI in Waukesha, Wisconsin. Mr. Pascavis holds a B.S.
in Industrial Technology from the University of Wisconsin, Stout and an M.B.A. from Lake Forest Graduate School of Management.

Terrence J. Dolanbegan serving as our Senior Vice President, Sales on January 18, 2010. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Dolan
was Senior Vice President of Business Development and Marketing at Boart Longyear, Vice President of Sales and Marketing at Ingersoll Rand, and Director of Strategic Accounts at Case Corporation.
Mr. Dolan holds a B.A. in Management and Communications from Concordia University.

