Item1.  Business



We are a leading designer and manufacturer of a wide range of power generation equipment and other engine powered products serving the residential, light commercial, industrial and construction markets.  Power generation is our main focus, which differentiates us from our primary competitors that also have broad operations outside of the generator market.  As the only significant market participant focused predominantly on these products, we have one of the leading market positions in the power equipment market in North America and an expanding presence internationally.  We believe we have one of the widest range of products in the marketplace, including residential, commercial and industrial standby generators, as well as portable and mobile generators used in a variety of applications.  Other engine powered products that we design and manufacture include light towers which provide temporary lighting for various end markets and a broad product line of power washers for residential and commercial use.



We design, manufacture, source and modify engines, alternators, transfer switches and other components necessary for our products, which are fueled by natural gas, liquid propane, gasoline, diesel and Bi-Fuel™.  Our products are available primarily across the U.S and Canada, with an expanding presence internationally in the Latin America, Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia/Pacific regions.  Products are sold into these regions through a broad network of independent dealers, retailers, wholesalers and equipment rental companies under the Generac®, Magnum™, Ottomotores and Tower Light brand names.  We also sell direct to certain national and regional account customers that are the end users of our products.



We have a significant market share in the residential and light commercial generator markets, which we believe are currently under penetrated. We believe that our leading market position is largely attributable to our strategy of providing a broad product line of high-quality, innovative and affordable products through our extensive and multi-layered distribution network.  In addition, through recent acquisitions, we are also a leading provider of light towers and mobile generators, as well as a supplier of industrial diesel generators ranging in sizes up to 3,250kW.



History



Generac Holdings Inc. is a Delaware corporation whose principal operating subsidiary is Generac Power Systems, Inc., or Generac Power Systems (collectively Generac).  Generac Power Systems was founded in 1959 to market a line of affordable portable generators that offered superior performance and features.  Through innovation and focus, we have grown to be a leading provider of power generation equipment to the residential, commercial, industrial, and construction markets.



Key events in our history include the following:



-In 1980, we expanded beyond portable generators into the industrial market with the introduction of our first stationary generators that provided up to 200 kW of power output.

-We introduced our first residential standby generator in 1989, and expanded our product development and global distribution system in the 1990s, forming a series of alliances that tripled our higher output generator sales.

-In 1998, we sold our Generac® portable products business (which included portable generator and pressure washer product lines) to a private equity firm who eventually sold this business to another company.

-Our growth accelerated in 2000 as we expanded our residential automatic standby generator product offering, implemented our multi-layered distribution philosophy, and introduced our quiet-running QT Series generators in 2005, accelerating our penetration in the commercial market.

-In 2006, the founder of Generac Power Systems sold the company to affiliates of CCMP Capital Advisors, LLC or CCMP, together with certain other investors and members of our management (CCMP Transaction).

-In 2008, we successfully expanded our position in the portable generator market after the expiration of our non-compete agreement that was entered into when we sold our Generac® portable products business in 1998.

-In February 2010, we completed our initial public offering (IPO) of 20.7 million primary shares of our common stock (including additional share allotment).

-In early 2011, we re-entered the market for gasoline-powered pressure washers (or power washers), which we previously exited in 1998 with the sale of our Generac® portable products business.

-In October 2011, we purchased substantially all the assets of the Magnum Products business (Magnum or Magnum Products) whichis the number one light tower manufacturer in the U.S. and has a growing share of the mobile generator market.

-In December 2012, we purchased all of the equity of Ottomotores UK Limited and its affiliates (Ottomotores) which is one of the largest manufacturers of industrial generators in Mexico.

-In August 2013, we purchased all of the equity of Tower Light Srl and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (Tower Light) which is a leading developer and supplier of mobile light towers throughout Europe, the Middle East and Africa.

-In August 2013, CCMP completed the last of a series of sale transactions that began in November 2012 by which it sold substantially all of the shares of common stock that it owned as of the initial public offering.

-In November 2013, we purchased substantially all the assets of the generator division of Baldor Electric Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ABB Group (Baldor Generators), which offers a complete line of standby and prime rated products ranging from 3kW up to 2,500kW throughout the US. And Canada.



Today, we manufacture a full line of power products for a wide variety of applications and markets.  We have demonstrated a long track record of achieving significant revenue growth through product innovation, expanded distribution and increased awareness of our products.  We have experienced organic revenue growth of nearly 20% during the past 10 years on a compounded annual basis.  Our success is built on engineering expertise, manufacturing & sourcing excellence and our innovative approaches to the market.





Products



We design and manufacture stationary, portable and mobile generators with single-engine outputs ranging between 800W and up to 3,250kW, with the ability to expand the power range for certain stationary generator solutions to much larger multi-megawatt systems through our Modular Power Systems, an integrated paralleling configuration.  Other engine powered products that we design and manufacture include light towers, power washers and pumps. We classify our products into three classes based on similar range of power output geared for varying end customer uses: Residential power products, Commercial & Industrial power products; and Other products. The following summary outlines our portfolio of products, including their key attributes and customer applications.



Residential power products



Our residential automatic standby generators range in output from 6kW to 60kW, with manufacturer's suggested retail prices, or MSRPs, from approximately $1,900 to $16,700.  These products operate on natural gas, liquid propane or diesel and are permanently installed with an automatic transfer switch, which we also manufacture. Air-cooled engine residential standby generators range in outputs from 6kW to 20kW, are available in steel and aluminum enclosures and serve as an emergency backup for small to medium-sized homes. Liquid-cooled engine generators serve as emergency backup for larger homes and small businesses and range in output from 22kW to 60kW. Liquid-cooled brands include the Guardian® Series and the premium Quietsource® Series, which have a quiet, low-speed engine and a standard aluminum enclosure.



In late 2013, we introduced a line of compact diesel generators developed specifically for residential and light-commercial users called Protector® Series, which offers the industry’s smallest and most compact footprint at price points well below those of larger, more traditional diesel generator sets in the marketplace.



Also during 2013, we introduced a new cellular remote monitoring system for home standby generators called MobileLink™, which allows our customers to check the status of their generator conveniently from a desktop PC, tablet computer or mobile phone and also provides the capability to receive maintenance or service alerts.



We provide portable generators that are fueled predominantly by gasoline that range in size from 800W to 17,500W. These products serve as an emergency home backup and are also used for construction and recreational purposes.  We currently have five portable product lines: the GP series, targeted at homeowners, ranging from 1,800W to 17,500W; the LP series, that runs on propane and is also targeted at homeowners, ranging from 3,250W to 5,500W; the XG series, targeted at the premium homeowner markets, ranging from 4,000 to 10,000W; the XP series, targeted at the professional contractor market, ranging from 3,600 to 10,000W; and the iX series, targeted at the recreational market, ranging from 800W to 2,000W.  In addition, we offer manual transfer switches to supplement our portable generator product offering.



We also provide a broad product line of engine driven power washers, which are also fueled by gasoline, that range in PSI from 2,000 to 4,000 that are used for residential and commercial use.



Residential power products comprised 56.8%, 60.0% and 62.0%, respectively, of total net sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011.



Commercial & Industrial power products



We offer a full line of commercial & industrial generators fueled by diesel, natural gas, liquid propane and Bi-Fuel™.  Ranging from 22kW up to 3,250kW, we believe we have one of the broadest product offerings in the industry.



Our light-commercial standby generators include a full range of affordable systems from 22kW to 150kW and related transfer switches, providing three-phase power sufficient for most small and mid-sized businesses including grocery stores, convenience stores, restaurants, gas stations, pharmacies, retail banks and small health care facilities. Our light-commercial generators run on natural gas and liquid propane, and in late 2013 we introduced a product line of compact, diesel-fueled generators called Protector® Series.



We also manufacture a broad line of standard and configured standby generators and related transfer switches for industrial applications. Our single-engine industrial generators range in output from 10kW up to 3,250kW with our Modular Power System (MPS) technology extending our product range up to much larger multi-megawatt systems through an integrated paralleling configuration.  We offer four fuel options for our industrial generators, including diesel, natural gas, liquid propane or Bi-Fuel™.  Bi-Fuel™ generators operate on a combination of both diesel and natural gas to allow our customers the advantage of multiple fuel sources and extended run times. Our industrial generators are primarily used as emergency backup for large healthcare, telecom, datacom, commercial office, municipal and manufacturing customers.



The acquisition of Baldor Generators in November 2013 enables us, for the first time, to offer single-engine industrial generators larger than 600kW within the U.S. and Canada.  The Baldor Generators product offering includes stationary and containerized packages up to 2,500kW that can be used in standby applications and in certain configurations in prime power applications.  The addition of these products significantly expands our industrial product offering and the addressable domestic market that our distribution partners can serve.



Our MPS technology combines the power of several smaller generators to produce the output of a larger generator, providing our customers with redundancy and scalability in a cost-effective manner. For larger industrial applications, our MPS products offer customers an efficient, affordable way to scale their standby power needs. The MPS product line also offers superior reliability given its built-in redundancy which allows individual units to be taken off-line for routine maintenance while retaining coverage for critical circuits.



Our light towers and mobile generators provide temporary lighting and power for various end markets, such as road and commercial construction, energy, mining, military and special events.  We also manufacture mobile pumps which utilize wet and dry-priming pump systems for a wide variety of wastewater applications.  The acquisition of Tower Light in August 2013 provides us an expanded product offering of light towers to support additional geographic markets, allowing us to participate in the growing rental market outside the U.S.



Commercial & Industrial power products comprised 38.4%, 34.9% and 31.6% respectively, of total net sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011.





Other power products



We sell aftermarket service parts to our dealers and proprietary engines to third-party original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs.



Other power products comprised 4.8%, 5.1% and 6.4%, respectively, of total net sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011.



Distribution channels and customers



We distribute our products through several channels to increase awareness of our product categories and the Generac®, Magnum®, OttomotoresTMand Tower LightTMbrands, and to ensure our products reach a broad customer base. This distribution network includes independent residential and industrial dealers, national retailers, e-commerce merchants, electrical wholesalers (including certain private label arrangements), catalogs, equipment rental companies and equipment dealers.  We also sell direct to certain national account customers that are the end users of our products.



We believe our distribution network is a competitive advantage that has strengthened over the last decade as a result of adding and expanding the various distribution channels through which we sell our products. Our network is well balanced with no customer providing more than 6% of our sales in 2013.



Our overall dealer network, which is located principally in the United States, Canada and Latin America, is the industry's largest network of factory direct independent generator contractors.  In addition, the acquisition of Tower Light in August 2013 provides access to numerous independent distributors in over 50 countries.



Our residential/commercial dealer network sells, installs and services our residential and light-commercial products to end users. We have increased our level of investment in recent years by focusing on a variety of initiatives to more effectively market and sell our home standby products and better align our dealer network with Generac.



Our industrial dealer network provides industrial and commercial end users with ongoing sales and product support. Our industrial dealers maintain the local relationships with commercial electrical contractors, specifying engineers and national account regional buying offices.  In recent years, we have been particularly focused on expanding our dealer network in Latin America and other regions of the world in order to expand our international sales opportunities.



Our retail distribution network includes thousands of locations and includes regional and national home improvement chains, retailers, clubs, buying groups and farm supply stores. These physical retail locations are supplemented by a number of catalogue and e-commerce retailers. This network primarily sells our residential standby, portable and light-commercial generators as well as our power washers.



Our wholesaler network distributes our residential and light-commercial generators and consists of selling branches of both national and local distribution houses for electrical and HVAC products.



On a selective basis, we have established private label and licensing arrangements with third party partners to provide residential, light-commercial and industrial generators. These partners include leading home equipment, electrical equipment and construction machinery companies, each of which provides access to incremental channels of distribution for our products.



The distribution for our mobile products includes international, national and regional equipment rental companies, equipment dealers and construction companies, which primarily serve non-residential building construction, road construction and energy markets.



We sell direct to certain national account customers that are the end users of our products covering a number of end market verticals, including telecommunication, retail, banking, convenience stores, and other light commercial applications.



Additionally, we sell certain engines directly to OEM manufacturers and after-market dealers for use in the lawn, garden and rental markets.



Business strategy



We believe our growth over the last several years is due in part to the development and execution of our "Powering Ahead” strategy.  Since shortly after our initial public offering in 2010, this strategic plan has served as the framework for the significant investments we have made to drive the growth of Generac.  As we continue to move the Powering Ahead plan into the future, we are focused on a number of initiatives that are driven by the same four key objectives:





Growing the residential standby generator market.As the leader in the home standby generator category, it is incumbent upon us to continue to drive growth and increase the penetration rate of these products in households across the United States.  Central to this strategy is to increase the awareness, availability and affordability of home standby generators.  Ongoing power outage activity, combined with expanding our dealer base and overall distribution in affected regions, are key drivers in elevating the awareness of home standby generators over the long term.  We intend to continue to supplement these key growth drivers with targeted sales and marketing initiatives to further extend the awareness of home standby generators.  In addition, we intend to continue to focus on innovation in this emerging product category and introduce new products into the marketplace.  With only approximately 3.0% penetration of the addressable market of U.S. homes (which we define as single-family detached, owner-occupied households with a home value of over $100,000, as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau's 2011 American Housing Survey for the United States), we believe there are opportunities to further penetrate the residential standby generator market.



Gaining commercial and industrial market share.Our growth strategy for commercial and industrial power generation products is focused on incremental market share gains.  Key to this objective are our efforts to develop and improve our industrial distribution, increase our addressable market with new products and increase the rate at which our products are specified in C&I power generation applications.  In addition, we will attempt to garner incremental market share through our leading position in the growing market for cleaner burning, more cost effective natural gas fueled back-up power solutions.  While still a much smaller portion of the overall C&I market, we believe demand for these products continues to increase at a faster rate than traditional diesel fueled generators as a result of their lower capital and operating costs.  We also believe there is an opportunity to provide smaller, more cost effective generators marketed aggressively towards the underpenetrated “optional” standby market which includes smaller footprint commercial buildings.  With our scale in these smaller commercial products, our distribution capabilities, and our national account customer focus, we believe we have an opportunity to penetrate these markets by using a targeted marketing approach and funneling opportunities to our distribution partners.



Diversifying end markets by expanding product offerings and services.In recent years, we have worked hard to diversify Generac's end markets with new products and services.  Much of this diversification has been achieved with our strategic acquisitions over the last three years.  We now have access to several new products, new markets and new customers through the purchase of the Magnum Products business in October 2011, the Ottomotores businesses in December 2012, Tower Light in August 2013 and Baldor Generators in November 2013.  As a result of these acquisitions, we now have access to a broad lineup of mobile power products, as well as products that serve the oil & gas and other infrastructure power markets.  Additionally, our re-entry into the market for power washers in 2011 provides us with an opportunity to further diversify our company with the addition of this platform.  As we continue to build upon our recent diversification efforts, we intend to evaluate other products and services which we believe could further diversify our end markets.



Expanding into new geographies.During 2013, approximately 8% of our revenues were shipped to regions outside the U.S. and Canada.  Given that the global market for power generation equipment is estimated to exceed $15 billion annually, we believe there are growth opportunities for Generac by expanding into new geographies.  Prior to 2013, these efforts had been mostly organic with the creation of a dedicated sales team and the addition of over 100 new distribution points around the globe, with many of those in Latin America.  The acquisitions of the Ottomotores and Tower Light businesses provide us with an enhanced platform and immediate scale for our international growth initiatives and accelerates our efforts to become a more global player in the markets for backup power and mobile power equipment.  As we look forward, we intend to leverage these recent acquisitions while also evaluating other opportunities to expand into other regions of the world.



We believe the investments we have made to date, due in part to our Powering Ahead strategy, have helped to capitalize on the macro, secular growth drivers for our business and are an important part of our efforts to diversify and globalize our business.  See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Business drivers and trends” for additional drivers that influence demand for our products and other trends affecting the markets that we serve.



Manufacturing



We operate several manufacturing plants located principally in Wisconsin (USA), Mexico, Italy and Brazil totaling over three million square feet.  We also maintain inventory warehouses in the United States that accommodate material storage and rapid response requirements of our customers.



In recent years, we have added manufacturing capacity through investments in automation, improved utilization and the expansion of our manufacturing footprint through organic means as well as through acquisitions.  We believe we have sufficient capacity to achieve our business goals for the near-to-intermediate term.



Research and development



Our primary focus on generators and engine powered equipment drives technological innovation, specialized engineering and manufacturing competencies. Research and development is a core competency and includes a staff of over 250 engineers working on numerous active projects. Our sponsored research and development expense was $29.3 million, $23.5 million and $16.5 million for the years ended December 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  Research and development is conducted at each of our manufacturing facilities and additionally at our technical center in Suzhou, China with dedicated teams for each product line.  Research and development is focused on developing new technologies and product enhancements as well as maintaining product competitiveness by improving manufacturing costs, safety characteristics, reliability and performance while ensuring compliance with regulatory standards. We have over 30 years of experience using natural gas engines and have developed specific expertise with fuel systems and emissions technology. In the residential and light commercial markets, we have developed proprietary engines, cooling packages, controls, fuel systems and emissions systems. We believe that our expertise in engine powered equipment gives us the capability to develop new products that will allow continued diversification in our end markets.





Intellectual property



We rely on a combination of patents and trademarks to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our commitment to research and development has resulted in a portfolio of over 100 U.S. and international patents and patent applications.  Our patents expire between 2016 and 2030 and protect certain features and technologies we have developed for use in our products including fuel systems, air flow, electronics and controls, noise reduction and air-cooled engines.  New U.S. patents that are issued generally have a life of 20 years from the date the patent application is initially filed.  U.S. and international trademark registrations generally have a perpetual duration if they are properly maintained and renewed. We believe the existence of these patents and trademarks, along with our ongoing processes to register additional patents and trademarks, protect our intellectual property rights and enhance our competitive position. We also use proprietary manufacturing processes that require customized equipment.



Suppliers of raw materials



Our primary raw material inputs are steel, copper and aluminum, all of which are purchased from third parties and, in many cases, as part of machined or manufactured components. We have developed an extensive network of reliable, low-cost suppliers in the United States and abroad. Our strategic global sourcing function continuously evaluates the cost structure of our products and assesses the capabilities of our supply chain.  Components are sourced accordingly based on this evaluation.  Our supplier quality engineers conduct on-site audits of major supply chain partners and help to maintain the reliability of critical sourced components.  In 2013, we sourced approximately 60% of our materials and components from outside the United States.



Competition



The market for power generation equipment is competitive. We face competition from a variety of large diversified industrial companies as well as smaller generator manufacturers abroad. However, most of the traditional participants in the generator market compete on a more specialized basis, focused on specific applications within their larger diversified product mix. We are the only significant market participant focused predominantly on standby, portable and mobile generators with broad capabilities across the residential, light commercial, industrial and construction generator markets.  We believe that our engineering capabilities and core focus on generators provide us with manufacturing flexibility and enable us to maintain a first-mover advantage over our competition for product innovation. We also believe our broad product offering and diverse distribution model provide for additional advantages as well.



A summary of the primary competitors across our main product classes are as follows:



Residential standby generators –Kohler, Briggs & Stratton and Cummins (Onan division), each of which also have broad operations in other manufacturing businesses.



Portable generators– Honda, Briggs & Stratton, Pramac and Techtronics International (TTI), along with a number of smaller domestic and foreign competitors.



Power washers– Briggs & Stratton, TTI, FNA Group, Mi-T-M and Karcher.



Standby commercial and industrial generators– Caterpillar, Cummins, Kohler, MTU, most of which focus on the market for diesel generators as they are also diesel engine manufacturers.



Mobile generators– Doosan, Wacker and MultiQuip



Light towers– Terex, Allmand, Wacker and Atlas Copco



There are a number of other standby generator manufacturers and packagers located outside North America, but most supply their products mainly to their respective regional markets. In a continuously evolving sector, we believe our scale and broad capabilities make us well positioned to remain competitive.



We compete primarily on the basis of brand reputation, quality, reliability, pricing, innovative features, breadth of product offering and product availability.



Employees



As of December 31, 2013, we had 3,380 employees (3,032 full time and 348 part-time and temporary employees). Of those, 2,094 employees were directly involved in manufacturing at our manufacturing facilities.



Domestically, we have had an “open shop” bargaining agreement for the past 48 years. The current agreement, which expires October 17, 2016, covers our Waukesha and Eagle, Wisconsin facilities. Additionally, our plants in Mexico, Italy and Brazil are operated under various local or national union groups. Our other facilities are not unionized.



Regulation, including environmental matters



As a manufacturing company, our operations are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations covering environmental, health and safety matters. Applicable laws and regulations include those governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to water, noise and  employee safety, as well as the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste and other materials.  In addition, our products are subject to various laws and regulations relating to, among other things, emissions and fuel requirements, as well as labeling and marketing.



Our products sold in the United States are regulated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), California Air Resources Board (“CARB”) and various other state and local air quality management districts.  These governing bodies continue to pass regulations that require us to meet more stringent emission standards, and all of our engines and engine-driven products are regulated within the United States and its territories.  Other countries have various degrees of regulation depending upon product application and fuel types.  New regulations could require us to redesign our products and could affect market growth for our products.



Segment information



We refer you to Note 2, “Segment Reporting,” of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information about our business segment and geographic areas.



Available Information



The Company’s principal executive offices are located at S45 W29290 Highway 59, Waukesha, Wisconsin, 53189 and the Company’s telephone number is (262) 544-4811.  The Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available free of charge through the “Investors” portion of the Company’s web site, www.generac.com, as soon as reasonably practical after they are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the “SEC”. The SEC maintains a web site, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information filed electronically with the SEC by the Company.  The information provided on these websites is not part of this report and is therefore not incorporated herein by reference.



Executive officers



The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers:



Name                                                                                                                                                                           Age                             PositionAaron P. Jagdfeld42President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorYork A. Ragen42Chief Financial OfficerTerrence J. Dolan48Executive Vice President, Global Commercial & Industrial ProductsRussell S. Minick53Executive Vice President, Global Residential ProductsRoger F. Pascavis53Executive Vice President, Strategic Global SupplyAllen D. Gillette57Executive Vice President, Global EngineeringRobert Stoppek42Senior Vice President, Global OperationsClement Feng50Senior Vice President, Marketing



Aaron P. Jagdfeldhas served as our Chief Executive Officer since September 2008 and as a director since November 2006. Prior to becoming Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Jagdfeld worked for Generac for 15 years. He began his career in the finance department in 1994 and became our Chief Financial Officer in 2002. In 2007, he was appointed President and was responsible for sales, marketing, engineering and product development.  Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Jagdfeld worked in the audit practice of the Milwaukee, Wisconsin office of Deloitte and Touche. Mr. Jagdfeld holds a Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting from the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater.



York A. Ragenhas served as our Chief Financial Officer since September 2008. Prior to becoming Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Ragen held Director of Finance and Vice President of Finance positions at Generac. Prior to joining Generac in 2005, Mr. Ragen was Vice President, Corporate Controller at APW Ltd., a spin-off from Applied Power Inc., now known as Actuant Corporation. Mr. Ragen began his career in the Audit division of Arthur Andersen's Milwaukee office. Mr. Ragen holds a Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting from the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater.



Terrence J. Dolanbegan serving as our Executive Vice President, Industrial Products in October 2011, with this title being expanded in January 2014 to Executive Vice President, Global Commercial & Industrial Products.  Prior to becoming Executive Vice President of Industrial Products, he served as our Senior Vice President of Sales from January 2010 to October 2011. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Dolan was Senior Vice President of Business Development and Marketing at Boart Longyear from 2007 to 2008, Vice President of Sales and Marketing at Ingersoll Rand from 2002 to 2007, and Director of Strategic Accounts at Case Corporation from 1991 to 2001. Mr. Dolan holds a B.A. in Management and Communications from Concordia University.



Russell S. Minickbegan serving as our Executive Vice President, Residential Products in October 2011, with this title being expanded in January 2014 to Executive Vice President, Global Residential Products. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Minick was President & CEO of Home Care Products for Electrolux from 2006 to 2011, President of The Gunlocke Company at HNI Corporation from 2003 to 2006, Senior Vice President of Sales, Marketing and Product Development at True Temper Sports from 2002 to 2003, and General Manager of Extended Warranty Operations for Ford Motor Company from 1998 to 2002. Mr. Minick is a graduate of the University of Northern Iowa, and holds a degree in marketing.





Roger Pascavishas served as our Executive Vice President, Strategic Global Supply since March 2013. Prior to becoming Executive Vice President of Strategic Global Supply, he served as the Senior Vice President of Operations since January 2008. Mr. Pascavis joined Generac in 1995 and has served as Director of Materials and Vice President of Operations. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Pascavis was a Plant Manager for MTI in Waukesha, Wisconsin. Mr. Pascavis holds a B.S. in Industrial Technology from the University of Wisconsin, Stout and an M.B.A. from Lake Forest Graduate School of Management.



Allen D. Gilletteis our Executive Vice President of Global Engineering. Mr. Gillette joined Generac in 1998 and has served in numerous engineering positions involving increasing levels of responsibilities and corresponding titles. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Gillette was Manager of Engineering at Transamerica Delaval Enterprise Division, Chief Engineer—High-Speed Engines at Ajax-Superior Division and Manager of Design & Development, Cooper-Bessemer Reciprocating Products Division. Mr. Gillette holds an M.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Purdue University and a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Gonzaga University.



Robert Stoppekhas served as our Senior Vice President of Global Operations since March 2013 when he joined Generac.  Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Stoppek spent over 16 years at Sauer-Danfoss holding various executive level business positions both domestically and internationally and most recently as Chief Supply Chain Officer-Vice President Global Supply Chain & Procurement with IDEX Corporation.  Mr. Stoppek holds an MBA from Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Business and a Masters in Mechanical Engineering from Iowa State University.



Clement Fenghas served as our Senior Vice President of Marketing since August 2013 when he re-joined Generac after three years as Vice President – Global Marketing with the Fluke Corporation. Mr. Feng served as our Senior Vice President of Marketing from 2007 until 2010. Mr. Feng holds a B.S. in Chemical Engineering from Stanford University and an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago- Booth School of Business.



