Item 1.  Business



We are a leading designer and manufacturer of a wide range of generators and other engine powered products for the residential, light commercial, industrial and construction markets. As the only significant market participant focused predominantly on these products, we have one of the leading market positions in the power equipment market in North America. We design, manufacture, source and modify engines, alternators, transfer switches and other components necessary for our products. Our products are fueled by natural gas, liquid propane, gasoline, diesel and Bi-Fuel™ and are available through a broad network of independent dealers, retailers, wholesalers, and equipment rental companies.



We have what we believe is an industry leading, multi-layered distribution network, and our products are available in thousands of outlets across North America. We sell and distribute our products to and through independent residential and industrial dealers, electrical wholesalers, national accounts, private label arrangements, retailers, catalogs, e-commerce merchants, equipment rental companies, equipment dealers and construction companies. We have a significant market share in the residential and light commercial generator markets, which we believe are currently under penetrated. We believe that our leading market position is largely attributable to our strategy of providing a broad product line of high-quality, innovative and affordable products through our extensive and multi-layered distribution network.  In addition, through recent acquisitions, we are also a leading provider of light towers, mobile generators and industrial diesel gensets for international markets ranging in sizes up to 2,500kW.



We operate several manufacturing plants located principally in Wisconsin and Mexico totaling over two million square feet. We also maintain inventory warehouses in the United States that accommodate material storage and rapid response requirements of our customers.



History



is the number one light tower manufacturer in the U.S. and has a growing share of the mobile generator market.





CCMP transactions



In November 2006, affiliates of CCMP Capital Advisors, LLC, or CCMP, together with certain other investors and members of our management, purchased an aggregate of $689 million of our equity capital. In addition, on November 10, 2006, Generac Power Systems borrowed an aggregate of $1.38 billion, consisting of an initial drawdown of $950 million under a $1.1 billion first lien secured credit facility and $430 million under a $430 million second lien secured credit facility. With the proceeds from these equity and debt financings, together with cash on hand at Generac Power Systems, we (1) acquired all of the capital stock of Generac Power Systems and repaid certain pre-transaction indebtedness of Generac Power Systems for $2.0 billion, (2) paid $66 million in transaction costs related to the transaction and (3) retained $3.0 million for general corporate purposes.



We refer to the foregoing transactions collectively as the “CCMP Transactions.”



Initial public offering and corporate reorganization



On February 17, 2010, we completed our initial public offering (IPO) of 18,750,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $13.00 per share. In addition, on March 18, 2010, the underwriters exercised their option and purchased an additional 1,950,500 shares of our common stock from us. We received approximately $224.1 million in net proceeds at the initial closing, and approximately $23.8 million in net proceeds from the underwriters’ option exercise, after deducting the underwriting discount and total expenses related to the offering. The proceeds from the initial closing of the IPO were used entirely to pay down our second lien credit facility in full and to repay a portion of our first lien credit facility.  Proceeds from the option exercise were used for general corporate purposes, including additional pre-payment of the first lien credit facility.



Our capitalization prior to the IPO consisted of Series A Preferred Stock, Class B Common Stock and Class A Common Stock.  In connection with the IPO, we effected a corporate reorganization in which, after giving effect to a 3.294 for one reverse Class A Common Stock split, our Class B Common Stock and Series A Preferred Stock was converted into Class A Common Stock and our Class A Common Stock was then reclassified as common stock. Following the IPO, we have only one class of common stock outstanding. We refer to these transactions, as the “Corporate Reorganization.” For more information regarding our Corporate Reorganization, see “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Corporate reorganization.”





Our products



We design, engineer and manufacture generators with an output of between 800W and 9mW, as well as other engine powered productssuch as light towers, pumps and power washers. With the acquisition of Ottomotores, we also become a leader in the manufacture and distribution in Latin America of industrial diesel gensets ranging in output between 15kW and 2,500kW and an important player in the Uninterrupted Power Supply (UPS) market in Mexico. In the manufacturing process, we design, manufacture, source and modifyengines, alternators, transfer switches and other components necessary to production. We classify our products into three classes based on similar range of power output geared for varying end customer uses: residential power products; commercial and industrial power products; and other products. The following summary outlines our portfolio of products, including their key attributes and customer applications.



Residential power products



Our automatic residential standby generators range in output from 6kW to 60kW, with manufacturer's suggested retail prices, or MSRPs, from approximately $1,900 to $16,700. They operate on either natural gas or liquid propane and are permanently installed with an automatic transfer switch, which we also manufacture. Air-cooled residential standby generators range in outputs from 6kW to 20kW, are available in steel and aluminum enclosures and serve as an emergency backup for small to medium homes. Liquid-cooled generators serve as emergency backup for larger homes and small businesses and range in output from 22kW to 60kW. Liquid-cooled brands include the Guardian® Series and the premium Quietsource® Series, which have a quiet, low-speed engine and a standard aluminum enclosure.



We provide portable generators fueled by gasoline that range in size from 800W to 17,500W. These products serve as an emergency home backup and are also used for construction and recreational purposes. Following the expiration of a non-compete agreement in 2007, we expanded our portable product offering to introduce portable generators below 12,500W. We currently have four portable product lines: the GP series, targeted at homeowners, ranging from 1,800W to 17,500W; the XG series, targeted at the premium homeowner markets, ranging from 4,000 to 10,000W; the XP series, targeted at the professional contractor market, ranging from 3,600 to 10,000W; and the iX series, targeted at the recreational market, ranging from 800W to 2,000W. With our acquisition of Gen-Tran in February 2012, we now offer manual transfer switches to supplement our portable generator product offering.



Our power washers produce line, which was first introduced in the first quarter of 2011, includes models for residential and commercial use.



Residential power products comprised 60.0%, 62.0% and 62.9%, respectively, of total net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010.



Industrial and commercial power products



Our light-commercial standby generators include a full range of affordable generators from 22kW to 150kW and related transfer switches, providing three-phase power sufficient for most small and mid-sized businesses including grocery stores, convenience stores, restaurants, gas stations, pharmacies, retail banks and small health care facilities. Our light-commercial generators run on natural gas or liquid propane thereby eliminating the fuel spillages, spoilage, environmental or odor concerns common with traditional diesel units.



We manufacture a broad line of standard and configured standby generators and related transfer switches for industrial applications. Our single-engine industrial generators range in output from 10kW to 2,500kW with our Modular Power System (MPS) technology extending our product range up to 9mW. We offer four fuel options including diesel, natural gas, liquid propane or Bi-Fuel™. Bi-Fuel™ generators operate on a combination of both diesel and natural gas to allow our customers the advantage of multiple fuel sources and extended run times. These units are primarily used as emergency backup for large healthcare, telecom, datacom, commercial office, municipal and manufacturing customers.



Our MPS technology combines the power of several smaller generators to produce the output of a larger generator, providing our customers with redundancy and scalability in a cost-effective manner. For larger industrial applications, our MPS products offer customers an efficient, affordable way to scale their standby power needs. By offering a series of smaller Generac generators integrated with Generac's proprietary PowerManager control system, we provide a lower costalternative to traditional large, single-engine generators. The MPS product line also offers superior reliability given its built-in redundancy which allows individual units to be taken off-line for routine maintenance while retaining coverage for critical circuits.



We provide the telecommunications market our full range of generator systems.



Our light towers and mobile generators provide temporary lighting and power for various end markets, such as road and commercial construction, energy, mining, military and special events. We also manufacture mobile pumps which utilize wet and dry-priming pump systems for a wide variety of wastewater applications.



Industrial and commercial power products comprised 34.9%, 31.6% and 31.0%, respectively, of total net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010.





Other power products



We sell aftermarket service parts to our dealers and proprietary engines to third-party original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs.



Other power products comprise 5.1%, 6.4% and 6.1%, respectively, of total net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010.



Distribution channels and customers



We distribute our product through several channels to increase awareness of our product categories and the Generac®, Magnum®, and Ottomotores brands, and to ensure our products reach a broad customer base. This distribution network includes independent residential and industrial dealers, wholesalers, national accounts, private label arrangements, retailers, catalogs, e-commerce merchants, equipment rental companies, equipment dealers and construction companies. We believe our distribution network is a competitive advantage that has strengthened over the last decade by expanding our network from our base of industrial dealers to include other channels of distribution as product offerings have increased. Our network is well balanced with no single sales channel providing more than 24% of our sales and no customer providing more than 7% of our sales in 2012.



Our dealer network, which is located principally in the United States, Canada and Latin America, is the industry's largest network of factory direct independent generator contractors.



Our residential/commercial dealer network sells, installs and services our residential and light-commercial products to end users. We have developed a number of proprietary dealer management programs to evaluate, manage and incentivize our dealers, which we believe has an important impact on the high level of customer service we provide to end customers. These programs include both technical and sales training, under which we train new and existing dealers about our products, service and installation. In addition, we have invested in marketing and sales tools to more effectively market and sell our home standby products. We regularly perform market analyses to determine if a given market is either under-served or has poor residential dealer representation. Within these locations, we selectively add distribution or invest resources in existing dealer support and training to improve dealer performance.



Our industrial dealer network provides industrial and commercial end-users with on-going product support. Our industrial dealers maintain the local relationships with commercial electrical contractors, specifying engineers and national account regional buying offices. Our sales group works in conjunction with our industrial dealers to ensure that national accounts receive engineering support, competitive pricing and nationwide service. We promote our industrial generators through the use of product demonstrations, specifying engineer education events, dealer forums and training. In recent years, we have been particularly focused on expanding our dealer network in Latin America and other regions of the world in order to expand our international sales opportunities.



Our wholesaler network consists of selling branches of both national and local distribution houses for electrical and HVAC products. Our wholesalers distribute our residential and light-commercial generators and are a key introduction to the standby generator category for electrical and HVAC contractors who may not be Generac dealers.



On a selective basis, we have established private label and licensing arrangements with third party partners to provide residential, light-commercial and industrial generators. The partners include leading home equipment, electrical equipment and construction machinery companies, each of which provides access to incremental channels of distribution for our products. We have agreements in place with these partners having terms of between three and four years and further establishing additional terms and conditions of these arrangements.



Our retail distribution network includes thousands of locations and includes regional and national home improvement chains, retailers, clubs, buying groups and farm supply stores. These physical retail locations are supplemented by a number of catalogue and e-commerce retailers. This network primarily sells our residential standby, portable and light-commercial generators. In some cases, we have worked with our retail partners to create installation programs using our residential dealers to support the sale and installation of standby generator products sold at retail. We also use a combination of display units and advertising through our retail accounts to promote awareness for our products.



The distribution for our mobile products includes international, national and regional equipment rental companies, equipment dealers and construction companies.



Additionally, we sell certain engines directly to OEM manufacturers and after-market dealers for use in the lawn, garden and rental markets.



Manufacturing



Our excellence in manufacturing reflects our philosophy of high standards, continuous improvement and commitment to quality. Our facilities showcase our advanced manufacturing techniques and demonstrate the effectiveness of lean manufacturing.



We continually seek to reduce manufacturing costs while improving product quality. We deliver an affordable product to our customers through our value engineering philosophy, our strategic foreign sourcing, our scale, our investment in advanced manufacturing technology and adherence to lean manufacturing principles. We believe we have sufficient capacity to achieve our business goals for the near term.



Our product quality is essential to maintaining a leading market position. Incoming shipments from our suppliers are tested to ensure engineering specifications are met. Purchased components are tested for quality at the supplier’s factory and prior to entering production lines and are continuously tested throughout the manufacturing process. Internal product and production audits are performed to ensure a reliable product and process. We test finished products under a variety of simulated conditions at each of our manufacturing facilities.





Research and development and intellectual property



Our primary focus on generators and engine powered equipment drives technological innovation, specialized engineering and manufacturing competencies. Research and development is a core competency and includes a staff of over 200 engineers working on numerous active projects. Our sponsored research and development expense was $23.5 million, $16.5 million and $14.7 million for the years ended December 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.Research and development is conducted at each of our manufacturing facilities and additionally at our technical center in Suzhou, China with dedicated teams for each product line. Research and development is focused on developing new technologies and product enhancements as well as maintaining product competitiveness by improving manufacturing costs, safety characteristics, reliability and performance while ensuring compliance with governmental standards. We have had over 30 years of experience using natural gas engines and have developed specific expertise with fuel systems and emissions technology. In the residential and light commercial markets, we have developed proprietary engines, cooling packages, controls, fuel systems and emissions systems. We believe that our expertise in engine powered equipment gives us the capability to develop new products that will allow continued diversification in our end markets.



We rely on a combination of patents and trademarks to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our commitment to research and development has resulted in a portfolio of approximately 90 U.S. and international patents and patent applications. Our patents expire between 2016 and 2031 and protect certain features and technologies we have developed for use in our products including fuel systems, air flow, electronics and controls, noise reduction and air-cooled engines. U.S. trademark registrations generally have a perpetual duration if they are properly maintained and renewed. New U.S. patents that are issued generally have a life of 20 years from the date the patent application is initially filed. We believe the existence of these patents and trademarks, along with our ongoing processes to register additional patents and trademarks, protect our intellectual property rights and enhance our competitive position. We also use proprietary manufacturing processes that require customized equipment.



Suppliers of raw materials



Our primary raw material inputs are steel, copper and aluminum, all of which are purchased from third parties and, in many cases, as part of machined or manufactured components. We have developed an extensive network of reliable, low-cost suppliers in the United States and abroad. Our strategic global sourcing function continuously evaluates the cost structure of our products and capabilities of our supply chain, and sources components accordingly based on this evaluation. In 2012, we sourced approximately half of our components from outside the United States.



Competition



The market for onsite standby generators is competitive. We face competition from a variety of large diversified industrial companies as well as smaller generator manufacturers abroad. However, most of the traditional participants in the standby generator market compete on a more specialized basis, focused on specific applications within their larger diversified product mix. We are the only significant market participant focused predominantly on standby and portable generators with broad capabilities across the residential, industrial and light-commercial generator markets. We believe that our engineering capabilities and core focus on generators provide us with manufacturing flexibility and enable us to maintain a first-mover advantage over our competition for product innovation. We also believe our broad product offering and diverse distribution model provide for additional advantages as well.



In the market for standby commercial and industrial generators, our primary competitors are Caterpillar, Cummins, Kohler, and MTU, most of which focus on the market for diesel generators as they are also diesel engine manufacturers. In the market for residential standby generators, our primary competitors include Briggs & Stratton, Cummins (Onan division) and Kohler, which also have broad operations in other manufacturing businesses. In the portable generator market, our primary competitors include Briggs & Stratton, Honda and Techtronics International (TTI), along with a number of smaller domestic and foreign competitors. In the market for mobile generators, our primary competitors are Doosan/IR, Multi Quip, Caterpiller and Wacker. Our competitors in the market for light towers include Terex, Allmand and Wacker.



There are a number of other standby generator manufacturers located outside North America, but most supply their products mainly to their respective regional markets. In a continuously evolving sector, we believe our size and broad capabilities make us well positioned to remain competitive.



We compete primarily on the basis of brand reputation, quality, reliability, pricing, innovative features, breadth of product and product availability.



Employees



As of December 31, 2012, we had 3,048 employees (2,700 full time and 348 part-time and temporary employees). Of those, 1,935 employees were directly involved in manufacturing at our manufacturing facilities.



We have had an “open shop” bargaining agreement for the past 47 years. Our current agreement is with the Communication Workers of America, Local 4603. The current agreement, which expires October 17, 2016, covers our Waukesha and Eagle facilities. Currently, less than 1% of our workforce is a member of a labor union. Our facilities in Whitewater, Wisconsin, Jefferson, Wisconsin and Berlin, Wisconsin are not unionized.





Regulation, including environmental matters



As a manufacturing company, our operations are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations including those governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to water, noise and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste and other materials. In addition, our products are subject to various laws and regulations relating to, among other things, emissions and fuel requirements, as well as labeling and marketing.



Our products are regulated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), California Air Resources Board (“CARB”) and various other state and local air quality management districts.  These governing bodies continue to pass regulations that require us to meet more stringent emission standards, and all of our engines and engine-driven products are regulated within the United States and its territories.  Other countries have various degrees of regulation depending upon product application and fuel types.  New regulations could require us to redesign our products and could affect market growth for our products.



Segment information



We refer you to Note 2, “Segment Reporting,” of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information about our business segment and geographic areas.



Available Information



The Company’s principal executive offices are located at S45 W29290 Highway 59, Waukesha, Wisconsin, 53189 and the Company’s telephone number is (262) 544-4811.  The Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available free of charge through the “Investors” portion of the Company’s web site, www.generac.com, as soon as reasonably practical after they are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the “SEC”. The SEC maintains a web site, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information filed electronically with the SEC by the Company.  The information provided on these websites is not part of this report and is therefore not incorporated herein by reference.



Executive officers



The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers:



NameAgePositionAaron P. Jagdfeld41President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorYork A. Ragen41Chief Financial OfficerDawn A. Tabat60Chief Operating OfficerTerrence J. Dolan47Executive Vice President, Commercial & Industrial GroupRussell S. Minick52Executive Vice President, Residential GroupAllen A. Gillette56Senior Vice President, EngineeringRoger F. Pascavis52Senior Vice President, Operations



Aaron P. Jagdfeldhas served as our Chief Executive Officer since September 2008 and as a director since November 2006. Prior to becoming Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Jagdfeld worked for Generac for 15 years. He began his career in the finance department in 1994 and became our Chief Financial Officer in 2002. In 2007, he was appointed President and was responsible for sales, marketing, engineering and product development.  Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Jagdfeld worked in the audit practice of the Milwaukee, Wisconsin office of Deloitte and Touche. Mr. Jagdfeld holds a Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting from the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater.



York A. Ragenhas served as our Chief Financial Officer since September 2008. Prior to becoming Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Ragen held Director of Finance and Vice President of Finance positions at Generac. Prior to joining Generac in 2005, Mr. Ragen was Vice President, Corporate Controller at APW Ltd., a spin-off from Applied Power Inc., now known as Actuant Corporation. Mr. Ragen began his career in the Audit division of Arthur Andersen's Milwaukee office. Mr. Ragen holds a Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting from the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater.



Dawn A. Tabathas served as our Chief Operating Officer since 2002. Ms. Tabat joined Generac in 1972 and served as Personnel Manager and Personnel Director before being promoted to Vice President of Human Resources in 1992. During this period, Ms. Tabat was responsible for creating the human resource function within Generac, including recruiting, compensation, training and workforce relations. In her current position, Ms. Tabat oversees manufacturing, logistics, global supply chain, quality, safety and information services.



Terrence J. Dolanbegan serving as our Executive Vice President, Commercial & Industrial Group in October 2011. Prior to becoming Executive Vice President of Industrial Products, he served as our Senior Vice President of Sales from January 2010 to October 2011. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Dolan was Senior Vice President of Business Development and Marketing at Boart Longyear from 2007 to 2008, Vice President of Sales and Marketing at Ingersoll Rand from 2002 to 2007, and Director of Strategic Accounts at Case Corporation from 1991 to 2001. Mr. Dolan holds a B.A. in Management and Communications from Concordia University.





Russell S. Minickjoined Generac in August 2011, and was named Executive Vice President, Residential Group in October 2011. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Minick was President & CEO of Home Care Products for Electrolux from 2006 to 2011, President of The Gunlocke Company at HNI Corporation from 2003 to 2006, Senior Vice President of Sales, Marketing and Product Development at True Temper Sports from 2002 to 2003, and General Manager of Extended Warranty Operations for Ford Motor Company from 1998 to 2002. Mr. Minick is a graduate of the University of Northern Iowa, and holds a degree in marketing.



Allen A. Gilletteis our Senior Vice President of Engineering. Mr. Gillette joined Generac in 1998 and has served as Engineering Manager, Director of Engineering and Vice President of Engineering. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Gillette was Manager of Engineering at Transamerica Delaval Enterprise Division, Chief Engineer—High-Speed Engines at Ajax-Superior Division and Manager of Design & Development, Cooper-Bessemer Reciprocating Products Division. Mr. Gillette holds an M.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Purdue University and a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Gonzaga University.



Roger F. Pascavishas served as our Senior Vice President of Operations since January 2008. Mr. Pascavis joined Generac in 1995 and has served as Director of Materials and Vice President of Operations. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Pascavis was a Plant Manager for MTI in Waukesha, Wisconsin. Mr. Pascavis holds a B.S. in Industrial Technology from the University of Wisconsin, Stout and an M.B.A. from Lake Forest Graduate School of Management.



