ITEM 1.BUSINESS.



The Kroger Co. (the “Company”) was founded in 1883 and incorporated in 1902.  As of February 1, 2014, the Company was one of the largest retailers in the world based on annual sales.  The Company also manufactures and processes some of the food for sale in its supermarkets.  The Company’s principal executive offices are located at 1014 Vine Street, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202, and its telephone number is (513) 762-4000.  The Company maintains a web site (www.thekrogerco.com) that includes additional information about the Company.  The Company makes available through its web site, free of charge, its annual reports on Form 10-K, its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, its current reports on Form 8-K and its interactive data files, including amendments.  These forms are available as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has filed them with, or furnished them electronically to, the SEC.



The Company’s revenues are earned and cash is generated as consumer products are sold to customers in its stores. The Company earns income predominantly by selling products at price levels that produce revenues in excess of its costs to make these products available to its customers.  Such costs include procurement and distribution costs, facility occupancy and operational costs, and overhead expenses.  The Company’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31.  All references to 2013, 2012 and 2011 are to the fiscal years ended February 1, 2014, February 2, 2013 and January 28, 2012, respectively, unless specifically indicated otherwise.



EMPLOYEES



As of February 1, 2014, the Company employed approximately 375,000 full- and part-time employees. A majority of the Company’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements negotiated with local unions affiliated with one of several different international unions. There are approximately 300 such agreements, usually with terms of three to five years.



STORES



As of February 1, 2014, the Company operated, either directly or through its subsidiaries, 2,640 supermarkets and multi-department stores, 1,240 of which had fuel centers.  Approximately 45% of these supermarkets were operated in Company-owned facilities, including some Company-owned buildings on leased land.  The Company’s current strategy emphasizes self-development and ownership of store real estate.  The Company’s stores operate under several banners that have strong local ties and brand recognition.  Supermarkets are generally operated under one of the following formats: combination food and drug stores (“combo stores”); multi-department stores; marketplace stores; or price impact warehouses.



The combo stores are the primary food store format.  They typically draw customers from a 2 — 2½ mile radius.  The Company believes this format is successful because the stores are large enough to offer the specialty departments that customers desire for one-stop shopping, including natural food and organic sections, pharmacies, general merchandise, pet centers and high-quality perishables such as fresh seafood and organic produce.



Multi-department stores are significantly larger in size than combo stores.  In addition to the departments offered at a typical combo store, multi-department stores sell a wide selection of general merchandise items such as apparel, home fashion and furnishings, electronics, automotive products, toys and fine jewelry.



Marketplace stores are smaller in size than multi-department stores.  They offer full-service grocery, pharmacy and health and beauty care departments as well as an expanded perishable offering and general merchandise area that includes apparel, home goods and toys.










Price impact warehouse stores offer a “no-frills, low cost” warehouse format and feature everyday low prices plus promotions for a wide selection of grocery and health and beauty care items. Quality meat, dairy, baked goods and fresh produce items provide a competitive advantage. The average size of a price impact warehouse store is similar to that of a combo store.



In addition to the supermarkets, as of February 1, 2014, the Company operated through subsidiaries 786 convenience stores and 320 fine jewelry stores.  All 144 of our fine jewelry stores located in malls are operated in leased locations.  In addition, 83 convenience stores were operated by franchisees through franchise agreements.  Approximately 54% of the convenience stores operated by subsidiaries were operated in Company-owned facilities. The convenience stores offer a limited assortment of staple food items and general merchandise and, in most cases, sell gasoline.



SEGMENTS



The Company operates retail food and drug stores, multi-department stores, jewelry stores, and convenience stores throughout the United States.  The Company’s retail operations, which represent over 99% of the Company’s consolidated sales and EBITDA, are its only reportable segment.  The Company’s retail operating divisions have been aggregated into one reportable segment due to the operating divisions having similar economic characteristics with similar long-term financial performance.  In addition, the Company’s operating divisions offer to its customers similar products, have similar distribution methods, operate in similar regulatory environments, purchase the majority of the Company’s merchandise for retail sale from similar (and in many cases identical) vendors on a coordinated basis from a centralized location, serve similar types of customers, and are allocated capital from a centralized location.  The Company’s operating divisions reflect the manner in which the business is managed and how the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer, who act as the Company’s chief operating decision makers, assess performance internally.  All of the Company’s operations are domestic.  Revenues, profit and losses and total assets are shown in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 below.



MERCHANDISING AND MANUFACTURING



Corporate brand products play an important role in the Company’s merchandising strategy.  Our supermarkets, on average, stock approximately 13,000 private label items.  The Company’s corporate brand products are primarily produced and sold in three “tiers.”  Private Selection is the premium quality brand designed to be a unique item in a category or to meet or beat the “gourmet” or “upscale” brands.  The “banner brand” (Kroger, Ralphs, King Soopers, etc.), which represents the majority of the Company’s private label items, is designed to satisfy customers with quality products.  Before Kroger will carry a banner brand product we must be satisfied that the product quality meets our customers’ expectations in taste and efficacy, and we guarantee it.  Kroger Value is the value brand, designed to deliver good quality at a very affordable price.  In addition, the Company continues to grow its other brands, including Simple Truth and Simple Truth Organic.  Both Simple Truth and Simple Truth Organic are free from 101 artificial preservatives and ingredients that customers have told us they do not want in their food, and the Simple Truth Organic products are USDA certified organic.



Approximately 40% of the corporate brand units sold are produced in the Company’s manufacturing plants; the remaining corporate brand items are produced to the Company’s strict specifications by outside manufacturers. The Company performs a “make or buy” analysis on corporate brand products and decisions are based upon a comparison of market-based transfer prices versus open market purchases.  As of February 1, 2014, the Company operated 38 manufacturing plants. These plants consisted of 18 dairies, nine deli or bakery plants, five grocery product plants, two beverage plants, two meat plants and two cheese plants.



SEASONALITY



The majority of our revenues are generally not seasonal in nature.  However, revenues tend to be higher during the major holidays throughout the year.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



The disclosure regarding executive officers is set forth in Item 10 of Part III of this Form 10-K under the heading “Executive Officers of the Company,” and is incorporated herein by reference.



COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT



For the disclosure related to the Company’s competitive environment, see Item 1A under the heading “Competitive Environment.”










