ITEM 1.BUSINESS.



The Kroger Co. (the “Company” or “Kroger”) was founded in 1883 and incorporated in 1902.  As of January 31, 2015, we are one of the largest retailers in the nation based on annual sales.  We also manufacture and process some of the food for sale in our supermarkets.  Our principal executive offices are located at 1014 Vine Street, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202, and our telephone number is (513) 762-4000.  We maintain a web site (www.thekrogerco.com) that includes additional information about the Company.  We make available through our web site, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and our interactive data files, including amendments.  These forms are available as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed them with, or furnished them electronically to, the SEC.



Our revenues are predominately earned and cash is generated as consumer products are sold to customers in our stores. We earn income predominantly by selling products at price levels that produce revenues in excess of the costs to make these products available to our customers.  Such costs include procurement and distribution costs, facility occupancy and operational costs, and overhead expenses.  Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31.  All references to 2014, 2013 and 2012 are to the fiscal years ended January 31, 2015, February 1, 2014 and February 2, 2013, respectively, unless specifically indicated otherwise.



EMPLOYEES



As of January 31, 2015, Kroger employed approximately 400,000 full- and part-time employees. A majority of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements negotiated with local unions affiliated with one of several different international unions. There are approximately 300 such agreements, usually with terms of three to five years.



STORES



As of January 31, 2015, Kroger operated, either directly or through its subsidiaries, 2,625 supermarkets and multi-department stores, 1,330 of which had fuel centers.  Approximately 48% of these supermarkets were operated in Company-owned facilities, including some Company-owned buildings on leased land.  Our current strategy emphasizes self-development and ownership of store real estate.  Our stores operate under several banners that have strong local ties and brand recognition.  Supermarkets are generally operated under one of the following formats: combination food and drug stores (“combo stores”); multi-department stores; marketplace stores; or price impact warehouses.



The combo store is the primary food store format.  They typically draw customers from a 2 — 2½ mile radius.  We believe this format is successful because the stores are large enough to offer the specialty departments that customers desire for one-stop shopping, including natural food and organic sections, pharmacies, general merchandise, pet centers and high-quality perishables such as fresh seafood and organic produce.



Multi-department stores are significantly larger in size than combo stores.  In addition to the departments offered at a typical combo store, multi-department stores sell a wide selection of general merchandise items such as apparel, home fashion and furnishings, outdoor living, electronics, automotive products, toys and fine jewelry.



Marketplace stores are smaller in size than multi-department stores.  They offer full-service grocery, pharmacy and health and beauty care departments as well as an expanded perishable offering and general merchandise area that includes apparel, home goods and toys.










Price impact warehouse stores offer a “no-frills, low cost” warehouse format and feature everyday low prices plus promotions for a wide selection of grocery and health and beauty care items. Quality meat, dairy, baked goods and fresh produce items provide a competitive advantage. The average size of a price impact warehouse store is similar to that of a combo store.



In addition to the supermarkets, as of January 31, 2015, we operated through subsidiaries 782 convenience stores, 326 fine jewelry stores and an online retailer.  All 132 of our fine jewelry stores located in malls are operated in leased locations.  In addition, 78 convenience stores were operated by franchisees through franchise agreements.  Approximately 54% of the convenience stores operated by subsidiaries were operated in Company-owned facilities. The convenience stores offer a limited assortment of staple food items and general merchandise and, in most cases, sell gasoline.



SEGMENTS



We operate retail food and drug stores, multi-department stores, jewelry stores, and convenience stores throughout the United States.  Our retail operations, which represent over 99% of our consolidated sales and earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), is our only reportable segment.  Our retail operating divisions have been aggregated into one reportable segment due to the operating divisions having similar economic characteristics with similar long-term financial performance.  In addition, our operating divisions offer customers similar products, have similar distribution methods, operate in similar regulatory environments, purchase the majority of the merchandise for retail sale from similar (and in many cases identical) vendors on a coordinated basis from a centralized location, serve similar types of customers, and are allocated capital from a centralized location.  Our operating divisions reflect the manner in which the business is managed and how our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer, who act as our chief operating decision makers, assess performance internally.  All of our operations are domestic.  Revenues, profits and losses and total assets are shown in our Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 below.



MERCHANDISING AND MANUFACTURING



Corporate brand products play an important role in our merchandising strategy.  Our supermarkets, on average, stock approximately 13,000 private label items.  Our corporate brand products are primarily produced and sold in three “tiers.”  Private Selection® is the premium quality brand designed to be a unique item in a category or to meet or beat the “gourmet” or “upscale” brands.  The “banner brand” (Kroger®, Ralphs®, Fred Meyer®, King Soopers®, etc.), which represents the majority of our private label items, is designed to satisfy customers with quality products.  Before we will carry a “banner brand” product we must be satisfied that the product quality meets our customers’ expectations in taste and efficacy, and we guarantee it.  P$$T…®, Check This Out… and Heritage Farm™ are the three value brands, designed to deliver good quality at a very affordable price.  In addition, we continue to grow our other brands, including Simple Truth® and Simple Truth Organic®.  Both Simple Truth and Simple Truth Organic are Free From 101 artificial preservatives and ingredients that customers have told us they do not want in their food, and the Simple Truth Organic products are USDA certified organic.



Approximately 40% of the corporate brand units sold in our supermarkets are produced in our manufacturing plants; the remaining corporate brand items are produced to our strict specifications by outside manufacturers. We perform a “make or buy” analysis on corporate brand products and decisions are based upon a comparison of market-based transfer prices versus open market purchases.  As of January 31, 2015, we operated 37 manufacturing plants. These plants consisted of 17 dairies, nine deli or bakery plants, five grocery product plants, two beverage plants, two meat plants and two cheese plants.



SEASONALITY



The majority of our revenues are generally not seasonal in nature.  However, revenues tend to be higher during the major holidays throughout the year.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



The disclosure regarding executive officers is set forth in Item 10 of Part III of this Form 10-K under the heading “Executive Officers of the Company,” and is incorporated herein by reference.



COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT



For the disclosure related to our competitive environment, see Item 1A under the heading “Competitive Environment.”










