ITEM 1.BUSINESS.



The Kroger
Co. was founded in 1883 and incorporated in 1902. As of January 30, 2010,
the Company was one of the largest retailers in the United States based on
annual sales. The Company also manufactures and processes some of the food for
sale in its supermarkets. The Company’s principal executive offices are located
at 1014 Vine Street, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202, and its telephone number is (513)
762-4000. The Company maintains a web site (www.kroger.com) that includes
additional information about the Company. The Company makes available through
its web site, free of charge, its annual reports on Form 10-K, its
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, its current reports on Form 8-K and
its interactive data files, including amendments. These forms are available as
soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has filed with, or furnished
them electronically to, the SEC.



The Company’s revenues are
earned and cash is generated as consumer products are sold to customers in its
stores. The Company earns income predominantly by selling products at price
levels that produce revenues in excess of its costs to make these products
available to its customers. Such costs include procurement and distribution
costs, facility occupancy and operational costs, and overhead expenses.  The Company’s fiscal year ends on the
Saturday closest to January 31.



EMPLOYEES



As of January 30, 2010,
the Company employed approximately 334,000 full and part-time employees. A
majority of the Company’s employees are covered by collective bargaining
agreements negotiated with local unions affiliated with one of several
different international unions. There are approximately 305 such agreements,
usually with terms of three to five years.



During 2010, the Company has
major labor contracts to be negotiated covering store employees in Albuquerque,
Cincinnati, Dallas, Detroit, Ft. Wayne, Houston, Little Rock, Portland, Seattle
and Toledo.  The Company will also
negotiate agreements with the Teamsters for employees in California and
Portland.  Negotiations in 2010 will be
challenging as the Company must have competitive cost structures in each market
while meeting our associates’ needs for good wages, affordable health care and
increases in Company pension contributions.



STORES



As of January 30, 2010,
the Company operated, either directly or through its subsidiaries, 2,468
supermarkets and multi-department stores, 893 of which had fuel centers. 
Approximately 43% of these supermarkets were operated in Company-owned
facilities, including some Company-owned buildings on leased land.  The
Company’s current strategy emphasizes self-development and ownership of store
real estate.  The Company’s stores operate under several banners that have
strong local ties and brand equity.  Supermarkets are generally operated
under one of the following formats: combination food and drug stores (“combo
stores”); multi-department stores; marketplace stores; or price impact
warehouses.



The combo stores are the
primary food store format.  They typically draw customers from a 2 – 2½
mile radius.  The Company believes this format is successful because the
stores are large enough to offer the specialty departments that customers
desire for one-stop shopping, including natural food and organic sections, pharmacies,
general merchandise, pet centers and high-quality perishables such as fresh
seafood and organic produce.



Multi-department stores are
significantly larger in size than combo stores.  In addition to the
departments offered at a typical combo store, multi-department stores sell a
wide selection of general merchandise items such as apparel, home fashion and
furnishings, electronics, automotive products, toys and fine jewelry.



Marketplace stores are
smaller in size than multi-department stores. 
They offer full-service grocery and pharmacy departments as well as an
expanded general merchandise area that includes outdoor living products,
electronics, home goods and toys.



Price impact
warehouse stores offer a “no-frills, low cost” warehouse format and feature
everyday low prices plus promotions for a wide selection of grocery and health
and beauty care items. Quality meat, dairy, baked goods and fresh produce items
provide a competitive advantage. The average size of a price impact warehouse
store is similar to that of a combo store.



Many of the
stores mentioned above, with exception of the price impact warehouse stores,
include fuel centers.










In addition
to the supermarkets, as of January 30, 2010, the Company operated through
subsidiaries, 777 convenience stores and 374 fine jewelry stores.  All of our fine jewelry stores located in
malls are operated in leased locations.  In addition, 87 convenience
stores were operated through franchise agreements. Approximately 51% of the
convenience stores operated by subsidiaries were operated in Company-owned
facilities. The convenience stores offer a limited assortment of staple food
items and general merchandise and, in most cases, sell gasoline.



SEGMENTS



The Company
operates retail food and drug stores, multi-department stores, jewelry stores,
and convenience stores throughout the United States.  The Company’s retail
operations, which represent substantially all of the Company’s consolidated
sales, earnings and total assets, are its only reportable segment.  All of
the Company’s operations are domestic. Revenues, profit and losses, and total
assets are shown in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements set forth
in Item 8 below.



MERCHANDISING
ANDMANUFACTURING



Corporate brand products play an important role in the
Company’s merchandising strategy.  Our supermarkets, on average, stock
approximately 11,000 private label items.  The Company’s corporate brand
products are produced and sold in three “tiers.” Private Selection is the
premium quality brand designed to be a unique item in a category or to meet or
beat the “gourmet” or “upscale” brands.  The “banner brand” (Kroger,
Ralphs, King Soopers, etc.), which represents the majority of the Company’s
private label items, is designed to satisfy customers with quality
products.  Before Kroger will carry a
banner brand product, the product quality must meet our customers’ expectations
in taste and efficacy, and we guarantee it. 
Kroger Value is the value brand, designed to deliver good quality at a
very affordable price.



Approximately 39% of the corporate brand units sold are
produced in the Company’s manufacturing plants; the remaining corporate brand
items are produced to the Company’s strict specifications by outside
manufacturers. The Company performs a “make or buy” analysis on corporate brand
products and decisions are based upon a comparison of market-based transfer
prices versus open market purchases. As of January 30, 2010, the Company
operated 40 manufacturing plants. These plants consisted of 18 dairies, 10 deli
or bakery plants, five grocery product plants, three beverage plants, two meat
plants and two cheese plants.



EXECUTIVEOFFICERS OF THEREGISTRANT



The
disclosure regarding executive officers is set forth in Item 10 of Part III
of this Form 10-K under the heading “Executive Officers of the Company,”
and is incorporated herein by reference.



COMPETITIVEENVIRONMENT



For
the disclosure related to the Company’s competitive environment, see Item 1A under
the heading “Competitive Environment”.










