Item 1.Business

The Company

Science Applications
International Corporation, the principal operating company of SAIC, Inc., was formed in 1969. In October 2006, in connection with becoming a publicly-traded company, Science Applications International Corporation completed a merger
(reorganization merger) in which it became a 100%-owned subsidiary of SAIC, Inc., after which SAIC, Inc. completed an initial public offering of its common stock. Prior to November 2009, SAIC, Inc. had Class A preferred stock and common stock
outstanding. In November 2009, each share of SAIC, Inc. Class A preferred stock was converted into one share of common stock, which increased the number of common shares outstanding and eliminated the preferred shares outstanding. We use the
terms “our company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” to refer to SAIC, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Unless otherwise noted, references to years are for fiscal years ended January 31. For example, we
refer to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011 as “fiscal 2011”.

We are a provider of scientific, engineering, systems integration and
technical services and solutions to all branches of the U.S. military, agencies of the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), the intelligence community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and other U.S. Government civil agencies, state and
local government agencies, foreign governments and customers in select commercial markets. Our business is focused on solving issues of national and global importance in the areas of national security, energy and the environment, critical
infrastructure and health. We are focusing our investments to expand our business in areas emphasizing: intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance; cyber security; logistics, readiness and sustainment; energy and environment; and health
technology. For additional discussion and analysis related to recent business developments, see “Business Environment and Trends” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our business is conducted in three reportable segments: Government, Commercial, and
Corporate and Other. We define our reportable segments based on the way our chief operating decision maker manages our operations for the allocation of resources, decision making and performance assessment. Our operating business units are
aggregated into the Government or Commercial segments, depending on the nature of the customers served, the contractual requirements and the regulatory environment governing the business unit’s operations. The Corporate and Other segment
includes the operations of our internal real estate management subsidiary, various corporate activities and certain corporate expense items that are not reimbursed by our U.S. Government customers. Our Corporate and Other segment does not contract
with third-parties for the purpose of generating customer revenues. Substantially all of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located in the United States. For additional information regarding our
reportable segments, see Note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Government Segment

Our Government segment provides a wide array of technical services
and solutions including those described below, primarily to U.S. federal, state and local government agencies and foreign governments.



•Systems Engineering and Integration.We
provide systems engineering and implementation services and solutions to help our customers design and integrate complex network processes and infrastructure. These services and solutions include designing, installing, testing, repairing and
maintaining systems and processes.



•Software Development.We provide software
development services and solutions to help our customers maximize value by extending and renovating critical systems through software capabilities. These services include automating code generation, managing computer resources, and merging and
evaluating large amounts of data.



•Cyber Security.We provide services and
solutions to help our customers prepare for, protect against, and respond to a wide array of cyber security threats. These services and solutions include designing comprehensive cyber-risk management programs to identify and neutralize cyber
attacks, integrating and managing information security services to protect customers’ mission-critical data, identifying and advising in connection with the selection of disaster recovery plans and performing tests to certify that information
technology (IT) systems operate in accordance with design requirements.



•Data Processing and Analysis.We provide
services and solutions to help our U.S. defense, intelligence and homeland security customers develop new processes, methods and technologies to improve the collection, analysis and interpretation of the vast amounts of intelligence information
collected to build an integrated intelligence picture, assisting them to be more agile and dynamic in challenging environments and produce actionable intelligence.



•Secure Information Sharing and
Collaboration.We provide services and solutions to help our customers share information and resources, including designing and developing information systems that access, process and analyze vast
amounts of data from various sources to facilitate timely information sharing, collaboration and decision making.



•IT Outsourcing.We provide IT outsourcing
services and solutions to help our customers optimize their IT infrastructure. These services and solutions include designing and implementing integrated IT service management approaches to reduce overall costs and improve user satisfaction,
identifying and recommending IT investments to improve business and operational performance and identifying underperforming assets for disposition.



SAIC,
Inc. Annual Report  1




PART I









•Communication Systems and Infrastructure.We provide services and solutions to help our customers design and implement state-of-the-art communication systems. These services and solutions include designing, installing, testing, repairing and maintaining voice, data and video communication
systems and infrastructures.



•Command and Control.We provide
services and solutions to help our U.S. and allied defense customers design and implement advanced, networked command and control systems that enable these customers to plan, direct, coordinate and control forces and operations at the strategic,
operational and tactical levels. These services and solutions include designing, installing, testing, repairing and maintaining command and control systems and infrastructures.



•Logistics, Readiness and Sustainment.We
provide logistics, supply chain management, demand forecasting and repair and maintenance services to enhance the readiness and operational capability of U.S. federal agencies and U.S. military personnel and weapon and support systems deployed
worldwide.



•Research and Development.We conduct
leading-edge research and development of new technologies with applications in areas such as national security, intelligence and life sciences.



•Environmental Consulting Services.We
provide services and solutions in assessing and mitigating evolving environmental challenges. Our services and solutions include collecting and interpreting data to assess the impacts of global climate changes, designing and constructing
“green” facilities, and developing clean fossil and carbon management technologies and other ways to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases. We also provide environmental compliance and remediation services, including performing
environmental risk assessment studies and coordinating remedial and hazardous waste investigations and programs.



•Energy and Utilities Services.We provide
services and solutions in energy efficiency, demand reduction and sustainability programs to help customers reduce costs, manage risks and minimize the environmental impacts associated with energy and utility consumption. We also help customers
develop innovative, clean and renewable energy sources and assist energy producers in addressing issues related to government mandates for cleaner and alternative energy sources, infrastructure security, and intelligent, reliable transmission and
distribution (smart grid technologies).



•Design and Construction Services.We
develop life-cycle solutions merging technologies with the operational needs of our customers. We then provide architecture, design, engineering, construction and construction management services to implement those solutions. Our areas of emphasis
include energy, industrial and manufacturing facilities, advanced communications and critical infrastructure.



•Securing Critical Infrastructure.We
provide customers in various industries with services to protect critical infrastructure from acts of terrorism and natural disasters as well as from threats due to error, maliciousness, wear and tear, planning oversights and previously unforeseen
vulnerabilities. These services and solutions include risk management (vulnerability assessments and threat identification), training exercises and simulations, awareness programs, physical security, protection and detection systems and critical
infrastructure continuity and contingency planning as well as casualty and damage assessment tools and disaster recovery services.



•Disaster Preparedness and Recovery.We
provide customers with services and solutions in planning for and responding to public health emergencies and disasters. These services and solutions include emergency planning, multi-agency training and exercises.



•Homeland Security Product Solutions.We
also design and develop products and applied technologies that aid anti-terrorism and homeland security efforts, including our border, port and security inspection systems and our checked baggage explosive detection systems.



•Geospatial Solutions.We provide services
and solutions in satellite imagery and image processing, database development and analysis, visualization, application development and related IT enterprise architecture for customers in various industries, including agriculture, defense, energy,
forestry and water management.



•Modeling and Simulation.We provide
applied research and technology and modeling and simulation services to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and U.S. military, space and intelligence communities, including support related to mission preparation, launch and
execution.

Revenues from our Government segment accounted for 97%, 96% and 95% of our total revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009,
respectively. Within the Government segment, the majority of our revenues are derived from contracts with the U.S. Government. The revenues from contracts with the U.S. Government include contracts where we serve as the prime or lead contractor, as
well as contracts where we serve as a subcontractor to other parties who are engaged directly with various U.S. Government agencies as the prime contractor or as a subcontractor. Some revenues in the Government segment are derived from
non-government customers for whom the work is performed by a Government segment business unit.

We often collaborate with other parties, including our
competitors, to submit bids for large U.S Government procurements or other opportunities where we believe that the combination of services and products that we can provide as a team will help us win and perform the contract. Our relationships with
our teammates, including whether we serve as the prime contractor



2  SAIC, Inc.
Annual Report




PART I









or as a subcontractor, vary with each contract opportunity and typically depend on the program, contract or customer requirements, as well as the relative size, qualifications, capabilities and
experience of our company and our teammates. Contracting with the U.S. Government also subjects us to substantial regulation and unique risks, including the U.S. Government’s ability to cancel any contract at any time. Most of our contracts
have cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and fees for work performed. These regulations and risks are described in more detail below under the “Business–Regulation” and “Item
1A. Risk Factors” sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Commercial Segment

Our Commercial segment provides services in the following two areas:



•Global Oil and Gas Solutions.We provide
integrated services in consulting, systems integration and managed IT services, delivering flexible and customizable IT software solutions to global oil and gas customers.



•Enterprise Information Solutions.We
provide a comprehensive set of IT service offerings including enterprise information technology optimization, business intelligence, enterprise resource planning maintenance and staff augmentation services to select commercial customers, as well as
state and local government customers.

Our Commercial segment customers often benefit from leveraging the services and solutions that
we provide to our Government segment customers. Revenues from our Commercial segment accounted for 3%, 4% and 5% of our total revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Acquisitions

The
acquisition of businesses is part of our growth strategy to provide new or enhance existing capabilities and offerings to customers and to establish new or enhance existing relationships with customers. We expect that a portion of our future growth
will come from recent and future acquisitions. During the last five fiscal years, we completed 21 acquisitions, most notably:



•In fiscal 2011, we acquired Cloudshield Technologies, Inc., a provider of cyber security and management services solutions. This acquisition enhanced our cyber
security offerings and positioned us to bring to market deep packet inspection solutions for high speed networks, enabling us to better meet emerging customer requirements. We also acquired Reveal Imaging Technologies, Inc., a provider of threat
detection products and services. This acquisition enhanced our homeland security solutions portfolio by adding U.S. Transportation Security Administration certified explosive detection systems for checked baggage screening to our passenger and cargo
inspections systems product offerings.



•In fiscal 2010, we acquired R.W. Beck Group, Inc., a provider of business, engineering, energy and infrastructure consulting services. This acquisition both
enhanced our existing capabilities and offerings in the areas of energy and infrastructure consulting services and provided new capabilities and offerings in disaster preparedness and recovery services. We also acquired Science, Engineering and
Technology Associates Corporation, a provider of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance information technologies. This acquisition enhances our service offerings and capabilities by adding information technologies that detect human behaviors
to identify human-borne suicide bombers.



•In fiscal 2009, we acquired SM Consulting, Inc., a provider of language translation, interpretation and training, and other consulting services to federal, state
and local governments and commercial customers. While this acquisition enhanced our existing capabilities and offerings, it also expanded our relationships with DoD customers in adjacent markets for these services. We also acquired Icon Systems,
Inc., a provider of laser-based systems and products for military training and testing. This acquisition enhanced our wireless live training offerings.



•In fiscal 2008, we acquired The Benham Companies LLC, a consulting, engineering, and architectural design company. This acquisition provided us with new
capabilities and offerings in the areas of industrial manufacturing and facilities design/build and enhanced our existing capabilities and offerings in the areas of energy consulting services and software development and integration services.



•In fiscal 2007, we acquired Applied Marine Technology, Inc., a provider of training, systems engineering and integration, information systems and communications,
and rapid prototyping of technical solutions and products focused on support to intelligence and special warfare operations, which enhanced our existing capabilities and offerings.

Divestitures

From
time to time, we divest non-strategic components of our business. During the last five fiscal years, our most notable divestitures included:



•In fiscal 2008, we completed a reorganization transaction involving our 55% interest in AMSEC LLC, a consolidated majority-owned subsidiary, resulting in the
disposition of our 55% interest in AMSEC LLC in exchange for our acquisition of certain divisions and subsidiaries of AMSEC LLC.



•In fiscal 2007, we completed the sale of our majority-owned subsidiary, ANXeBusiness Corp.



SAIC,
Inc. Annual Report  3




PART I









Contract Procurement

Our business is heavily regulated and we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government and other contracts. The U.S.
Government procurement environment has evolved due to statutory and regulatory procurement reform initiatives. Today, U.S. Government customers employ several procurement contracting methods to purchase services and solutions. Budgetary pressures
and reforms in the procurement process have caused many U.S. Government customers to increasingly purchase services and products using contracting processes that give them the ability to select multiple winners or pre-qualify certain contractors to
provide various services or products on established general terms and conditions rather than through single award contracts. The predominant contracting methods through which U.S. Government agencies procure services and products include the
following:



•Single Award Contracts.U.S. Government
agencies may procure services and products through single award contracts which specify the scope of services and products that will be delivered and identify the contractor that will provide the specified services. When an agency has a requirement,
interested contractors are solicited, qualified and then provided with a request for a proposal. The process of qualification, request for proposals and evaluation of contractor bids requires the agency to maintain a large, professional procurement
staff and the bidding and selection process can take a year or more to complete. For the contractor, this method of contracting may provide greater certainty of the timing and amounts to be received at the time of contract award because it generally
results in the customer contracting for a specific scope of services or products from the single successful awardee.



•Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) Contracts.The U.S. Government uses IDIQ contracts to obtain commitments from contractors to provide certain services or products on pre-established terms and conditions. The U.S. Government then issues task orders under the
IDIQ contracts for the specific services or products it needs. IDIQ contracts are awarded to one or more contractors following a competitive procurement process. Under a single-award IDIQ contract, all task orders under that contract are awarded to
one pre-selected contractor. Under a multi-award IDIQ contract, task orders can be awarded to any of the pre-selected contractors, which can result in further limited competition for the award of task orders. Multi-award IDIQ contracts that are open
for any government agency to use for the procurement of services are commonly referred to as government-wide acquisition contracts. IDIQ contracts often have multi-year terms and unfunded ceiling amounts, therefore enabling, but not committing, the
U.S. Government to purchase substantial amounts of services or products from one or more contractors. At the time an IDIQ contract is awarded (prior to the award of any task orders), a contractor may have limited or no visibility as to the ultimate
amount of services or products that the U.S. Government will purchase under the contract, and in the case of a multi-award IDIQ, the contractor from which such purchases may be made.



•U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) Schedule Contracts.The GSA maintains listings of approved suppliers of services and products with agreed-upon prices for use throughout the U.S. Government. In order for a company to provide services under a GSA Schedule contract, a
company must be pre-qualified and awarded a contract by the GSA. When an agency uses a GSA Schedule contract to meet its requirements, the agency, or the GSA on behalf of the agency, conducts the procurement. The user agency, or the GSA on its
behalf, evaluates the user agency’s services requirements and initiates a competition limited to GSA Schedule qualified contractors. GSA Schedule contracts are designed to provide the user agency with reduced procurement time and lower
procurement costs. Similar to IDIQ contracts, at the time a GSA Schedule contract is awarded, a contractor may have limited or no visibility as to the ultimate amount of services or products that the U.S. Government will purchase under the contract.

Contract Types

Generally, the type of contract for our services and products is determined by or negotiated with the U.S. Government and may depend on certain factors, including
the type and complexity of the work to be performed, degree and timing of the responsibility to be assumed by the contractor for the costs of performance, the extent of price competition and the amount and nature of the profit incentive offered to
the contractor for achieving or exceeding specified standards or goals. We generate revenues under several types of contracts, including the following:



•Cost-reimbursement contracts provide for reimbursement of our direct contract costs and allocable indirect costs, plus a fee. This type of contract is generally
used when uncertainties involved in contract performance do not permit costs to be estimated with sufficient accuracy to use a fixed-price contract. Cost-reimbursement contracts generally subject us to lower risk, but generally require us to use our
best efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within a specified time and amount of costs.



•Time-and-materials (T&M) contracts typically provide for negotiated fixed hourly rates for specified categories of direct labor plus reimbursement of other
direct costs. This type of contract is generally used when there is uncertainty of the extent or duration of the work to be performed by the contractor at the time of contract award or it is not possible to anticipate costs with any reasonable
degree of confidence. On T&M contracts, we assume the risk of providing appropriately qualified staff to perform these contracts at the hourly rates set forth in the contracts over the period of performance of the contracts.



4  SAIC, Inc.
Annual Report




PART I









•Fixed-price-level-of-effort (FP-LOE) contracts are substantially similar to T&M contracts except they require a specified level of effort over a stated
period of time on work that can be stated only in general terms. This type of contract is generally used when the contractor is required to perform an investigation or study in a specific research and development area and to provide a report showing
the results achieved based on the level of effort. Payment is based on the effort expended rather than the results achieved.



•Firm-fixed-price (FFP) contracts provide for a fixed price for specified products, systems and/or services. This type of contract is generally used when the
government acquires commercial items or products and services on the basis of reasonably definitive specifications and which have a determinable fair and reasonable price. These contracts subject us to higher risk, but offer us potential increased
profits if we can complete the work at lower costs than planned. While FFP contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, these contracts also increase our exposure to the risk of cost overruns.

Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract, the nature of
services or products provided, as well as the achievement of performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. Cost reimbursement and
T&M contracts generally have lower profitability than FFP contracts. For the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, see “Key Financial Metrics—Sources of Revenues” in
“Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Backlog

Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under
negotiated contracts as work is performed. Our backlog consists of funded backlog and negotiated unfunded backlog, each of which are described in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We expect to recognize a substantial portion of our funded backlog as revenues within the next 12 months. However, the U.S. Government may cancel any contract at any time. In addition,
certain contracts with commercial customers include provisions that allow the customer to cancel at any time. Most of our contracts have cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and fees for work
performed. For additional discussion and analysis of backlog, see “Key Financial Metrics—Sources of Revenues” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Key Customers

In fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, 89%, 89% and 88%, respectively, of our total revenues were attributable to prime contracts with the U.S. Government or to subcontracts with other contractors engaged in work for the
U.S. Government. We generated more than 10% of our total revenues during each of the last three fiscal years from each of the U.S. Army and U.S. Navy. Each of these customers has a number of subsidiary agencies which have separate budgets and
procurement functions. Our contracts may be with the highest level of these agencies or with the subsidiary agencies of these customers.

The percentage
of total revenues attributable to these customers for each of the last three fiscal years was as follows:



Year Ended January 31201120102009U.S. Army23%23%24%U.S. Navy131212

Competition

Competition for contracts is intense in both our Government and Commercial segments. We often compete against a large number of established multinational
corporations which may have greater financial capabilities than we do. We also compete against smaller, more specialized companies that concentrate their resources on particular areas. As a result of the diverse requirements of the U.S. Government
and our commercial customers, we frequently collaborate with other companies to compete for large contracts, and bid against these team members in other situations. We believe that our principal competitors currently include the following companies:



•the engineering and technical services divisions of large defense contractors which provide U.S. Government IT services in addition to other hardware systems and
products, including such companies as The Boeing Company, General Dynamics Corporation, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, BAE Systems plc, L-3 Communications Corporation and Raytheon Company;



•contractors focused principally on technical services, including U.S. Government IT services, such as Battelle Memorial Institute, Booz Allen Hamilton Inc., CACI
International Inc, ManTech International Corporation, Serco Group plc and SRA International, Inc.;



SAIC,
Inc. Annual Report  5




PART I









•diversified commercial and U.S. Government IT providers, such as Accenture plc, Computer Sciences Corporation, HP Enterprise Services, International Business
Machines Corporation and Unisys Corporation;



•contractors who provide engineering, consulting, design and construction services, such as KBR, Inc. and CH2M Hill Companies Ltd.; and



•contractors focused on supplying homeland security product solutions, including American Science and Engineering, Inc., OSI Systems, Inc. and Smith Group plc and
contractors providing supply chain management and other logistics services, including Agility Logistics, Inc. (a subsidiary of Agility Public Warehousing Company K.S.C.).

We compete on factors including, among others, our technical expertise and qualified professional personnel, our ability to deliver cost-effective solutions in a timely manner, our reputation and standing with
customers, pricing and the size and geographic presence of our company.

The U.S. Government has indicated that it intends to increase industry
competition for its future procurement of products and services, which could lead to fewer sole source awards and more emphasis on cost competitiveness and affordability. In addition, the DoD has announced several initiatives to improve efficiency,
refocus priorities and enhance DoD best practices including those used to procure goods and services from defense contractors. These new initiatives, when implemented, could result in fewer new opportunities for our industry as a whole, which may
intensify competition within the industry as companies compete for a more limited set of new programs.

Patents and Proprietary
Information

Our technical services and products are not generally dependent upon patent protection, although we do selectively seek patent
protection. We claim a proprietary interest in certain of our products, software programs, methodologies and know-how. This proprietary information is protected by copyrights, trade secrets, licenses, contracts and other means. We selectively pursue
opportunities to license or transfer our technologies to third parties.

In connection with the performance of services, the U.S. Government has certain
rights to inventions, data, software codes and related material that we develop under U.S. Government-funded contracts and subcontracts. Generally, the U.S. Government may disclose or license such information to third parties, including, in some
instances, our competitors. In the case of some subcontracts that we perform, the prime contractor may also have certain rights to the programs and products that we develop under the subcontract.

Research and Development

We conduct
research and development activities under customer-funded contracts and with company-funded internal research and development (IR&D) funds. IR&D efforts consist of projects involving basic research, applied research, development, and systems
and other concept formulation studies. In fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, our company-funded IR&D expense was $55 million, $49 million and $46 million, respectively, which was included in selling, general and administrative expenses. We charge
expenses for research and development activities performed under customer contracts directly to cost of revenues.

Seasonality

The U.S. Government’s fiscal year ends on September 30 of each year. It is not uncommon for U.S. Government agencies to award extra tasks
or complete other contract actions in the timeframe leading up to the end of its fiscal year in order to avoid the loss of unexpended fiscal year funds, which may favorably impact our third fiscal quarter ending October 31. In addition, as a
result of the cyclical nature of the U.S. Government budget process and a greater number of holidays in our fourth fiscal quarter ending January 31, as compared to our third fiscal quarter ending October 31, we typically experience
sequentially higher revenues in our third fiscal quarter and lower revenues in our fourth fiscal quarter. For selected quarterly financial data, see Note 20 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Regulation

We are
heavily regulated in most of the fields in which we operate. We provide services and products to numerous U.S. Government agencies and entities, including all of the branches of the U.S. military, NASA, intelligence agencies and DHS. When working
with these and other U.S. Government agencies and entities, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of contracts. Among other things, these laws and regulations:



•require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations;



•define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under various cost-based U.S. Government contracts;



6  SAIC, Inc.
Annual Report




PART I









•require reviews by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) and other U.S. Government agencies of compliance with government standards for accounting and
management internal control systems;



•restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products and technical data; and



•require us not to compete for or to divest work if an organizational conflict of interest, as defined by these laws and regulations, related to such work exists
and/or cannot be appropriately mitigated.

The U.S. Government may revise its procurement practices or adopt new contract rules and
regulations at any time. In order to help ensure compliance with these complex laws and regulations, all of our employees are required to complete ethics training and other compliance training relevant to their position.

Internationally, we are subject to special U.S. Government laws and regulations, local government laws and regulations and procurement policies and practices
(including laws and regulations relating to bribery of foreign government officials, import-export control, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings) and varying currency, political and economic risks.

Environmental Matters

Employees and Consultants

As of January 31, 2011, we employed approximately 43,400 full and part-time employees. We also utilize consultants to provide specialized technical and other
services on specific projects. To date, we have not experienced any strikes or work stoppages and we consider our relations with our employees to be good.

The highly technical and complex services and products that we provide are dependent upon the availability of professional, administrative and technical personnel having high levels of training and skills and, in
many cases, security clearances. Due to the increased competition for qualified personnel, it has become more difficult to retain employees and meet all of our needs for employees in a timely manner, which has affected and may to continue to affect
our growth. We intend to continue to devote significant resources to recruit, develop and retain qualified employees.

Company
Website and Information

Our website can be accessed atwww.saic.com. The website contains information about us and our operations. Through a
link on the Investor Relations section of our website, copies of each of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports can be viewed and downloaded free of
charge as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into and is not a part of this Annual Report on Form
10-K.

You may request a copy of the materials identified in the preceding paragraph, at no cost, by writing or telephoning us at our corporate
headquarters at the following:

SAIC, Inc.

1710 SAIC Drive

McLean, VA 22102

Attention: Corporate Secretary

Telephone: (703) 676-4300



SAIC,
Inc. Annual Report  7




PART I









