Item 1.Business

The Company

SAIC is a holding company. Its
principal operating company, Science Applications, was formed in 1969. In October 2006, in connection with SAIC becoming a publicly-traded company, Science Applications completed a reorganization merger in which it became a 100%-owned subsidiary of
SAIC, after which SAIC completed an initial public offering of its common stock.

We use the terms “Company,” “we,” “us,”
and “our” to refer to SAIC, Science Applications and its consolidated subsidiaries. Unless otherwise noted, references to years are for fiscal years ended January 31. For example, we refer to the fiscal year ended January 31,
2013 as “fiscal 2013”.

We are a provider of scientific, engineering, systems integration and technical services and solutions in the areas of
defense, health, energy, infrastructure, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance and cybersecurity to agencies of the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), the intelligence community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), and other U.S.
Government civil agencies, state and local government agencies, foreign governments and customers in select commercial markets. Our business is focused on using deep domain knowledge to solve problems of vital importance to the nation and the world,
in the areas of national security, energy and the environment, critical infrastructure and health. We are focusing our investments in our strategic growth areas including: intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance; cybersecurity; logistics,
readiness and sustainment; energy and environment; and health information technology. In each of the last three fiscal years, we generated over 85% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. Government, either as a prime contractor or as a
subcontractor to other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. Government.

In August 2012, we announced that our board of directors authorized
management to pursue a plan to separate into two independent, publicly traded companies: (i) a company focused on technical, engineering and enterprise information technology services; and (ii) a company focused on delivering science and
technology solutions primarily in the areas of national security, engineering and health. The proposed separation is intended to take the form of a tax-free spin-off of the technical, engineering and enterprise information technology services
business. The separation transaction is expected to occur in the latter half of calendar year 2013, subject to final approval of the board of directors and certain other customary conditions, including receipt of an opinion from tax counsel and a
ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) as to the tax free nature of the transaction. Management is continuing to develop detailed plans on capital structure, management, governance and other significant matters. Although we expect that the
separation of our businesses will be completed, there can be no assurance that a separation will ultimately occur. Upon completion of the separation transaction, the operating results of the separated business will be included in discontinued
operations. See “Item 1A—Risk Factors” contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for certain risk factors relating to the proposed separation transaction.

For additional discussion and analysis related to recent business developments, see “Business Environment and Trends” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Reportable Segments

Our business is aligned into four reportable segments: Defense Solutions; Health, Energy and Civil Solutions; Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions; and
Corporate and Other. While each reportable segment is organized around the markets served and the nature of the products and services provided to customers in those markets as described in the segment descriptions below, we provide a wide array of
scientific, engineering, systems integration and technical services and solutions across these reportable segments, but which are performed specifically to meet the needs of the market and customers served in a particular segment. These services and
solutions include:



•Systems Engineering and Integration.We provide systems engineering and implementation services and solutions to help our customers design and integrate complex network processes and infrastructure. These services and solutions include designing,
installing, testing, repairing, maintaining and upgrading systems and processes.



•Software Development.We provide software development services and solutions to help our customers maximize value by extending and renovating critical systems through software capabilities. These services include automating code
generation, managing computer resources, and merging and evaluating large amounts of data.



•Cybersecurity.We provide services and solutions to help our customers prepare for, protect against, and respond to a wide array of cybersecurity threats. These services and solutions include designing comprehensive cyber-risk
management programs to identify and neutralize cyber attacks, integrating and managing information security services to protect customers’ mission-critical data, identifying and advising in connection with the selection of disaster recovery
plans and performing tests to certify that information technology (IT) systems operate in accordance with design requirements.



SAIC,
Inc. Annual Report  1




PART I









•Secure Information Sharing and
Collaboration.We provide services and solutions to help our customers share information and resources, including designing and developing
information systems that access, process and analyze vast amounts of data from various sources to facilitate timely information sharing, collaboration and decision making.



•Communication Systems and Infrastructure.We provide services and solutions to help our customers design and implement state-of-the-art communication systems. These services and solutions include designing, installing, testing, repairing and maintaining voice, data and video communication
systems and infrastructures.



•Research and Development.We conduct
leading-edge research and development of new technologies with applications in areas such as national security, intelligence and life sciences.



•Securing Critical Infrastructure.We
provide customers with services and solutions to protect critical infrastructure from acts of terrorism and natural disasters as well as from threats due to error, maliciousness, wear and tear, planning oversights and previously unforeseen
vulnerabilities. These services and solutions include risk management (vulnerability assessments and threat identification), training exercises and simulations, awareness programs, physical security, protection and detection systems and critical
infrastructure continuity and contingency planning as well as casualty and damage assessment tools and disaster recovery services.



•Modeling and Simulation.We provide
applied research and technology and modeling and simulation services and solutions to the U.S. military, space and intelligence communities, including support related to mission preparation, launch and execution.



•Enterprise Information Solutions.We
provide a comprehensive set of IT service offerings including enterprise information technology optimization, business intelligence, enterprise resource planning maintenance and staff augmentation services.

In preparation for the proposed separation transaction which is expected to occur in the latter half of calendar year 2013, effective February 1, 2013, we
transferred certain business operations primarily focused on providing enterprise information technology services to federal civilian agencies of the U.S. Government from the Health, Engineering, and Civil Solutions segment to the Defense Solutions
segment. We also transferred certain business operations primarily focused on providing command, control, communications, and computer solutions to the DoD from the Defense Solutions segment to the Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions
segment. As a result, our operating segments for fiscal 2014 will be reflective of this new business alignment, and one of our operating segments will represent the entirety of the technical, engineering and enterprise information services
business that will be included in the separation transaction.

Defense Solutions

Defense Solutions provides systems engineering and specialized technical services and solutions in support of command and control, communications, modeling and
simulation, logistics, readiness and sustainment and network operations to a broad customer base within the defense industry. Defense Solutions helps design and implement advanced, networked command and control systems to enable U.S. and allied
defense customers to plan, direct, coordinate and control forces and operations at strategic, operational and tactical levels. Defense Solutions also provides a wide range of logistics, product support and force modernization solutions, including
supply chain management, demand forecasting, distribution, sustaining engineering, maintenance and training services, to enhance the readiness and operational capability of U.S. military personnel and their weapons and support systems. Major
customers of Defense Solutions include most branches of the U.S. military. Defense Solutions represented 42%, 40% and 43% of total revenues for fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

Health, Energy and Civil Solutions

Health, Energy and Civil Solutions provides services and solutions in the areas of critical infrastructure, homeland security, safety and mission assurance, training, environmental assessments and restoration,
engineering design, construction, electronic health record implementations and other sophisticated IT services across a broad federal and commercial customer base. These services and solutions range from engineering, design and construction
services, energy management, renewables and energy distribution/smart-grid, to healthcare IT, data management and analytics, health infrastructure and biomedical support and research. Health, Energy and Civil Solutions also provides integrated
security solutions and training expertise in the detection of chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosive threats and designs and develops products and applied technologies that aid anti-terrorism and homeland security efforts,
including border, port and security inspection systems and checked baggage explosive detection systems. Major customers of Health, Energy and Civil Solutions primarily include the U.S. federal government, state and local governmental agencies,
foreign governments and commercial enterprises in various industries. Health, Energy and Civil Solutions represented 25%, 26% and 25% of total revenues for fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions

Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions provides systems and services focused on intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance and cybersecurity across a broad spectrum of national security programs. Intelligence and
Cybersecurity Solutions provides



2  SAIC, Inc.
Annual Report




PART I









quick reaction, manned and unmanned airborne, maritime, space and ground-based surveillance systems which leverage an understanding of the underlying physics of operating in space, weight and
power-constrained environments. Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions also provides intelligence collection, processing, exploitation, and dissemination solutions, including systems designed to optimize decision-making in high rate, large volume,
and complex data environments. Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions provides cybersecurity technology and information management solutions, analytics and forensics, accreditation and testing services, and products that protect data,
applications, and modern information technology infrastructures from advanced and persistent threats as well as mission support in the geospatial, intelligence analysis, technical operations, and linguistics domains. Major customers of Intelligence
and Cybersecurity Solutions include national and military intelligence agencies, and other federal, civilian and commercial customers in the national security complex. Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions represented 33%, 34% and 32% of total
revenues for fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

Corporate and Other

Corporate and Other includes the operations of our internal real estate management subsidiary, various corporate activities, certain corporate expense items that
are not reimbursed by our U.S. Government customers and certain other revenue and expense items excluded from a reportable segment’s performance.

For additional information regarding our reportable segments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” in Part II and Note 15 of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Acquisitions

The acquisition of businesses is part of our growth strategy to provide
new or enhance existing capabilities and offerings to customers and to establish new or enhance existing relationships with customers. During the last five fiscal years, we have completed 14 acquisitions, most notably:



•In fiscal 2013, we acquired maxIT Healthcare Holdings, Inc., a provider of clinical, business and information technology services primarily to commercial
hospital groups and other medical delivery organizations. This acquisition by our Health, Energy and Civil Solutions segment expanded our commercial consulting practice in electronic health record (EHR) implementation and optimization and
strengthened our capabilities to provide these services to our federal healthcare customers as those customers migrate to commercial off-the-shelf EHR applications.



•In fiscal 2012, we acquired Vitalize Consulting Solutions, Inc., a provider of clinical, business and information technology services for healthcare enterprises.
This acquisition by our Health, Energy and Civil Solutions segment expanded our capabilities in both federal and commercial markets to help customers better address EHR implementation and optimization demand.



•In fiscal 2011, we acquired Cloudshield Technologies, Inc., a provider of cybersecurity and management services solutions. This acquisition by our Intelligence
and Cybersecurity Solutions segment enhanced our cybersecurity offerings and positioned us to bring to market deep packet inspection solutions for high speed networks, enabling us to better meet emerging customer requirements. We also acquired
Reveal Imaging Technologies, Inc., a provider of threat detection products and services. This acquisition by our Health, Energy and Civil Solutions segment enhanced our homeland security solutions portfolio by adding U.S. Transportation Security
Administration certified explosive detection systems for checked baggage screening to our passenger and cargo inspections systems product offerings.



•In fiscal 2010, we acquired R.W. Beck Group, Inc., a provider of business, engineering, energy and infrastructure consulting services. This acquisition by our
Health, Energy and Civil Solutions segment both enhanced our existing capabilities and offerings in the areas of energy and infrastructure consulting services and provided new capabilities and offerings in disaster preparedness and recovery
services. We also acquired Science, Engineering and Technology Associates Corporation, a provider of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance information technologies. This acquisition by our Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions segment
enhanced our service offerings and capabilities by adding information technologies that detect human behaviors to identify human-borne suicide bombers.



•In fiscal 2009, we acquired SM Consulting, Inc., a provider of language translation, interpretation and training, and other consulting services to federal, state
and local governments and commercial customers. While this acquisition by our Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions segment enhanced our existing capabilities and offerings, it also expanded our relationships with DoD customers in adjacent
markets for these services. We also acquired Icon Systems, Inc., a provider of laser-based systems and products for military training and testing. This acquisition by our Defense Solutions segment enhanced our wireless live training offerings.



SAIC,
Inc. Annual Report  3




PART I









Divestitures

From time to time, we divest non-strategic components of our business. During the last five fiscal years, our most notable divestitures included:



•In fiscal 2013, we completed the sale of certain components of our business, which were historically included in our Health, Energy and Civil Solutions segment,
primarily focused on providing operational test and evaluation services to U.S. Government customers.



•In fiscal 2012, we completed the sale of certain components of our business which were historically included in our Health, Energy and Civil Solutions segment,
primarily focused on providing information technology services to international oil and gas companies.

Key
Customers

Substantially all of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located in the United States.
In each of fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, over 85% of our total revenues were attributable to prime contracts with the U.S. Government or to subcontracts with other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. Government. We generated more than 10% of our
total revenues during each of the last three fiscal years from each of the U.S. Army and U.S. Navy. Each of these customers has a number of subsidiary agencies which have separate budgets and procurement functions. Our contracts may be with the
highest level of these agencies or with the subsidiary agencies of these customers.

The percentage of total revenues attributable to the U.S. Army and
U.S. Navy for each of the last three fiscal years was as follows:



Year Ended January 31201320122011U.S. Army28%26%23%U.S. Navy131313

Contract Procurement

Our business is heavily regulated and we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government and other contracts. The U.S.
Government procurement environment has evolved due to statutory and regulatory procurement reform initiatives. Today, U.S. Government customers employ several contracting methods to purchase services and products. Budgetary pressures and reforms in
the procurement process have caused many U.S. Government customers to increasingly purchase services and products using contracting methods that give them the ability to select multiple contract winners or pre-qualify certain contractors to provide
services or products on established general terms and conditions rather than through single award contracts. The predominant contracting methods through which U.S. Government agencies procure services and products include the following:



•Single Award Contracts.U.S. Government
agencies may procure services and products through single award contracts which specify the scope of services or products purchased and identify the contractor that will provide the specified services or products. When an agency has a requirement,
the agency will issue a solicitation or request for proposal to which interested contractors can submit a proposal. The process of issuing solicitations or request for proposals and evaluating contractor bids requires the agency to maintain a large,
professional procurement staff and the bidding and selection process can take a year or more to complete. For the contractor, this method of contracting may provide greater certainty of the timing and amounts to be received at the time of contract
award because it generally results in the customer contracting for a specific scope of services or products from the single successful awardee.



•Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) Contracts.The U.S. Government uses IDIQ contracts to obtain commitments from contractors to provide certain services or products on pre-established terms and conditions. The U.S. Government then issues task orders under the
IDIQ contracts to purchase the specific services or products it needs. IDIQ contracts are awarded to one or more contractors following a competitive procurement process. Under a single-award IDIQ contract, all task orders under that contract are
awarded to one pre-selected contractor. Under a multiple-award IDIQ contract, task orders can be awarded to any of the pre-selected contractors, which can result in further limited competition for the award of task orders. Multiple-award IDIQ
contracts that are open for any government agency to use for procurement are commonly referred to as “government-wide acquisition contracts”. IDIQ contracts often have multi-year terms and unfunded ceiling amounts, therefore enabling, but
not committing, the U.S. Government to purchase substantial amounts of services or products from one or more contractors. At the time an IDIQ contract is awarded (prior to the award of any task orders), a contractor may have limited or no visibility
as to the ultimate amount of services or products that the U.S. Government will purchase under the contract, and in the case of a multiple-award IDIQ, the contractor from which such purchases may be made.



4  SAIC, Inc.
Annual Report




PART I









•U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) Schedule Contracts.The GSA maintains listings of approved suppliers of services and products with agreed-upon prices for use throughout the U.S. Government. In order for a company to provide services under a GSA Schedule contract, a
company must be pre-qualified and awarded a contract by the GSA. When an agency uses a GSA Schedule contract to meet its requirements, the agency, or the GSA on behalf of the agency, conducts the procurement. The user agency, or the GSA on its
behalf, evaluates the user agency’s requirements and initiates a competition limited to GSA Schedule qualified contractors. GSA Schedule contracts are designed to provide the user agency with reduced procurement time and lower procurement
costs. Similar to IDIQ contracts, at the time a GSA Schedule contract is awarded, a contractor may have limited or no visibility as to the ultimate amount of services or products that the U.S. Government will purchase under the contract.

We often team with other parties, including our competitors, to submit bids for large U.S Government procurements or other
opportunities where we believe that the combination of services and products that we can provide as a team will help us win and perform the contract. Our relationships with our teammates, including whether we serve as the prime contractor or as a
subcontractor, vary with each contract opportunity and typically depend on the program, contract or customer requirements, as well as the relative size, qualifications, capabilities, customer relationships and experience of our company and our
teammates.

Contracting with the U.S. Government also subjects us to substantial regulation and unique risks, including the U.S. Government’s
ability to cancel any contract at any time through a termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government. Most of our contracts have cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and fees for work
performed where the U.S. Government issues a termination for convenience. These regulations and risks are described in more detail below under “Business–Regulation” and “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Contract Types

Generally, the
type of contract for our services and products is determined by or negotiated with the U.S. Government and may depend on certain factors, including the type and complexity of the work to be performed, degree and timing of the responsibility to be
assumed by the contractor for the costs of performance, the extent of price competition and the amount and nature of the profit incentive offered to the contractor for achieving or exceeding specified standards or goals. We generate revenues under
several types of contracts, including the following:



•Cost-reimbursement contracts provide for reimbursement of our direct contract costs and allocable indirect costs, plus a fee. This type of contract is generally
used when uncertainties involved in contract performance do not permit costs to be estimated with sufficient accuracy to use a fixed-price contract. Cost-reimbursement contracts generally subject us to lower risk, but generally require us to use our
best efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within a specified time and amount of costs.



•Time-and-materials (T&M) contracts typically provide for negotiated fixed hourly rates for specified categories of direct labor plus reimbursement of other
direct costs. This type of contract is generally used when there is uncertainty of the extent or duration of the work to be performed by the contractor at the time of contract award or it is not possible to anticipate costs with any reasonable
degree of confidence. On T&M contracts, we assume the risk of providing appropriately qualified staff to perform these contracts at the hourly rates set forth in the contracts over the period of performance of the contracts.



•Fixed-price-level-of-effort (FP-LOE) contracts are substantially similar to T&M contracts except they require a specified level of effort over a stated
period of time on work that can be stated only in general terms. This type of contract is generally used when the contractor is required to perform an investigation or study in a specific research and development area and to provide a report showing
the results achieved based on the level of effort. Payment is based on the effort expended rather than the results achieved.



•Firm-fixed-price (FFP) contracts provide for a fixed price for specified products, systems and/or services. This type of contract is generally used when the
government acquires products and services on the basis of reasonably definitive specifications and which have a determinable fair and reasonable price. These contracts offer us potential increased profits if we can complete the work at lower costs
than planned. While FFP contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, these contracts also increase our exposure to the risk of cost overruns.

Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract, the nature of services or products provided, as well as the
achievement of performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. Cost reimbursement and T&M contracts generally have lower
profitability than FFP contracts. For the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract for fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, see “Key Performance Measures—Contract Types” in “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



SAIC,
Inc. Annual Report  5




PART I









Backlog

Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed. Our backlog consists of funded backlog and negotiated unfunded backlog, each of which are
described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We expect to recognize a substantial portion of our funded backlog as revenues within
the next 12 months. However, the U.S. Government may cancel any contract at any time through a termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government. In addition, certain contracts with commercial customers include provisions that allow the
customer to cancel at any time. Most of our contracts have cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and fees for work performed. For additional discussion and analysis of backlog, see “Key
Performance Measures—Bookings and Backlog” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Competition

Competition for contracts is
intense and we often compete against a large number of established multinational corporations which may have greater name recognition, financial resources and larger technical staffs than we do. We also compete against smaller, more specialized
companies that concentrate their resources on particular areas, as well as the U.S. Government’s own capabilities and federal non-profit contract research centers. As a result of the diverse requirements of the U.S. Government and our
commercial customers, we frequently collaborate with other companies to compete for large contracts, and bid against these same companies in other situations. We believe that our principal competitors currently include the following companies:



•the engineering and technical services divisions of large defense contractors which provide U.S. Government IT services in addition to other hardware systems and
products, including companies such as The Boeing Company, General Dynamics Corporation, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, BAE Systems plc, L-3 Communications Corporation and Raytheon Company;



•contractors focused principally on technical services, including U.S. Government IT services, such as Battelle Memorial Institute, Booz Allen Hamilton Inc.,
Engility Holdings, Inc., CACI International Inc, ManTech International Corporation, Serco Group plc and SRA International, Inc.;



•diversified commercial and U.S. Government IT providers, such as Accenture plc, Computer Sciences Corporation, HP Enterprise Services, International Business
Machines Corporation and Unisys Corporation;



•contractors who provide engineering, consulting, design and construction services, such as Jacobs Engineering Group, URS Corporation, KBR, Inc. and CH2M Hill
Companies Ltd.; and



•contractors focused on supplying homeland security product solutions, including American Science and Engineering, Inc., OSI Systems, Inc., L-3 Communications
Corporation, General Electric Company and Smiths Group plc and contractors providing supply chain management and other logistics services, including Agility Logistics Corp.

We compete on various factors, including our technical expertise and qualified professional and/or security-cleared personnel, our ability to deliver innovative cost-effective solutions in a timely manner,
successful program execution, our reputation and standing with customers, pricing and the size and geographic presence of our company.

The U.S.
Government has indicated that it intends to increase industry competition for future procurement of products and services, which has led to fewer sole source awards and more emphasis on cost competitiveness and affordability. In addition,
procurement initiatives to improve efficiency, refocus priorities and enhance best practices could result in fewer new opportunities for our industry as a whole, which would intensify competition within the industry as companies compete for a more
limited set of new programs.

Patents and Proprietary Information

Our technical services and products are not generally dependent upon patent protection, although we do selectively seek patent protection. We claim a proprietary interest in certain of our products, software
programs, methodologies and know-how. This proprietary information is protected by copyrights, trade secrets, licenses, contracts and other means. We selectively pursue opportunities to license or transfer our technologies to third parties.

In connection with the performance of services, the U.S. Government has certain rights to inventions, data, software codes and related material that we
develop under U.S. Government-funded contracts and subcontracts. Generally, the U.S. Government may disclose or license such information to third parties, including, in some instances, our competitors. In the case of some subcontracts that we
perform, the prime contractor may also have certain rights to the programs and products that we develop under the subcontract.



6  SAIC, Inc.
Annual Report




PART I









Research and Development

We conduct research and development activities under customer-funded contracts and with company-funded internal research and development (IR&D) funds. IR&D efforts consist of projects involving basic
research, applied research, development, and systems and other concept formulation studies. IR&D expenses are included in selling, general and administrative expenses and are generally allocated to U.S. Government contracts. In fiscal 2013, 2012
and 2011, our company-funded IR&D expense was $64 million, $92 million and $55 million, respectively. We charge expenses for research and development activities performed under customer contracts directly to cost of revenues for those contracts.

Seasonality

The U.S.
Government’s fiscal year ends on September 30 of each year. It is not uncommon for U.S. Government agencies to award extra tasks or complete other contract actions in the timeframe leading up to the end of its fiscal year in order to avoid
the loss of unexpended fiscal year funds, which may favorably impact our third fiscal quarter ending October 31. In addition, as a result of the cyclical nature of the U.S. Government budget process and a greater number of holidays in our
fourth fiscal quarter ending January 31, as compared to our third fiscal quarter ending October 31, we typically experience sequentially higher revenues in our third fiscal quarter and lower revenues in our fourth fiscal quarter. For
selected quarterly financial data, see Note 19 of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Regulation

We are heavily regulated in most of the fields in which we operate. We provide
services and products to numerous U.S. Government agencies and entities, including to the DoD, the intelligence community and DHS. When working with these and other U.S. Government agencies and entities, we must comply with various laws and
regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of contracts. U.S. Government contracts generally are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), which sets forth policies, procedures and requirements for the
acquisition of goods and services by the U.S. Government, agency-specific regulations that implement or supplement FAR, such as the DoD’s Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) and other applicable laws and regulations. These
regulations impose a broad range of requirements, many of which are unique to government contracting, including various procurement, import and export, security, contract pricing and cost, contract termination and adjustment, and audit requirements.
Among other things, these laws and regulations:



•require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations;



•define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under various cost-based U.S. Government contracts;



•require reviews by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA), Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA) and other U.S. Government agencies of compliance with
government standards for a contractor’s business systems;



•restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products and technical data; and



•require us not to compete for work if an organizational conflict of interest, as defined by these laws and regulations, related to such work exists and/or cannot
be appropriately mitigated.

The U.S. Government may revise its procurement practices or adopt new contract rules and regulations at
any time. In order to help ensure compliance with these complex laws and regulations, all of our employees are required to complete ethics training and other compliance training relevant to their position.

Some of our operations and service offerings involve access to and use by us of personally identifiable information and/or protected health information, which
activities are regulated by extensive federal and state privacy and data security laws requiring organizations to provide certain privacy protections and security safeguards for such information.

Internationally, we are subject to special U.S. Government laws and regulations, local government laws and regulations and procurement policies and practices
(including laws and regulations relating to bribery of foreign government officials, import-export control, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings) and varying currency, political and economic risks.

Environmental Matters

Our operations are
subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations. In addition, our operations may become subject to future laws and regulations, including those related to climate change and
environmental sustainability. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in civil,



SAIC,
Inc. Annual Report  7




PART I









criminal, regulatory, administrative or contractual sanctions, including fines, penalties or suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. Government, or could cause us to incur costs to
change, upgrade, remediate and/or close some of our operations or properties. Some environmental laws hold current or previous owners or operators of businesses and real property liable for hazardous substance releases, even if they did not know of
and were not responsible for the releases. Our services and operations involve the assessment or remediation of environmental hazards, as well as using, handling or disposing of hazardous substances. Environmental laws may impose liability on any
person who disposes, transports, or arranges for the disposal or transportation of hazardous substances to any site. In addition, we may face liability for personal injury, property damage and natural resource damages relating to hazardous substance
releases for which we are otherwise liable or relating to exposure to or the mishandling of hazardous substances in connection with our current and former operations or services, including our current and prior ownership of properties. Although we
do not currently anticipate that the costs of complying with, or the liabilities associated with, environmental laws will materially and adversely affect us, we cannot ensure that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in the future.

Employees and Consultants

As of
January 31, 2013, we employed approximately 40,000 full and part-time employees. We also utilize consultants to provide specialized technical and other services on specific projects.

The highly technical and complex services and products that we provide are dependent upon the availability of professional, administrative and technical personnel having high levels of training and skills and, in
many cases, security clearances. Due to the increased competition for qualified personnel, it has become more difficult to retain employees and meet all of our needs for employees in a timely manner, which has affected and may to continue to affect
our growth. We intend to continue to devote significant resources to recruit, develop and retain qualified employees.

Company
Website and Information

Our website can be accessed atwww.saic.com. The website contains information about our company and operations.
Through a link on the Investor Relations section of our website, copies of each of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, can be viewed and downloaded
free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into and is not a part of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

You may request a copy of the materials identified in the preceding paragraph, at no cost, by writing or telephoning us at our corporate
headquarters at the following:

SAIC, Inc.

1710 SAIC Drive

McLean, VA 22102

Attention: Corporate Secretary

Telephone: (703) 676-4300

