Item 1.Business

The Company

Science Applications International
Corporation was formed in 1969. In October 2006, in connection with becoming a publicly-traded company, Science Applications International Corporation completed a merger (reorganization merger) in which it became a 100%-owned subsidiary of
SAIC, Inc., after which SAIC, Inc. completed an initial public offering of its common stock. We use the terms “our company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” to refer to SAIC, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Unless otherwise noted, references to years are for fiscal years ended January 31. For example, we refer to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010 as “fiscal 2010”.

We are a provider of scientific, engineering, systems integration and technical services and solutions to all branches of the U.S. military, agencies of the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), the intelligence
community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and other U.S. Government civil agencies, state and local government agencies, foreign governments and customers in select commercial markets. Our business is focused on solving issues of
national and global importance in the areas of defense, intelligence, homeland security, logistics and product support, energy, environment and health. We plan to focus our investments to expand our business on areas such as: intelligence,
surveillance and reconnaissance; cyber security; logistics; energy; and health technology. For additional discussion and analysis related to recent business developments, see “Business Environment and Trends” in “Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In
November 2009, we completed a reclassification in which each share of our Class A preferred stock was converted into one share of our common stock. Shares of Class A preferred stock contained the same economic rights as shares of common
stock; however, holders of Class A preferred stock were entitled to 10 votes per share while holders of common stock were entitled to one vote per share. The proposal to convert each share of Class A preferred stock into one share of
common stock was previously approved by our stockholders at our annual meeting of stockholders in June 2009. This conversion did not impact our consolidated financial position or results of operations, other than increasing the number of common
shares outstanding and reducing the number of preferred shares outstanding to zero.

We have three reportable segments: Government, Commercial, and
Corporate and Other. Our operating business units are aggregated into the Government or Commercial segments, depending on the nature of the customers served, the contractual requirements and the regulatory environment governing the business
unit’s operations. The Corporate and Other segment includes the operations of our internal real estate management subsidiary, various corporate activities and certain corporate expense items that are not reimbursed by our U.S. Government
customers. Our Corporate and Other segment does not contract with third-parties for the purpose of generating revenues. For additional information regarding our reportable segments and geographic areas, see Note 16 of the notes to consolidated
financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Government Segment

Our Government segment provides a wide array of technical services and solutions in the areas described below, primarily to U.S. federal, state and local government
agencies and foreign governments.



•Systems Engineering and Integration.We provide systems engineering and implementation services and solutions to help our customers design and integrate complex information technology (IT) networks and infrastructure. These services and solutions
include designing, installing, testing, repairing and maintaining IT systems.



•Software Development.We provide software development services and solutions to help our customers maximize value by extending and renovating critical systems through software capabilities. These services include automating code
generation, managing computer resources, and merging and evaluating large amounts of data.



•IT Outsourcing.We provide IT outsourcing services and solutions to help our customers optimize their IT infrastructure. These services and solutions include designing and implementing integrated IT service management approaches
to reduce overall costs and improve user satisfaction, identifying and recommending IT investments to improve business and operational performance and identifying underperforming assets for disposition.



•Cyber Security.We provide services and solutions to help our customers prepare for, protect against, react to and respond to a wide array of cyber security threats. These services and solutions include designing comprehensive
cyber-risk management programs to identify and neutralize cyber attacks, integrating and managing information security services to protect customers’ mission-critical data, identifying and selecting disaster recovery plans and performing tests
to certify that IT systems operate in accordance with design requirements.



•Secure Information Sharing and Collaboration.We provide services and solutions to help our customers share information and resources, including designing and developing information systems that access, process and analyze vast amounts of data from various sources to facilitate
information sharing and collaboration.



SAIC, Inc. Annual Report  1




PART I









•Data Processing and Analysis.We provide services and solutions to help our U.S. defense, intelligence and homeland security customers develop new processes, methods and technologies to improve the collection, analysis and interpretation of
the vast amounts of intelligence information to build an integrated intelligence picture, allowing them to be more agile and dynamic in challenging environments and produce actionable intelligence.



•Communication Systems and Infrastructure.We provide services and solutions to help our customers design and implement state-of-the-art communication systems. These services and solutions include designing, installing, testing,
repairing and maintaining voice, data and video communication systems and infrastructures.



•Logistics and Product Support.We provide logistics, supply chain management, demand forecasting and repair and maintenance services to enhance the readiness and operational capability of U.S. federal agencies and U.S. military personnel and
weapon and support systems deployed worldwide.



•Research and Development.We conduct leading-edge research and development of new technologies with applications in areas such as national security, intelligence and life sciences.



•Environmental Consulting Services.We provide services and solutions in assessing and mitigating evolving environmental challenges. Our services and solutions include collecting and interpreting data to assess the impacts of global climate changes,
designing and constructing “green” facilities, and developing clean fossil and carbon management technologies and other ways to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases. We also provide environmental compliance and remediation services,
including performing environmental risk assessment studies and coordinating remedial and hazardous waste investigations and programs.



•Energy and Utilities Services.We provide services and solutions in energy efficiency, demand reduction and sustainability programs to help customers reduce costs, manage risks and minimize the environmental impacts associated with energy and
utility consumption. We help energy users manage risks, evaluate energy consumption for efficiency and develop innovative, clean and renewable energy sources. We assist energy producers in addressing issues related to government mandates for cleaner
and alternative energy sources, infrastructure security, and intelligent, reliable transmission and distribution.



•Design and Construction Services.We develop life-cycle solutions merging technologies with the operational needs of our customers. We then provide architecture, design, engineering, construction and construction management services to implement
those solutions. Our areas of emphasis include energy, industrial and manufacturing facilities, advanced communications and critical infrastructure.



•Securing Critical Infrastructure.We provide customers in various industries with services to protect critical infrastructure from acts of terrorism and natural disasters as well as from threats due to error, maliciousness, wear and tear, planning
oversights and previously unforeseen vulnerabilities. These services and solutions include risk management (vulnerability assessments and threat identification), training exercises and simulations, awareness programs, physical security, protection
and detection systems and critical infrastructure continuity and contingency planning as well as casualty and damage assessment tools and disaster recovery services.



•Homeland Security.We provide customers with services and solutions in planning for and responding to public health emergencies and disasters. These services and solutions include emergency planning, multi-agency training and
exercises. We also design and develop products and applied technologies that aid anti-terrorism and homeland security efforts, including our border, port and security inspection systems.



•Geospatial Solutions.We provide services and solutions in satellite imagery and image processing, database development and analysis, visualization, application development and related IT enterprise architecture for customers in
various industries, including agriculture, defense, energy, forestry and water management.



•Space.We provide applied research and technology and modeling and simulation services to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and U.S. military, space and intelligence communities, including support related to mission
preparation, launch and execution.

Revenues from our Government segment accounted for 96%, 95% and 94% of our total revenues
in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Within the Government segment, the majority of our revenues are derived from contracts with the U.S. Government. The revenues from contracts with the U.S. Government include contracts where we serve as
the prime or lead contractor, as well as contracts where we serve as a subcontractor to other parties who are engaged directly with various U.S. Government agencies as the prime contractor. Some revenues in the Government segment are derived from
non-government customers for whom the work is performed by a Government segment business unit.

We often collaborate with other parties, including our
competitors, to submit bids for large U.S Government procurements or other opportunities where we believe that the combination of products and services that we can provide as a team will help us win and perform the contract. Our relationships with
our teammates, including whether we serve as the prime contractor or as a subcontractor, vary with each contract opportunity and typically depend on the program, contract or customer



2  SAIC, Inc. Annual Report




PART I









requirements, as well as the relative size, qualifications, capabilities and experience of our company and our teammates. Contracting with the U.S. Government also subjects us to substantial
regulation and unique risks, including the U.S. Government’s ability to cancel any contract at any time. Most of our contracts have cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and potential fees for
work performed. These regulations and risks are described in more detail below under the “Business–Regulation” and “Item 1A. Risk Factors” sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Commercial Segment

Our
Commercial segment primarily targets commercial customers worldwide in select industries, which currently include oil and gas, utilities and life sciences. While the Commercial segment provides an array of IT systems integration and advanced
technical services, the focused offerings include applications and IT infrastructure management, data lifecycle management, and business transformation services. Our Commercial segment customers often benefit from leveraging the services and
solutions that we provide to our Government segment customers. Revenues from our Commercial segment accounted for 4%, 5% and 6% of our total revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Acquisitions

The
acquisition of businesses is part of our growth strategy to provide new or enhance existing capabilities and offerings to customers and to establish new or enhance existing relationships with customers. We expect that a portion of our future growth
will come from recent and future acquisitions. During the last five fiscal years, we completed 22 acquisitions, most notably:



•In fiscal 2010, we acquired R.W. Beck Group, Inc., a provider of business, engineering, energy and infrastructure consulting services. This acquisition both
enhanced our existing capabilities and offerings in the areas of energy and infrastructure consulting services and provided new capabilities and offerings in disaster preparedness and recovery services.



•In fiscal 2009, we acquired SM Consulting, Inc., a provider of language translation, interpretation and training, and other consulting services to federal, state
and local governments and commercial customers. While this acquisition enhanced our existing capabilities and offerings, it also expanded our relationships with DoD customers in adjacent markets for these services. We also acquired Icon Systems,
Inc., a provider of laser-based systems and products for military training and testing. This acquisition enhanced our position in the live training environment by enabling us to provide a more comprehensive array of wireless training.



•In fiscal 2008, we acquired The Benham Companies LLC, a consulting, engineering, and architectural design company. This acquisition provided us with new
capabilities and offerings in the areas of industrial manufacturing and facilities design/build and enhanced our existing capabilities and offerings in the areas of energy consulting services and software development and integration services.



•In fiscal 2007, we acquired Applied Marine Technology, Inc., a provider of training, systems engineering and integration, information systems and communications,
and rapid prototyping of technical solutions and products focused on support to intelligence and special warfare operations, which enhanced our existing capabilities and offerings.



•In fiscal 2006, we acquired Geo-Centers, Inc. and its subsidiary, EAI Corporation, an engineering and professional services firm providing research and
development for chemical and biological detection, infrastructure assessment and protection, life science research, rapid response equipment and support, and sensor systems and integration. This acquisition added to our existing capabilities and
offerings in the area of homeland security and enhanced our relationship with these customers.

Discontinued Operations

From time to time, we dispose of non-strategic components of our business. During the last five
fiscal years, we completed four divestitures of businesses as follows:



•In fiscal 2010, we completed the sale of a non-strategic component of a business, which was held for sale as of January 31, 2009.



•In fiscal 2008, we completed a reorganization transaction involving our 55% interest in AMSEC LLC, a consolidated majority-owned subsidiary, resulting in the
disposition of our 55% interest in AMSEC LLC in exchange for our acquisition of certain divisions and subsidiaries of AMSEC LLC.



•In fiscal 2007, we completed the sale of our majority-owned subsidiary, ANXeBusiness Corp. (ANX).



•In fiscal 2006, we completed the sale of our subsidiary, Telcordia Technologies, Inc. (Telcordia).



SAIC, Inc. Annual Report  3




PART I









Contract Types

Our business is heavily regulated and we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government and other contracts. Generally, the type of contract for our
services and products is determined by or negotiated with the U.S. Government and may depend on certain factors, including the type and complexity of the work to be performed, degree and timing of the responsibility to be assumed by the contractor
for the costs of performance, the extent of price competition and the amount and nature of the profit incentive offered to the contractor for achieving or exceeding specified standards or goals. We generate revenues under several types of contracts,
with each of these contract types presenting advantages and disadvantages, as follows:



•Cost-reimbursement contracts provide for reimbursement of our direct contract costs and allocable indirect costs, plus a fee. This type of contract is generally
used when there is uncertainty involved in contract performance. Cost-reimbursement contracts generally subject us to lower risk, but generally require us to use our best efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within a specified time and amount
of costs.



•Time-and-materials (T&M) contracts typically provide for negotiated fixed hourly rates for specified categories of direct labor plus reimbursement of other
direct costs. This type of contract is generally used when there is uncertainty of the extent or duration of the work to be performed by the contractor when the contract is awarded. We assume financial risk on T&M contracts because we assume the
risk of performing these contracts at negotiated hourly rates.



•Fixed-price-level-of-effort (FP-LOE) contracts are substantially similar to T&M contracts except they require a specified level of effort over a stated
period of time. This type of contract is generally used when the contractor is required to perform an investigation or study in a specific research and development area and to provide a report showing the results achieved based on the level of
effort.



•Firm-fixed-price (FFP) contracts provide for a fixed price for specified products, systems and/or services. This type of contract is generally used when the
government acquires commercial items or specific amounts of supplies and services which have a determinable fair and reasonable price. These contracts subject us to higher risk, but offer us potential increased profits if we can complete the work at
lower costs than planned. While FFP contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, these contracts also increase our exposure to the risk of cost overruns. If actual costs vary from planned costs on a FFP contract, we generate more or less than
the planned amount of profit and may even incur a loss.

Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in
the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract, the nature of services or products provided, as well as the achievement of performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly
under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. Cost reimbursement and T&M contracts generally have lower profitability than FFP contracts. For the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract for fiscal
2010, 2009 and 2008, see “Key Financial Metrics—Sources of Revenues” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Contract Procurement

The U.S.
Government procurement environment has evolved due to statutory and regulatory procurement reform initiatives. Today, U.S. Government customers employ several procurement contracting methods to purchase services and solutions. The U.S. Government
has increasingly moved away from single award contracts towards contracting processes that give it the ability to select multiple winners or pre-qualify certain contractors to provide various products or services on established general terms and
conditions. The three predominant contracting methods through which U.S. Government agencies procure services and products are as follows:



•Single Award Contracts.U.S. Government agencies have procured services and products through single award contracts which specify the scope of services and products that will be delivered and identify the contractor that will provide the
specified services. When an agency has a requirement, interested contractors are solicited, qualified and then provided with a request for a proposal. The process of qualification, request for proposals and evaluation of bids requires the agency to
maintain a large, professional procurement staff and the bidding and selection process can take a year or more to complete. For the contractor, this method of contracting may provide greater certainty of the timing and amounts to be received at the
time of contract award because it generally results in the customer contracting for a specific scope of products and services from the single successful awardee.



•Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) Contracts.Single-award and multi-award IDIQ contracts are contract forms used to obtain commitments from contractors to provide certain products or services on pre-established terms and conditions.
Under IDIQ contracts, the U.S. Government issues task orders for specific products or services it needs and the contractor supplies products or services in accordance with the previously agreed-upon terms in the overall IDIQ contract. IDIQ contracts
are generally awarded to one or more contractors following a competitive procurement process. Under a single-award IDIQ contract, all task orders under that contract will be awarded to one pre-selected



4  SAIC, Inc. Annual Report




PART I









contractor. Under a multi-award IDIQ contract, task orders can be awarded to any of the pre-selected contractors, which can result in further limited competition for the award of task orders.
Multi-award IDIQ contracts that are open for any government agency to use for the procurement of services are commonly referred to as government-wide acquisition contracts, or GWACs. IDIQ contracts often have multi-year terms and unfunded ceiling
amounts, therefore enabling but not committing the U.S. Government to purchase substantial amounts of products and services from one or more contractors. At the time an IDIQ contract is awarded (prior to the award of any task orders), a contractor
may have limited or no visibility as to the ultimate amount of products or services that the U.S. Government will purchase under the contract.



•U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) Schedule Contracts.The GSA maintains listings of approved suppliers of services and products with agreed-upon prices for use throughout the U.S. Government. In order for a company to provide services under
a GSA Schedule contract, a company must be pre-qualified and awarded a contract by the GSA. When an agency uses a GSA Schedule contract to meet its requirements, the agency, or the GSA on behalf of the agency, conducts the procurement. The user
agency, or the GSA on its behalf, evaluates the user agency’s services requirements and initiates a competition limited to GSA Schedule qualified contractors. GSA Schedule contracts are designed to provide the user agency with reduced
procurement time and lower procurement costs. Similar to IDIQ contracts, at the time a GSA Schedule contract is awarded, a contractor may have limited or no visibility as to the ultimate amount of products or services that the U.S. Government will
purchase under the contract.

Backlog

Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed. Our backlog consists of funded backlog and negotiated unfunded backlog, each of which are
described in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We expect to recognize a substantial portion of our funded backlog as revenues
within the next 12 months. However, the U.S. Government may cancel any contract at any time. In addition, certain contracts with commercial customers include provisions that allow the customer to cancel at any time. Most of our contracts have
cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and potential fees for work performed. For additional discussion and analysis of backlog, see “Key Financial Metrics—Sources of Revenues” in
“Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Key Customers

In fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, 89%, 88% and 87%, respectively, of our total revenues were attributable to
prime contracts with the U.S. Government or to subcontracts with other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. Government. We generated more than 10% of our total revenues during the last three fiscal years from each of the U.S. Army and U.S. Navy.
Each of these customers has a number of subsidiary agencies which have separate budgets and procurement functions. Our contracts may be with the highest level of these agencies or with the subsidiary agencies of these customers.

The percentage of total revenues attributable to these customers for the last three fiscal years was as follows:



Year Ended January 31201020092008U.S. Army23%24%21%U.S. Navy121212

Competition

Competition for U.S. Government contracts is intense. We compete against a large number of established multinational corporations which may have
greater financial capabilities than we do. We also compete against smaller, more specialized companies that concentrate their resources on particular areas. As a result of the diverse requirements of the U.S. Government and our commercial customers,
we frequently collaborate with other companies to compete for large contracts, and bid against these team members in other situations. Due to the current industry trend toward consolidation, we expect changes in the competitive landscape. We believe
that our principal competitors include the following companies:



•the engineering and technical services divisions of large defense contractors which provide U.S. Government IT services in addition to other hardware systems and
products, including such companies as The Boeing Company, General Dynamics Corporation, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, BAE Systems plc, L-3 Communications Corporation and Raytheon Company;



•contractors focused principally on technical services, including U.S. Government IT services, such as Battelle Memorial Institute, Booz Allen Hamilton Inc., CACI
International Inc, ManTech International Corporation, Serco Group plc and SRA International, Inc.;



SAIC, Inc. Annual Report  5




PART I









•diversified commercial and U.S. Government IT providers, such as Accenture Ltd., Computer Sciences Corporation, HP Enterprise Services (formerly EDS, a Hewlett
Packard company), International Business Machines Corporation and Unisys Corporation;



•contractors who provide engineering, consulting, design and construction services, such as KBR, Inc. and CH2M Hill Companies Limited; and



•contractors focused on supplying border, port and security products including American Science and Engineering, Inc., OSI Systems, Inc. and Smith Group plc and
contractors providing supply chain management and other logistics services, including Agility Logistics, Inc. (a subsidiary of The Public Warehousing Company K.S.C.).

We compete on factors including, among others, our technical expertise and qualified professional personnel, our ability to deliver cost-effective solutions in a timely manner, our reputation and standing with
customers, pricing and the size and scale of our company.

Patents and Proprietary Information

Our technical services and products are not generally dependent upon patent protection, although we do selectively seek patent protection. We claim a proprietary
interest in certain of our products, software programs, methodologies and know-how. This proprietary information is protected by copyrights, trade secrets, licenses, contracts and other means.

We selectively pursue opportunities to license our technologies to third parties. From time to time, we also evaluate potential spin-offs or other transfers of our
technologies.

In connection with the performance of services for customers in the Government segment, the U.S. Government has certain rights to
inventions, data, software codes and related material that we develop under U.S. Government-funded contracts and subcontracts. Generally, the U.S. Government may disclose or license such information to third parties, including, in some instances,
our competitors. In the case of some subcontracts that we perform, the prime contractor may also have certain rights to the programs and products that we develop under the subcontract.

Research and Development

We conduct research and development activities under customer-funded
contracts and with internal research and development (IR&D) funds. IR&D efforts consist of projects involving basic research, applied research, development, and systems and other concept formulation studies. In fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008,
our IR&D expense was $49 million, $46 million and $48 million, respectively, which was included in selling, general and administrative expenses.

Seasonality

The U.S. Government’s fiscal year ends on September 30 of each year. It is not uncommon for U.S. Government
agencies to award extra tasks or complete other contract actions in the timeframe leading up to the end of its fiscal year in order to avoid the loss of unexpended fiscal year funds, which may favorably impact our third fiscal quarter ending
October 31. In addition, as a result of the cyclical nature of the U.S. Government budget process and a greater number of holidays in our fourth fiscal quarter ending January 31, as compared to our third fiscal quarter ending
October 31, we have from time to time (including fiscal 2010 and 2009) experienced sequentially higher revenues in our third fiscal quarter and lower revenues in our fourth fiscal quarter. For selected quarterly financial data, see Note 20 of
the notes to consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Regulation

We are heavily regulated in most of the fields in which we operate. We provide services and products to numerous U.S. Government agencies and entities, including all
of the branches of the U.S. military, NASA, intelligence agencies and DHS. When working with these and other U.S. Government agencies and entities, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of
contracts. Among other things, these laws and regulations:



•require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations;



•define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under various cost-based U.S. Government contracts;



•require reviews by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) and other U.S. Government agencies of compliance with government standards for accounting and
management internal control systems;



•restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data; and



•require us not to compete for or to divest of work if an organizational conflict of interest, as defined by these laws and regulations, related to such work
exists and/or cannot be appropriately mitigated.



6  SAIC, Inc. Annual Report




PART I









The U.S. Government may revise its procurement practices or adopt new contract rules and regulations at any time. In order to help ensure
compliance with these complex laws and regulations, all of our employees are required to complete ethics training and other compliance training relevant to their position.

Internationally, we are subject to special U.S. Government laws and regulations, local government regulations and procurement policies and practices (including regulations relating to bribery of foreign officials,
import-export control, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings) and varying currency, political and economic risks.

Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health
and safety laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in civil, criminal, administrative or contractual sanctions, including fines, penalties or suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S.
Government, or could cause us to incur costs to change, upgrade or close some of our operations or properties. Some environmental laws hold current or previous owners or operators of businesses and real property liable for hazardous substance
releases, even if they did not know of and were not responsible for the releases. Environmental laws may also impose liability on any person who disposes, transports, or arranges for the disposal or transportation of hazardous substances to any
site. In addition, we may face liability for personal injury, property damage and natural resource damages relating to hazardous substance releases for which we are otherwise liable or relating to exposure to or the mishandling of hazardous
substances in connection with our current and former operations or services. Although we do not currently anticipate that the costs of complying with, or the liabilities associated with, environmental laws will materially and adversely affect us, we
cannot ensure that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in the future.

Employees and Consultants

As of January 31, 2010, we employed approximately 46,200 full and part-time employees. We also utilize consultants to provide specialized technical and other
services on specific projects. To date, we have not experienced any strikes or work stoppages and we consider our relations with our employees to be good.

The highly technical and complex services and products that we provide are dependent upon the availability of professional, administrative and technical personnel having high levels of training and skills and, in many cases, security
clearances. Due to our growth and the increased competition for qualified personnel, it has become more difficult to meet all of our needs for these employees in a timely manner and this has affected our growth. We intend to continue to devote
significant resources to recruit, develop and retain qualified employees.

Company Website and Information

Our website can be accessed atwww.saic.com. The website contains information about us and our operations. Through a link on the Investor Relations section of
our website, copies of each of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports can be viewed and downloaded free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable
after the reports and amendments are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into and is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

You may request a copy of the materials identified in the preceding paragraph, at no cost, by writing or telephoning us at our corporate headquarters at the
following:

SAIC, Inc.

1710 SAIC Drive

McLean, VA 22102

Attention: Corporate Secretary

Telephone: (703) 676-4300

