
10-K
ANALOG DEVICES



================================================================================
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K
  (MARK ONE)
     [X]       ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (D) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 1, 1997

                                       OR

     [ ]    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (D) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

        FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM_______________ TO ________________

                           COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-7819

                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

      MASSACHUSETTS                                     04-2348234
(State or other jurisdiction of                      (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                       Identification No.)

    ONE TECHNOLOGY WAY, NORWOOD, MA                     02062-9106
(Address of principal executive offices)                (Zip Code)

                                 (781) 329-4700
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
                             ----------------------

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (B) OF THE ACT:

COMMON STOCK $.16 2/3 PAR VALUE                 NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE
     Title of Each Class              Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (G) OF THE ACT:

                                      NONE

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. YES X  NO

     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant was approximately $4,395,116,408 based on the closing price of
the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape reporting system
on December 31, 1997.

     As of December 31, 1997, there were 162,201,029 shares of $.16 2/3 par
value Common Stock outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION                                   10-K PART
    --------------------                                   ---------
Portions of Annual Report to 
   Shareholders for the fiscal year
   ended November 1, 1997                                   I and II
Portions of the Registrant's Proxy 
   Statement for the Annual Meeting 
   of Stockholders to be held March 10, 1998                  III

================================================================================





                                     PART I

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

COMPANY OVERVIEW

Analog Devices, Inc. ("Analog" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and
markets a broad line of high-performance linear, mixed-signal and digital
integrated circuits ("ICs") that address a wide range of real-world signal
processing applications. The Company's principal products include
general-purpose, standard-function linear and mixed-signal ICs ("SLICs") and
system-level ICs. The latter group includes general-purpose digital signal
processing ICs ("DSPs") and application-specific devices that typically
incorporate analog and mixed-signal circuitry and a DSP core.

Nearly all of Analog's products are components, which are typically incorporated
by original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") in a wide range of equipment and
systems for use in communications, computer, industrial, instrumentation,
military/aerospace, automotive and high-performance consumer electronics
applications.

The Company sells its products worldwide through a direct sales force,
third-party industrial distributors and independent sales representatives.
Approximately 46% of fiscal 1997 revenue was derived from customers in North
America, while most of the balance was derived from customers in Western Europe
and the Far East.

Analog is headquartered near Boston in Norwood, Massachusetts, and has
manufacturing facilities in Massachusetts, California, North Carolina, Ireland,
the Philippines and Taiwan. Founded in 1965, Analog employs approximately 7,500
persons worldwide.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

Real-world phenomena, such as temperature, pressure, sound, images, speed,
acceleration, position and rotation angle, are inherently analog in nature,
consisting of continuously varying information. This information can be detected
and measured using analog sensors, which represent real-world phenomena by
generating continuously varying voltages and currents. The signals from these
sensors are initially processed using analog methods, such as amplification,
filtering and shaping. They are then usually converted to digital form for input
to a microprocessor, which is used to manipulate, store or display the
information. In many cases the signals are further processed after conversion to
digital form using a technology called "digital signal processing," or DSP. In
addition, digital signals are frequently converted to analog form to provide
signals for analog display, sound, or control functions. These manipulations and
transformations are known collectively as "real-world signal processing."

Significant advances in semiconductor technology over the past 10 to 15 years
have led to substantial increases in the performance and functionality of ICs
used in signal processing applications. These advances include the ability to
create VLSI (Very Large Scale Integration) mixed-signal ICs that contain both
high-performance analog circuitry and large amounts of high-density digital
circuitry. The analog circuitry portion of the IC is used for manipulating
real-world signals while still in analog form and for converting analog signals
into digital form (or vice versa), and the digital portion is used for further
processing analog signals subsequent to their conversion to digital form. The
ICs resulting from these advances are used as components in equipment and
systems to achieve higher performance and more efficient signal processing.

PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

The Company operates predominantly in one industry segment: the design,
manufacture and marketing of a broad line of high-performance linear,
mixed-signal and digital integrated circuits that address a wide range of
real-world signal processing applications. Analog's products can be divided into
three classifications: Standard Linear ICs, system-level ICs and assembled
products.

A substantial portion of the Company's products are proprietary, while
equivalents to most of its other products are available from a limited number of
other suppliers.





SLICS

SLIC products have been the foundation of the Company's business for more than
20 years, and Analog believes it is one of the world's largest SLIC suppliers.
During 1997, 1996 and 1995, SLIC sales represented 61%, 57% and 64%,
respectively, of the Company's total sales. The Company's SLICs are primarily
high-performance, single-function devices. The majority of the Company's SLIC
product revenue is attributable to sales of data converters (analog-to-digital
and digital-to-analog) and amplifiers. Other SLIC products offered by the
Company include analog signal-processing devices (such as analog multipliers),
voltage references and comparators. Over the past few years the Company has been
expanding its SLIC product offerings into product areas where its focus was
previously limited, principally interface circuits and power management ICs. It
is also expanding its SLIC product line to include a much larger number of
products designed to operate from single-supply 3 or 5 volt power sources to
better meet the needs of customers designing portable, battery-operated
equipment.

Analog's SLIC products tend to be general purpose in nature, which allows
customers to incorporate them in a wide variety of equipment and systems.
Analog's product portfolio includes several hundred SLICs, any one of which can
have as many as several hundred customers. SLICs typically have long product
life cycles. The Company's SLIC customers include both OEMs and customers who
build equipment for their own use. Historically, most SLICs have been purchased
by OEMs which serve the instrumentation, industrial and military/aerospace
markets, but they are now also being used for applications in communications,
computers, camcorders, scanners, automatic test equipment, imaging and other
consumer applications requiring high-performance real-world signal processing.

By using standard, high-performance, readily available, off-the-shelf components
in their designs, Analog's customers can reduce the time required to develop and
bring new products to market. Given the high cost of developing customized ICs,
SLICs usually provide the most cost-effective solutions for low to medium volume
applications. In addition, combinations of SLICs connected together on a printed
circuit board can provide functionality not currently achievable using a single
IC.

SYSTEM-LEVEL ICS

Analog's system-level ICs include general-purpose DSP ICs and multi-function
devices that feature high levels of functional integration on a single chip.
During 1997, 1996 and 1995, sales of these products represented 35%, 38% and
28%, respectively, of the Company's total sales.

The Company's general-purpose DSP ICs are designed to efficiently execute
specialized programs (algorithms) associated with processing digitized
real-time, real-world data. General-purpose DSP IC customers typically write
their own algorithms using software tools provided by the Company and software
tools obtained from third-party suppliers. All of these devices share a common
architecture and code compatibility, which allows system designers to address
cost, performance and time-to-market constraints. Analog supports these products
with specialized applications and easy-to-use, low-cost design tools, which
reduce product development costs and time to market.

Most of Analog's system-level ICs, other than its general-purpose DSPs, are
mixed-signal devices some of which include a DSP core. The balance are
linear-only devices. These devices are nearly always designed to meet the
requirements of a specific application, and the design process often includes
significant input from one or more potential key customers. Market demand for
these types of devices is driven by the benefits that result from combining a
number of functions on a single circuit, as opposed to a combination of SLICs
and other ICs. These benefits include higher performance, lower cost per
function, smaller size, lower weight, fewer parts and decreased power
consumption. These products allow Analog's customers to design smaller, lighter,
higher performance, more power-efficient and lower cost end products. The
Company believes that these benefits are becoming more important to the
Company's OEM customers as they increase their focus on high-performance, small,
lightweight products, many of which are battery powered.





ASSEMBLED PRODUCTS

The Company's assembled products include multi-chip modules ("MCMs"), hybrids
and printed-board modules. A MCM is a device made up of several IC chips
assembled in an automated fashion in a multilayer package that provides high
interconnect density at low cost. A hybrid consists of several chips and
discrete components mounted and wired together on a substrate, which is then
enclosed in a package. A printed-board module consists of surface-mount
components assembled on a small printed board that is then encapsulated in a
small plastic case.

Revenues from this product group have been declining for several years,
primarily because hybrids have been replaced in many new designs with smaller,
lower-cost monolithic ICs that offer higher levels of performance and
integration at lower cost. During 1997, 1996 and 1995, sales of these products
represented 4%, 5% and 8%, respectively, of the Company's total sales.

MARKETS AND APPLICATIONS

The Company's products are sold primarily to OEMs for incorporation into
equipment, instruments and systems sold to end users for a wide variety of
applications, including engineering; medical and scientific instruments;
industrial equipment; communications equipment; computers and computer
peripherals; military/aerospace equipment; high-end consumer electronics
products and automotive products. The Company's growth has been aided both by
the expansion of these markets and the increasing need for high-performance
real-time signal processing.

Listed below are some of the characteristics of each of the Company's major
markets:

INSTRUMENTATION--includes engineering, medical and scientific instruments. These
products are usually designed using the highest performance SLICs available,
where production volumes generally do not warrant custom or application-specific
ICs.

INDUSTRIAL--includes data acquisition systems, automatic process control
systems, robotics, environmental control systems and automatic test equipment
("ATE"). These products generally require ICs that offer performance greater
than that available from commodity-level ICs, but generally do not have
production volumes that warrant custom or application-specific ICs. Combinations
of SLICs are therefore usually employed to achieve the necessary functionality,
except in ATE applications where the high level of electronic circuitry required
per tester has created opportunities for the design of system-level ICs for this
application.

COMMUNICATIONS--includes data and fax modems, digital cellular telephones and
portable, wireless communication base station equipment and broadband wired
applications. The need for ever higher speed, coupled with more reliable, more
bandwidth-efficient communications is creating increasing demand for systems
that include both digital and analog signal processing capability. Demand for
signal processing ICs for this market is also being driven by the equipment
manufacturers' need for components that enable them to develop cost-effective
products that feature high performance, small size, low weight and minimal power
consumption.

COMPUTERS AND COMPUTER PERIPHERALS--includes high-performance personal
computers, workstations and peripheral devices such as hard disk drives and
scanners. The Company currently supplies a variety of ICs used in this market
for functions such as graphic displays; interfaces between PCs and peripherals
such as modems and printers; power and battery management; and enhanced sound
input and output capability for business and entertainment applications.

MILITARY/AEROSPACE--includes military, commercial avionics and space markets,
all of which require high-performance ICs that meet rigorous environmental and
reliability specifications. Nearly all of the Company's SLICs can be supplied in
versions that meet appropriate military standards. In addition, many products
can be supplied to meet the standards required for broadcast satellites and
other commercial space applications. Most of the Company's products sold in this
market are derived from standard commercial grade ICs, although the Company
sometimes develops products expressly for military/aerospace applications.





CONSUMER ELECTRONICS--The emergence of high-performance consumer products, such
as compact disc players, DVD players and digital camcorders, has led to the need
for high-performance system-level ICs with a high level of functionality.
Although the Company's revenue from this market has not been significant, the
Company has begun supplying ICs for sophisticated products used by consumers for
computing, communications and entertainment applications, and believes that many
of these applications will involve digital signal processing.

AUTOMOTIVE--Although the automotive market has historically been served with
low-cost, low-performance ICs, demand has emerged for higher performance devices
for a wide range of applications. In response, Analog is developing products
specifically for the automotive market. The Company is supplying a micromachined
IC used as a crash sensor in airbag systems, which serves as an alternative to
an electromechanical sensor. The Company anticipates that other micromachined
devices derived from this product may be suitable for other automotive
applications, such as anti-lock brakes and "smart" suspension systems.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The markets served by Analog are characterized by rapid technological changes
and advances. Accordingly, the Company makes substantial investments in the
design and development of new products and processes, and for significant
improvement of existing products and processes. Analog spent $196 million during
fiscal 1997 on the design, development and improvement of new and existing
products and processes, compared to $178 million during fiscal 1996 and $134
million during fiscal 1995.

In support of its research and development activities, the Company employs
several hundred engineers involved in product and process development at several
design centers and manufacturing sites located throughout the world.

As of November 1, 1997, the Company owned 486 U.S. patents and had 168 patent
applications on file with the United States patent office. The Company believes
that while its patents may provide some advantage, its competitive position is
largely determined by such factors as the knowledge, ability and experience of
the Company's personnel, new product development, market recognition and ongoing
marketing efforts, customer service and technical support.

SALES CHANNELS

Analog sells its products in both North America and internationally through a
direct sales force, third-party distributors and independent sales
representatives. Approximately 46% of fiscal 1997 revenue was derived from
customers in North America. As of December 1, 1997, the Company had 13 sales
offices in the United States, and its third-party distribution channel consisted
of eight national and regional third-party distributors and several independent
sales representatives at numerous locations throughout the U.S. and Canada.

Approximately 29% of the Company's fiscal 1997 revenue was derived from sales to
customers in Europe; 13% to customers in Japan; and 12% to customers in other
international markets. As of December 1, 1997, the Company had direct sales
offices in Australia, Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, The Netherlands, Singapore, Sweden, Taiwan and the
United Kingdom. The Company also had sales representatives and/or distributors
in approximately 36 countries outside North America, including countries where
the Company also has direct sales offices. For further detail regarding
geographic information, see Note 3 in the Notes to the Company's Consolidated
Financial Statements incorporated herein by reference to the 1997 Annual Report
to Shareholders and filed herewith as part of Exhibit 13.2.

Approximately 42% of Analog's fiscal 1997 revenue was derived from sales made
through distributors. The Company's distributors typically maintain an inventory
of Analog products. Some of these distributors also sell products competitive
with the Company's products, including those for which the Company is an
alternate source. Sales to certain distributors are made under agreements which
provide protection to the distributors for their inventory of Company products
against price reductions and products that are slow-moving or have been
discontinued by the Company.





The Company's worldwide sales efforts are supported by an extensive promotional
program that includes editorial coverage and paid advertising in trade
publications; direct mail programs; promotional brochures; technical seminars;
and participation in trade shows. The Company publishes and distributes
full-length databooks, short-form catalogs, applications guides, technical
handbooks and detailed data sheets for individual products. The Company also
provides products and application information via its worldwide web site on the
Internet. The Company also maintains a staff of application engineers who aid
customers in incorporating Analog's products into their products during their
product development cycles.

For fiscal 1997, Analog's 20 largest customers accounted for approximately 29%
of the Company's net sales. The largest single customer represented less than 4%
of net sales.

PRODUCTION AND RAW MATERIALS

Monolithic integrated circuit components are manufactured in a sequence of
production steps that include wafer fabrication, wafer testing, cutting the
wafer into individual "chips" (or dice), assembly of the dice into packages and
electrical testing of the devices in final packaged form. The raw materials used
to manufacture these devices include silicon wafers, processing chemicals
(including liquefied gases), precious metals, ceramic packages and plastic used
for plastic packaging.

In addition to using industry-standard bipolar and CMOS wafer fabrication
processes, Analog employs a wide variety of Company-developed proprietary
processes specifically tailored for use in fabricating high-performance linear
and mixed-signal SLICs and system-level ICs.

Analog's IC products are fabricated both at the Company's production facilities
and by third-party wafer fabricators. The Company relies primarily on its own
facilities for fabricating wafers that require linear and mixed-signal
processes. The Company operates wafer fabrication facilities in Wilmington and
Cambridge, Massachusetts; Santa Clara and Sunnyvale, California; and Limerick,
Ireland for production of linear and mixed-signal devices. The Company also
operates assembly and test facilities located in the United States, Ireland, the
Philippines and Taiwan and also uses third-party subcontractors. The Company
uses two principal foundries, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company
("TSMC") and Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Pte., Ltd. ("CSM") for the
production of digital and VLSI mixed-signal devices. To provide access to
advanced process technology at competitive costs, the Company has entered into a
joint venture agreement (WaferTech, LLC) with TSMC, Altera, Integrated Silicon
Solutions and several individual investors to build an eight-inch wafer
fabrication facility in Camas, Washington. Analog is an 18% equity partner in
the joint venture, which is expected to become operational late in 1998, and has
rights to purchase up to 27% of the output from this facility.

Hybrid products are manufactured by mounting and connecting together several
integrated circuit chips in a single package. Some of the chips used in the
Company's hybrids are manufactured by the Company and some are purchased from
outside suppliers. The production process for modular components, subsystems and
systems consists primarily of assembly, packaging and testing. Some of the
Company's assembled products are assembled and tested within the Company's U.S.
manufacturing facilities, while others are assembled and tested at Company-owned
facilities outside the United States or by subcontractors, principally in the
Far East.

To respond to production capacity shortages which existed during 1995, the
Company significantly expanded its manufacturing capacity during 1996 and 1997.
Major wafer fabrication expansions have been completed in Wilmington,
Massachusetts; Cambridge, Massachusetts; Sunnyvale, California and Limerick,
Ireland. In addition, the Company has completed construction of an additional
assembly and test facility in Cavite, Philippines.

BACKLOG

Backlog at the end of fiscal 1997 was approximately $280 million; it was
approximately $291 million at the end of fiscal 1996. The Company may allow
customers to revise the quantities or delivery schedules of products ordered to
reflect changes in their needs. Accordingly, the Company believes that its
backlog at any time should not be used as a measure of future revenues.





GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS

The Company estimates that approximately 12% of its fiscal 1997 total worldwide
revenue was attributable to sales to the U.S. government and government
contractors and subcontractors. Analog's government contract related business is
predominantly in the form of negotiated, firm fixed-price subcontracts. All such
contracts and subcontracts contain standard provisions relating to termination
at the election of the United States government.

COMPETITION

Analog competes with a large number of semiconductor companies in markets that
are highly competitive. The Company believes it is one of the largest suppliers
of high-performance linear and mixed-signal signal-processing components. These
types of products fall into both the SLIC and system-level IC product
categories. Competitors for the Company's linear and mixed-signal products
include Burr-Brown Corp., Cirrus Logic Inc., Exar Corp., Harris Corp., Linear
Technology Corp., Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., National Semiconductor Corp.,
Rockwell International Corp., Sierra Semiconductor Corp., Siliconix Inc., Texas
Instruments, Inc. and others.

Sales of DSPs represent a growing percentage of the Company's total sales.
Analog's competitors in the DSP IC market include Lucent Technologies Inc.,
Motorola Semiconductor Products and Texas Instruments, Inc.

Many other companies offer components that compete with Analog's products; some
also offer other electronic products, and some have financial resources
substantially larger than Analog's. Also, some formerly independent competitors
have been purchased by larger companies. However, to the Company's knowledge, no
manufacturer competes with Analog across all of the product types offered by the
Company in its signal-processing components product line.

Analog believes that competitive performance in the marketplace for real-world
signal-processing components depends upon several factors, including product
price, technical innovation, product quality and reliability, range of products,
customer service and technical support. Analog believes its aggressive technical
innovation emphasizing product performance and reliability, supported by its
commitment to strong customer service and technical support, enables the Company
to continue to compete successfully in its chosen markets against both foreign
and domestic semiconductor manufacturers.

ENVIRONMENT

Analog's manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous environmental laws and
regulations, particularly with respect to industrial waste and emissions.
Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on the
Company's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

EMPLOYEES

As of November 1, 1997, the Company employed approximately 7,500 persons. The
Company's future success depends in large part on the continued service of its
key technical and senior management personnel, and on its ability to continue to
attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, particularly those highly
skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the manufacture of
existing products and the development of new products and processes. The
competition for such personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees could
have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company believes that
relations with its employees are good.






ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES

The Company's corporate headquarters is located in Norwood, Massachusetts.
Manufacturing and other operations are carried on in several locations
worldwide. The following tables provide certain information as to the Company's
principal general offices and manufacturing facilities:




                                                                              






ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES -- (CONTINUED)

In addition to the principal leased properties listed in the previous table, the
Company also leases sales offices and other premises at 29 locations in the
United States and 28 locations overseas under operating lease agreements. These
leases expire at various dates through the year 2010. The Company anticipates no
difficulty in retaining occupancy of any of its manufacturing, office or sales
facilities through lease renewals prior to expiration or through month-to-month
occupancy, or in replacing them with equivalent facilities. For information
concerning the Company's obligations under all operating and capital leases see
Note 7 in the Notes to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements
incorporated herein by reference to the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders and
filed herewith as part of Exhibit 13.2.

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The information required by this item is set forth in Note 8 in the Notes to the
Company's Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated herein by reference to
the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders and filed herewith as part of Exhibit
13.2.

ITEM 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's security holders during the
last quarter of the fiscal year ended November 1, 1997.


\

                        EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The following table sets forth (i) the name and age of each present executive
officer of the Company; (ii) the position(s) presently held by each person
named; and (iii) the principal occupations held by each person named for at
least the past five years.









There is no family relationship among the named officers.





                                     PART II

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The Company's Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE")
under the symbol ADI. The table below sets forth the NYSE high and low sale
prices of the Common Stock during the two most recent fiscal years.



The Company's $60,000,000 credit agreement restricts the aggregate of all cash
dividend payments declared or made subsequent to November 2, 1996 to an amount
not exceeding $150,000,000 plus 50% of the consolidated net income of the
Company for the period from November 3, 1996 through the end of the Company's
then most recent fiscal quarter. At November 1, 1997 this amount was equal to
$239,110,000. The Company has never paid any cash dividends on its Common Stock
and has no current intentions to do so.

The approximate number of holders of record of the Company's Common Stock at
December 31, 1997 was 5,132. This number does not include shareholders for whom
shares are held in a "nominee" or "street" name.

ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the
"Management Analysis" set forth on pages 1 through 7 of the 1997 Annual Report
to Shareholders and is filed herewith as part of Exhibit 13.1.

ITEM 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the
"Management Analysis" set forth on pages 1 through 7 of the 1997 Annual Report
to Shareholders and is filed herewith as part of Exhibit 13.1.




ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the
Company's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders under the headings "Financial
Section - Consolidated Statements of Income, - Consolidated Balance Sheets, -
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity, - Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows, - Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, - Report of Ernst &
Young LLP, Independent Auditors and - Supplementary Financial Information," and
is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.2.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.


                                    PART III


ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The response to this item is contained in part under the caption "EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY" in Part I hereof, and the remainder is contained in the
Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
March 10, 1998 (the "1998 Proxy Statement") under the caption "Election of
Directors" and is incorporated herein by reference. Information relating to a
delinquent filing of a Form 4 by an Executive Officer of the Company is
contained in the Company's 1998 Proxy Statement under the caption "Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance."

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The response to this item is contained in the Company's 1998 Proxy Statement
under the captions "Directors' Compensation," "Executive Compensation," and
"Severance and Other Agreements," and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The response to this item is contained in the Company's 1998 Proxy Statement
under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management" and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The response to this item is contained in the Company's 1998 Proxy Statement
under the caption "Transactions with Directors," and is incorporated herein by
reference.





                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) 1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      The following consolidated financial statements are included in the
      Company's 1997 Annual Report and are incorporated herein by reference 
      pursuant to Item 8:

        -  Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended November 1,
           1997, November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995

        -  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of November 1, 1997, November 2, 1996
           and October 28, 1995

        -  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended
           November 1, 1997, November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995

        -  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended November 1,
           1997, November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995

(a) 2.     FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

      The following consolidated financial statement schedule is included in
      Item 14(d):

        Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

      All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is
      not present, or not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of
      the schedule, or because the information required is included in the
      consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto.

(a) 3.     LISTING OF EXHIBITS


















                                   SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
 (Registrant)

By:   /s/  Jerald G. Fishman                  By:   /s/  Joseph E. McDonough
      ------------------------------------          ----------------------------
      Jerald G. Fishman                             Joseph E. McDonough
      President                                     Vice President-Finance
      Chief Executive Officer                       and Chief Financial Officer
      and Director                                  (Principal Financial and
      (Principal Executive Officer)                 Accounting Officer)


Date: JANUARY 28, 1998                        Date: JANUARY 28, 1998
      ------------------------------------          ----------------------------


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



*    Became a member of the Board of  Directors  on  December  10, 1997 and,  
     accordingly,  did not serve as a Director during fiscal 1997.




                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                           YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 1, 1997

                                   ITEM 14(d)
                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE





                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
       YEARS ENDED NOVEMBER 1, 1997, NOVEMBER 2, 1996 AND OCTOBER 28, 1995
                                   (THOUSANDS)



* Amounts have been restated to reflect reclassification of certain reserves
  from Accrued liabilities to Accounts receivable.







