10-K


b48618aie10vk.htm

ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

ANALOG DEVICES, INC.


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended November 1,

OR

o

TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Transition period
from           to

Commission File No. 1-7819

Analog Devices, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

(781) 329-4700

(Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code)

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Common Stock $0.16 2/3 Par
    Value

New York Stock Exchange

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which
    Registered

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Title of Each Class

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter
period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past
90 days.     YES

ü

NO

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this
Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is
an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2).     YES

ü

NO

The aggregate market value of the voting and
non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the
registrant was approximately $12,146,757,233 based on the last
reported sale of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange
Composite Tape reporting system on May 2, 2003.

As of November 28, 2003 there were
371,805,134 shares of Common Stock, $0.16 2/3 par
value per share, outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by Reference



PART I

ITEM
1.     BUSINESS

Company Overview

We are a leader in the design, manufacture and
marketing of high-performance analog, mixed-signal and digital
signal processing integrated circuits. Since our inception in
1965, we have focused on solving the engineering challenges
associated with signal processing in electronic equipment.
Signal processing is where the analog and digital worlds meet to
provide the advantages of digital technology to the real world.

Our products play a fundamental role in
converting real-world phenomena such as temperature, motion,
pressure, light and sound into electrical signals to be used in
a wide array of electronic equipment ranging from industrial
process control, factory automation equipment, security systems,
defense electronics, base stations, central office equipment,
wireless telephones, computers, automobiles, CAT scanners,
digital cameras and DVD players. Signal processing is the
cornerstone of high-speed communications, digital entertainment,
and other consumer, computer and industrial applications. As new
generations of digital applications evolve, they generate new
needs for high-performance analog and digital signal processing,
or DSP, technology.

We produce a wide range of products that are
designed to meet the technology needs of a broad base of
customers. Markets for our products include communications,
computers and computer peripherals, consumer electronics and
industrial applications.

During fiscal 2003, approximately 35% to 40% of
our revenue came from the industrial market, which includes
factory automation, medical equipment, scientific
instrumentation, automatic test equipment, automotive
electronics, security equipment and aerospace and defense
systems.

Revenues from the communications market also
represented approximately 35% to 40% of our fiscal 2003
revenues. Communications applications include wireless handsets
and base stations, as well as products used for high-speed
access to the Internet, including broadband modems and central
office networking equipment.

We also serve the personal computer market with
products that monitor and manage power usage, process signals
used in flat panel displays and multimedia projectors and enable
CD-quality audio. In fiscal 2003, the computer market accounted
for approximately 15% of our revenue.

The demand for our products in high-performance
consumer electronics has been increasing and represented
approximately 10% of our revenue for fiscal 2003. Applications
in this market include digital cameras and camcorders, DVD
players, digital televisions and surround sound audio systems.

We sell our products worldwide through a direct
sales force, third-party distributors and independent sales
representatives. We have direct sales offices in
19 countries, including the United States.

We are headquartered near Boston, in Norwood,
Massachusetts, and have manufacturing facilities in
Massachusetts, California, North Carolina, Ireland and the
Philippines. We were founded in 1965 and are incorporated in
Massachusetts. As of November 1, 2003, we employed
approximately 8,400 individuals worldwide. Our common stock
is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ADI
and is included in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.

We maintain a website with the address
www.analog.com. We are not including the information contained
on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference
into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available
free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current
Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as
soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission. In addition, we intend to disclose on our
website any amendments to, or waivers from, our code of business
conduct and ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed
pursuant to rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission and
the New York Stock Exchange.



Industry Background

All electronic signals fall into one of two
categories, analog or digital. Analog, also known as linear,
signals represent real-world phenomena, such as temperature,
pressure, sound, speed and motion. This information can be
detected and measured using analog sensors, which represent
real-world phenomena by generating continuously-varying voltages
and currents. The signals from these sensors are initially
processed using analog methods, such as amplification, filtering
and shaping. They are then usually converted to digital form for
storage or further manipulation. The further manipulation of the
signals after conversion to digital form is called “digital
signal processing.” Digital signals represent the
“ones” and “zeros” of binary arithmetic and
are either on or off. Digital signals are frequently converted
back to analog form for functions such as video display, audio
output or control. These manipulations and transformations from
analog to digital and back to analog are known as
“real-world signal processing” within the signal chain.

Significant advances in semiconductor technology
in recent years have substantially increased the performance and
functionality of integrated circuits, or ICs, used in signal
processing applications. These advances include the ability to
combine analog and digital signal processing capability on a
single chip, thereby making possible more highly-integrated
solutions. The widespread application of low-cost
microprocessor-based systems and of digital communication
technologies has increased the need for signal conditioning
interfaces between the analog and digital world. At the same
time, the convergence of computing and communications has
resulted in end products that incorporate state-of-the-art
signal processing capability onto as few chips as possible. Our
products are designed to be used within electronic equipment to
achieve higher performance, including greater speed, improved
accuracy, more efficient signal processing and minimized power
consumption.

Principal Products

We design, manufacture and market a broad line of
high-performance ICs that incorporate analog, mixed-signal and
digital signal processing technologies. Our ICs are designed to
address a wide range of real-world signal processing
applications. Across the entire range of our signal processing
ICs are both general purpose products used by a broad range of
customers and applications as well as application-specific
products designed for specific clusters of customers in vertical
markets. By using readily available, high-performance,
general-purpose products in their systems, our customers can
reduce the time they need to bring new products to market. Given
the high cost of developing customized ICs, our standard
products often provide the most cost-effective solution for many
low to medium volume applications. In some communications,
computer and consumer products, we focus on working with leading
customers to design application-specific solutions. We begin
with our existing core technologies in analog, DSP and
mixed-signal, and devise a solution to more closely meet the
needs of a specific customer or group of customers. Because we
have already developed the core technology for our
general-purpose products, we can create application-specific
solutions quickly.

We produce and market several thousand products.
Our ten highest revenue products accounted for approximately 18%
of our revenue for fiscal 2003. The majority of our products are
proprietary, meaning equivalent products are not available from
competitors. A limited number of other companies may provide
products with similar functions.

Analog Products

Our analog IC technology has been the
foundation of our business for nearly four decades, and we
believe we are one of the world’s largest suppliers of
analog ICs. Our analog ICs are primarily high-performance
devices, generally defined as devices that support a minimum of
10-bits of accuracy and a minimum of 50 megahertz of speed. The
principal advantages these applications have versus
competitors’ products include higher accuracy, lower cost
per function, smaller size, lower weight and fewer components
for improved reliability. The majority of our analog IC product
revenue is attributable to sales of data converters and
amplifiers. The data converter and amplifier product categories
represented approximately 60% of our fiscal 2003 revenues. Other
analog IC products include analog signal processing devices such
as analog multipliers, switches, multiplexers and comparators.
Over the past several years we have been expanding our analog IC



product offerings along the entire analog signal
chain and into product areas such as radio frequency integrated
circuits, or RF ICs, power management and thermal monitoring ICs.

The majority of our analog IC products are
proprietary to us in their design and general purpose in their
application. This allows customers to incorporate our products
into a wide variety of electronic equipment and systems. Our
product portfolio includes several thousand analog ICs, any one
of which can have as many as several hundred customers. Our
analog ICs typically have long product life cycles. Our analog
IC customers include both original equipment manufacturers, or
OEMs, and customers who build electronic subsystems for
integration into larger systems.

Our analog technology base also includes products
using an advanced IC technology known in the industry as surface
micromachining, which is used to produce semiconductor products
known as micro-electromechanical systems, or MEMS. This
technology enables extremely small mechanical structures to be
built on the surface of a chip along with supporting circuitry.
In addition to incorporating an electro-mechanical structure,
these devices also have analog circuitry for conditioning
signals obtained from the sensing element. The integration of
signal conditioning and MEMS is a unique feature of our products
which we call iMEMS®. Our iMEMS product portfolio includes
accelerometers used to sense acceleration, and gyroscopes used
to sense position. The majority of our current revenue from
micromachined products is derived from accelerometers used by
automotive manufacturers in airbag applications. Our next
generation of inertial sensors for the airbag market will
incorporate both silicon-on-insulator, or SOI, and MEMS
technology. SOI MEMS is a process where one layer is used for
the MEMS device and the other layer is used for the circuitry.
This process will enable more signal processing circuitry to be
integrated with the MEMS structure.

DSP Products

DSPs are processors that are optimized for
high-speed numeric calculations, which are essential for
real-time processing of digital data representing analog
signals. Our DSP products are designed to be fully programmable
and to efficiently execute specialized software programs, or
algorithms, associated with processing digitized real-time,
real-world data. Programmable DSPs provide the flexibility to
modify the device’s function quickly and inexpensively in
software. We offer both general-purpose and application-specific
DSP products. General-purpose DSP IC customers typically write
their own algorithms using software tools that we provide and
software tools they obtain from third-party suppliers. Our
application-specific DSP products typically include analog and
DSP technology and the DSPs are preprogrammed to execute
software for applications such as wireless telecommunications or
image processing. Our DSPs are designed in families of products
that share a common architecture and therefore can execute the
same software. We support these products with specialized
applications and easy-to-use, low-cost development tools, which
reduce our customers’ product development costs and
time-to-market.

Mixed-Signal Products

Our products also include multi-function
mixed-signal devices and chipsets that incorporate combinations
of analog and DSP technology. The growing technological demands
associated with the use of audio and video in computers and
consumer products as well as the networking of communications
systems has created new opportunities for these mixed-signal
products. Examples of these products include chipsets for
communication applications such as global system for mobile
cellular phones, or GSM, cable modems, and broadband modems.
Other examples include audio input/ output devices for computer
applications and electric motor control devices for industrial
instrumentation.



Markets and Applications

The following describes some of the
characteristics of, and customer products within, our major
markets:

Industrial

—
Our industrial market includes the following areas:

Industrial Process
Automation

— Our industrial
process automation market includes factory automation systems,
automatic process control systems, robotics, environmental
control systems and automatic test equipment. These products
generally require ICs that offer performance greater than that
available from commodity-level ICs, but generally do not have
production volumes that warrant custom or application-specific
ICs. Combinations of analog and mixed-signal ICs are usually
employed to achieve the necessary functionality. Automatic test
equipment applications have created opportunities for the design
of system-level ICs that require a high level of electronic
circuitry.

Instrumentation

—
Our instrumentation market includes engineering, medical and
scientific instruments. These products are usually designed
using the highest performance analog and mixed-signal ICs
available. Customer products include oscilloscopes, logic
analyzers, CAT scanners, MRI equipment, blood analyzers and
microscopes.

Military/
Aerospace

— The military,
commercial avionics and space markets all require
high-performance ICs that meet rigorous environmental and
reliability specifications. Many of our analog ICs can be
supplied in versions that meet appropriate military standards.
In addition, many products can be supplied to meet the standards
required for broadcast satellites and other commercial space
applications. Most of our products sold in this market are
specifically-tested versions of products derived from our
standard product offering. Customer products include navigation
systems, flight simulators, radar systems and security devices.

Automotive

—
Although the automotive market has historically been served with
low-cost, low-performance ICs, demand has emerged for higher
performance devices for a wide range of safety and entertainment
applications. In response, we are developing products
specifically for the automotive market. We supply a
micromachined IC used as a crash sensor in airbag systems. We
believe that other micromachined devices derived from this
product may be suitable for other automotive applications, such
as roll-over sensing, global positioning satellite, or GPS,
automotive navigation systems, anti-lock brakes and
“smart” suspension systems.

Communications

—
The development of broadband, wireless and Internet
infrastructures around the world has created an important market
for our communications products. Communications technology
involves the acquisition of analog signals that are converted
from analog to digital and digital to analog form during the
process of transmitting and receiving data. The need for higher
speed and reduced power consumption, coupled with more reliable,
bandwidth-efficient communications, has been creating demand for
our products, which are used in systems that include digital,
analog and mixed-signal processing capability. Our products are
used in the full spectrum of signal processing for audio, data,
image and video communication. In wireless and broadband
communication applications, our products are incorporated into
cellular telephones, cellular base station equipment, digital
subscriber line, or DSL, modems, pagers, PBX switches, routers
and remote access servers.

Computers and Computer
Peripherals

— Increased
interface between users and PCs through monitors, printers,
scanners and audio devices and the increasing need for power and
thermal management capability in PCs have provided opportunities
in the computer market. The computer industry seeks to develop
and market ever smaller and lighter personal computers. This
need increases demand for high-performance ICs that monitor
power usage, enabling manufacturers to use smaller batteries and
extend battery life between charges. We currently supply a
variety of ICs used in this market for functions such as graphic
displays, interfaces between PCs and peripherals such as LCD
monitors and projectors, power and battery management, and
enhanced audio input and output capability for business and
entertainment applications.

Consumer
Electronics

— Increased
market demand for digital entertainment systems for acquisition,
display and digital processing of signals has allowed us to
combine analog and digital design capability to provide
solutions that are designed to meet the rigorous cost, size and
reliability constraints of the consumer



electronics market. The emergence of
high-performance, feature-rich consumer products, such as
digital camcorders and cameras, home theater systems, digital
television, video projectors and DVD recorders/ players, has led
to the need for high-performance, system-level ICs with a high
level of specific functionality.

Research and Development

Our markets are characterized by rapid
technological changes and advances. Accordingly, we make
substantial investments in the design and development of new
products and processes, and the improvement of existing products
and processes. We spent approximately $450 million during
fiscal 2003 on the design, development and improvement of new
and existing products and processes, compared to approximately
$424 million during fiscal 2002 and approximately
$465 million during fiscal 2001.

Our research and development strategy focuses on
building technical leadership in core technologies for signal
conditioning, conversion and processing. In support of our
research and development activities, we employ thousands of
engineers involved in product and process development at over 30
design centers and manufacturing sites located throughout the
world.

Patents and Other Intellectual Property
Rights

As of November 1, 2003, we held 817 United
States patents and had 439 patent applications pending with the
United States Patent and Trademark Office with expiration dates
ranging from 2003 through 2022. We believe that while our
patents may provide some advantage, our competitive position is
largely determined by such factors as the system and application
knowledge, ability and experience of our personnel, the range
and number of new products being developed by us, our market
brand recognition and ongoing marketing efforts, customer
service and technical support. It is generally our policy to
seek patent protection for significant inventions that may be
patented, though we may elect, in certain cases, not to seek
patent protection even for significant inventions, if other
protection, such as maintaining the invention as a trade secret,
is considered more advantageous. We also have trademarks that
are used in the conduct of our business to distinguish genuine
Analog Devices’ products and we maintain cooperative
advertising programs to promote our brands and identify products
containing genuine Analog Devices’ components. In addition,
we have registered certain of our mask sets under the
Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984.

There can be no assurance that any patent will
issue on pending applications or that any patent issued will
provide substantive protection for the technology or product
covered by it. There also can be no assurance that others will
not develop or patent similar technology or reverse engineer our
products or that our confidentiality agreements with employees,
consultants, silicon foundries and other suppliers and vendors
will be adequate to protect our interests. Moreover, the laws of
countries in which we design, manufacture and market our
products may afford little or no effective protection of our
proprietary technology.

The semiconductor industry is characterized by
frequent claims and litigation involving patent and other
intellectual property rights, including claims arising under our
contractual indemnification of our customers. We have received
from time to time, and may receive in the future, claims from
third parties asserting that our products or processes infringe
their patents or other intellectual property rights. In the
event a third party makes a valid intellectual property claim
against us and a license is not available to us on commercially
reasonable terms, or at all, we could be forced either to
redesign or to stop production of products incorporating that
intellectual property, and our operating results could be
materially and adversely affected. Litigation may be necessary
to enforce our patents or other of our intellectual property
rights or to defend us against claims of infringement, and this
litigation could be costly and divert the attention of our key
personnel. See Note 12 in the Notes to our Consolidated
Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K for information concerning pending
litigation that involves us. An adverse outcome in this or other
litigation could have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated financial position or on our consolidated results
of operations or cash flows in the period in which the
litigation is resolved.



Sales Channels

We sell our products in North America and
internationally through a direct sales force, third-party
distributors and independent sales representatives.

Approximately 26% of our fiscal 2003 net sales
were to customers in North America. As of December 1, 2003,
we had 12 sales offices in the United States and one in Canada.

Approximately 19% of our fiscal 2003 net sales
were to customers in Europe. As of December 1, 2003, we had
direct sales offices in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France,
Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Sweden and the United Kingdom.

Approximately 18% of our fiscal 2003 net sales
were to customers in Japan and 37% to customers in other
international markets, principally in Southeast Asia. As of
December 1, 2003, we had direct sales offices in China,
Hong Kong, India, Israel, Japan, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan.

We also had sales representatives and/or
distributors in approximately 47 countries outside North
America, including countries where we also have direct sales
offices. For further detail regarding financial information
about geographic areas, see Note 4 in the Notes to our
Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

A significant portion of our fiscal 2003 revenue
was derived from sales made through distributors. Revenue is
deferred on sales made through distributors until the
distributors resell the products to the end users. These
distributors typically maintain an inventory of our products.
Some of them also sell products competitive with our products,
including those for which we are an alternate source. Sales to
certain distributors are made under agreements that provide
protection to the distributors for their inventory of our
products against price reductions and products that are
slow-moving or that we have discontinued, including limited
product return privileges.

Our worldwide technical direct field sales
efforts are supported by an extensive promotional program that
includes editorial coverage and paid advertising in trade
publications, direct mail programs, promotional brochures,
technical seminars and participation in trade shows. We publish
and distribute full-length databooks, product catalogs,
applications guides, technical handbooks and detailed data
sheets for individual products. We also provide product and
application information and sell products via our worldwide
website on the Internet. We maintain a staff of field
application engineers who aid customers in incorporating our
products into their products.

We have tens of thousands of customers worldwide.
Our largest single customer represented approximately 3% of our
net sales for fiscal 2003, and our 20 largest customers
accounted for approximately 26% of our net sales in fiscal 2003.

See Note 4 “Industry and Geographic
Segment Information” of the Notes to our Consolidated
Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

Foreign Operations

Through subsidiaries and affiliates, we conduct
business in numerous countries outside the United States. During
fiscal 2003, approximately 74% of our revenues were derived from
customers in international markets. Our international business
is subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign
operations, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
rates and controls, import and export controls, and other laws,
policies and regulations of foreign governments.

We have manufacturing facilities outside the
United States in Ireland and the Philippines. In addition to
being exposed to the ongoing economic cycles in the
semiconductor industry, we are also subject to the economic and
political risks inherent in international operations and their
impact on the United States economy in general, including the
risks associated with ongoing uncertainties and political and
economic instability in many countries around the world as well
as the economic disruption from acts of terrorism, and the
response to them by the United States and its allies. These
risks include air transportation disruptions,



expropriation, currency controls, currency
exchange rate movement, and additional costs related to tax,
tariff and freight rates. Although we engage in hedging
transactions to reduce our exposure to currency exchange rate
fluctuations, there can be no assurance that our competitive
position will not be adversely affected by changes in the
exchange rate of the United States dollar against other
currencies.

Production and Raw Materials

Monolithic integrated circuit components are
manufactured in a sequence of semiconductor production steps
that include wafer fabrication, wafer testing, cutting the wafer
into individual “chips,” or dice, assembly of the dice
into packages and electrical testing of the devices in final
packaged form. The raw materials used to manufacture these
devices include silicon wafers, processing chemicals (including
liquefied gases), precious metals, ceramic and plastic used for
packaging.

We develop and employ a wide variety of
proprietary processes that are specifically tailored for use in
fabricating high-performance linear, mixed-signal and MEMS ICs.
We also use bipolar and CMOS wafer fabrication processes.

Our IC products are fabricated both at our
production facilities and by third-party wafer fabricators. Most
of our analog products are manufactured in our own wafer
fabrication facilities using proprietary processes. Our DSP
products, and a portion of our analog products, are manufactured
at third-party foundries using sub-micron digital CMOS
processes. We operate wafer fabrication facilities in Wilmington
and Cambridge, Massachusetts; Sunnyvale, California and
Limerick, Ireland. We also operate assembly and test facilities
located in the Philippines and use third-party subcontractors.

To respond to production capacity requirements,
we significantly expanded our analog manufacturing capacity over
the past several years. In the second quarter of fiscal 2002, we
announced that we would transition products from our three older
four-inch wafer fabrication facilities to our three six-inch and
one eight-inch wafer fabrication facilities. The closure of our
four-inch wafer fabrication facilities was completed in fiscal
2003. Capital spending in fiscal 2003 was $68 million,
compared with $57 million incurred in fiscal 2002. We
currently plan to make capital expenditures of approximately
$130 million in fiscal 2004, which at 5% of annual
revenues, is more in-line with historical capital expenditures.
Capital expenditures are expected to remain at this level, as we
believe we currently have ample installed capacity to
significantly increase internal production levels.

Our products require a wide variety of components
and raw materials, most of which we purchase from third-party
suppliers. We have multiple sources for the majority of the
components and materials we purchase and incorporate into our
products. However, in some cases, we purchase components from
sole-source suppliers, such as external foundries. If these
sole-source suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and
deliver sufficient quantities of components to us on the time
schedule and of the quality that we require, we may be forced to
engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result
in additional expenses and delays in product development or
shipment of product to our customers. Although we have
experienced shortages of components from time to time, these
items have generally been available to us as needed.

Backlog

Backlog at the end of fiscal 2003 was
approximately $387 million, up from approximately
$262 million at the end of fiscal 2002. This increase is
the result of the strong demand for our products we experienced
in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. We define backlog as of a
particular date as firm orders with a customer requested
delivery date within thirteen weeks. Backlog is impacted by the
tendency of customers to rely on shorter lead times available
from suppliers, including us, in periods of depressed demand. In
periods of increased demand, there is a tendency towards longer
lead times that has the effect of increasing backlog and, in
some instances, we may not have manufacturing capacity
sufficient to fulfill all orders. As is customary in the
semiconductor industry, we allow orders to be canceled or
deliveries delayed by customers without penalty. Accordingly, we
believe that our backlog at any time should not be used as an
indication of our future revenues.



Government Contracts

We estimate that approximately 3% of our fiscal
2003 total revenue was attributable to sales to the
U.S. government and government contractors and
subcontractors. Our government contract business is
predominantly in the form of negotiated, firm fixed-price
subcontracts. All such contracts and subcontracts contain
standard provisions relating to termination at the election of
the United States government.

Competition

We compete with a number of semiconductor
companies in markets that are highly competitive. We believe we
are one of the largest suppliers of high-performance analog,
mixed-signal and linear signal processing components.
Competitors for our analog, mixed-signal and DSP products
include Cirrus Logic Inc., Linear Technology Corporation, Maxim
Integrated Products, Inc., National Semiconductor Corporation,
Phillips Semiconductor, ST Microelectronics and Texas
Instruments, Inc. Sales of our micromachined products are
currently comprised of acceleration sensors, and our main
competitors in that market are Bosch, Motorola, Inc. and Denso
Corporation.

We believe that competitive performance in the
marketplace for real-world signal processing components depends
upon several factors, including technical innovation, product
quality and reliability, range of products, product price,
customer service and technical support. We believe our technical
innovation emphasizing product performance and reliability,
supported by our commitment to strong customer service and
technical support, enables us to compete in our chosen markets
against both foreign and domestic semiconductor manufacturers.

Many other companies offer products that compete
with our products, and some have greater financial,
manufacturing, technical and marketing resources than we have.
Additionally, some formerly-independent competitors have been
purchased by larger companies. Our competitors also include
emerging companies selling specialized products to markets we
serve. There can be no assurances that we will be able to
compete successfully in the future against existing or new
competitors, or that our operating results will not be adversely
affected by increased price competition.

Environment

Our manufacturing facilities are subject to
numerous environmental laws and regulations, particularly with
respect to industrial waste and emissions. Compliance with these
laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our
capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

We are committed to protecting the environment
and the health and safety of our employees, customers and the
public. We endeavor to adhere to the most stringent standards
across all of our facilities, to encourage pollution prevention
and to strive towards continual improvement. We strive to exceed
compliance with regulatory standards in order to achieve a
standard of excellence in environmental, health and safety
management practices as an integral part of our total quality
management system.

Employees

As of November 1, 2003, we employed
approximately 8,400 individuals worldwide. Our future success
depends in large part on the continued service of our key
technical and senior management personnel, and on our ability to
continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified employees,
particularly those highly skilled design, process, test and
applications engineers involved in the manufacture of existing
products and the development of new products and processes. We
believe that relations with our employees are good, however the
competition for such personnel is intense, and the loss of key
employees could have a material adverse effect on us.



ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES

Our corporate headquarters is located in Norwood,
Massachusetts. Manufacturing and other operations are conducted
in several locations worldwide. The following tables provide
certain information about our principal general offices and
manufacturing facilities:

In addition to the principal leased properties
listed in the previous table, we also lease sales offices and
other premises at 25 locations in the United States and 33
locations overseas under operating lease agreements. These
leases expire at various dates through the year 2012. We do not
anticipate experiencing significant difficulty in retaining
occupancy of any of our manufacturing, office or sales
facilities through lease renewals prior to expiration or through
month-to-month occupancy, or in replacing them with equivalent
facilities. For information concerning our obligations under all
operating leases see Note 11 in the Notes to our
Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



ITEM 3.     LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS

On June 17, 2002, we received a letter from
Plasma Physics Corporation attaching a courtesy copy of a
complaint it had filed against us in the Eastern District of New
York alleging infringement by certain of our products of two
patents held by Plasma Physics. In the letter, Plasma Physics
indicated that it would like to license the patents to us. The
letter further stated that Plasma Physics would forego service
of the complaint for a period of 120 days, provided that we
would agree to undertake negotiations over terms for licensing
the above-referenced patents. We met with Plasma Physics, and
those negotiations are ongoing. On October 17, 2002, Plasma
Physics served the complaint. We have answered the complaint
denying the allegations. The case is proceeding through
discovery and the ultimate outcome is unknown.

On October 7, 2002, Townshend Intellectual
Property, L.L.C. commenced an action in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of California against
us, alleging that we infringed eight patents, alleged to be
owned by Townshend. Townshend’s complaint alleged that our
Standalone Embedded Modems and Single Chip Internet Modems
infringed those patents. The complaint sought injunctive relief
and unspecified damages. By letter dated October 16, 2002,
we sought indemnification from Lucent Technologies, Inc.. Lucent
has denied that it has any indemnification obligations to us. We
filed an answer to the complaint with the court, on or about
December 12, 2002, denying infringement and liability. The
parties have entered into a settlement agreement, and a
stipulation of dismissal with prejudice was entered into on or
about October 1, 2003 dismissing all claims with prejudice.
This settlement did not have a material impact on our financial
position or results of operations.

On March 4, 2003, Motorola, Inc. filed an
action in the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Texas against us, alleging that we infringed five
patents owned by Motorola relating to semiconductor processing
and semiconductor chip design. On March 11, 2003, Motorola
filed a first amended complaint asserting the same five patents.
The first amended complaint seeks injunctive relief and
unspecified damages. On April 17, 2003, we filed a motion
under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure for a more definite
statement of Motorola’s allegations. Motorola opposed that
motion, and, by order dated July 18, 2003, the Court denied
our motion. On August 5, 2003, we filed an answer and also
counterclaimed against Motorola. In the counterclaim, we
asserted that Motorola infringes six of our patents relating to
semiconductor technology. Motorola responded to our
counterclaims on September 10, 2003. The case is proceeding
through discovery and the ultimate outcome is unknown.

On November 6, 2003, Enron Corporation
commenced a proceeding in the United States Bankruptcy Court for
the Southern District of New York. On December 1, 2003,
Enron filed an amended complaint to add us as a defendant in
such proceeding. The amended complaint alleges that transfers
made by Enron in satisfaction of obligations it had under
commercial paper are recoverable as preferential transfers and
fraudulent transfers and are subject to avoidance under the
United States Bankruptcy Code. It is alleged that payments made
in premature satisfaction of obligations under commercial paper
totaling approximately $20 million are recoverable from
J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., Fleet Capital Markets, Fleet
National Bank and/or us. We sold $20 million of Enron
commercial paper to Fleet and did not enter into any direct
transactions with Enron. We intend to defend vigorously against
these claims. Although we believe we have meritorious defenses
to the asserted claims, we are in the process of preparing a
response to the amended complaint and are unable at this time to
predict the outcome of this proceeding.

We are currently under audit by the United States
Internal Revenue Service for fiscal year 2001 and fiscal year
2002. The audit has not been completed and the IRS has not
issued a report on its audit.

From time to time as a normal incidence of the
nature of our business, various claims, charges and litigation
are asserted or commenced against us arising from, or related
to, contractual matters, patents, trademarks, personal injury,
environmental matters, product liability, insurance coverage and
personnel and employment disputes. As to such claims and
litigation, including those items discussed above, we can give
no assurance that we will prevail. However, we do not believe
that these matters will have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated financial position, although an adverse outcome of
any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated results of operations or cash flows in the quarter
or annual period in which one or more of these matters are
resolved.



ITEM
4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE
OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of our
security holders during the last quarter of the fiscal year
ended November 1, 2003.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The following table sets forth (i) the name,
age and position of each of our executive officers as of
December 15, 2003, and (ii) the business experience of
each person named in the table during at least the past five
years. There is no family relationship among any of the named
executive officers.





PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON STOCK AND
    RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol ADI. The table below sets forth the
high and low sales prices per share of our common stock on the
New York Stock Exchange for each quarterly period within our two
most recent fiscal years.

No cash dividends were paid on our common stock
in fiscal 2003 or fiscal 2002. On November 17, 2003, our
Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.04 per
outstanding share of common stock. The dividend was paid on
December 17, 2003 to all stockholders of record as at the
close of business on November 28, 2003.

The number of holders of record of our common
stock at November 28, 2003 was 4,867. This number does not
include stockholders for whom shares are held in a
“nominee” or “street” name. On
November 28, 2003, the last reported sales price of our
common stock on the New York Stock Exchange was $49.75 per share.

On December 15, 2002, we issued and
delivered an aggregate of 10,000 shares of our common stock
to four individuals in partial fulfillment of the payment by us
of consideration to the four former stockholders of Integrated
Micro Instruments, Inc., which we acquired on December 15,
2000. We issued and delivered these shares in reliance upon an
exemption from registration under Section 4(2) of the
Securities Act of 1933.

On February 5, 2003, we issued and delivered
an aggregate of 27,136 shares of our common stock to three
individuals in partial fulfillment of the payment by us of
consideration to the three former stockholders of White Mountain
DSP, Inc., which we acquired on February 5, 1999. We issued
and delivered these shares in reliance upon an exemption from
registration under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of
1933.

On December 15, 2003, we issued and
delivered an aggregate of 10,000 shares of our common stock
to four individuals in partial fulfillment of the payment by us
of consideration to the four former stockholders of Integrated
Micro Instruments, Inc., which we acquired on December 15,
2000. We issued and delivered these shares in reliance upon an
exemption from registration under Section 4(2) of the
Securities Act of 1933.

ITEM 6.     SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA

*

Acquisition-related goodwill is no longer
    amortized effective November 3, 2002, in accordance with
    FAS 142.



ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
    FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Results of Operations

Fiscal
Year 2003 Overview

Overall, fiscal 2003 was a better year for Analog
Devices than we had anticipated at the beginning of the year. We
recorded net sales of $2,047 million in fiscal 2003, which
was a 20% increase over the amount recorded in fiscal 2002.
Fiscal 2002 was the low point in the current cycle in the
industry when revenues were down 25% from the levels recorded in
fiscal 2001. However, the gradual recovery, which started for us
in the second quarter of fiscal 2002, continued throughout
fiscal 2003. Our gross margins improved to 54.9% in fiscal 2003
from 53% in fiscal 2002 and diluted earnings per share improved
to $0.78 per share in fiscal 2003 from $0.28 per share in fiscal
2002. We generated $433 million in operating cash during
the year and finished the year with $2,117 million of cash,
cash equivalents and short-term investments after redeeming all
of our $1,200 million outstanding debt.

Fiscal
2003 Results of Operations Compared to Fiscal 2002

Sales

Net sales were $2,047 million in fiscal
2003, an increase of 20% from net sales of $1,708 million
in fiscal 2002. The increase in net sales in fiscal 2003 was
attributable to increased demand for analog and DSP products
used in wireless handsets, in desktop and laptop computers and
for analog products used in consumer applications such as
digital cameras and flat panel displays. Sales of analog and DSP
products used in wireless infrastructure and broadband access
grew slightly in fiscal 2003 and sales of broadband
infrastructure applications decreased in fiscal 2003 from the
levels recorded in the prior year. We experienced a slow steady
improvement in demand for products used in industrial
applications during fiscal 2003, particularly analog products
used in automotive and automatic test equipment. In general,
demand during fiscal 2003 was strongest for products that are
used by consumers while demand for products used in applications
that depend on industrial, enterprise or carrier capital
spending were flat.

During fiscal 2003 analog product sales increased
16% from the levels recorded in fiscal 2002. DSP product sales
increased by 35% from the prior year during fiscal 2003. In
fiscal 2003, approximately 78% of our net sales were from analog
products, down from 80% in the prior year. DSP product sales
represented the remaining 22% and 20% respectively, of our net
sales in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002.

Sales of new products, which we define as sales
of products introduced in the prior six quarters, were 19% of
net sales in fiscal 2003 as compared to 21% in fiscal 2002. The
year-over-year dollar increase in sales of new products was 8%
in fiscal 2003 and was attributable to design wins for some of
our communications, consumer and computer products. This
increase followed declines of 17% and 33% respectively, in
fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 as we went through the down-turn of
the current cycle in the semiconductor industry.

The percentage of sales by geographic region,
based upon point of sale, for the last two years is as follows:

The fiscal 2003 decrease in North American sales
and the increase in Southeast Asia sales as a percentage of
total net sales were principally attributable to the ongoing
transfer of customer manufacturing activity to Asia. Sales in
dollars increased in fiscal 2003 by 38% and 29% in Southeast
Asia and Japan, respectively, as a result of increased demand
for products used in communications, consumer and computer
applications as well as the ongoing transfer of manufacturing
activity to locations primarily in Asia. Sales in dollars in
fiscal 2003 increased by 12% in Europe as a result of the steady
improvement in demand for our



products during the year. The slight increase in
North America sales in dollars was attributable to increased
regional demand for our products that was largely offset by the
transfer of customer manufacturing activity to locations in Asia.

Gross
Margin

Gross margin improved in fiscal 2003 to
$1,124 million, or 54.9% of net sales, up 190 basis points
from fiscal 2002 gross margin of $905 million, or 53% of
net sales. This improvement was primarily the result of
spreading fixed manufacturing costs over an increasing sales
level each quarter and, to a lesser extent, the impact of
restructuring actions we took over the last two years and
continued cost constraints at our manufacturing operations.

Research
and Development

Research and development, or R&D, expenses
amounted to $450 million in fiscal 2003, an increase of
$26 million or 6% from the $424 million recorded in
fiscal 2002. R&D expenses declined as a percentage of net
sales to 22% in fiscal 2003 from 24.8% in fiscal 2002 as a
result of the 20% year-to-year increase in revenue and only a 6%
year-to-year increase in R&D expenses. The year-to-year
increase in R&D expenses was limited to 6% as a result of
acquisition-related expenses declining year-to-year by
$5.6 million and the company limiting discretionary
expenses including salary increases for higher paid employees
and curtailing hiring to strategically important new hires and
college hires. The reduction in acquisition-related expenses to
$8.2 million in fiscal 2003 from $13.8 million in
fiscal 2002 arose primarily because fiscal 2002 costs included
expense related to fixed-value contingent compensation and the
achievement of final performance-based criteria that did not
recur in fiscal 2003.

R&D expense as a percentage of net sales will
fluctuate from year-to-year depending on the amount of net sales
and the success of new product development efforts, which we
view as critical for future growth. At any point in time we have
hundreds of R&D projects underway, and we believe that none
of these projects is material on an individual basis. We expect
to continue the development of innovative technologies and
processes for new products and we believe that a continued
commitment to R&D is essential in order to maintain product
leadership with our existing products and to provide innovative
new product offerings, and therefore, we expect to continue to
make significant R&D investments in the future.

Selling,
Marketing, General and Administrative

Selling, marketing, general and administrative,
or SMG&A, expenses were $288 million in fiscal 2003, an
increase of $31 million, or 12%, from the $257 million
recorded in fiscal 2002. As a percentage of net sales, SMG&A
declined to 14% for fiscal 2003 from 15% in fiscal 2002
primarily due to the increase in net sales. The increase in
SMG&A expenses in dollars was primarily the result of
increased commission expenses paid due to the 20% year-to-year
increase in net sales, the decision to add additional field
application engineers to assist customers and potential
customers design products that incorporate ADI technology to
address their specific requirements, as well as initiatives to
publicize new products. These increases were offset by limiting
discretionary expenses including salary increases for higher
paid employees.

Amortization
of Intangibles

Amortization of intangibles was $3 million
for fiscal 2003 compared with $57 million for fiscal 2002.
The decrease in amortization expense was the result of our
fiscal 2003 adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets.”

Special
Charges

During fiscal 2003, we recorded special charges
of $9.5 million, and during fiscal 2002 we recorded special
charges totaling $48.5 million. Special charges recorded
over the last three fiscal years are more fully described under
the heading “Special Charges” below.



Operating
Income

Our operating income was $374 million, or
18.3% of net sales, in fiscal 2003, compared to
$118 million, or 6.9% of net sales, in fiscal 2002.

Nonoperating
Income and Expense

Interest expense was $32 million in fiscal
2003 compared to $44 million in fiscal 2002. Fiscal 2002
includes interest expense for 12 months and fiscal 2003
includes interest expense for only 11 months because we
redeemed our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes, or notes, on
October 1, 2003. In addition, an interest rate swap
agreement we entered into in January 2002 had the effect of
swapping the 4.75% fixed rate of our notes into a LIBOR-based
floating rate which was 1.61% as of November 6, 2002 and
was 1.14% at the time we redeemed our notes on October 1,
2003. These two items resulted in the year-to-year decline in
interest expense. Interest income was $41 million in fiscal
2003 compared to $65 million in fiscal 2002. The
year-to-year decrease in interest income was attributable to
less income earned on our invested cash balances due to the
decline in interest rates during fiscal 2003 as a result of
actions taken by the Federal Reserve Board and our decision to
increase our holdings of higher credit quality yet lower
interest-bearing investments.

Provision
for Income Taxes

Our effective income tax rate decreased to 22%
for fiscal 2003 as compared to 25% for fiscal 2002. The decrease
was primarily the result of the discontinuance of goodwill
amortization in the first quarter of fiscal 2003 as a result of
our adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets.” Goodwill was treated as a
permanent difference in prior years’ tax provisions which
had the effect of increasing our effective income tax rate.

Net
Income

Fiscal 2003 net income was $298 million, or
14.6% of net sales, and diluted earnings per share was $0.78
compared to net income in fiscal 2002 of $105 million, or
6.2% of net sales, and diluted earnings per share of $0.28. The
fiscal 2003 increase in net income from fiscal 2002 was
primarily due to increased revenue levels and, to a lesser
extent, the cessation of goodwill amortization and reduced
expenses related to special charges.

The impact of inflation on our business during
the past three fiscal years has not been significant.

Related
Party Transactions

One of our directors, who has been a director
since 1988, became a director of Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Company, or TSMC, in fiscal 2002. We purchased
approximately $232 million and $206 million of
products from TSMC in fiscal 2003 and 2002, respectively. We
believe that the terms and prices for the purchases of these
products are at terms no less favorable than those obtained from
unaffiliated parties. Approximately $14 million and
$19 million was payable to TSMC as of November 1, 2003
and November 2, 2002, respectively. We anticipate that we
will make similar purchases from TSMC in fiscal year 2004.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Fiscal 2003 net cash flow provided by operations
was $433 million, or 21% of net sales, an increase of
$207 million over the prior year. The year-over-year
increase was primarily due to an increase in net income of
$193 million. In addition, we received $71 million in
proceeds from our various employee stock programs. These cash
inflows were offset by a net payment of $1,198 million
related to the redemption of all of our outstanding notes
together with the associated redemption premium and the
termination of the related interest rate swap and loan agreement
and capital expenditures of $68 million. Cash, cash
equivalents and short-term investments decreased
$781 million during fiscal 2003 to $2,117 million at
November 1, 2003 from $2,898 million at
November 2, 2002 primarily as a result of these activities.

Accounts receivable of $295 million at the
end of fiscal 2003 increased $67 million, or 29%, from
$228 million at the end of fiscal 2002. This increase
resulted principally from a $102 million increase in net



sales during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 as
compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002. Days sales
outstanding increased from 46 days at the end of the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2002 to 48 days at the end of the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2003. The year-to-year increase in days sales
outstanding was due to a higher level of sales in the latter
part of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 as compared to the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2002.

Inventories declined by $19 million, or 6%,
from the end of fiscal 2002 to $288 million at the end of
fiscal 2003. Days cost of sales in inventory declined by
29 days to 106 days as of the end of the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2003. The decrease in inventory in dollars was
attributable to tight control of inventory levels as well as
increasing demand for our products as the year progressed.

In response to the slowdown in our served markets
in fiscal 2001 and 2002, we have substantially reduced our
capital spending in the last two years. Net additions to
property, plant and equipment were $68 million in fiscal
2003 and $57 million in fiscal 2002, which represented
approximately 3% of net sales for each of those years. Fiscal
2004 capital expenditures are expected to return to historical
levels of 5% of annual net sales, or approximately
$130 million.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, we redeemed
for cash all of our outstanding notes. The redemption price was
101.90% of the principal amount of the notes, or
$1,223 million. A net pre-tax loss of $0.2 million was
recognized in other expense as a result of the redemption,
comprised of a $10.8 million gain on the redemption of the
notes which was offset by a write-off of $11 million of
deferred financing costs. The gain on the redemption of the
notes was due to the carrying value of the notes being greater
than the redemption value as a result of the mark-to-market of
the interest rate component of the notes to fair value. As a
result, apart from operating lease obligations, we had no debt
at the end of fiscal year 2003.

On November 17, 2003, our Board of Directors
declared a cash dividend of $0.04 per outstanding share of
common stock. The dividend was paid on December 17, 2003
and was approximately $15 million. The payment of future
dividends will be based on our quarterly financial performance.

The table below summarizes our contractual
obligations as of November 1, 2003:

At November 1, 2003, our principal source of
liquidity was $2,117 million of cash and cash equivalents
and short-term investments. We believe that our existing sources
of liquidity and cash expected to be generated from future
operations, together with anticipated available long-term
financing, will be sufficient to fund operations, capital
expenditures and research and development efforts for at least
the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future.

Outlook

Analog Devices is in a strong financial position
entering fiscal 2004. We are planning for annual revenue growth
of approximately 25%, with gross margins continuing to improve
through the year. Similar to fiscal 2003, we anticipate that our
operating expenses will grow at a rate well below our revenue
growth rate. Our goal remains to increase our earnings at a rate
that is twice the growth rate of our sales until we reach our
model operating results. We currently plan to make capital
expenditures of approximately $130 million in fiscal 2004.
Depreciation expense is expected to decrease to
$155 million in fiscal 2004 from $166 million in
fiscal 2003. We anticipate that our effective tax rate will
remain relatively flat year-to-year at approximately 22%.

As a result of increased demand for our products
during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, we are planning for
revenues to increase 5% from the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003
to the first quarter of fiscal 2004 and for diluted earnings per
share to be in the range of $0.27 to $0.28 in the first quarter
of fiscal 2004.



Fiscal
2002 Results of Operations Compared to Fiscal 2001

Fiscal 2002 was a challenging year for Analog
Devices. The decrease in net sales from fiscal 2001 to fiscal
2002 was due to the declining demand in several markets that we
serve, particularly the communications market, as well as an
overall decline in the general economy. Quarterly sales reached
$806 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000 but
declined rapidly throughout fiscal 2001 and reached the lowest
point in this cycle in the first quarter of fiscal 2002, for
which quarter we recorded sales of $393 million. In the
last three quarters of fiscal 2002, we experienced a steady
sequential improvement in demand and sales reached
$456 million in the fourth quarter. During this downturn,
we maintained gross margins at 53% in fiscal 2002 and, as a
result of decisive cost containment measures we undertook, we
reduced operating expenses year-to-year by 9%. Cash flow
remained strong with cash increasing by over $100 million
during fiscal 2002 to $2,900 million after we purchased
$100 million of our common stock.

Profit and loss account year-to-year changes are
summarized as follows:

•

Net sales were $1,708 million, down 25% from
    $2,277 million in fiscal 2001 as a result of the cyclical
    downturn in the semiconductor market. The percentage of sales by
    geographic region, based upon point of sale, for fiscal years
    2002 and 2001 is set out below. The decline in North American
    sales and increase in Southeast Asia sales as a percentage of
    total sales was primarily due to a decline in the communications
    market in fiscal 2002 combined with the transfer of customer
    manufacturing activity to other locations, primarily in Asia.



•

Interest expense was $44 million and
    $62 million in fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively. The
    decrease year-to-year was the result of an interest rate swap
    agreement entered into in January 2002 that had the effect of
    swapping the 4.75% fixed rate of our $1,200 million
    convertible subordinated notes into a LIBOR-based floating rate
    (1.61% as of November 6, 2002).

•

Interest income declined from $133 million
    in fiscal 2001 to $65 million in fiscal 2002 as a result of
    less income earned on our invested cash balances due to a
    decline in interest rates during fiscal 2002.

•

Other income declined approximately
    $28 million from fiscal 2001 to fiscal 2002 due to a
    one-time gain on the sale of an investment in WaferTech recorded
    in the first quarter of fiscal 2001.

•

Our effective income tax rate decreased from
    29.7% for fiscal 2001 to 25% for fiscal 2002 as a result of a
    shift in the mix of worldwide profits.

•

Net income decreased to $105 million, or
    6.2% of net sales, in fiscal 2002 from $356 million, or
    15.7% of net sales, in fiscal 2001. This decrease in net income
    was primarily due to reduced revenue levels.

Liquidity and Capital Resource changes
year-to-year are summarized as follows:

Special Charges

Special
Charges — Fiscal 2003

During the third quarter of fiscal 2003, we
recorded a special charge of $0.3 million. The charge
included a $2.0 million write-down of equipment to fair
value due to a decision to outsource the assembly of products in



plastic packages, which had been done internally
at our facility in the Philippines. This amount was the net book
value of the assets used in plastic assembly, net of proceeds
received from the sale in the third quarter of a portion of the
assets. We also decided to abandon efforts to develop a
particular expertise in optical communications that resulted in
the write-down of $2.7 million of equipment to fair value.
During the quarter ended August 2, 2003, we determined that
the costs remaining to be paid for certain restructuring charges
would be less than the amount originally recorded. Accordingly,
we recorded a change in estimate reducing the restructuring
accruals by $4.4 million related to prior restructuring
charges as more fully described below.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, we
recorded a special charge of $9.2 million as a result of a
decision to close a small manufacturing facility in Belfast,
Northern Ireland that supplied foundry substrate services for
optical applications. The charge included $2 million of
severance costs for approximately 57 manufacturing employees and
14 engineering and administrative employees, none of whom had
been terminated as of November 1, 2003. The charge also
included $6 million related to the write-down of property,
plant and equipment to fair value and $1.2 million related
to the write-down of various other assets to fair values. The
closure is anticipated to be completed during the first half of
fiscal 2004. We anticipate annual savings from the above actions
of approximately $7 million, of which half is in cost of
sales and half is in operating expenses.

Of the $9.5 million of special charges
recorded in fiscal 2003, $2 million related to separation
costs remained accrued as of November 1, 2003. All
remaining severance will be paid in the first half of fiscal
2004.

Special
Charges — Fiscal 2002

During the second quarter of fiscal 2002, we
recorded special charges of approximately $27.2 million.
The second quarter charge was comprised of $25.7 million
related to the planned transfer of production from our three
older four-inch wafer fabrication facilities to our three
six-inch and one eight-inch wafer fabrication facilities, and
$3 million primarily related to the impairment of an
investment, which was partially offset by an adjustment of
$1.5 million related to equipment cancelation fees recorded
in fiscal year 2001. The investment impairment, which was
related to an equity investment in a private company, was due to
our decision to abandon the product strategy for which the
investment was made. Included in the $25.7 million special
charge were severance and fringe benefit costs of
$15.3 million for 509 manufacturing employees in the United
States and Ireland, $2.3 million related to the write-down
of equipment to be abandoned and $8.1 million of other
charges, primarily related to lease termination and cleanup
costs. The write-down of equipment was principally due to a
decision to discontinue various product development strategies.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2003, we reversed
$2.9 million of the accrual primarily due to lower than
previously expected severance costs. The lower severance costs
were the result of a reduction in the number of separated
employees and, to a lesser extent, the average tenure of
separated employees differing from estimates. The 509 employees
projected to be terminated at the time of the original charge
was adjusted down to 439, and as of November 1, 2003,
397 employees had been terminated. The reduction in the
number of employees to be terminated was due to the transfer of
employees, which primarily occurred in the third quarter of
fiscal 2003, to positions in our six-inch wafer fabrication
facilities where we experienced an unexpected increase in demand
for our products. The process of ceasing production in the
four-inch wafer fabrication facilities is complete. The
equipment disposition and clean-up activity is underway at each
site and the related clean-up costs, which were included in the
special charge, will be expended as this activity is completed.
The remaining clean-up will be substantially complete by the end
of the second quarter of fiscal 2004. Since severance costs are
paid as income continuance at some locations, these amounts will
be expended over time subsequent to the final termination of
employment. We anticipate annual savings from the above actions
of approximately $60 million, primarily in cost of sales,
and the first full year’s impact will be fiscal 2004.

In addition to the above special charges, the
remaining service lives of certain assets within the older
four-inch wafer fabrication facilities were shortened. As a
result, cost of sales for the fiscal year 2002 included
additional depreciation of approximately $8.7 million
associated with the shortened lives.

During the third quarter of fiscal 2002, we
recorded special charges of approximately $12.8 million.
The charges included severance and fringe benefit costs of
$3.7 million related to cost reduction actions taken in



several product groups and, to a lesser extent,
in manufacturing, $3.8 million related to the impairment of
an investment, $3.4 million related to the impairment of
goodwill associated with the closing of an Austrian design
center acquired in fiscal 2001 and $1.9 million primarily
related to the abandonment of equipment and lease cancelation
fees. The investment impairment, which was related to an equity
investment in a private company, was due to our decision to
abandon the product strategy for which the investment was made.
The severance and fringe benefit costs were for approximately
70 engineering employees in the United States, Europe and
Canada, and approximately 30 manufacturing employees in the
United States. All of the manufacturing employees and
substantially all of the engineering employees had been
terminated as of November 1, 2003. The workforce reductions
are anticipated to result in annual savings of approximately
$10 million, primarily in operating expenses.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, we
recorded special charges of approximately $8.4 million. The
charges included severance and fringe benefit costs of
$2.5 million related to cost reduction actions taken in the
sales group, several product groups and our manufacturing test
operations for approximately 65 employees in the United States
and Europe, all of which had been terminated as of
November 1, 2003. The charges also included
$2.1 million related to the impairment of investments,
$1.8 million primarily related to the abandonment of
equipment and lease cancelation fees and a change in estimate of
$2.0 million for additional estimated clean-up costs
originally recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2002. The
investment impairment charges were related to the decline in
fair value of a publicly traded equity investment to less than
its cost basis that was determined to be other-than-temporary,
and to an equity investment in a private company. The private
company equity investment was part of a product strategy that we
decided to abandon. The workforce reductions are anticipated to
result in annual savings of approximately $4 million,
primarily in operating expenses.

Of the $48.5 million of special charges
recorded in fiscal 2002, $3.2 million primarily related to
clean-up costs and $4.7 million related to separation
costs, primarily being paid as income continuance, remained
accrued as of November 1, 2003.

Special
Charges — Fiscal 2001

During fiscal 2001, we recorded special charges
of approximately $47 million related to cost reduction
actions taken in response to the economic climate at that time.
The actions consisted of workforce reductions in manufacturing
and, to a lesser extent, in selling, marketing and
administrative areas as well as a decision to consolidate
worldwide manufacturing operations and rationalize production
planning and quality activities. The cost reductions included
severance and fringe benefit costs of $29.6 million for
approximately 1,200 employees in the U.S., Europe, Asia and the
Philippines, substantially all of which had been terminated as
of November 1, 2003. The special charges also included
$11.6 million related to the abandonment of equipment
resulting from the consolidation of worldwide manufacturing
operations and $5.8 million of other charges primarily
related to equipment and lease cancelation fees. Based on the
results of negotiations with vendors regarding purchase order
cancelation fees, the amount paid was $1.5 million less
than the amount recorded for such charges and, accordingly, we
adjusted the provision for purchase order cancelation fees by
$1.5 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2002 to
reflect this change in estimate. In the third quarter of fiscal
2003, we determined that the severance costs remaining to be
paid would be $1.3 million less than the amount originally
recorded for these charges and also determined that
$0.2 million originally reserved for the termination of two
leases would not be required. Therefore, we adjusted the
provision for these severance and other costs in the third
quarter of fiscal 2003 to reflect this change in estimate. The
impact in fiscal 2002 of these cost savings was approximately
$30 million, consisting of a $20 million reduction in
cost of sales and a $10 million reduction in operating
expenses.

Of the $47.0 million of special charges
recorded in fiscal 2001, $1.4 million remained accrued as
of November 1, 2003, and primarily represents severance
payments being paid as income continuance to certain of the
1,200 terminated employees, predominantly in the U.S.,
substantially all of which will be paid by the end of fiscal
2004.



Acquisitions

During the first quarter of fiscal 2001, we
completed the following acquisitions:

•

In the first quarter of fiscal 2001, we completed
    the acquisitions of Thomas Neuroth AG, Signal Processing
    Associates Pty. Ltd. and Integrated Micro Instruments, Inc. The
    total amount paid for these acquisitions, as of November 1,
    2003, was $10.2 million. As of November 1, 2003, the
    remaining contingent consideration was $1.1 million. In
    order to be entitled to receive the contingent consideration,
    the former shareholders of Integrated Micro Instruments, Inc.,
    who are employed by Analog, must continue to be employed by
    Analog. As such, the contingent consideration will be recorded
    as compensation expense.

•

On January 4, 2001, we acquired ChipLogic,
    Inc. of Santa Clara, California. ChipLogic is a developer of
    high-performance integrated circuits and software focused on the
    convergence of voice, broadband access and network protocol
    processing. The total purchase price of $68.3 million
    consisted of cash of approximately $4 million,
    approximately 1 million shares of our common stock valued
    at $60.2 million and the assumption of $4.1 million of
    outstanding ChipLogic vested stock options. The fair value of
    our common stock issued was determined based on the average
    market price of our common stock for the seven-day period,
    including three days before and after the date the acquisition
    was announced and the terms of the acquisition were agreed upon.
    Approximately $9.5 million represented the purchase price
    of in-process technology and was charged to operations during
    fiscal 2001 because the software project had not yet reached
    technological feasibility and had no alternative future use. The
    in-process technology related to software developed to handle
    voice processing, signaling, packet management and routing,
    quality of service and networking interface functions. This
    software is embedded in a network processor that provides for a
    wide area to local area network bridge. The fair value of the
    in-process technology was determined by a third party using the
    income forecast method, which is a discounted net cash flow
    approach. At the time of the acquisition, the in-process
    technology was approximately 40% complete. The in-process
    technology was completed in the second quarter of fiscal 2002.
    Expenditures to complete the in-process technology totaled
    $14 million, representing primarily personnel costs. An
    additional $8 million of cash consideration and 489,375
    shares of common stock were due and payable in the event that
    the former shareholders and key employees remain employed at
    Analog and upon the achievement of certain operational
    objectives. Of these shares, 249,375 shares have been issued to
    the former shareholders and have a fixed value of
    $13 million. This amount is being charged ratably to
    operations over a five-year period based on continuing
    employment. Accordingly, the issuance of these shares is
    compensatory and is treated as compensation expense over the
    service period. The remaining 240,000 shares were subject to
    operational performance-based criteria and were only issuable to
    those former shareholders and key employees who remained
    employed at Analog at the time the operational milestones were
    met. Accordingly, the issuance of these shares was compensatory
    and was recorded as compensation expense when the achievement of
    each defined contractual milestone became probable. As of
    November 2, 2002, all of the operational milestones had
    been met and approximately $5.0 million and
    $4.2 million of expense was recorded related to the
    issuance of the shares in fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively. As
    of November 1, 2003, there was approximately
    $4.9 million of contingent consideration remaining to be
    paid. An additional $2.8 million of compensation expense is
    being recorded annually through fiscal 2005 related to the
    assumption of unvested stock options.

•

On January 16, 2001, we acquired Staccato
    Systems, Inc. of Mountain View, California. Staccato is in the
    field of audio synthesis technology. The total purchase price of
    $23.8 million consisted of $23 million in cash and the
    assumption of $0.8 million of vested outstanding Staccato
    stock options. We paid an additional $7 million to the
    selling shareholders related to the achievement of operational
    objectives. These payments were accounted for as additional
    purchase price and recorded to goodwill because the payments
    were not contingent on continued employment by the former
    shareholders of Staccato who became Analog employees. We paid
    contingent consideration payments to the former shareholders of
    $5 million and $2 million in fiscal 2002 and 2001,
    respectively. No additional contingent consideration payments
    will be made. An additional $0.2 million of compensation
    expense is being recorded annually through fiscal 2005 related
    to the assumption of unvested stock options.



New Accounting Pronouncements

In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued Statements of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 141 (FAS 141), “Business Combinations,”
and No. 142 (FAS 142), “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets.” FAS 141 requires that all business
combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 be accounted for
using the purchase method of accounting. FAS 142, which
became effective for our company in fiscal year 2003, prohibits
the amortization of goodwill and intangible assets with
indefinite useful lives. FAS 142 requires that these assets
be reviewed for impairment at least annually, or more frequently
if impairment indicators arise. Other intangible assets with
finite lives will continue to be amortized over their estimated
useful lives and assessed for impairment under FAS 144. We
test goodwill for impairment using the two-step process
prescribed by FAS 142. The first step is a screen for
potential impairment, while the second step measures the amount
of the impairment, if any. In the first step, if the fair value
of the reporting unit(s) exceed(s) the carrying value, no
impairment loss is recognized. If the carrying value of the
reporting unit(s) exceed(s) the fair value, goodwill is
potentially impaired and we must complete step two in order to
measure the impairment loss. Step two compares the implied fair
value of the goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill.
If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair
value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an
amount equal to that excess. We adopted FAS 142 in the
first quarter of fiscal 2003. Application of the nonamortization
provisions of FAS 142 resulted in an increase in annual net
income of $44 million in fiscal 2003. We completed the
required impairment test of goodwill upon adoption of
FAS 142 as of November 3, 2002 in the second quarter
of fiscal 2003. The results of the impairment review indicated
that there was no impairment of goodwill. We also performed the
annual impairment test as of the beginning of the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2003 and the results indicated that there was no
impairment of goodwill. See further discussion under
Note 2f. “Goodwill and Other Acquisition-related
Intangibles.”

Effective November 3, 2002, we adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143
(FAS 143), “Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations,” which addresses financial accounting and
reporting for legal obligations associated with the retirement
of tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset
retirement costs. The adoption of FAS 143 did not have a
material effect on our financial position or results of
operations.

Effective November 3, 2002, we adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144
(FAS 144), “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal
of Long-Lived Assets,” which addresses the financial
accounting and reporting for the impairment of long-lived
assets. This statement supersedes Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 121, “Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be
Disposed Of” and the accounting and reporting provisions
for the disposal of a segment of a business of APB Opinion
No. 30, “Reporting the Results of Operations-Reporting
the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and
Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and
Transactions.” The adoption of FAS 144 did not have a
material effect on our financial position or results of
operations.

Effective November 3, 2002, we adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 145
(FAS 145), “Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4,
44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and
Technical Corrections.” Under FAS 145, gains and
losses on extinguishments of debt are classified as income or
loss from continuing operations rather than extraordinary items.
The adoption of FAS 145 did not have a material impact on our
financial position or results of operations.

In July 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 146 (FAS 146), “Accounting for Costs
Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.” The standard
requires companies to recognize costs associated with exit or
disposal activities when they are incurred rather than at the
date of a commitment to an exit or disposal plan. Costs covered
by FAS 146 include lease termination costs and certain
one-time employee severance costs that are associated with a
restructuring, plant closing, or other exit or disposal
activity. This statement is to be applied prospectively to exit
or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002.
FAS 146 may affect the timing of recognizing future
exit or disposal costs, if any, as well as the amounts
recognized.



Effective November 3, 2002, we adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148
(FAS 148), “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation — Transitions and Disclosure.”
FAS 148 amends FAS 123, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation,” to provide alternative methods
of transition to FAS 123’s fair value method of accounting
for stock-based employee compensation. FAS 148 also amends
the disclosure provisions of FAS 123 and APB Opinion
No. 28, “Interim Financial Reporting,” to require
disclosure in the summary of significant accounting policies of
the effects of an entity’s accounting policy with respect
to stock-based employee compensation on reported net income and
earnings per share in annual and interim financial statements.
While FAS 148 does not amend FAS 123 to require
companies to account for employee stock options using the fair
value method, the disclosure provisions of FAS 148 are
applicable to all companies with stock-based employee
compensation, regardless of whether they account for stock-based
compensation using the fair value method of FAS 123 or the
intrinsic value method of Accounting Principles Board Opinion
No. 25 (APB 25), “Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees,” and related interpretations. We have adopted
the disclosure requirements of FAS 148 and will continue to
account for stock-based compensation plans in accordance with
APB 25.

In April 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 149 (FAS 149), “Amendment of
Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities.” This statement amends and clarifies financial
accounting and reporting for derivative instruments, including
certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and
for hedging activities under FAS 133. FAS 149 is
effective for contracts entered into or modified after
June 30, 2003. The adoption of FAS 149 did not have a
material effect on our financial position or results of
operations.

In May 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 150 (FAS 150), “Accounting for Certain
Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities
and Equity”. FAS 150 establishes standards for how an
issuer classifies and measures in its statement of financial
position certain financial instruments with characteristics of
both liabilities and equity. It requires that an issuer classify
a financial instrument that is within its scope as a liability
(or an asset in some circumstances) because that financial
instrument embodies an obligation of the issuer. This Statement
is effective for financial instruments entered into or modified
after May 31, 2003, and otherwise is effective at the
beginning of the first interim period beginning after
June 15, 2003. The adoption of FAS 150 did not have a
material effect on our financial position or results of
operations.

In November 2002, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued Financial Accounting Standards Board
Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), “Guarantor’s
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others.” FIN 45
requires that upon issuance of a guarantee, the guarantor must
disclose and recognize a liability for the fair value of the
obligation it assumes under that guarantee. The initial
recognition and measurement requirement of FIN 45 is
effective for guarantees issued or modified after
December 31, 2002. As of November 1, 2003, the fair
value of our guarantees that were issued or modified after
December 31, 2002 was not material. The disclosure
requirements of FIN 45, which are effective for interim and
annual periods ending after December 15, 2002. Under the
terms of the lease agreement, which was entered into prior to
January 1, 2003, related to our headquarters facility in
Norwood, Massachusetts, we have agreed to assume the note
related to the property in the event of default by the lessor.
Assumption of the note, which was approximately
$8.8 million at November 1, 2003, would entitle us to
a first lien on the property. The lease expires in May 2007. The
guarantee was made by us to allow the lessor to obtain a lower
cost of borrowing. We have also provided certain indemnities
under which we may be required to make payments to an
indemnified party in connection with certain transactions and
agreements, in particular with respect to certain acquisitions
and divestitures, we have provided customary indemnities for
such matters as environmental, tax, product and employee
liabilities. In addition, in connection with various other
agreements, including subsidiary banking agreements, we may
provide routine guarantees. Generally, because a maximum
obligation is not explicitly stated, the potential amount of
future maximum payments cannot be reasonably estimated, and
therefore, we have not recorded any liability for these
indemnities in the consolidated financial statements. The
duration of the indemnities varies, and in many cases is
indefinite.



In January 2003, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued Financial Accounting Standards Board
Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46), “Consolidation of
Variable Interest Entities.” FIN 46 requires that if an
entity has a controlling financial interest in a variable
interest entity, the assets, liabilities and results of
activities of the variable interest entity should be included in
the consolidated financial statements of the entity. FIN 46
is effective immediately for all new variable interest entities
created or acquired after January 31, 2003. For variable
interest entities created or acquired prior to February 1,
2003, the provisions of FIN 46 must be applied for the first
interim or annual period beginning after December 15, 2003.
We are required to adopt the provisions of FIN 46 in the
second quarter of fiscal 2004 and do not expect the adoption to
have a material impact on our financial position or results of
operations.

Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates

Management’s discussion and analysis of the
financial condition and results of operations is based upon the
consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States. The preparation of these financial statements
requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses,
and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We
base our estimates and judgments on historical experience,
knowledge of current conditions and beliefs of what could occur
in the future given available information. We consider the
following accounting policies to be both those most important to
the portrayal of our financial condition and those that require
the most subjective judgment. If actual results differ
significantly from management’s estimates and projections,
there could be a material effect on our financial statements.

Inventory Valuation

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost
(first-in, first-out method) or market. Because of the cyclical
nature of the semiconductor industry, changes in inventory
levels, obsolescence of technology, and product life cycles, we
write down inventories to net realizable value. We employ a
variety of consistent methodologies to determine the amount of
inventory reserves necessary. While a portion of the reserve is
determined via reference to the age of inventory and lower of
cost or market calculations, an element of the reserve is
subject to significant judgments by us about future demand for
our inventory. Additionally, we have built inventory in
preparation for the transfer of production from our four-inch
wafer fabrication facilities to our six- and eight-inch wafer
fabrication facilities for both lifetime supply and transition
inventory. We have recorded certain levels of reserves related
to these inventory builds. Although we believe that we have used
our best efforts and available information to estimate future
demand, due to the uncertain economic times and the difficulty
inherent in predicting future results, it is possible that
actual demand for our products will differ from our estimates.
If actual demand for our products is less than our estimates,
additional reserves for existing inventories may need to be
recorded in future periods.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts,
when appropriate, for estimated losses resulting from the
inability of our customers to make required payments. If the
financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, our
actual losses may exceed our estimates, and additional
allowances would be required.

Long-Lived Assets and Goodwill

We review property, plant, and equipment for
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of assets may not be recoverable.
Recoverability of these assets is measured by comparison of
their carrying amount to future undiscounted cash flows the
assets are expected to generate over their remaining economic
life. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the
impairment to be recognized in earnings equals the amount by
which the carrying value of the assets exceeds their fair market
value determined by either a quoted market price, if any, or a
value determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow technique.
Although we have recognized no material impairment adjustments
related to our property, plant, and equipment during the past
three fiscal years, except those made in conjunction with
restructuring actions, deterioration in our business in the
future could lead to such impairment adjustments in future



periods. Evaluation of impairment of long-lived
assets requires estimates of future operating results that are
used in the preparation of the expected future undiscounted cash
flows. Actual future operating results and the remaining
economic lives of our long-lived assets could differ from the
estimates used in assessing the recoverability of these assets.
These differences could result in impairment charges, which
could have a material adverse impact on our results of
operations.

In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 142, or FAS 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets.” In the first quarter of fiscal 2003, we adopted
the new rules of FAS 142 for measuring and assessing goodwill
for impairment. As required by FAS 142, all remaining and future
acquired goodwill is subject to annual impairment tests, or
earlier if indicators of potential impairment exist. The
estimates and assumptions described above along with other
factors such as discount rates will affect the amount of an
impairment loss, if any, we recognize under FAS 142. We are
required to test goodwill for impairment, which may result in
impairment losses that could have a material adverse impact on
our results of operations.

Accounting for Income Taxes

We account for income taxes in accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, or FAS
109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” which requires
that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized using
enacted tax rates for the effect of temporary differences
between the book and tax bases of recorded assets and
liabilities. FAS 109 also requires that deferred tax assets be
reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not
that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be
realized. We evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax
assets quarterly. At November 1, 2003, we had deferred tax
assets of $144 million primarily resulting from temporary
differences between the book and tax bases of assets and
liabilities. While these assets are not assured of realization,
we have conducted an assessment of the likelihood of realization
and concluded that no significant valuation allowance is
required. In reaching our conclusion, we evaluated certain
relevant criteria including the existence of deferred tax
liabilities that can be used to absorb deferred tax assets, the
taxable income in prior carryback years that can be used to
absorb net operating losses and taxable income in future years.
Our judgments regarding future profitability may change due to
future market conditions, changes in U.S. or international
tax laws and other factors. These changes, if any, may require
material adjustments to these deferred tax assets, resulting in
a reduction in net income or an increase in net loss in the
period when such determinations are made.

In addition, we have provided for potential
liabilities due in various foreign jurisdictions. Judgment is
required in determining our worldwide income tax expense
provision. In the ordinary course of global business, there are
many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax
outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a
consequence of cost reimbursement arrangements among related
entities. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, no
assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these
matters will not be different than that which is reflected in
our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such
differences could have a material impact on our income tax
provision and operating results in the period in which such
determination is made.

Contingencies

From time to time, we receive notices that our
products or manufacturing processes may be infringing the patent
or intellectual property rights of others. We periodically
assess each matter in order to determine if a contingent
liability in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 5, or FAS 5, “Accounting for
Contingencies,” should be recorded. In making this
determination, we may, depending on the nature of the matter,
consult with internal and external legal counsel and technical
experts. Based on the information we obtain, combined with our
judgment regarding all the facts and circumstances of each
matter, we determine whether it is probable that a contingent
loss may be incurred and whether the amount of such loss can be
reasonably estimated. Should a loss be probable and reasonably
estimable, we record a contingent loss in accordance with FAS 5.
In determining the amount of a contingent loss, we consider
advice received from experts in the specific matter, current
status of legal proceedings, settlement negotiations that may be
ongoing, prior case history and other factors. Should the
judgments and estimates made by us be incorrect, we



may need to record additional contingent losses
that could materially adversely impact our results of
operations. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains or
incorporates forward-looking statements within the meaning of
section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and
section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These
forward-looking statements are based on current expectations,
estimates, forecasts and projections about the industry and
markets in which we operate and management’s beliefs and
assumptions. In addition, other written or oral statements that
constitute forward-looking statements may be made by or on our
behalf. Words such as “expect,”
“anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,”
“believe,” “seek,” “estimate,”
variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to
identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are
not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks,
uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. We
have included important factors in the cautionary statements
below under the heading “Factors That May Affect Future
Results” that we believe could cause our actual results to
differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make.
We do not intend to update publicly any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events or otherwise.

Factors That May Affect Future
Results

Our future operating results are difficult to
predict and may materially fluctuate.

Our future operating results are difficult to
predict and may be materially affected by a number of factors,
including the timing of new product announcements or
introductions by us or our competitors, competitive pricing
pressures, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, adequate
availability of wafers and manufacturing capacity, the risk that
our backlog could decline significantly, our ability to hire,
retain and motivate adequate numbers of engineers and other
qualified employees to meet the demands of our customers,
changes in product mix, and the effect of adverse changes in
economic conditions in the United States and international
markets. In addition, the semiconductor market has historically
been cyclical and subject to significant economic downturns. Our
business is subject to rapid technological changes and there can
be no assurance, depending on the mix of future business, that
products stocked in inventory will not be rendered obsolete
before we ship them. As a result of these and other factors,
there can be no assurance that we will not experience material
fluctuations in future operating results on a quarterly or
annual basis.

Long-term contracts are not typical for us and
reductions, cancelations or delays in orders for our products
could adversely affect our operating results.

In certain markets where end-user demand may be
particularly volatile and difficult to predict, some customers
place orders that require us to manufacture product and have it
available for shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to
make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the
product. At any given time, this situation could affect a
portion of our backlog. As a result, we are subject to the risk
of cancelation of orders leading to a sharp fall-off of sales
and backlog. Further, those orders may be for products that meet
the customer’s unique requirements so that those canceled
orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of unsaleable
products, resulting in potential inventory write-offs. As a
result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for certain of the
products subject to these uncertainties, the amount of
unsaleable product could be substantial. Reductions,
cancelations or delays in orders for our products could
adversely affect our operating results.

Our future success depends upon our ability to
develop and market new products and enter new markets.

Our success significantly depends on our
continued ability to develop and market new products. There can
be no assurance that we will be able to develop and introduce
new products in a timely manner or that new products, if
developed, will achieve market acceptance. In addition, our
growth is dependent on our continued ability to penetrate new
markets where we have limited experience and competition is
intense. There can be



no assurance that the markets we serve will grow
in the future, that our existing and new products will meet the
requirements of these markets, that our products will achieve
customer acceptance in these markets, that competitors will not
force prices to an unacceptably low level or take market share
from us, or that we can achieve or maintain profits in these
markets. Furthermore, a decline in demand in one or several of
our end-user markets could have a material adverse effect on the
demand for our products and our results of operations. Also,
some of our customers in these markets are less established,
which could subject us to increased credit risk.

We may not be able to compete successfully in
the semiconductor industry in the future.

Many other companies offer products that compete
with our products. Some have greater financial, manufacturing,
technical and marketing resources than we have. Additionally,
some formerly independent competitors have been purchased by
larger companies. Our competitors also include emerging
companies selling specialized products to markets we serve.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete
successfully in the future against existing or new competitors,
or that our operating results will not be adversely affected by
increased price competition.

We rely on third-party subcontractors and
manufacturers for some industry-standard wafers and
assembly/test services, and therefore cannot control their
availability or conditions of supply.

We rely, and plan to continue to rely, on
assembly and test subcontractors and on third-party wafer
fabricators to supply most of our wafers that can be
manufactured using industry-standard submicron processes. This
reliance involves several risks, including reduced control over
delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs.
Additionally, we utilize third-party wafer fabricators as
sole-source suppliers, primarily Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Company. These suppliers manufacture components in
accordance with our proprietary designs and specifications. We
have no written supply agreements with these sole-source
suppliers and purchase our custom components through individual
purchase orders. If these sole-source suppliers are unable or
unwilling to manufacture and deliver sufficient quantities of
components to us, on the time schedule and of the quality that
we require, we may be forced to seek to engage additional or
replacement suppliers, which could result in additional expenses
and delays in product development or shipment of product to our
customers.

We may not be able to satisfy increasing
demand for our products, and increased production may lead to
overcapacity and lower prices.

The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry
has resulted in sustained and short-term periods when demand for
our products has increased or decreased rapidly. During these
periods of rapid increases in demand, our available capacity may
not be sufficient to satisfy the available demand. We, and the
semiconductor industry generally, expand production facilities
and access to third-party foundries in response to these periods
of increased demand. These capacity expansions by us and other
semiconductor manufacturers has led to overcapacity in our
target markets which could lead to price erosion that would
adversely impact our operating results.

Our revenues may not increase enough to offset
the expense of additional capacity.

We, and the semiconductor industry generally,
expand production facilities and access to third-party foundries
in response to periods of increased demand which can cause
operating expenses to increase. Should customer demand fail to
increase or should the semiconductor industry enter a period of
reduced customer demand, our financial position and results of
operations could be adversely impacted as a result of
underutilization of capacity or asset impairment charges.



We may be unable to adequately protect our
proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete
effectively.

We rely primarily upon know-how, rather than on
patents, to develop and maintain our competitive position. There
can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent
similar technology or reverse engineer our products or that the
confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate
to protect our interests. Other companies have obtained patents
covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and
we might be required to obtain licenses under some of these
patents or be precluded from making and selling the infringing
products, if such patents are found to be valid. There can be no
assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required,
upon commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Moreover, the
laws of foreign countries in which we design, manufacture and
market our products may afford little or no effective protection
of our proprietary technology.

We are involved in frequent litigation
regarding intellectual property rights, which could be costly to
defend and could require us to redesign products or pay
significant royalties.

There can be no assurance that any patent will
issue on pending applications or that any patent issued will
provide substantive protection for the technology or product
covered by it. We believe that patent and mask set protection is
of less significance in our business than experience, innovation
and management skill. There also can be no assurance that others
will not develop or patent similar technology, or reverse
engineer our products, or that our confidentiality agreements
with employees, consultants, silicon foundries and other
suppliers and vendors will be adequate to protect our interests.

The semiconductor industry is characterized by
frequent claims and litigation involving patent and other
intellectual property rights, including claims arising under our
contractual indemnification of our customers. We have received
from time to time, and may receive in the future, claims from
third parties asserting that our products or processes infringe
their patents or other intellectual property rights. In the
event a third party makes a valid intellectual property claim
against us and a license is not available to us on commercially
reasonable terms, or at all, we could be forced either to
redesign or to stop production of products incorporating that
intellectual property, and our operating results could be
materially and adversely affected. Litigation may be necessary
to enforce our patents or other of our intellectual property
rights or to defend us against claims of infringement, and this
litigation could be costly and divert the attention of our key
personnel. See Note 12 in the Notes to our Consolidated
Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K for information concerning pending
litigation that involves us. An adverse outcome in this or other
litigation could have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated financial position or on our consolidated results
of operations or cash flows in the period in which the
litigation is resolved.

If we do not retain our key personnel, our
ability to execute our business strategy will be
limited.

Our success depends to a significant extent upon
the continued service of our executive officers and key
management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced
engineers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain,
and motivate qualified personnel. The competition for these
employees is intense. The loss of the services of one or more of
our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our
operating results. In addition, there could be a material
adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for engineers and
other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable
to continue to attract qualified personnel. We do not maintain
any key person life insurance policy on any of our officers or
employees.

We rely on manufacturing capacity located in
geologically unstable areas, which could affect the availability
of supplies and services.

We, and many companies in the semiconductor
industry, rely on internal manufacturing capacity located in
California as well as wafer fabrication foundries in Taiwan and
other sub-contractors in geologically unstable locations around
the world. This reliance involves risks associated with the
impact of earthquakes on us and the semiconductor industry,
including temporary loss of capacity, availability and cost of
key raw materials and equipment and availability of key services
including transport. In addition, California has



experienced intermittent interruption in the
availability of electricity. To date, the impact on us has been
negligible. However, electricity is a critical resource for us,
without which our products could not be manufactured at
factories exposed to continued lengthy power interruptions. Any
prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing
facilities as a result of fire, natural disaster, unavailability
of electric power or otherwise, would have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

We are exposed to economic, political and
other risks through our significant worldwide
operations.

During fiscal year 2003, approximately 74% of our
revenues were derived from customers in international markets.
Although we engage in hedging transactions to reduce our
exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations, there can be no
assurance that our competitive position will not be adversely
affected by changes in the exchange rate of the United States
dollar against other currencies. We have manufacturing
facilities outside the United States in Ireland and the
Philippines. In addition to being exposed to the ongoing
economic cycles in the semiconductor industry, we are also
subject to the economic and political risks inherent in
international operations and their impact on the United States
economy in general, including the risks associated with ongoing
uncertainties and political and economic instability in many
countries around the world as well as the economic disruption
from acts of terrorism, and the response to them by the United
States and its allies. These risks include air transportation
disruptions, expropriation, currency controls, currency exchange
rate movement, and additional costs related to tax, tariff and
freight rates.

Our future operating results are dependent on
the performance of independent distributors and sales
representatives.

A significant portion of our sales are through
independent distributors that are not under our control. These
independent distributors generally represent product lines
offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales
efforts applied to our products or terminate their
representation of us. We generally do not require letters of
credit from our distributors and are not protected against
accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors.
Our inability to collect open accounts receivable could
adversely affect our results of operations. Termination of a
significant distributor, whether at our initiative or the
distributor’s initiative, could disrupt our current
business. If we are unable to find suitable replacements in the
event of terminations by significant distributors or sales
representatives, our operating results could be adversely
affected.

Our manufacturing processes are highly complex
and may be interrupted.

We have manufacturing processes that utilize a
substantial amount of technology as the fabrication of
integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise process.
Minute impurities, contaminants in the manufacturing
environment, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in
the masks used in the wafer manufacturing process, manufacturing
equipment failures, wafer breakage or other factors can cause a
substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous dice
on each wafer to be nonfunctional. While we have significant
expertise in semiconductor manufacturing, it is possible that
some processes could become unstable. This instability could
result in manufacturing delays and product shortages, which
could have a material adverse effect on our financial position
or results of operations.

Our transition of products to more modern
facilities and related inventory builds may not progress as
planned.

We are transitioning products from our older
four-inch wafer fabrication facilities to our six-inch and
eight-inch wafer fabrication facilities. We have built inventory
in preparation for this transfer for both lifetime supply and
transition inventory. We have recorded certain levels of
reserves related to these inventory builds. Although we believe
that we have used our best efforts and information to estimate
future demand, due to the uncertain economic times and the
difficulty inherent in predicting future results, it is possible
that actual demand for our products will differ from our
estimates. If actual demand for products included in our
inventory builds is less than our estimates, our financial
position and results of operations could be adversely impacted.



ITEM 7A.

QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT
    MARKET RISK

Interest
Rate Exposure

Our annual interest income would change by
approximately $29 million in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002
for each 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates.
The fair values of our investment portfolio at November 1,
2003 and November 2, 2002 would not be significantly
impacted by either an increase or decrease in interest rates
primarily due to the short-term nature of the major portion of
our investment portfolio.

Foreign
Currency Exposure

As more fully described in Note 2
(i) in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements
contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, we regularly hedge our
non-U.S. dollar-based exposures by entering into forward
exchange contracts. The terms of these contracts are for periods
matching the duration of the underlying exposure and generally
range from one month to six months. The short-term nature of
these contracts has resulted in these instruments having
insignificant fair values at November 1, 2003 and
November 2, 2002. Currently, our largest foreign currency
exposure is against the Euro, primarily because Europe has a
higher proportion of our local currency denominated expenses.
Relative to foreign currency exposures existing at
November 1, 2003 and November 2, 2002, a 10%
unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates would
not expose us to significant losses in earnings or cash flows or
significantly diminish the fair value of our foreign currency
financial instruments, primarily due to the short lives of the
affected financial instruments that effectively hedge
substantially all of our year-end exposures against fluctuations
in foreign currency exchange rates. The calculation assumes that
each exchange rate would change in the same direction relative
to the U.S. dollar. In addition to the direct effects of
changes in exchange rates, such changes typically affect the
volume of sales or the foreign currency sales price as
competitors’ products become more or less attractive. Our
sensitivity analysis of the effects of changes in foreign
currency exchange rates does not factor in a potential change in
sales levels or local currency selling prices.



ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

Years ended November 1, 2003,
November 2, 2002 and November 3, 2001

See accompanying Notes.



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

November 1, 2003 and November 2,

See accompanying Notes.



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

Years ended November 1, 2003,
November 2, 2002 and November 3, 2001

See accompanying Notes.



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME

Years ended November 1, 2003,
November 2, 2002 and November 3, 2001

See accompanying Notes.



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

Years ended November 1, 2003,
November 2, 2002 and November 3, 2001

See accompanying Notes.



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Years ended November 1, 2003,
November 2, 2002 and November 3, 2001

(all tabular amounts in thousands except
per share amounts)

1.

Description of Business

Analog Devices, Inc. (“Analog” or the
“Company”) is a world leader in the design,
manufacture and marketing of high-performance analog,
mixed-signal and digital signal processing integrated circuits
used in signal processing for industrial, communication,
computer and consumer applications. Since the Company’s
inception in 1965, it has focused on solving the engineering
challenges associated with signal processing in electronic
equipment. Signal processing is where the analog and digital
worlds meet to provide the advantages of digital technologies to
the real world. The Company’s products play a fundamental
role in converting real-world phenomena such as temperature,
motion, pressure, light and sound into electrical signals to be
used in a wide array of electronic equipment ranging from
industrial process control, factory automation systems
equipment, smart munitions, base stations, central office
equipment, wireless telephones, computers, automobiles, CAT
scanners, digital cameras and DVD players. Signal processing is
the cornerstone of high-speed communications, digital
entertainment, and other consumer, computer and industrial
applications. As new generations of digital applications evolve,
they generate new needs for high-performance analog and digital
signal processing technology.

2.

Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies

a.

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of the Company and all of its wholly owned
subsidiaries. Upon consolidation, all significant intercompany
accounts and transactions are eliminated. The Company’s
fiscal year ends on the 52-week or 53-week period ending on the
Saturday closest to the last day in October. Fiscal year 2003
and fiscal year 2002 were 52-week years, and fiscal year 2001
was a 53-week year.

Certain amounts reported in previous years have
been reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2003 presentation,
such reclassifications were immaterial.

b.

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-term
    Investments

Cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid
investments with insignificant interest rate risk and maturities
of three months or less at the time of acquisition. The
Company’s investments, which generally have maturities
between three and twelve months at time of acquisition, are
considered short-term. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term
investments consist primarily of corporate obligations such as
commercial paper and corporate bonds, but also include
government agency notes, certificates of deposit, bank time
deposits and institutional money market funds.

The Company classifies its investments in readily
marketable debt and equity securities as
“held-to-maturity,” “available-for-sale” or
“trading” at the time of purchase. There were no
transfers between investment classifications in any of the
periods presented. Held-to-maturity securities, which are
carried at amortized cost, include only those securities the
Company has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity.
Securities, such as bank time deposits, which by their nature
are typically held to maturity, are classified as such. The
Company’s other readily marketable investments are
classified as available-for-sale. Available-for-sale securities
are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net
of related tax, if any, reported as a separate component of
stockholders’ equity. Realized gains and losses, as well as
interest, and dividends on all securities, are included in
earnings.

Substantially all of the Company’s
short-term investments have contractual maturities of twelve
months or less at time of acquisition. Because of the short term
to maturity, and hence relative price insensitivity to changes
in market interest rates, amortized cost approximates fair value
for all of these securities. No realized gains or losses were
recorded during fiscal 2003, 2002 or 2001. Unrealized losses of
$3.9 million, net of tax of



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

$2.1 million, were recorded in fiscal 2002.
Unrealized gains and losses were not material in fiscal 2003 or
fiscal 2001.

There were no cash equivalents or short-term
investments classified as trading at November 1, 2003 and
November 2, 2002. Cash equivalents and short-term
investments classified as held-to-maturity were
$162 million and $130 million at November 1, 2003
and November 2, 2002, respectively and were comprised
solely of Euro time deposits. The components of the
Company’s available-for-sale securities as of
November 1, 2003 and November 2, 2002 were as follows:

Cash balances included in cash and cash
equivalents were $54 million and $34 million at
November 1, 2003 and November 2, 2002, respectively.

c.

Supplemental Cash Flow Statement
    Information

The Company’s primary non-cash financing
activities in fiscal 2003 were the result of the restructuring
of an interest rate swap in October 2002 (see Note 2i.). At
the time of the restructuring of the swap, the fair value of the
interest rate component of the debt was greater than the related
carrying value. This difference was amortized over the remaining
life of the swap as an adjustment to interest expense. As a
result, the Company recognized $7.5 million of expense in
fiscal year 2003. The remainder of the non-cash expense in
fiscal 2003 resulted from the Company’s 2001 acquisitions
for which 1,462,066 shares of common stock were issued
(valued at approximately $81.8 million) and unvested stock
options with a fair value of approximately $11.9 million
were assumed. As a result, the Company recognized approximately
$6.1 million of stock-based compensation expense in fiscal
2003. The Company’s primary non-cash financing activities
in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 were a result of fiscal 2001
acquisitions. The Company recognized approximately
$11.1 million and $9.3 million of stock-based
compensation expense in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001,
respectively.

d.

Inventories

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost
(first-in, first-out method) or market. Inventories at
November 1, 2003 and November 2, 2002 were as follows:



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

e.

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost
less allowances for depreciation and amortization. The
straight-line method of depreciation is used for all classes of
assets for financial statement purposes; both straight-line and
accelerated methods are used for income tax purposes.
Capitalized leases and leasehold improvements are amortized
based upon the lesser of the term of the lease or the useful
life of the asset. Depreciation and amortization are based on
the following useful lives:

Buildings & Building Equipment

Up to 25 years

Machinery & Equipment

3-10 years

Office Equipment

3-8 years

Total depreciation and amortization of property,
plant and equipment was $166 million, $181 million and
$158 million in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
Property, plant and equipment included $77 million of
capitalized leases in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002, net of
$72 million and $68 million, respectively, of
accumulated depreciation. The Company did not capitalize
interest in fiscal 2003. During fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001, the
Company recorded $1.7 million and $6.5 million of
capitalized interest, respectively.

The Company reviews property, plant, and
equipment for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of assets may
not be recoverable. Recoverability of these assets is measured
by comparison of their carrying amount to future undiscounted
cash flows the assets are expected to generate over their
remaining economic life. If such assets are considered to be
impaired, the impairment to be recognized in earnings equals the
amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds their
fair market value determined by either a quoted market price, if
any, or a value determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow
technique.

f.

Goodwill and Other Acquisition-related
    Intangibles

Beginning in fiscal 2003, the Company adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142
(FAS 142), “Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets.” As a result, the Company discontinued amortizing
the remaining balances of goodwill beginning November 3,
2002. Instead, the Company annually evaluates goodwill for
impairment as well as whenever events or changes in
circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be
recoverable from estimated future cash flows.

As required by FAS 142, intangible assets
that do not meet the criteria for separate recognition must be
reclassified into goodwill. As a result, a net balance of
$1.6 million of acquired workforce intangibles was
transferred to goodwill as of November 3, 2002.
Amortization lives of intangibles range from five to ten years.

Other intangible assets at November 1, 2003
and November 2, 2002, which will continue to be amortized,
consisted of the following:



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Amortization expense relating to goodwill and
other acquisition-related intangibles was:

The Company expects annual amortization expense
for these intangible assets to be:

The following table provides a reconciliation of
reported net income to adjusted net income had FAS 142 been
applied as of the beginning of fiscal 2001:

g.

Grant Accounting

The Company’s manufacturing facility in
Limerick, Ireland has received various grants from the
Industrial Development Authority of the Republic of Ireland.
These grants include capital, employment and research and
development grants. Capital grants for the acquisition of
property and equipment are netted against the related capital
expenditures and amortized as a credit to depreciation expense
over the useful life of the related asset. Employment grants,
which relate to employee hiring and training, and research and
development grants are recognized in earnings in the period in
which the related expenditures are incurred by the Company.

h.

Translation of Foreign
    Currencies

The functional currency for the Company’s
foreign sales operations is the applicable local currency. Gains
and losses resulting from translation of these foreign
currencies into U.S. dollars are accumulated in other



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

comprehensive income. Transaction gains and
losses and remeasurement of foreign currency denominated assets
and liabilities are included in income currently, including
those at the Company’s principal foreign manufacturing
operations where the functional currency is the
U.S. dollar. Foreign currency transaction gains or losses
included in other expenses, net, were not material in fiscal
2003, 2002 and 2001.

i.

Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Agreements

The Company enters into forward foreign exchange
contracts to offset certain operational and balance sheet
exposures from the impact of changes in foreign currency
exchange rates. Such exposures result from the portion of the
Company’s operations, assets and liabilities that are
denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar,
primarily the Japanese Yen, Euro, and British Pounds Sterling.
These foreign exchange contracts are entered into to support
product sales, purchases and financing transactions made in the
normal course of business, and accordingly, are not speculative
in nature.

The Company records all derivative financial
instruments in the consolidated financial statements at fair
value regardless of the purpose or intent for holding the
instrument. Changes in the fair value of the derivative
financial instruments are either recognized periodically in
earnings or in stockholders’ equity as a component of other
comprehensive income (OCI) depending on whether the derivative
financial instrument qualifies for hedge accounting as defined
by FAS 133. Changes in fair values of derivatives not
qualifying for hedge accounting are reported in earnings as they
occur. While the adoption of FAS 133 on October 29,
2000 did not have a material impact on operations, it resulted
in a $5 million loss recognized in OCI, which was
reclassified into earnings during fiscal 2001.

Foreign Exchange Exposure
Management

— The Company has
significant international sales and purchase transactions in
foreign currencies and has a policy of hedging forecasted and
actual foreign currency risk with forward foreign exchange
contracts. The Company’s forward foreign exchange contracts
are denominated in Japanese Yen, British Pounds Sterling and the
Euro and are for periods consistent with the terms of the
underlying transactions, generally one year or less. Derivative
instruments are employed to eliminate or minimize certain
foreign currency exposures that can be confidently identified
and quantified. In accordance with FAS 133, hedges related
to anticipated transactions are designated and documented at the
inception of the respective hedges as cash flow hedges and are
evaluated for effectiveness monthly. As the terms of the
contract and the underlying transaction are matched at
inception, forward contract effectiveness is calculated by
comparing the change in fair value of the contract to the change
in the forward value of the anticipated transaction, with the
effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative
instrument reported as a component of OCI in stockholders’
equity and reclassified into earnings in the same period during
which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Any residual
change in fair value of the instruments, or ineffectiveness, is
recognized immediately in other expense. No ineffectiveness was
recognized in fiscal 2003, 2002 or 2001.

Additionally, the Company enters into foreign
currency forward contracts that economically hedge the gains and
losses generated by the remeasurement of certain recorded assets
and liabilities in a non-functional currency. Changes in the
fair value of these undesignated hedges are recognized in other
expense immediately as an offset to the changes in the fair
value of the asset or liability being hedged.

Interest Rate Exposure
Management

— In the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2003, the Company terminated a swap agreement
that had the effect of swapping the 4.75% fixed rate of the
Company’s Convertible Subordinated Notes (the
“Notes”) into a LIBOR-based floating rate. The swap
was terminated due to the Company’s decision to call for
the redemption of the Notes (see Note 9). The terminated
swap was originally entered into in January 2002 and hedged the
benchmark interest rate of the $1,200 million Notes. The
swap was a derivative instrument as defined by FAS 133 and was
designated as a fair value hedge at inception. As the critical
terms of the interest rate swap and the underlying interest
component of the Company’s Notes were matched at inception,
effectiveness was calculated by comparing the change in the fair
value of the contract to the change in the fair value of the
interest rate component, with the effective portion of the gain
or



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

loss on the derivative instrument reported in
other expense. The Company evaluated this fair value hedge for
effectiveness quarterly, and restructured certain terms in
October 2002 to provide for an even more highly effective hedge
relationship with the Notes. The restructuring resulted in an
interest rate swap with terms more favorable to the Company,
offset by a promise to pay a fixed amount over time to the
counterparty regardless of when the swap was terminated. The
restructuring, which had no impact on earnings, increased the
interest rate swap asset by $27 million, with an offsetting
debt liability of an equal amount. The fair value hedge was
determined to be highly effective during each quarter, and a
minor amount of ineffectiveness was recorded in other expense
during fiscal year 2003 and fiscal year 2002.

Derivative financial instruments involve, to a
varying degree, elements of market and credit risk not
recognized in the consolidated financial statements. The market
risk associated with these instruments resulting from currency
exchange rate or interest rate movements is expected to offset
the market risk of the underlying transactions, assets and
liabilities being hedged. The counterparties to the agreements
relating to the Company’s foreign exchange and interest
rate instruments consist of a number of major international
financial institutions with high credit ratings. The Company
does not believe that there is significant risk of
nonperformance by these counterparties because the Company
continually monitors the credit ratings of such counterparties,
and limits the financial exposure with any one financial
institution. While the contract or notional amounts of
derivative financial instruments provide one measure of the
volume of these transactions, they do not represent the amount
of the Company’s exposure to credit risk. The amounts
potentially subject to credit risk (arising from the possible
inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their
contracts) are generally limited to the amounts, if any, by
which the counterparties’ obligations under the contracts
exceed the obligations of the Company to the counterparties.

Accumulated Derivative Gains or
Losses

The following table summarizes activity in other
comprehensive income related to derivatives classified as cash
flow hedges held by the Company during the period of
November 4, 2001 through November 1, 2003:

All of the accumulated gain will be reclassified
into earnings over the next twelve months.

j.

Fair Values of Financial
    Instruments

The following estimated fair value amounts have
been determined by the Company using available market
information and appropriate valuation methodologies. However,
considerable judgment is required in



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

interpreting market data to develop the estimates
of fair value. Accordingly, the estimates presented herein are
not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company could
realize in a current market exchange.

The following methods and assumptions were used
by the Company in estimating its fair value disclosures for
financial instruments:

Cash, cash equivalents and short-term
investments

— The
carrying amounts of these items are a reasonable estimate of
their fair value due to the short term to maturity and readily
available market for these types of investments.

Deferred compensation plan investments and
other investments

— The
fair value of these investments is based on quoted market
values, with the exception of equity investments that are
carried at cost.

Short-term
borrowings

— The
carrying amounts of these variable-rate borrowings approximate
fair value due to the short period of time to maturity.

Long-term
debt

— The fair value of
long-term debt is based on quoted market values. The carrying
amount is based on a FAS 133 valuation (see Note 2i.

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Agreements

).

Interest rate swap and cap
agreements

— The fair
value of interest rate swap and cap agreements is obtained from
dealer quotes. These values represent the estimated amount the
Company would receive or pay to terminate the agreements taking
into consideration current interest rates.

Forward foreign currency exchange
contracts

— The
estimated fair value of forward foreign currency exchange
contracts is based on the estimated amount at which they could
be settled based on forward market exchange rates.

k.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingencies at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and
expenses during the reporting period. Such estimates relate to
the useful lives of fixed assets, allowances for doubtful
accounts and customer returns, inventory reserves, potential
reserves relating to litigation matters, accrued liabilities,
accrued taxes and other reserves. Actual results could differ
from those estimates, and such differences may be material to
the financial statements.



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

l.

Concentrations of Credit Risk

Financial instruments that potentially subject
the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally
of investments and trade accounts receivable.

The Company maintains cash, cash equivalents and
short-term investments and long-term investments with high
credit quality financial institutions and monitors the amount of
credit exposure to any one financial institution.

The Company sells its products to distributors
and original equipment manufacturers involved in a variety of
industries including industrial automation, instrumentation,
military/ aerospace, communications, computers and peripherals,
and high-performance consumer electronics. The Company has
adopted credit policies and standards to accommodate growth in
these markets. The Company performs continuing credit
evaluations of its customers’ financial condition and
although the Company generally does not require collateral,
letters of credit may be required from its customers in certain
circumstances. Reserves are provided for estimated amounts of
accounts receivable that may not be collected.

m.

Concentration of Other Risks

The semiconductor industry is characterized by
rapid technological change, competitive pricing pressures and
cyclical market patterns. The Company’s financial results
are affected by a wide variety of factors, including general
economic conditions worldwide, economic conditions specific to
the semiconductor industry, the timely implementation of new
manufacturing technologies, the ability to safeguard patents and
intellectual property in a rapidly evolving market and reliance
on assembly and test subcontractors, third-party wafer
fabricators and independent distributors. In addition, the
semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject
to significant economic downturns at various times. The Company
is exposed to the risk of obsolescence of its inventory
depending on the mix of future business. As a result, the
Company may experience significant period-to-period fluctuations
in future operating results due to the factors mentioned above
or other factors.

n.

Revenue Recognition

In fiscal 2001, the Company adopted the
provisions of Securities and Exchange Commission Staff
Accounting Bulletin 101. Accordingly, revenue from product sales
to end-users is recognized when title passes, which for
shipments to certain foreign countries is subsequent to product
shipment. Title for these shipments ordinarily passes within a
week of shipment. For all periods presented, revenue and the
related cost of sales on shipments to distributors are deferred
until the distributors resell the products to end-users.
Deferred amounts are presented net and included as
“Deferred income on shipments to distributors” in the
Company’s consolidated balance sheets. A reserve for sales
returns and allowances for other customers is recorded based on
historical experience or specific identification of an event
necessitating a reserve.

The Company generally offers a 12-month warranty
for its products. The Company’s warranty policy provides
for replacement of the defective product. Specific accruals are
recorded for known product warranty issues. Product warranty
expenses during fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001 were not material.

o.

Other Comprehensive Income

Components of other comprehensive income include
certain transactions that have generally been reported in the
consolidated statement of stockholders’ equity. Other
comprehensive income is comprised of currency translation
adjustments, minimum pension liability adjustments, unrealized
gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities, and net gain or
loss on derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The components of accumulated other comprehensive
income at November 1, 2003 and November 2, 2002
consisted of the following:

p.

Advertising Expense

Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.
Advertising expense was $13.6 million in fiscal 2003 and
$10.4 million in both fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001.

q.

Income Taxes

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
determined based on the differences between financial reporting
and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using
the enacted income tax rates and laws that are expected to be in
effect when the temporary differences are expected to reverse.
Additionally, deferred tax assets and liabilities are separated
into current and noncurrent amounts based on the classification
of the related assets and liabilities for financial reporting
purposes.

r.

Earnings Per Share of Common
    Stock

Basic earnings per share is computed based only
on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed using
the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during
the period, plus the dilutive effect of potential future
issuances of common stock relating to stock option programs and
other potentially dilutive securities. In calculating diluted
earnings per share, the dilutive effect of stock options is
computed using the average market price for the respective
period. Potential shares related to convertible debt and certain
of the Company’s outstanding stock options were excluded
because they were anti-dilutive. Those potential shares related
to the Company’s outstanding



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

stock options could be dilutive in the future.
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and
diluted earnings per share:

s.

Stock-Based Compensation

The Company has adopted the disclosure
requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 148 (FAS 148), “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation — Transition and Disclosure”
effective November 3, 2002. FAS 148 amends Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (FAS 123),
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” to provide
alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the
fair value method of accounting for stock-based compensation and
also amends the disclosure requirements of FAS 123 to
require prominent disclosures in both annual and interim
financial statements about the methods of accounting for
stock-based employee compensation and the effect of the method
used on reported results. As permitted by FAS 148 and
FAS 123, the Company continues to apply the accounting
provisions of Accounting Principle Board Opinion No. 25,
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and
related interpretations, with regard to the measurement of
compensation cost for options granted under the Company’s
equity compensation plans, consisting of the 2001 Broad-Based
Stock Option Plan, the 1998 Stock Option Plan, the Restated 1994
Director Option Plan, the Restated 1988 Stock Option Plan, the
1992 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and the 1998 International
Employee Stock Purchase Plan.

Pro forma information regarding net income and
earnings per share is required by FAS 123 for awards
granted after October 28, 1995 as if the Company had
accounted for its stock-based awards to employees under the fair
value method of FAS 123. The fair value of the
Company’s stock-based awards to employees was estimated
using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. The
Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in
estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting
restrictions and are fully transferable. In addition, option
valuation models require the input of highly subjective
assumptions, including the expected stock price volatility.
Because the Company’s stock-based awards to employees have
characteristics significantly different from those of traded
options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions
can materially affect the fair value estimate, in
management’s opinion, the existing models do not
necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value
of its stock-based awards to employees. The fair



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

value of the Company’s stock-based awards to
employees was estimated assuming no expected dividends and the
following weighted average assumptions:

The following is a summary of weighted average
grant date values generated by application of the Black-Scholes
model:

Had expense been recognized using the fair value
method described in FAS 123, using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model, the Company would have reported the
following results of operations:

The effects of applying FAS 123 on pro forma
disclosures are not likely to be representative of the effects
on pro forma disclosures of future years.

t.

New Accounting Standards

In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued Statements of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 141 (FAS 141), “Business Combinations,”
and No. 142 (FAS 142), “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets.” FAS 141 requires that all business
combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 be accounted for
using the purchase method of accounting. FAS 142, which
became effective for the Company in fiscal year 2003, prohibits
the amortization of goodwill and intangible assets with
indefinite useful lives. FAS 142 requires that these assets
be reviewed for impairment at least annually, or more frequently
if impairment indicators arise. Other intangible assets with
finite lives will continue to be amortized over their estimated
useful lives and assessed for impairment under FAS 144. The
Company tests goodwill for



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

impairment using the two-step process prescribed
by FAS 142. The first step is a screen for potential
impairment, while the second step measures the amount of the
impairment, if any. In the first step, if the fair value of the
reporting unit(s) exceed(s) the carrying value, no impairment
loss is recognized. If the carrying value of the reporting
unit(s) exceed(s) the fair value, goodwill is potentially
impaired and the Company must complete step two in order to
measure the impairment loss. Step two compares the implied fair
value of the goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill.
If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair
value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an
amount equal to that excess. The Company adopted FAS 142 in
the first quarter of fiscal 2003. Application of the
nonamortization provisions of FAS 142 resulted in an
increase in annual net income of $44 million in fiscal
2003. The Company completed the required impairment test of
goodwill upon adoption of FAS 142 as of November 3,
2002 in the second quarter of fiscal 2003. The results of the
impairment review indicated that there was no impairment of
goodwill. The Company also performed the annual impairment test
as of the beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 and the
results indicated that there was no impairment of goodwill. See
further discussion under Note 2f.

Goodwill and Other
Acquisition-related Intangibles

.

Effective November 3, 2002, the Company
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143
(FAS 143), “Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations,” which addresses financial accounting and
reporting for legal obligations associated with the retirement
of tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset
retirement costs. The adoption of FAS 143 did not have a
material effect on the Company’s financial position or
results of operations.

Effective November 3, 2002, the Company
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144
(FAS 144), “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal
of Long-Lived Assets,” which addresses the financial
accounting and reporting for the impairment of long-lived
assets. This statement supersedes Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 121, “Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be
Disposed Of” and the accounting and reporting provisions
for the disposal of a segment of a business of Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 30, “Reporting the
Results of Operations-Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a
Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and
Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions.” The
adoption of FAS 144 did not have a material effect on the
Company’s financial position or results of operations.

Effective November 3, 2002, the Company
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 145
(FAS 145), “Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4,
44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and
Technical Corrections.” Under FAS 145, gains and
losses on extinguishments of debt are classified as income or
loss from continuing operations rather than extraordinary items.
The adoption of FAS 145 did not have a material impact on
the Company’s financial position or results of operations.

In July 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 146 (FAS 146), “Accounting for Costs
Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.” The standard
requires companies to recognize costs associated with exit or
disposal activities when they are incurred rather than at the
date of a commitment to an exit or disposal plan. Costs covered
by FAS 146 include lease termination costs and certain
one-time employee severance costs that are associated with a
restructuring, plant closing, or other exit or disposal
activity. This statement is to be applied prospectively to exit
or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002.
FAS 146 may affect the timing of recognizing future exit or
disposal costs, if any, as well as the amounts recognized.

Effective November 3, 2002, the Company
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148
(FAS 148), “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation — Transitions and Disclosure.”
FAS 148 amends FAS 123, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation,” to provide alternative methods
of transition to FAS 123’s fair value method of
accounting for stock-based employee compensation. FAS 148
also amends the disclosure provisions of FAS 123 and APB
Opinion No. 28, “Interim Financial Reporting,” to
require disclosure in the summary of significant accounting
policies of the effects of an entity’s accounting policy
with



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

respect to stock-based employee compensation on
reported net income and earnings per share in annual and interim
financial statements. While FAS 148 does not amend
FAS 123 to require companies to account for employee stock
options using the fair value method, the disclosure provisions
of FAS 148 are applicable to all companies with stock-based
employee compensation, regardless of whether they account for
stock-based compensation using the fair value method of
FAS 123 or the intrinsic value method of Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, (APB 25),
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and
related interpretations. The Company has adopted the disclosure
requirements of FAS 148 and will continue to account for
stock-based compensation plans in accordance with APB 25.

In April 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 149 (FAS 149), “Amendment of
Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities.” This statement amends and clarifies financial
accounting and reporting for derivative instruments, including
certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and
for hedging activities under FAS 133. FAS 149 is
effective for contracts entered into or modified after
June 30, 2003. The adoption of FAS 149 did not have a
material effect on the Company’s financial position or
results of operations.

In May 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 150 (FAS 150), “Accounting for Certain
Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities
and Equity”. FAS 150 establishes standards for how an
issuer classifies and measures in its statement of financial
position certain financial instruments with characteristics of
both liabilities and equity. It requires that an issuer classify
a financial instrument that is within its scope as a liability
(or an asset in some circumstances) because that financial
instrument embodies an obligation of the issuer. FAS 150 is
effective for financial instruments entered into or modified
after May 31, 2003, and otherwise is effective at the
beginning of the first interim period beginning after
June 15, 2003. The adoption of FAS 150 did not have a
material effect on the Company’s financial position or
results of operations.

In November 2002, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued Financial Accounting Standards Board
Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), “Guarantor’s
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others.” FIN 45
requires that upon issuance of a guarantee, the guarantor must
disclose and recognize a liability for the fair value of the
obligation it assumes under that guarantee. The initial
recognition and measurement requirement of FIN 45 is
effective for guarantees issued or modified after
December 31, 2002. As of November 1, 2003, the fair
value of the Company’s guarantees that were issued or
modified after December 31, 2002 was not material. The
disclosure requirements of FIN 45, which are effective for
interim and annual periods ending after December 15, 2002.
Under the terms of the lease agreement, which was entered into
prior to January 1, 2003, related to the Company’s
headquarters facility in Norwood, Massachusetts, the Company has
agreed to assume the note related to the property in the event
of default by the lessor. Assumption of the note, which was
approximately $8.8 million at November 1, 2003, would
entitle the Company to a first lien on the property. The lease
expires in May 2007. The guarantee was made by the Company to
allow the lessor to obtain a lower cost of borrowing. The
Company has also provided certain indemnities under which it may
be required to make payments to an indemnified party in
connection with certain transactions and agreements, in
particular, with respect to certain acquisitions and
divestitures, the Company has provided customary indemnities for
such matters as environmental, tax, product and employee
liabilities. In addition, in connection with various other
agreements, including subsidiary banking agreements, the Company
may provide routine guarantees. Generally, because a maximum
obligation is not explicitly stated, the potential amount of
future maximum payments cannot be reasonably estimated, and
therefore, the Company has not recorded any liability for these
indemnities in the consolidated financial statements. The
duration of the indemnities varies, and in many cases is
indefinite.

In January 2003, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued Financial Accounting Standards Board
Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46), “Consolidation of
Variable Interest Entities.” FIN 46 requires that if
an entity has a controlling financial interest in a variable
interest entity, the assets, liabilities and results of



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

activities of the variable interest entity should
be included in the consolidated financial statements of the
entity. FIN 46 is effective immediately for all new
variable interest entities created or acquired after
January 31, 2003. For variable interest entities created or
acquired prior to February 1, 2003, the provisions of
FIN 46 must be applied to the first interim or annual
period beginning after December 15, 2003. The Company is
required to adopt the provisions of FIN 46 in the second
quarter of fiscal 2004 and does not expect the adoption to have
a material impact on its financial position or results of
operations.

3.     Acquisitions

During the first quarter of fiscal 2001, the
Company completed the following acquisitions, which were
accounted for as purchases, and, generally, the excess of the
purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired
has been allocated to goodwill and is amortized over five years:

•

In the first quarter of fiscal 2001, the Company
    completed the acquisitions of Thomas Neuroth AG (Neuroth),
    Signal Processing Associates Pty. Ltd. (SPA) and Integrated
    Micro Instruments, Inc. (IMI). The total amount paid for these
    acquisitions was $10.2 million. As of November 1,
    2003, the remaining contingent consideration was
    $1.1 million. In order to be entitled to receive the
    contingent consideration, the former shareholders of IMI, who
    are employed by Analog, must continue to be employed by Analog.
    As such, the contingent consideration will be recorded as
    compensation expense.

•

On January 4, 2001, the Company acquired
    ChipLogic, Inc. (ChipLogic) of Santa Clara, California.
    ChipLogic is a developer of high-performance integrated circuits
    and software focused on the convergence of voice, broadband
    access and network protocol processing. The total purchase price
    of $68.3 million consisted of cash of approximately
    $4 million, approximately 1 million shares of common
    stock valued at $60.2 million and the assumption of
    $4.1 million of outstanding ChipLogic vested stock options.
    The fair value of common stock issued was determined based on
    the average market price of common stock for the seven-day
    period, including three days before and after the date the
    acquisition was announced and the terms of the acquisition were
    agreed upon. Approximately $9.5 million represented the
    purchase price of in-process technology and was charged to
    operations during fiscal 2001 because the software project had
    not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative
    future use. The in-process technology related to software
    developed to handle voice processing, signaling, packet
    management and routing, quality of service and networking
    interface functions. This software is embedded in a network
    processor that provides for a wide area to local area network
    bridge. The fair value of the in-process technology was
    determined by a third party using the income forecast method,
    which is a discounted net cash flow approach. At the time of the
    acquisition, the in-process technology was approximately 40%
    complete. The in-process technology was completed in the second
    quarter of fiscal 2002. Expenditures to complete the in-process
    technology totaled $14 million, representing primarily
    personnel costs. An additional $8 million of cash
    consideration and 489,375 shares of common stock was due
    and payable in the event that the former shareholders and key
    employees remain employed at Analog and upon the achievement of
    certain operational objectives. Of these shares, 249,375 shares
    have been issued to the former shareholders and have a fixed
    value of $13 million. This amount is being charged ratably
    to operations over a five-year period based on continuing
    employment. Accordingly, the issuance of these shares is
    compensatory and is treated as compensation expense over the
    service period. The remaining 240,000 shares were subject to
    operational performance-based criteria and were only issuable to
    those former shareholders and key employees who remained
    employed at Analog at the time the operational milestones were
    met. Accordingly, the issuance of these shares was compensatory
    and was recorded as compensation expense when the achievement of
    each defined contractual milestone became probable. As of
    November 2, 2002, all of the operational milestones had
    been met and approximately $5.0 million and
    $4.2 million of expense was recorded related to the
    issuance of the shares in fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively. As
    of November 1, 2003, there was approximately
    $4.9 million of contingent consideration remaining to be
    paid. An additional $2.8 million of compensation expense is
    being recorded annually through fiscal 2005 related to the
    assumption of unvested stock options.



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

•

On January 16, 2001, the Company acquired
    Staccato Systems, Inc. (Staccato) of Mountain View, California.
    Staccato is in the field of audio synthesis technology. The
    total purchase price of $23.8 million consisted of
    $23 million in cash and the assumption of $0.8 million
    of vested outstanding Staccato stock options. The Company paid
    an additional $7 million to the selling shareholders
    related to the achievement of operational objectives. These
    payments were accounted for as additional purchase price and
    recorded to goodwill because the payments were not contingent on
    continued employment by the former shareholders of Staccato who
    became Analog employees. The Company paid contingent
    consideration payments to the former shareholders of
    $5 million and $2 million in fiscal 2002 and 2001,
    respectively. No additional contingent consideration payments
    will be made. An additional $0.2 million of compensation
    expense is being recorded annually through fiscal 2005 related
    to the assumption of unvested stock options.

Pro forma results of operations for Neuroth, SPA,
IMI, ChipLogic and Staccato have not been provided herein as
they were not material to the Company on either an individual or
an aggregate basis. The results of operations of each
acquisition are included in the Company’s consolidated
statement of income from the date of each acquisition.

4.     Industry and
Geographic Segment Information

The Company operates and tracks its results in
one reportable segment. The Company designs, develops,
manufactures and markets a broad range of integrated circuits.
The Chief Executive Officer has been identified as the Chief
Operating Decision Maker as defined by Statement of Financial
Accounting Standard No. 131 (SFAS 131),
“Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information.”

Geographic
Information

The Company operates in the following major
geographic areas. Trade sales data is based upon point of sale
and property, plant and equipment based upon physical location.
The predominant countries comprising European operations are
Ireland, England, France and Germany.



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

5.     Special
Charges

A summary of the Company’s special charges
is as follows:

A summary of the activity in accrued
restructuring is as follows:



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Fiscal 2003
Charges

During the third quarter of fiscal 2003, the
Company recorded a special charge of $0.3 million. The
charge included a $2.0 million write-down of equipment to
fair value due to a decision to outsource the assembly of
products in plastic packages, which had been done internally at
the Company’s facility in the Philippines. This amount was
the net book value of the assets used in plastic assembly, net
of proceeds received from the sale in the third quarter of a
portion of the assets. The Company also decided to abandon
efforts to develop a particular expertise in optical
communications that resulted in the write-down of
$2.7 million of equipment to fair value. During the quarter
ended August 2, 2003, the Company determined that the costs
remaining to be paid for certain restructuring charges would be
less than the amount originally recorded. Accordingly, the
Company recorded a change in estimate reducing the restructuring
accruals by $4.4 million related to prior restructuring
charges as more fully described below.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, the
Company recorded a special charge of $9.2 million as a
result of a decision to close a small manufacturing facility in
Belfast, Northern Ireland that supplied foundry substrate
services for optical applications. The charge included
$2.0 million of severance and fringe benefit costs for
approximately 57 manufacturing employees and
14 engineering and administrative employees, none of whom
had been terminated as of November 1, 2003. The charge also
included $6 million related to the write-down of property,
plant and equipment to fair value and $1.2 million related
to the write-down of various other assets to fair values. The
closure is anticipated to be completed during the first half of
fiscal 2004.

Of the $9.5 million of special charges
recorded in fiscal 2003, $2 million related to separation
costs remained accrued as of November 1, 2003. All
remaining severance will be paid in the first half of fiscal
2004.

Fiscal 2002
Charges

During the second quarter of fiscal 2002, the
Company recorded special charges of approximately
$27.2 million. The second quarter charge was comprised of
$25.7 million related to the planned transfer of production
from the Company’s three older four-inch wafer fabrication
facilities to the Company’s three six-inch and one
eight-inch wafer fabrication facilities, and $3 million
primarily related to the impairment of an investment, which was
partially offset by an adjustment of $1.5 million related
to equipment cancelation fees recorded in fiscal year 2001. The
investment impairment, which was related to an equity investment
in a private company, was due to the Company’s decision to
abandon the product strategy for which the investment was made.
Included in the $25.7 million special charge were severance
and fringe benefit costs of $15.3 million for 509
manufacturing employees in the United States and Ireland,
$2.3 million related to the write-down of equipment to be
abandoned and $8.1 million of other charges, primarily
related to lease termination and cleanup costs. The write-down
of equipment was principally due to a decision to discontinue
various product development strategies. In the third quarter of
fiscal 2003, the Company reversed $2.9 million of the
accrual primarily due to lower than previously expected
severance costs. The lower severance costs were the result of a
reduction in the number of separated employees and, to a lesser
extent, the average tenure of separated employees differing from
estimates. The 509 employees projected to be terminated at the
time of the original charge was adjusted down to 439 and as of
November 1, 2003, 397 employees had been terminated.
The reduction in the number of employees to be terminated was
due to the transfer of employees, which primarily occurred in
the third quarter of fiscal 2003, to positions in the
Company’s six-inch wafer fabrication facilities where the
Company experienced an unexpected increase in demand for its
products. The process of ceasing production in the four-inch
wafer fabrication facilities is complete. The equipment
disposition and clean-up activity is underway at each site and
the related clean up costs, which were included in the special
charge, will be expended as this activity is completed. The
remaining clean-up will be substantially complete by the end of
the second quarter of fiscal 2004. Since severance costs are
paid as income continuance at some locations, these amounts will
be expended over time subsequent to the final termination of
employment.



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

In addition to the above special charges, the
remaining service lives of certain assets within the older
four-inch wafer fabrication facilities were shortened. As a
result, cost of sales for the fiscal year 2002 included
additional depreciation of approximately $8.7 million
associated with the shortened lives.

During the third quarter of fiscal 2002, the
Company recorded special charges of approximately
$12.8 million. The charges included severance and fringe
benefit costs of $3.7 million related to cost reduction
actions taken in several product groups and, to a lesser extent,
in manufacturing, $3.8 million related to the impairment of
an investment, $3.4 million related to the impairment of
goodwill associated with the closing of an Austrian design
center acquired in fiscal 2001 and $1.9 million primarily
related to the abandonment of equipment and lease cancelation
fees. The investment impairment, which was related to an equity
investment in a private company, was due to the Company’s
decision to abandon the product strategy for which the
investment was made. The severance and fringe benefit costs were
for approximately 70 engineering employees in the United
States, Europe and Canada, and approximately
30 manufacturing employees in the United States. All of the
manufacturing employees and substantially all of the engineering
employees had been terminated as of November 1, 2003.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, the
Company recorded special charges of approximately
$8.4 million. The charges included severance and fringe
benefit costs of $2.5 million related to cost reduction
actions taken in the sales group, several product groups and the
Company’s manufacturing test operations for approximately
65 employees in the United States and Europe, all of which had
been terminated as of November 1, 2003. The charges also
included $2.1 million related to the impairment of
investments, $1.8 million primarily related to the
abandonment of equipment and lease cancelation fees and a change
in estimate of $2.0 million for additional estimated
clean-up costs originally recorded in the second quarter of
fiscal 2002. The investment impairment charges were related to
the decline in fair value of a publicly traded equity investment
to less than its cost basis that was determined to be
other-than-temporary, and to an equity investment in a private
company. The private company equity investment was part of a
product strategy that the Company decided to abandon.

Of the $48.5 million of special charges
recorded in fiscal 2002, $3.2 million primarily related to
clean-up costs and $4.7 million related to separation
costs, primarily being paid as income continuance, remained
accrued as of November 1, 2003.

Fiscal 2001
Charges

During fiscal 2001, the Company recorded special
charges of approximately $47 million related to cost
reduction actions taken in response to the economic climate at
that time. The actions consisted of workforce reductions in
manufacturing and, to a lesser extent, in selling, marketing and
administrative areas as well as a decision to consolidate
worldwide manufacturing operations and rationalize production
planning and quality activities. The cost reductions included
severance and fringe benefit costs of $29.6 million for
approximately 1,200 employees in the U.S., Europe, Asia and the
Philippines, substantially all of which had been terminated as
of November 1, 2003. The special charges also included
$11.6 million related to the abandonment of equipment
resulting from the consolidation of worldwide manufacturing
operations and $5.8 million of other charges primarily
related to equipment and lease cancelation fees. Based on the
results of negotiations with vendors regarding purchase order
cancelation fees, the amount paid was $1.5 million less
than the amount recorded for such charges and, accordingly, the
Company adjusted the provision for purchase order cancelation
fees by $1.5 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2002
to reflect this change in estimate. In the third quarter of
fiscal 2003, the Company determined that the severance costs
remaining to be paid would be $1.3 million less than the
amount originally recorded for these charges and also determined
that $0.2 million originally reserved for the termination
of two leases would not be required. Therefore, the Company
adjusted the provision for these severance and other costs in
the third quarter of fiscal 2003 to reflect this change in
estimate.



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Of the $47.0 million of special charges
recorded in fiscal 2001, $1.4 million remained accrued as
of November 1, 2003, and primarily represents severance
payments being paid as income continuance to certain of the
1,200 terminated employees, predominantly in the U.S.,
substantially all of which will be paid by the end of fiscal
2004.

6.     Deferred
Compensation Plan Investments

Deferred compensation plan investments are
classified as trading and were $304 million and
$278 million at November 1, 2003 and November 2,
2002, respectively. The values of these investments are based on
published market quotes on November 1, 2003 and
November 2, 2002, respectively. Adjustments to fair value
of, and income pertaining to, deferred compensation plan
investments are recorded in operating expense. Gross realized
and unrealized gains and losses from trading securities were not
material in fiscal 2003, fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001.

Investments consist primarily of long-term
investments in mutual funds, commercial paper, equity securities
and institutional money market funds, which are offset by a
corresponding noncurrent liability to the plan participants (see
Note 10). These investments are specifically designated as
available to the Company solely for the purpose of paying
benefits under the Company’s deferred compensation plan.
However, in the event the Company became insolvent, the
investments would be available to all unsecured general
creditors.

7.     Other
Investments

Other investments consist of equity securities,
auction-rate securities and other long-term investments.
Investments are stated at fair value, which is based on market
quotes, interest rates or management estimates, as appropriate.
Adjustments to fair value of investments classified as
available-for-sale are recorded as an increase or decrease in
other comprehensive income, which is included as a component of
stockholders’ equity.

There were no realized gains or losses recorded
in fiscal 2003. Realized losses of $6.9 million were
recorded in fiscal 2002. Net realized gains of
$25.5 million were recorded in fiscal 2001 primarily
related to a $28 million gain on the sale of the
Company’s investment in Wafertech.

Unrealized gains of $4.2 million
($2.7 million net of tax) were recorded in fiscal 2003,
unrealized losses of $1.1 million ($0.7 million net of
tax) were recorded in fiscal 2002 and unrealized losses of
$0.3 million ($0.2 million net of tax) were recorded
in fiscal 2001.

Long-term investments classified as
available-for-sale were approximately $37.6 million and
$2.0 million at November 1, 2003 and November 2,
2002, respectively.

8.     Accrued
Liabilities

Accrued liabilities at November 1, 2003 and
November 2, 2002 consisted of the following:



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

9.     Debt and
Credit Facilities

Long-term debt at November 1, 2003 and
November 2, 2002 consisted of the following:

On October 1, 2000, the Company issued
$1,200 million of 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes due
October 1, 2005 (the “2005 Notes”) with
semiannual interest payments on April 1 and October 1
of each year. The 2005 Notes were convertible, at the option of
the holder, into the Company’s common stock at any time
unless previously redeemed or repurchased, at a conversion price
of $129.78 per share, subject to adjustment in certain events.
The net proceeds of the offering were $1,172 million after
payment of the underwriting discount and expenses of the
offering, which were amortized over the term of the 2005 Notes.
On October 1, 2003, the Company redeemed the 2005 Notes.
The redemption price was 101.90% of the principal amount of the
notes or $1,223 million. The Company recognized a net loss
on debt extinguishment of $0.2 million, which was comprised
of a gain on bond redemption of $10.8 million due to the
carrying value of the 2005 Notes being greater than the
redemption value as a result of the mark-to-market of the
interest rate component of the 2005 Notes to fair value. This
gain was offset by a write-off of $11.0 million of deferred
financing fees. The net loss is included in Other, net in the
consolidated statements of income.

Other long-term debt of $27.4 million at
November 2, 2002 was due to a third-party counterparty and
was related to the interest rate swap on the 2005 Notes entered
into in fiscal 2002 (see Note 2i.). The swap agreement was
terminated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. As
consideration for the restructuring of the interest rate swap
agreement in the Company’s favor in October 2002, the
Company agreed to pay a fixed amount to the counterparty that
was due regardless of when the interest rate swap agreement
terminated. The obligation was payable, plus interest at the
LIBOR-based floating rate (1.61% as of November 6, 2002),
on a quarterly basis over the same term as that of the interest
rate swap, but the full amount was accelerated upon termination
of the related swap agreement in September 2003.

There were no short-term borrowings outstanding
at November 1, 2003. There were $6 thousand of other
short-term borrowings outstanding at November 2, 2002,
which were at prevailing market rates for the respective
currencies. Borrowings under the Company’s lines of credit
are generally due within six months. Total availability under
these short-term lines of credit is not material.

10.     Deferred
Compensation Plan Liability and Other Noncurrent
Liabilities

The deferred compensation plan liability relates
to obligations due under the Analog Devices, Inc. Deferred
Compensation Plan (the “Deferred Compensation Plan”).
The Deferred Compensation Plan allows certain members of
management and other highly-compensated employees and
non-employee directors to defer receipt of all or any portion of
their compensation and gains on stock options and restricted
stock granted before July 23, 1997. The balance represents
Deferred Compensation Plan participant accumulated deferrals,
and earnings thereon, since the inception of the Deferred
Compensation Plan, net of withdrawals. The Company’s
liability under the Deferred Compensation Plan is an unsecured
general obligation of the Company. The other items included in
other noncurrent liabilities primarily relate to pension
liabilities.

11.     Lease
Commitments

The Company leases certain of its facilities and
equipment under various operating leases that expire at various
dates through 2012. The lease agreements frequently include
renewal and escalation clauses and



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

require the Company to pay taxes, insurance and
maintenance costs. Total rental expense under operating leases
was approximately $21 million in fiscal 2003, fiscal 2002
and fiscal 2001.

The following is a schedule of future minimum
rental payments required under long-term operating leases at
November 1, 2003:

12.     Commitments
and Contingencies

Litigation

On June 17, 2002, the Company received a
letter from Plasma Physics Corporation (“Plasma
Physics”) attaching a courtesy copy of a complaint it had
filed against the Company in the Eastern District of New York
alleging infringement by certain of the Company’s products
of two patents held by Plasma Physics. In the letter, Plasma
Physics indicated that it would like to license the patents to
the Company. The letter further stated that Plasma Physics would
forego service of the complaint for a period of 120 days,
provided that the Company would agree to undertake negotiations
over terms for licensing the above-referenced patents. The
Company met with Plasma Physics, and those negotiations are
ongoing. On October 17, 2002, Plasma Physics served the
complaint. Analog has answered the complaint denying the
allegations. The case is proceeding through discovery and the
ultimate outcome is unknown.

On October 7, 2002, Townshend Intellectual
Property, L.L.C. (“Townshend”) commenced an action in
the United States District Court for the Northern District of
California against the Company, alleging that the Company
infringed eight patents, alleged to be owned by Townshend.
Townshend’s complaint alleged that the Company’s
Standalone Embedded Modems and Single Chip Internet Modems
infringed those patents. The complaint sought injunctive relief
and unspecified damages. By letter dated October 16, 2002,
the Company sought indemnification from Lucent Technologies,
Inc. (“Lucent”). Lucent has denied that it has any
indemnification obligations to the Company. The Company filed an
answer to the complaint with the court, on or about
December 12, 2002, denying infringement and liability. The
parties have entered into a settlement agreement, and a
stipulation of dismissal with prejudice was entered into on or
about October 1, 2003 dismissing all claims with prejudice.
This settlement did not have a material effect on the
Company’s financial position or results of operations.

On March 4, 2003, Motorola, Inc. filed an
action in the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Texas against the Company, alleging that the Company
infringed five patents owned by Motorola relating to
semiconductor processing and semiconductor chip design. On
March 11, 2003, Motorola filed a first amended complaint
asserting the same five patents. The first amended complaint
seeks injunctive relief and unspecified damages. On
April 17, 2003, the Company filed a motion under the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure for a more definite statement
of Motorola’s allegations. Motorola opposed that motion,
and, by order dated July 18, 2003, the Court denied the
Company’s motion. On August 5, 2003, the Company filed
an answer and also counterclaimed against Motorola. In the
counterclaim, the Company asserted that Motorola



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

infringes six of the Company’s patents
relating to semiconductor technology. Motorola responded to the
Company’s counterclaims on September 10, 2003. The
case is proceeding through discovery.

On November 6, 2003, Enron Corporation
commenced a proceeding in the United States Bankruptcy Court for
the Southern District of New York. On December 1, 2003,
Enron filed an amended complaint to add the Company as a
defendant in such proceeding. The amended complaint alleges that
transfers made by Enron in satisfaction of obligations it had
under commercial paper are recoverable as preferential transfers
and fraudulent transfers and are subject to avoidance under the
United States Bankruptcy Code. It is alleged that payments made
in premature satisfaction of obligations under commercial paper
totaling approximately $20 million are recoverable from
J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., Fleet Capital Markets, Fleet
National Bank and/or the Company. The Company sold
$20 million of Enron commercial paper to Fleet and did not
enter into any direct transactions with Enron. The Company
intends to defend vigorously against these claims. Although the
Company believes it has meritorious defenses to the asserted
claims, it is in the process of preparing a response to the
amended complaint and is unable at this time to predict the
outcome of this proceeding.

The Company is currently under audit by the
United States Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) for
fiscal year 2001 and fiscal year 2002. The audit has not been
completed and the IRS has not issued a report on its audit.

From time to time as a normal incidence of the
nature of the Company’s business, various claims, charges
and litigation are asserted or commenced against the Company
arising from, or related to, contractual matters, patents,
trademarks, personal injury, environmental matters, product
liability, insurance coverage and personnel and employment
disputes. As to such claims and litigation, including those
items discussed above, the Company can give no assurance that it
will prevail. However, the Company does not believe that these
matters will have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s consolidated financial position, although an
adverse outcome of any of these matters could have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of
operations or cash flows in the quarter or annual period in
which one or more of these matters are resolved.

13.     Stockholders’
Equity

Stock
Plans

On December 5, 2001, the Board of Directors
approved the 2001 Broad-Based Stock Option Plan (2001 Plan),
which provides for the issuance of stock options to purchase up
to 50 million shares of common stock. The 2001 Plan
provides for the issuance of stock options to non-officer
employees, consultants and advisors at a price not less than
100% of the fair market value of the common stock at the time
the option is granted. The Company cannot grant options under
the 2001 Plan to directors or officers.

In fiscal 1998, the stockholders approved the
1998 Stock Option Plan (1998 Plan), which provides for the
issuance of nonstatutory and incentive stock options to purchase
up to 30 million shares of common stock. In March 2000, the
stockholders approved an amendment to the 1998 Plan to increase
the shares reserved for issuance by an additional
34 million shares. Officers, employees, directors,
consultants and advisors of the Company and its subsidiaries are
eligible to be granted options under this plan at a price not
less than 100% (110% in the case of incentive stock options
granted to 10% or greater stockholders) of the fair market value
of the common stock at the time the option is granted. The
Company’s 1988 Stock Option Plan (1988 Plan) was terminated
upon adoption of the 1998 Plan; however, options to purchase
common stock remain outstanding under the 1988 Plan.

While the Company may grant to employees options
that become exercisable at different times or within different
periods, the Company has generally granted to employees options
that are exercisable on a cumulative basis in annual
installments of 33 1/3% on each of the third, fourth and
fifth anniversaries of the date



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

of grant or in annual installments of 25% on each
of the second, third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date
of grant.

The Board of Directors authorized that from and
after March 14, 2000, all options granted to non-employee
directors will be granted under the 1998 Plan, under which each
non-employee director is granted annually a non-statutory stock
option to purchase 20,000 shares (18,000 shares
beginning in fiscal year 2004) of common stock at an exercise
price equal to the fair market value on the date of grant. The
options granted to directors under the 1998 Plan are exercisable
on a cumulative basis in annual installments of 33 1/3% on
each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the date of
grant. The Company’s 1994 Director Option Plan, which was
restated in 1998, was terminated effective March 14, 2000;
however, options to purchase shares of common stock remain
outstanding under the 1994 Director Option Plan.

Information with respect to activity under the
stock option plans is set forth below:

The following table summarizes information about
options outstanding at November 1, 2003:



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Options exercisable at November 2, 2002 and
November 3, 2001 were 19,625,000 and 13,135,000,
respectively.

The Company has an employee stock purchase plan
(ESPP) that allows eligible employees to purchase, through
payroll deductions, shares of the Company’s common stock at
85% of the fair market value at specified dates. Employees
purchased a total of 414,382 shares of common stock under
this plan in fiscal 2003 (436,885 shares and 390,719 shares
in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001, respectively) for a total
purchase price of $12.9 million ($13.6 million and
$15.2 million in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001,
respectively). At November 1, 2003, a total of
2,139,600 common shares, net of retirements, remained
available for issuance under the ESPP.

Under the 1991 Restricted Stock Plan, which
expired in December 2000, a maximum of 5,400,000 shares of
common stock were authorized for awards by the Company to key
employees for nominal consideration. Shares awarded under the
plan were restricted as to transfer, usually for a period of
five years and, under certain conditions, were subject to
repurchase by the Company at the original purchase price per
share. During fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, $0.4 million,
$0.9 million and $2.1 million, respectively, of
compensation expense was recorded in connection with grants made
under this plan. As of November 1, 2003, approximately
4,000 common shares were outstanding under the 1991
Restricted Stock Plan.

As of November 1, 2003, a total of
125,295,641 common shares were reserved for issuance under
the Company’s stock plans.

Common Stock
Repurchase

In August 2002, the Company’s Board of
Directors approved the repurchase of up to 15 million
shares of common stock. As of November 1, 2003, the Company
had repurchased 4,351,751 shares of its common stock at an
average purchase price of $22.47 per share. The repurchased
shares are held as treasury shares and are being used for the
employee stock purchase plan and other benefit plans.

Preferred
Stock

The Company has 471,934 authorized shares of
$1.00 par value preferred stock. The Board of Directors is
authorized to fix designations, relative rights, preferences and
limitations on the preferred stock at the time of issuance. An
aggregate of 300,000 shares of preferred stock have been
designated as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock
for issuance in connection with the Company’s Stockholder
Rights Plan.

Common Stock
Purchase Rights

In March 1998, the Board of Directors adopted a
Stockholder Rights Plan (the Stockholder Rights Plan) that
replaced a plan adopted by the Board in 1988. Pursuant to the
Stockholder Rights Plan, after giving effect to the
Company’s two-for-one stock split effected on
March 15, 2000, each share of the Company’s common
stock currently has an associated one-half of a right. Under
certain circumstances, each whole right would entitle the
registered holder to purchase from the Company one
one-thousandth of a share of Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock at a purchase price of $180 in cash, subject to
adjustment.

The rights are not exercisable and cannot be
transferred separately from the common stock until ten business
days (or such later date as may be determined by the Board of
Directors) after (i) the public announcement that a person
or group of affiliated or associated persons has acquired (or
obtained rights to acquire) beneficial ownership of 15% or more
of common stock or (ii) the commencement of a tender offer
or exchange offer that would result in a person or group
beneficially owning 20% or more of the outstanding common stock.
If and when the rights become exercisable, each holder of a
right shall have the right to receive, upon exercise, that
number of shares of common stock (or in certain circumstances,
cash, property or other securities of the Company) that equals
the exercise price of the right divided by 50% of the current
market price (as defined in the Stockholder Rights Plan) per
share of common stock at the date of the



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

occurrence of such event. In the event that at
any time after any person becomes an acquiring person,
(i) the Company is consolidated with, or merged with and
into, another entity and the Company is not the surviving entity
of such consolidation or merger or if the Company is the
surviving entity, but shares of its outstanding common stock are
changed or exchanged for stock or securities or cash or any
other property, or (ii) 50% or more of the Company’s
assets or earning power is sold or transferred, each holder of a
right shall thereafter have the right to receive upon exercise,
that number of shares of common stock of the acquiring company
that equals the exercise price of the right divided by 50% of
the current market price of such common stock at the date of the
occurrence of the event.

The rights have certain anti-takeover effects, in
that they would cause substantial dilution to a person or group
that attempts to acquire a significant interest in the Company
on terms not approved by the Board of Directors. The rights
expire on March 17, 2008 but may be redeemed by the Company
for $.001 per right at any time prior to the tenth day following
a person’s acquisition of 15% or more of the Company’s
common stock. So long as the rights are not separately
transferable, each new share of common stock issued will have
one-half of a right associated with it.

14.     Retirement
Plans

The Company and its subsidiaries have various
savings and retirement plans covering substantially all
employees. The Company maintains a defined contribution plan for
the benefit of its eligible United States employees. This plan
provides for Company contributions of up to 5% of each
participant’s total eligible compensation. In addition, the
Company contributes an amount equal to each participant’s
pre-tax contribution, if any, up to a maximum of 3% of each
participant’s total eligible compensation. The Company also
has various defined benefit pension and other retirement plans
for certain non-U.S. employees that are consistent with
local statutes and practices. The total expense related to all
of the Company’s retirement plans was approximately
$31 million in fiscal 2003 and $28 million in each of
fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001, which primarily consisted of costs
related to the U.S. defined contribution plan. Also
included in total expense is pension expense related to
non-U.S. defined benefit plans of approximately
$5 million in fiscal 2003, $4 million in fiscal 2002
and $3 million in fiscal year 2001.

Non-U.S. Plan
Disclosures

The Company’s funding policy for its foreign
defined benefit pension plans is consistent with the local
requirements of each country. The plans’ assets consist
primarily of U.S. and non-U.S. equity securities,
bonds, property and cash.

Net annual periodic pension cost of
non-U.S. plans is presented in the following table:



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Obligation and asset data of the plans at each
fiscal year end is presented in the following table:

The projected benefit obligation, accumulated
benefit obligation, and fair value of plan assets for
non-U.S. pension plans with accumulated benefit obligation
in excess of plan assets were $28.7 million,
$24.2 million and $12.0 million respectively, at
September 30, 2003 and $20.8 million,
$17.8 million and $9.4 million, respectively, at
September 30, 2002.



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The range of assumptions used for the
non-U.S. defined benefit plans reflects the different
economic environments within the various countries. The
projected benefit obligation was determined using the following
assumptions:

15.     Income
Taxes

The reconciliation of income tax computed at the
U.S. federal statutory rates to income tax expense is as
follows:

For financial reporting purposes, income before
income taxes includes the following components:



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The components of the provision for income taxes
are as follows:

The Company’s practice is to reinvest
indefinitely the earnings of certain international subsidiaries.
Accordingly, no U.S. income taxes have been provided for
approximately $1,306 million of unremitted earnings of
international subsidiaries. As of November 1, 2003, the
amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability on these
unremitted earnings was $264 million. At November 1,
2003, the Company had general business credit carryovers of
approximately $20.7 million that begin to expire in 2016,
and a foreign tax credit of approximately $3.9 million that
will expire in 2007.

The significant components of the Company’s
deferred tax assets and liabilities for the fiscal years ended
November 1, 2003 and November 2, 2002 are as follows:

The Company has provided for potential
liabilities due in various foreign jurisdictions. Judgment is
required in determining the worldwide income tax expense
provision. In the ordinary course of global business, there are
many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax
outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a
consequence of cost reimbursement arrangements among related
entities. Although the Company believes its estimates are
reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome
of these



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

matters will not be different than that which is
reflected in the historical income tax provisions and accruals.
Such differences could have a material impact on the
Company’s income tax provision and operating results in the
period in which such determination is made.

16.     Related Party
Transactions

Certain of the Company’s directors are
affiliated with companies that sell products to the Company.
Management believes the terms and prices for the purchases of
these products are no less favorable than those obtained from
unaffiliated parties. One of the Company’s directors became
a director of Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC)
during fiscal 2002. The Company purchased approximately
$232 million and $206 million of product from TSMC in
fiscal year 2003 and 2002, respectively, and approximately
$14 million and $19 million was payable to TSMC as of
November 1, 2003 and November 2, 2002, respectively.
Management anticipates the Company will make similar purchases
in fiscal year 2004.

17.     Subsequent
Event

On November 17, 2003, the Board of Directors
of the Company declared a cash dividend of $0.04 per outstanding
share of common stock. The dividend was paid on
December 17, 2003 to all stockholders of record at the
close of business on November 28, 2003.



REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Analog Devices, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Analog Devices, Inc. as of November 1,
2003 and November 2, 2002, and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders’ equity, comprehensive
income and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended November 1, 2003. Our audits also included the
financial statement schedule listed in the Index at
Item 15(d). These financial statements and schedule are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Analog Devices,
Inc. at November 1, 2003 and November 2, 2002, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended November 1,
2003, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. Also, in our opinion, the related
financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the
basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in
all material respects the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 2f to the consolidated
financial statements, effective November 3, 2002, the
Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

November 17, 2003, except for the fourth

paragraph of Note 12, as to which the
date

is December 19, 2003



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION

(Unaudited)

Quarterly financial information for fiscal 2003
and fiscal 2002 (thousands, except per share amounts and as
noted):

*

Acquisition-related goodwill is no longer
    amortized effective November 3, 2002, in accordance with
    FAS 142.



ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
    ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

(a)

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and
Procedures.

Our management, with the participation of our
Chief Executive Officer, or CEO, and Chief Financial Officer, or
CFO, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)
under the Securities Exchange Act) as of November 1, 2003.
In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and
procedures, our management recognized that any controls and
procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can
provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives,
and our management necessarily applied its judgment in
evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls
and procedures. Based on this evaluation, our CEO and CFO
concluded that, as of November 1, 2003, our disclosure
controls and procedures were (1) designed to ensure that
material information relating to us, including our consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to our CEO and CFO by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report was being prepared and (2) effective, in that they
provide reasonable assurance that information required to be
disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the
Securities Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and
reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s rules and forms.

(b)

Changes in Internal Controls.

No
change in our internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the
Securities Exchange Act) occurred during the fiscal quarter
ended November 1, 2003 that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control
over financial reporting.



PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
    REGISTRANT

The response to this item is contained in part
under the caption “EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY”
in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the
remainder is contained in our proxy statement for the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on March 9, 2004 under
the caption “Proposal 1 — Election of
Directors,” and is incorporated herein by reference.
Information relating to certain filings on Forms 3, 4, and
5 is contained in our 2004 proxy statement under the caption
“Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance,” and is incorporated herein by reference.
Information required by this item pursuant to Item 402(h)
and 402(i) of Regulation S-K relating to an audit committee
financial expert and identification of the audit committee of
our board of directors is contained in our 2004 proxy statement
under the caption “Corporate Governance” and is
incorporated herein by reference.

We have adopted a written code of business
conduct and ethics that applies to our principal executive
officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting
officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions.
We intend to disclose any amendments to, or waivers from, our
code of business conduct and ethics on our website which is
located at www.analog.com.

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The response to this item is contained in our
2004 proxy statement under the captions “Directors’
Compensation,” “Information About Executive
Compensation,” “Severance and Other Agreements”
and “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation,” and is incorporated herein by reference.

The sections entitled “Report of the
Compensation Committee” and “Comparative Stock
Performance Graph” in our 2004 proxy statement are not
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
    OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The response to this item is contained in our
2004 proxy statement under the caption “Security Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management,” and
“Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity
Compensation Plans,” and is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
    TRANSACTIONS

The response to this item is contained in our
2004 proxy statement under the caption “Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions,” and is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND
    SERVICES

The response to this item is contained in our
2004 proxy statement under the caption “Independent
Auditors Fees and Other Matters,” and is incorporated
herein by reference.



PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND
    REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)

The
following are filed as part of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K:

1.     Financial
Statements

The following consolidated financial statements
are included in Item 8:

(b)     Reports on
Form 8-K

On August 14, 2003, we furnished a Current
Report on Form 8-K under Item 9 (pursuant to
Item 12) containing a press release announcing our
financial results for the fiscal quarter ended August 2,
2003.

On September 3, 2003, we filed a Current
Report on Form 8-K under Item 5 containing a press
release announcing that we called for the redemption on
October 1, 2003 of our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes
due 2005.

(c)     Exhibits

The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index
immediately preceding the exhibits are filed as part of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

(d)     Financial
Statement Schedules

The following consolidated financial statement
schedule is included in Item 15(d):

Schedule II — Valuation and
Qualifying Accounts

All other schedules have been omitted since the
required information is not present, or not present in amounts
sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the
information required is included in the consolidated financial
statements or the Notes thereto.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: December 23, 2003

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
and Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 1, 2003

ITEM 15(d)

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE


ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND
QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

Years ended November 1, 2003,
November 2, 2002 and November 3, 2001

(Thousands)

S-1


Exhibit Index



†

Filed Herewith.

*

Management contracts and compensatory plan or
    arrangements required to be filed as an Exhibit pursuant to
    Item 15(c) of Form 10-K.