10-K405


g74736e10-k405.htm

CERTEGY INC.

CERTEGY INC.


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

Commission File No. 001-16427

Certegy Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code:

(678) 867-8000

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days.     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

þ

Based on the closing sale price of $37.15 as
reported by the New York Stock Exchange on February 28,
2002, the aggregate market value of the registrant’s common
stock held by nonaffiliates was $2,114,874,308. The number of
shares outstanding of the registrant’s common stock, $0.01
par value per share, was 69,011,054 as of February 28, 2002.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

The Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 16, 2002 is incorporated by
reference, to the extent indicated under Items 10, 11, 12,
13, and 14, into Parts III and IV of this Form 10-K.

The Annual Report to Security Holders for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2001 is incorporated by
reference, to the extent indicated under Items 6, 7, 8, and
14, into Parts II and IV of this Form 10-K.



2001 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT




PART I

Item  1.

Business

Brief History

Certegy Inc. provides credit and debit card
processing and check risk management services to financial
institutions and merchants throughout the world. Last year, we
processed over 1.9 billion payment transactions, serviced
over 34 billion card accounts, and authorized over
$32 billion of check transactions worldwide. Our business
is comprised of two segments, Card Services and Check Services.
Card Services provides card issuer services in the U.S., the
U.K., Brazil, Chile, Australia, New Zealand, Ireland, France,
and Spain. Additionally, Card Services provides merchant
processing services in the U.S., e-banking services in the U.S.,
the U.K., Brazil, and Chile, and card issuer software, support
and consulting services in numerous countries. Check Services
provides check risk management services and related processing
services in the U.S., the U.K., Canada, France, Ireland,
Australia, and New Zealand.

Originally founded as Telecredit in 1961, our
business pioneered the check risk management industry in the
U.S. and Canada. Through the development of a centralized
electronic database of consumer check-writing histories,
Telecredit delivered real-time check authorization decisions to
merchants at the point-of-sale. Through an acquisition in 1977,
the business was expanded to include credit card processing.
Subsequently, we have added merchant processing, debit card
processing and e-banking services to our Card Services segment,
and check cashing risk management services and check collections
to our Check Services segment. In 1990, Equifax Inc. acquired
Telecredit, and continued to operate the card and check
businesses, through separate subsidiaries, as its Payment
Services division. While part of Equifax, both Card Services and
Check Services expanded outside of North America through a
combination of joint ventures, acquisitions and local start-ups.

Spin-off from Equifax

On March 2, 2001, we were incorporated in
the State of Georgia as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Equifax
under the name Equifax PS, Inc. On July 7, 2001, following
Equifax’s transfer of the assets, liabilities, and stock of
its Payment Services division to us, and our adoption of the
name Certegy Inc., Equifax “spun off” the Payment
Services division through a tax-free dividend of all of the
outstanding shares of Certegy common stock to Equifax’s
shareholders of record as of June 27, 2001. The Certegy
shares were distributed on the basis of one share of Certegy
common stock for every two shares of Equifax common stock held.
A total of 68,600,112 shares were distributed. As a result of
the spin-off, we became an independent publicly traded company,
with the Certegy shares of common stock registered and trading
on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “CEY.”

For a more detailed description of our spin-off
from Equifax, refer to our Registration Statement on
Form 10 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
on June 11, 2001.

Acquisitions

In May 2001, we acquired the remaining interest
in Unnisa Ltda., one of the largest card processing businesses
in Brazil, for $55.5 million in cash. We previously held a
59.3% controlling interest in Unnisa, which we acquired in 1998.

In August 2001, Certegy acquired Accu Chek, Inc.,
the U.S.’s leading provider of third-party check collection
services, for $25.0 million in cash.

Segment Information

Card Services.

Certegy Card Services provides a full range of card issuer
services that enable banks, credit unions, retailers, and others
to issue Visa and MasterCard credit and debit cards, private
label cards, and other electronic payment cards for use by both
consumer and business accounts. Our debit card services



support both off-line debit cards, which are
processed similarly to credit cards, and on-line debit cards,
through which cardholders obtain immediate access to funds in
their bank accounts through ATMs or merchant point-of-sale
terminals. The majority of our card issuer programs are full
service, including essentially all of the operations and support
necessary for an issuer to operate a credit and debit card
program. More specifically, we process all the debit and credit
card transactions on the credit and debit cards issued by our
customers, including electronically authorizing the
transactions, capturing the transaction data, and settling the
transactions, and we provide full service back-office support
functions for their programs. These support functions include:
embossing and mailing their credit and debit cards to their
customers; customer service on behalf of the card issuer to
their customers; card portfolio management and analysis;
invoicing their cardholders; receiving and processing cardholder
payments; and pursuing delinquent or fraudulent accounts. We do
not make credit decisions for our customers, nor do we fund
their card receivables. Our services are menu driven, and offer
flexibility for those of our customers that require less than
our full service programs. Such customers include large card
issuing banks that contract with us to provide transaction
processing, but who choose to invest the capital and human
resources necessary to provide their own back-office program
support.

In the U.S., we have been highly successful in
marketing our card issuer services to credit unions and
independent community banks. These two customer segments consist
predominantly of small and mid-sized card issuers that cannot
independently achieve the economies of scale that would justify
setting up their own credit and debit card operations. We
provide our card issuer services to these customers primarily
through our longstanding contractual alliances with the
Independent Community Bankers of America, or ICBA, and Card
Services for Credit Unions, or CSCU. We have a standard product
offering in place with each of these organizations, which offer
these products to their respective members with our company as
the services provider. These alliances allow us to leverage the
marketing channels of those two organizations, and eliminate the
need for us to negotiate price, terms, and service offerings
with individual credit unions or community banks. As a result,
we believe we are the leading provider, in terms of market
share, of comprehensive card processing services to credit
unions and to independent community bank card issuers in the U.S.

We provide our card issuer services
internationally through our operations in Brazil, Chile, the
U.K., and our newly established processing center in Australia.

Card Services also provides merchant processing
services that enable retailers and other merchants to accept
electronic payment cards in payment for goods and services. We
provide our merchant processing services both directly to
retailers and other merchants who accept credit and debit cards,
and through contracts with financial institutions and others
where our solutions enable them to service the card processing
needs of their merchant customers. These services include
front-end authorization and data capture services, back-end
accounting and settlement, and dispute resolution services.

In addition, we provide e-banking services to
financial institutions enabling them to offer Internet banking
to consumers and businesses. We provide these services either by
licensing our products to our customers for their operation
in-house, or as an application services provider, or ASP, where
the customers are linked to our central service bureau. Our
retail Internet banking services enable our bank customers to
offer a wide array of PC-based banking services to consumers,
such as on-line account information access and electronic bill
payment. Our corporate Internet banking services enable our bank
customers to offer the business community various electronic
commercial banking services, including transmission of account
and other business information between the bank and the business
customer, bill payment, funds transfers, loan and account
applications, and other electronic services.

In 2001, revenues from Card Services comprised
66% of our total revenues, compared to 67% in 2000 and 65% in
1999.

Check Services.

Certegy Check Services is a leading provider of check risk
management and related processing products and services to
businesses accepting or cashing checks at the point-of-sale.
These services utilize our proprietary check authorization
systems and risk assessment decision platforms. We serve
national and regional merchants, including national retail
chains such as Sears, Best Buy, Circuit City, Walgreens,
Federated, and Target, hotels, automotive dealers,
telecommunications companies, supermarkets, casinos,



mail order houses and other businesses. Our
services allow our clients to run their customers’ personal
and business checks through an authorization process that
reveals whether a customer has previously written bad checks and
the likelihood that a check will clear.

Our check risk management services include
diverse solutions tailored to the specific needs of the
customer. They include Welcome Check® guarantee services,
where we accept the bad check risk associated with checks
authorized by our system, and Welcome Check verification
services, where our customers retain the risk. We also provide
blends of guarantee and verification services to meet specific
customer needs. All of these products leverage our proprietary
system, PathWays™. PathWays provides the flexibility,
utilizing our risk management data and proprietary models, to
manage check acceptance risk by controlling the risk management
parameters on a store by store, or even a cash register by cash
register, basis.

In recent years, we believe we have led our
industry in the introduction of successful, innovative new
solutions for existing and new markets. In addition to PathWays
referred to above, we have introduced: 4/Detection™, a
software product that helps employers combat employee fraud;
PayCheck Accept™, which enables supermarkets and gaming
establishments to reduce the risk of check losses and fraud in
connection with their payroll check cashing services; third
party check collections for retailers utilizing our verification
services; and electronic check risk management solutions enabled
for electronic commerce, which enable retailers to safely and
securely accept payments over the Internet. Last year, in a
major initiative with 7-Eleven, Check Services adapted PayCheck
Accept to launch a fully automated check cashing service through
7-Eleven’s virtual commerce kiosks located at 7-Eleven
convenience stores across the country.

We provide our check risk management products and
services internationally in Canada, the U.K., Ireland, France,
Australia, and New Zealand. Our principal product in all those
countries is check guarantee, although mass retailers are
beginning to utilize our check verification and collection
services. We have also introduced receivable warranty, which
enables a retailer to extend short-term credit to its small
business customers, and deferred debit solutions, which allow
retailers to accept consumer payments electronically.

In 2001, revenues from Check Services comprised
34% of our total revenues, compared to 33% in 2000 and 35% in
1999.

For additional information relating to our
business segments and operations within and outside the U.S.,
see Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements in
Exhibit 13.3, included in Part IV, Item 14 of this
report.

Our
Strategy

We believe that the escalating use of credit,
debit, and other electronic payment cards around the globe will
continue to present the card processing industry with
significant growth opportunities. Ongoing strong demand for
check risk management services — due to escalating
check fraud at the point-of-sale, retailers’ growing
reliance on third-party check risk management services that both
reduce bad check losses

and

maximize sales, through
accurate identification of good check-writers, and emerging new
markets for check risk management — will continue to
create significant growth opportunities.

In light of the market opportunities, our
strategic objective is to strengthen our position as a leading
global provider of payment processing and check risk management
services. We intend to concentrate on the following strategies
to accomplish our objective.

Card
Services

Leverage our competitive strengths in the U.S.
to further increase our share of revenue in the U.S. card and
merchant processing markets, and in
e-banking.

Those strengths include:

•

Our long-term contractual alliances with CSCU and
	ICBA, through which we maintain proven distribution channels and
	enjoy strong name recognition and quality-of-service ratings;



•

Our “full service” processing
	capabilities, which enable us to provide among the most
	comprehensive card processing solutions available; and

•

Our highly competitive prices.

Grow our customer base and processing volumes
substantially outside the U.S.

In
international markets, we will continue to focus our marketing
efforts on leading card processing prospects, develop flexible
processing services tailored to the diverse credit cultures in
Europe, Latin America and Asia-Pacific, and leverage our
competitive advantages. These advantages include our strength in
providing full service processing services, our extensive
experience in managing international operations, and our
proprietary card processing systems. Our proprietary systems are
highly scalable and portable, and have been customized to
process in numerous country-specific environments in over 25
countries around the world. This customization enables us to
enter new geographic markets quickly and less expensively, and
positions us to be a preferred vendor for outsourced card
processing as this concept starts to take effect outside the U.S.

Increase our revenues from new and existing
products and services.

We intend to
aggressively market our expanded debit card processing products
and services and capture a larger share of the rapidly growing
debit card markets in the U.S. and abroad. We intend to
aggressively market our card marketing services that assist our
customers in growing their cardholder portfolios and e-banking
customer bases. We will develop and market new Internet service
capabilities that will allow cardholders to manage their credit
card accounts and conduct electronic commerce more efficiently
and effectively.

Check Services

Leverage our competitive strengths to increase
our market share in our traditional markets, both in the U.S.
and internationally.

Those strengths
include what we believe are the industry’s most advanced
check risk management algorithms and systems, our proven ability
to introduce successful new check risk management products, our
position as one of the world’s leading transaction risk
management services providers, and our company’s existing
operations and customer relationships in Europe, Latin America,
and Asia-Pacific.

Continue our development and utilization of
increasingly sophisticated risk modeling tools to differentiate
our capabilities from the competition.

These tools include proprietary algorithms and systems that we
have developed independently, and others that we have developed
with our alliance partners.

Expand further into new markets such as check
cashing, gaming, grocery, government, and Internet commerce by
combining our current risk management and identity
authentication services.

This combined
solution provides us with the ability to effectively manage risk
in environments where the consumer is not present as well as at
the traditional point-of-sale.

Further, for both Card Services and Check
Services, we intend to continue to aggressively pursue strategic
alliances with, investments in, and acquisitions of, domestic
and international companies that would enable us to increase our
penetration in our current markets, enter new markets, expand
our technology expertise to help us further enhance our
processing, risk management, and e-banking services, or to
increase operating efficiencies.

Sales and Marketing

We market our products and services through a
direct sales force and indirect sales channels, such as ICBA and
CSCU, independent sales organizations, marketing alliances, and
financial institutions. We organize our direct sales force by
customer market segment or distribution channel. Additionally,
we market directly to customers through print advertising and
direct mail efforts. We participate in major industry tradeshow
and publicity events and actively employ various public
relations campaigns. Because many of our customers use a single
product or service, or a combination of products or services,
our direct sales force targets existing customers to leverage
cross-selling opportunities. Our strategy is to use the most
efficient delivery system available to successfully acquire
customers and build awareness of our products and services.



Seasonality

Our business is somewhat seasonal. The volume of
check and card processing is highest during the holiday buying
season and during other periods of increased consumer spending.

Competition

The markets for card transaction processing and
check risk management services are highly competitive. Our
principal competitors include third-party credit and debit card
processors, including First Data, TSYS, EDS, and Payment Systems
for Credit Unions, third-party software providers, which license
their card processing systems to financial institutions and
third party processors, and check authorization, guarantee, and
risk management services providers, including First Data’s
TeleCheck Services division, eFunds, and International Check
Services. We also compete against software and transaction
processing systems developed and used in house by our potential
customers.

Some of our competitors are privately held, and
the majority of those that are publicly held do not release the
information necessary to precisely quantify our relative
competitive position, which varies depending on the segment of
our markets. Based on information appearing in a widely-cited
industry publication, The Nilson Report, we believe that we are
among the largest third-party payment transaction processors in
the world based on annual revenues.

In general, we believe that our ability to
compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including:

Significance of Certain Customer
	Relationships

Under each of our contractual alliances with ICBA
and CSCU, Card Services is the exclusive partner for offering
card processing services to that association’s members. As
a result, approximately 23% of our revenues are derived from
their member institutions, although no single institution
accounts for a material portion of our revenues. An early
termination of, or significant adverse change in, our
relationships with either or both of these associations could
harm our ability to retain a substantial portion of our
customers and to attract new customers, and have a material
adverse effect on our business. In October 2001, our contract
with ICBA was extended through December 2007, and in February
2002, our contract with CSCU was extended through September 2007.

Research and Development

Our research and development activities have
related primarily to the design and development of our payment
processing systems and related software applications and risk
management platforms. We expect to continue our practice of
investing significant resources to extend the functionality of
our proprietary processing systems, and to develop new and
innovative solutions in response to the needs of our customers.
In addition, we intend to offer products and services that are
compatible with new and emerging delivery channels such as the
Internet.



Intellectual Property Rights

We rely on a combination of contractual
restrictions and trademark, copyright, and trade secret law to
establish and protect our trademarks, software, and know-how.
These legal protections and arrangements afford only limited
protection of our proprietary rights, and there is no assurance
that our competitors will not independently develop or license
products, services, or capabilities that are substantially
equivalent or superior to ours. We also license certain
intellectual property from third parties. Those include rights
under the The Ronald A. Katz Technology Licensing L.P. patents
pertaining to various interactive technology, such as automated
forms of customer service, which rights continue through the
life of the patents.

Government Regulation

Various aspects of our businesses are subject to
federal, state, and foreign regulation. Our failure to comply
with any applicable laws and regulations could result in
restrictions on our ability to provide our products and
services, as well as the imposition of civil fines and criminal
penalties.

As a provider of electronic data processing and
back-office services to financial institutions, we are subject
to regulatory oversight and examination by the Federal Financial
Institutions Examination Council, an interagency body comprised
of the various federal bank and thrift regulators and the
National Credit Union Association. In addition, we may be
subject to possible review by state agencies that regulate banks
in each state where we conduct our electronic processing
activities.

Because we maintain a database in the U.S.
containing the check-writing histories of consumers, and use
that information to provide our check risk management services,
our check risk management business is subject to the federal
Fair Credit Reporting Act and various similar state laws. Among
other things, the Fair Credit Reporting Act imposes requirements
on us concerning data accuracy, and provides that consumers have
the right to know the contents of their check-writing histories,
to dispute their accuracy, and to require verification or
removal of disputed information. In furtherance of our
objectives of data accuracy, fair treatment of consumers, and
protection of consumers’ personal information, in addition
to best ensuring we comply with these laws, we maintain a high
level of security for our computer systems in which consumer
data resides, and we maintain consumer relations call centers to
facilitate efficient handling of consumer requests for
information and handling of disputes.

Our check collection services are subject to the
Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and various state collection
laws and licensing requirements. The Federal Trade Commission,
as well as state attorneys general and other agencies, have
enforcement responsibility over the collection laws, as well as
the various credit reporting laws.

Because we do business in international markets
as well as in the U.S., we are subject to laws and regulations
in jurisdictions outside the U.S. that regulate many of the same
activities that are described above, including electronic data
processing and back-office services for financial institutions
and use of consumer information.

Although we do not believe that compliance with
future laws and regulations related to our businesses, including
future consumer protection laws and regulations, will have a
material adverse effect on our company, enactment of new laws
and regulations may increasingly affect the operations of our
business, directly or indirectly, which could result in
substantial regulatory compliance costs, litigation expense,
adverse publicity, or loss of revenue.

Employees

As of January 31, 2002, Certegy had
approximately 6,200 employees, including 3,300 employees
principally employed outside the U.S. None of our U.S. work
force currently is unionized. We have not experienced any work
stoppages and consider our relations with employees to be good.



Certain Factors Affecting Forward-Looking
	Statements

The statements in this report include
forward-looking statements that are based on current
expectations, assumptions, estimates, and projections about our
business and industry. They are not guarantees of future
performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may
cause actual results to differ significantly from what is
expressed in those statements. Many of those risks and
uncertainties are beyond Certegy’s control. The factors
that could, either individually or in the aggregate, affect our
performance include matters such as those described below.

Competition can hurt our business

Our markets are competitive. Our ability to
maintain or improve our competitive positions against current
and potential competitors will impact our performance. While we
believe that the quality, breadth, and pricing of our products
and services are among the most competitive in our markets, our
future results will depend in part on our ability to continue to
compete effectively, which includes devoting sufficient
resources vis-à-vis the competition in our various market
segments, responding quickly to new or emerging technologies and
changes in customer requirements, and continuing our successful
development and marketing of new products and services.

Reduced levels of consumer spending can
	adversely affect our performance

A significant portion of our revenues is derived
from fees from processing consumer credit card, debit card, and
check transactions. While consumer spending in the U.S. may be
recovering, continued sluggishness of the U.S. economy or
recession in the international economies where we do business
could negatively impact consumer spending and adversely affect
our business.

Reduction in the demand for card processing
	outsourcing services in international markets could impact our
	international growth

Demand for card processing outsourcing services
in international markets has been increasing. While we expect
that trend to continue, a reversal could negatively impact our
card processing revenues and profits.

Reduction in point-of-sale check fraud could
	adversely impact our Check Services business

Due to advances in PC printing technologies and
other factors, check fraud continues to increase, creating
growing demand for our higher value-added check risk management
services. We expect that trend to continue. However, a reversal
of that trend could negatively impact demand for check
authorization and guarantee products, and consequently could be
detrimental to our check business.

Weakening of certain market segments could
	adversely impact the demand for our products and
	services

Our Card Services business depends heavily on
demand for its products and services from independent community
banks and credit unions. Our Check Services business depends on
strong demand from numerous of the major national and regional
retailers. Weakening of the financial health of one or more of
those segments could impact demand for our products or services
resulting in lower than expected sales and profits.

Loss of strategic relationships or key
	contracts could reduce revenues and profits

Although Card Services’ strategic
relationships with the community banks and credit unions remain
strong, with long-term contracts with both ICBA and CSCU having
recently been extended through 2007, an unexpected termination
of those contractual alliances could cause us to lose
significant community bank or credit union customers and
consequently significant revenue and profits. Our Check Services
business has experienced substantial growth over the last year
in the number of major national and regional retailer accounts
under contract. While no one contract is material to the
company, unexpected terminations of several of those contracts
during a short period of time could significantly reduce
revenues and profits.



Our failure to expand our share of the credit
	and debit card transaction processing market and enter new
	markets could adversely affect our business

While we intend to continue our vigorous pursuit
of expansion of our Card Services business within the
independent community bank and credit union segments of the U.S.
market, the future growth and profitability of our Card Services
business will depend significantly on our ability to penetrate
other markets, including emerging international markets for
electronic transaction processing and Internet payment systems.
As part of our strategy to achieve that penetration, we intend
to continue to seek acquisition opportunities, investments, and
alliance relationships that will facilitate our expansion, and
to develop products and distribution channels that will satisfy
the demands in new markets. If we are unable to do so
successfully, the value of our business could be adversely
affected.

Material changes in regulation or industry
	standards applicable to our businesses or those of our customers
	could have a detrimental effect on future results

Various aspects of our businesses and those of
our customers are subject to federal, state, and foreign
regulation and applicable industry standards. Changes in or
increased regulation of our businesses, or those of our
customers, pertaining to credit availability, data usage, debt
usage, debt collection, or other areas could increase our cost
of doing business or reduce the value of or the demand for
certain of our products and services, which could hinder our
performance. Material changes in industry standards, such as
Visa and MasterCard electronic payment standards, similarly
could impact our business.

Security breaches or system failures could
	harm our reputation and adversely affect future
	profits

We collect personal consumer data, such as names
and addresses, checking account numbers, and payment history
records. We process that data, and deliver our products and
services, utilizing computer systems and telecommunications
networks operated both by us and by third party service
providers. Although plans and procedures are in place to protect
our sensitive data and to prevent failure of, and to provide
back-up for, our systems, we cannot be certain that our measures
always will be successful. A security breach or other misuse of
our data, or failures of key operating systems and their
back-ups, could harm our reputation and deter customers from
using our products and services, increase our operating expenses
in order to correct the breach or failures, or expose us to
unbudgeted liability.

Risks associated with international operations
	could impair our business results

We believe that the international market for our
products is growing rapidly, and we have committed significant
resources to expand our international activities. As we expand
internationally, we will be increasingly subject to several
risks associated with international business activities that
could increase costs or reduce our revenues, including
political, social, and economic instability, currency exchange
rate fluctuations, potentially adverse tax consequences,
including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings, and
potential difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting
receivables in some foreign legal systems.



Executive Officers of the
	Registrant

Information relating to our executive officers is
set out below. There is no family relationship between any
executive officer, director, or person nominated or chosen by us
to become a director or executive officer. There is no
arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and
any other person pursuant to which they were or are to be
elected as an officer.

Lee A. Kennedy

has
served as our Chairman of the Board since February 12, 2002
and President and Chief Executive Officer since March 5,
2001. Mr. Kennedy served as President, Chief Operating
Officer, and a director of Equifax Inc. from June 1999 until
June 29, 2001. From June 1997 to June 1999,
Mr. Kennedy served as Executive Vice President and Group
Executive of Equifax. From July 1995 to June 1997 he served as
President of Equifax Payment Services, a division of Equifax.

Larry J. Towe

has
served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
Officer since June 29, 2001. Mr. Towe previously
served as Executive Vice President and Group
Executive — Payment Services of Equifax Inc. from June
1999 to June 2001. From May 1997 to June 1999, Mr. Towe
served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Equifax
Card Solutions, International, a unit of Equifax. Prior to that,
Mr. Towe served as President, FBS Software, a provider of
software solutions for payment cards, collections and merchant
processing, which Equifax acquired in July 1994.

Michael T. Vollkommer

has served as our Corporate Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer since June 29, 2001.
Mr. Vollkommer previously served as Corporate Vice
President and Controller of Equifax Inc. from November 1999.
From December 1998 to August 1999, Mr. Vollkommer was Vice
President — Finance of Superior TeleCom Inc., a
manufacturer of copper wire and cable products. From 1994 until
1998, Mr. Vollkommer held executive officer positions with
Alumax Inc., a producer of primary aluminum and fabricated
aluminum products, including Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer from December 1997 to August 1998, Vice
President — Strategic Planning and Corporate
Development from June 1997 to December 1997, and Vice President
and Controller from January 1994 to June 1997.

Bruce S. Richards

has served as our Corporate Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary since June 29,
2001. Mr. Richards previously served as Corporate Vice
President of Equifax Inc. from November



2000 through June 2001, and served as Corporate
Vice President and General Counsel of Equifax from 1996 through
October 2000.

J. Gerard Ballard

has served as our Corporate Vice
President and Chief Technology Officer since June 29, 2001.
Mr. Ballard previously served as Chief Technology Officer
of Equifax Payment Services, a division of Equifax Inc., from
February 2001 until June 2001. From June 1997 to December 2000,
Mr. Ballard served as Executive Vice President and Chief
Information Officer for Vital Processing Services, LLC, a
provider of technology-based commerce enabling services. From
September 1995 to June 1997, Mr. Ballard was Vice
President, Equifax Payment Services.

Richard D. Gapen

has
served as our Corporate Vice President — Human
Resources since June 29, 2001. Mr. Gapen previously
served as Senior Vice President of Compensation and Benefits for
Equifax Inc. from June 1997 until June 2001. From 1991 until
1996, Mr. Gapen was Director of Employee Benefits for W. R.
Grace and Company.

Michael E. Sax

has
served as our Corporate Vice President — Financial
Planning and Treasurer since February 12, 2002 and
previously as Corporate Vice President and Controller from
June 29, 2001 through February 12, 2002. Mr. Sax
previously served as Senior Vice President and Controller of
Equifax Payment Services, a division of Equifax Inc., from July
1998 until June 2001. Prior to that, Mr. Sax held various
financial positions with units of Equifax since 1992.

Pamela A. Tefft

has
served as our Corporate Vice President and Controller since
February 12, 2002 and previously as Vice
President — Financial Reporting from June 29,
2001 through February 12, 2002. Ms. Tefft previously
served as Assistant Vice President — Financial
Internal Audit of Equifax Inc. from May 1999 until June 2001.
Prior to joining Equifax, Ms. Tefft was a Manager in the
Assurance & Business Advisory Services group of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (formerly Coopers & Lybrand LLP)
from September 1992 through May 1999.

Mary K. Waggoner

has
served as our Corporate Vice President — Investor
Relations since November 2001. From June 2001 until November
2001, Ms. Waggoner served as our Vice President of Investor
Relations. Prior to joining Certegy, Ms. Waggoner served as
Senior Vice President/ Comptroller Department for Firstar/
Mercantile in St. Louis, Missouri from 1999 until 2000. From
1997 until 1999, Ms. Waggoner was Senior Vice President of
Investor Relations of Mercantile Bancorporation, Inc. in St.
Louis, Illinois, and from 1995 until 1997, she was President of
Mercantile Bank of Carlyle in Carlyle, Illinois.

Gerald A. Hines

has
served as our Senior Vice President and Group
Executive — Card Services since June 29, 2001.
Mr. Hines previously served as Senior Vice President,
Equifax Card Solutions-Americas, a unit of Equifax Inc., from
September 1997 until June 2001. Prior to joining Equifax,
Mr. Hines was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
Officer at AT&T Universal Card Services, a credit card
issuer.

Jeffrey S. Carbiener

has served as our Senior Vice
President and Group Executive — Check Services since
June 29, 2001. Mr. Carbiener previously served as
Senior Vice President, Equifax Check Solutions, a unit of
Equifax Inc., from February 1998 until June 2001. Prior to that,
he held various other positions with Equifax business units
since 1991.

Item 2.

Properties

Our corporate headquarters is located in
Alpharetta, Georgia pursuant to a lease with an unaffiliated
third party. Our principal operations center and administration,
sales, marketing and development facilities for both Card
Services and Check Services are located in St. Petersburg,
Florida, in a 305,000 square foot building pursuant to a lease
with an unaffiliated third party, which expires in 2009. Card
Services has other smaller leased operations facilities in
Wisconsin, Utah and Georgia. In support of our international
operations, Card Services has leased operations centers in
Brazil, Chile, the U.K. and Australia, and Check Services has
leased facilities in the U.K., France and Australia. We also
have a number of small sales or support offices in the other
places where we do business.



We own or lease a variety of computers and other
related equipment for operational needs of both business
segments.

We believe that all of our facilities and
equipment are in good condition and are well maintained and
adequate for our business as presently conducted.

Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

We are party to a number of routine claims and
lawsuits incidental to our business. In addition, a class action
lawsuit is pending against us in the U.S. District Court for the
Eastern District of California. This action, instituted in
August 1996 by plaintiffs Gary and Nancy Ballard, is based on a
claim that our practice of assessing a service charge on unpaid
checks allegedly violated provisions of the Federal Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act and California’s Unfair Business
Practices Act during the period from August 1992 through
December 1996. The plaintiffs seek, among other remedies, a
refund of all service charges collected from California
consumers during this period, prejudgment interest, statutory
damages under the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, and
attorneys’ fees, which amounts in the aggregate could
exceed $15 million. We have defended, and will continue to
defend this action vigorously; however, litigation is inherently
uncertain and we may not prevail.

We believe the ultimate resolution of these
matters will not have a materially adverse effect on our
financial position, liquidity, or results of operations.

Item 4.

Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of our
shareholders during the fourth quarter 2001.

PART II

Item  5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity
        and Related Stockholder Matters

Our common stock began regular way trading on the
New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “CEY”
on July 9, 2001. The table set forth below provides the
high and low sales prices of our common stock for the third and
fourth quarters of 2001.

As of February 28, 2002, there were
approximately 8,463 shareholders of record of our common stock.

We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our
common stock in the foreseeable future because we expect to
retain our future earnings for use in the operation and
expansion of our business. The declaration and payment of
dividends is at the discretion of our board, and depends, among
other things, upon our investment policy and opportunities,
results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements,
future prospects, and other factors that may be considered
relevant by our board of directors, including legal and
contractual restrictions on our ability to declare and pay
dividends and distributions on our shares of common stock.

Item 6.

Selected
Financial Data

The information contained under the heading
“Selected Financial Data” in our 2001 Annual Report to
Shareholders, filed as Exhibit 13.1 and included in Part
IV, Item 14 of this report, is incorporated by reference.



Item  7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
	of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The information contained under the heading
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” in our 2001 Annual
Report to Shareholders, filed as Exhibit 13.2 and included
in Part IV, Item 14 of this report, is incorporated by
reference.

Item  7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
	About Market Risk

Based on analysis completed and described below,
we do not believe that we are exposed to material market risk
from changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange
rates.

Interest rates.

We
have unsecured revolving credit facilities that have variable
interest rates based on LIBOR plus 100 basis points; therefore,
we are exposed to the impact of interest rate fluctuations. This
risk is somewhat mitigated by our ability to fix the base LIBOR
rate for periods of up to six months. Accordingly, as of
February 6, 2002, $15 million has been fixed at a base
LIBOR rate of 2.0% through March 6, 2002, $35 million
has been fixed at a base LIBOR rate of 1.9% through
April 9, 2002, $20 million has been fixed at a base
LIBOR rate of 1.9% through May 7, 2002, and
$145 million has been fixed at a base LIBOR rate of 2.0%
through July 8, 2002. We have performed an interest rate
sensitivity analysis assuming a 100 basis point increase in
LIBOR for the period subsequent to these dates and no additional
reduction of debt levels. Based on this interest rate increase,
interest expense would increase by approximately
$1.1 million in 2002.

Foreign currency exchange
rates.

Approximately 19% of our
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2001 and 40% of
our assets at December 31, 2001 are associated with
operations outside of the U.S. The U.S. dollar balance
sheets and statements of income for these businesses are subject
to currency fluctuations. We are most vulnerable to fluctuations
in the Brazilian real and the British pound against the
U.S. dollar. Historically, we have not entered into
derivative financial instruments to mitigate this risk, as it
has not been cost-effective. The impact of currency fluctuations
on profitability has not been significant since both revenues
and costs of these businesses are denominated in local currency.
If the U.S. dollar had a 10% higher appreciation against our
non-U.S. dollar denominated businesses in 2001, revenues and
operating income would have been reduced by $15.0 million
and $1.1 million, respectively. We may use derivative
financial instruments in the future if we deem it useful in
mitigating an exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. The
cumulative translation adjustment, largely related to our
investment in Unnisa, our Brazilian card processing operation,
was a $67.6 million and $57.3 million reduction of
shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2001 and 2000,
respectively.

Item 8.

Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data

The information contained under the heading
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in our
2001 Annual Report to Shareholders, filed as Exhibit 13.3
and included in Part IV, Item 14 of this report, is
incorporated by reference.

Item  9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
	Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors
and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 16, 2002 contains, under the
heading “Proposal 1: Election of Director,”
information relating to our directors and the person nominated
for director, which is incorporated by reference into this
report. Information relating to our executive officers is
included in Item 1 of this report.



Item  11.

Executive Compensation

Our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 16, 2002 contains, under the
heading “Compensation of Directors and Executive
Officers,” information relating to Director and Executive
Officer compensation, which is incorporated by reference into
this report.

Item  12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
	Owners and Management

Our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 16, 2002 contains, under the
heading “Principal and Management Shareholders,”
information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial
owners and management, which is incorporated by reference into
this report.

For purposes of determining the aggregate market
value of our common stock held by nonaffiliates, shares held by
all current directors, executive officers and holders of 5% or
more of our outstanding common stock have been excluded. The
exclusion of these shares is not intended to, and will not,
constitute a determination as to which persons or entities may
be our “affiliates” as defined by the Commission.

Item  13.

Certain Relationships and Related
	Transactions

Our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 16, 2002 contains, under the
heading “Related Party Transactions,” information
relating to certain relationships and related transactions
between us and certain of our directors and executive officers,
which is incorporated by reference into this report.

PART IV

Item  14.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules,
	and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)

Documents filed with this report

(1)

Financial Statements

The following financial statements are filed with
this report.

(2)

Financial Statement Schedules

The following financial statement schedule is
filed with this report.

•

Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying
	Accounts

All other schedules to our consolidated financial
statements have been omitted because they are not applicable or
the required information is included in the consolidated
financial statements or notes to those statements.

(3)

Exhibits

The following is a complete list of exhibits
included as part of this report, including those incorporated by
reference. A list of those documents filed with this report is
set forth on the Exhibit Index appearing elsewhere in this
report and is incorporated by reference.







(1)

Management Contract or Compensatory
	Plan.

(b)

Reports Filed on Form 8-K

No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the
last quarter of the period covered by this report.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized
officer.

CERTEGY INC.

By:

/s/ LEE A. KENNEDY

Lee A. Kennedy

Chairman, President and Chief Executive
	Officer

Date: March 25, 2002

POWER OF ATTORNEY

Know all men by these presents, that each person
whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Lee A.
Kennedy, Michael T. Vollkommer, and Bruce S. Richards, and each
of them, as attorneys-in-fact, with power of substitution, for
him in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this
Report on Form 10-K, and to file the amendments, along with
exhibits and other documents, with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys-in-fact may do or cause to be done.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.





CERTEGY INC.

FORM 10-K

INDEX TO EXHIBITS

The following documents are being filed with this
Report.

(1)

Management Contract or Compensatory Plan.