ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview of Business

The Clorox Company is a leading multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer and professional products with fiscal year2017net sales of$6.0billion and approximately 8,100 employees worldwide as ofJune 30, 2017. Clorox sells its products primarily through mass retail and grocery outlets, warehouse clubs, dollars stores, e-commerce channels, military stores and other retail outlets, and medical supply distributors. Clorox markets some of the most trusted and recognized consumer brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products, Pine-Sol®cleaners, Liquid-Plumr®clog removers, Poett®home care products, Fresh Step®cat litter, Glad®bags, wraps and container products, Kingsford®and Match Light®charcoal, RenewLife®digestive health products, Hidden Valley®dressings and sauces, Brita®water-filtration products, and Burt’s Bees®natural personal care products. The Company also markets to professional services channels, including infection control products for the healthcare industry with the Clorox Healthcare®brand and Clorox Commercial Solutions®brand. More than 80% of the Company’s sales are generated from brands that hold the No. 1 or No. 2 market share positions in their categories. The Company was founded in Oakland, California in 1913 and is incorporated in Delaware.

The Company’s 2020 strategy focuses on delivering long-term, profitable growth and total shareholder return. The Company’s long-term financial goals include annual net sales growth of 3-5%, annual EBIT margin growth of 25-50 basis points and annual free cash flow of 10-12% of net sales.

In May 2016, the Company acquired 100 percent of the digestive health company RenewLife for $290 million. Results for RenewLife’s domestic business are reflected in the Household reportable segment and results for RenewLife’s international business are reflected in the International reportable segment. Included in the Company’s results for fiscal year 2017 and 2016 was $130 million and $21 million, respectively, of RenewLife’s global net sales.

In fiscal year2017, the Company delivered strong results including 4% net sales growth and a 9% increase in diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations, despite high levels of competition in select categories, increasingly competitive retail dynamics and rising commodity costs and inflationary pressures globally, as well as a difficult macro-economic environment in international markets, including slowing economies and unfavorable foreign exchange rates.

The Company focused on driving profitable sales growth in its United States (U.S.) business, leveraging incremental demand building investments, including product innovation to support category and market share growth. The Company launched new products in many categories in fiscal year2017, including the Brita®StreamTMpitcher, Burt's Bees®gloss lip crayon and Burt's Bees®flavor crystals®lip balm, Clorox Scentiva®line of sprays and wipes, Clorox®HealthcareFuzionTMcleaner disinfectant,  Clorox®Total 360TMelectrostatic disinfection system, Fresh Step®Extreme with the power of Febreze®Hawaiian AlohaTMl









itter and Fresh Step®Extreme with the power of Febreze®lightweight litter, Glad Kitchen Pro™ trash bags, Hidden Valley®Simply Ranch®dressing, and Kingsford®BBQ sauces and Kingsford®long-burning charcoal.

In international markets, the Company focused on executing its Go Lean Strategy, which emphasizes driving the long-term profitability of its International business. Continued currency declines across the majority of countries and high inflation in several markets were more than offset by price increases and cost savings initiatives. Despite these challenges, the Company’s international business continues to play an important strategic role, with No. 1 and No. 2 brands in multiple countries.

In fiscal year2017, the Company repurchased approximately1.5million shares of its common stock for$189million, paid$412million in dividends to stockholders and announced a 5% increase in its quarterly dividend from prior year, payable in August 2017.

Finally, in fiscal year 2017, the Company remained committed to corporate responsibility by maintaining strong and transparent environmental, social and governance practices. As part of its 2020 sustainability goals, it continued to work to reduce water and energy use, solid waste to landfill and greenhouse gas emissions as well as improve the sustainability of its product portfolio. The Company's achievements were acknowledged through multiple external recognitions, including a No. 12 ranking on the annual list of top corporate citizens by Corporate Responsibility magazine and the EPA Safer Choice Partner of the Year award, presented for the second straight year by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The Company also earned the top rating of 100 percent on the Human Rights Campaign's Corporate Equality Index and was named one of the Best Places to Work in the U.S. by Glassdoor based on employee reviews. In fiscal year2017, The Clorox Company Foundation and The Burt’s Bees Greater Good Foundation together awarded approximately $5 million in cash grants, and the Company donated products with a fair market value of approximately $5 million and contributed more than $1 million to deserving nonprofits through cause marketing programs for charitable causes.

In fiscal year 2018, the Company anticipates ongoing challenges that may impact its sales and margins, including continued high levels of competition in select categories, a more competitive retail environment, rising commodity costs and the continuation of a difficult macro-economic environment in many international markets.

For additional information on recent business developments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” in Exhibit 99.1, incorporated herein by reference.

Financial Information About Operating Segments and Principal Products

The Company operates through strategic business units that are aggregated into four reportable segments: Cleaning, Household, Lifestyle and International. The four reportable segments consist of the following:

•Cleaningconsists of laundry, home care and professional products marketed and sold in the United States. Products within this segment include laundry additives, including bleach products under the Clorox®brand and Clorox 2®stain fighter and color booster; home care products, primarily under the Clorox®, Formula 409®, Liquid-Plumr®, Pine-Sol®, S.O.S®and Tilex®brands; naturally derived products under the Green Works®brand; and professional cleaning and disinfecting products under the Clorox®, Dispatch®, Aplicare®, HealthLink®and Clorox Healthcare®brands.

•Householdconsists of charcoal, bags, wraps and containers, cat litter, and digestive health products marketed and sold in the United States. Products within this segment include charcoal products under the Kingsford®and Match Light®brands; bags, wraps and containers under the Glad®brand; cat litter products under the Fresh Step®, Scoop Away®and Ever Clean®brands; and digestive health products under the RenewLife®brand.

•Lifestyleconsists of food products, water-filtration systems and filters and natural personal care products marketed and sold in the United States. Products within this segment include dressings and sauces, primarily under the Hidden Valley®, KC Masterpiece®,Kingsford®and Soy Vay®brands; water-filtration systems and filters under the Brita®brand; and natural personal care products under the Burt’s Bees®brand.

•Internationalconsists of products sold outside the United States. Products within this segment include laundry, home care, water-filtration, digestive health products, charcoal and cat litter products, food products, bags, wraps and containers, natural personal care products and professional cleaning and disinfecting products primarily under the Clorox®, Glad®, PinoLuz®, Ayudin®, Limpido®, Clorinda®, Poett®, Mistolin®, Lestoil®, Bon Bril®, Brita®, Green Works®, Pine-Sol®, Agua Jane®, Chux®, RenewLife®, Kingsford®, Fresh Step®, Scoop Away®, Ever Clean®, KC Masterpiece®, Hidden Valley®, Burt’s Bees®brands and Clorox Healthcare®brands.















Information about the results of each of the Company’s reportable segments for the last three fiscal years and total assets as of the end of the last two fiscal years, reconciled to the consolidated amounts, is set forth below. Certain non-allocated administrative costs, interest income, interest expense and various other non-operating income and expenses are reflected in Corporate. For additional information, refer to the information set forth under the caption “Segment Results from Continuing Operations” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” in Exhibit 99.1.

(Dollars in millions)FiscalYearCleaningHouseholdLifestyleInternationalCorporateTotalCompanyNet Sales2017$2,002$1,961$1,000$1,010$—$5,97320161,9121,862990997—5,76120151,8241,7949501,087—5,655Earnings (losses) fromcontinuing operations beforeIncome taxes201752341924481(234)1,033201651142825166(273)983201544537525779(235)921Total assets(1)20178811,1039021,0606274,57320168831,0928801,0575984,510

(1)Prior year amounts have been retrospectively adjusted to conform to the current year presentation of debt issuance costs required by Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2015-03, "Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs." Refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.



The Company’s product lines that accounted for 10% or more of consolidated net sales (U.S. and international) for the fiscal years ended June 30 were as follows:

201720162015Home Care products25%24%24%Bags, wraps and containers18%19%19%Laundry additives15%16%17%Charcoal products11%11%11%Food products10%10%10%

Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

In the U.S., most of the Company’s products are nationally advertised and sold to mass retail and grocery outlets, warehouse clubs, dollar stores, military stores and other retail outlets primarily through a direct sales force, and to grocery stores and grocery wholesalers primarily through a combination of direct sales teams and a network of brokers. The Company sells institutional, janitorial, and food-service versions of many of its products through distributors using a network of brokers, and sells healthcare products through a direct sales force and medical supply distributors. Outside the U.S., the Company sells products to the retail trade through subsidiaries, licensees, distributors and joint-venture arrangements with local partners. Additionally, the Company sells many of its products through e-commerce.

Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations

For detailed financial information about the Company’s foreign and domestic operations, including net sales and property, plant and equipment, net, by geographic area, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 99.1.

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials

The Company purchases raw materials from numerous unaffiliated domestic and international suppliers, some of which are sole-source or single-source suppliers. Interruptions in the delivery of these materials could adversely impact the Company. Key raw materials used by the Company include resin, diesel, sodium hypochlorite, corrugated cardboard, soybean oil and other agricultural commodities. Sufficient raw materials were available during fiscal year 2017. Costs for resin and other commodity costs increased in fiscal year 2017. Additionally, costs for many other materials continued to increase amid volatility and inflation in some key geographic and commodity markets. The Company expects commodity increases to continue in fiscal year 2018. The Company generally utilizes supply contracts to help ensure availability and a number of forward-purchase contracts to help reduce the volatility of the pricing of raw materials needed in its operations. However, the









Company is highly exposed to changes in the prices of commodities used as raw materials in the manufacturing of its products. For further information regarding the impact of changes in commodity prices, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Exhibit 99.1 and “Risk Factors – Volatility and increases in the costs of raw materials, energy, transportation, labor and other necessary supplies or services have negatively impacted, and in the future may negatively impact, the Company’s net earnings and cash flow” in Item 1.A.

Patents and Trademarks

Most of the Company’s brand name consumer products are protected by registered trademarks. The Company’s brand names and trademarks are highly important to its business, and the Company vigorously protects its trademarks from apparent infringements. Maintenance of brand equity value is critical to the Company’s success. The Company’s patent rights are also material to its business and are asserted, where appropriate, against apparent infringements.

Seasonality

Most sales of the Company’s charcoal products occur in the back half of the fiscal year. The volume and sales of charcoal products may be affected by weather conditions.

Customers

Net sales to the Company’s largest customer, Walmart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, were26%,27%and26%of consolidated net sales for each of the fiscal years ended June 30,2017,2016and2015, respectively, and occurred across all of the Company’s reportable segments. No other individual customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company's consolidated net sales in any of these fiscal years.  The Company's five largest customers accounted for nearly half of the Company's consolidated net sales for each of the fiscal years2017,2016and2015.

Competition

The markets for consumer products are highly competitive. The Company’s products compete with other nationally advertised brands and with “private label” brands within each category. Competition comes from similar and alternative products, some of which are produced and marketed by major multinational or national companies having financial resources greater than those of the Company. The Company’s products generally compete on the basis of product performance, brand recognition, and price. A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade merchandising support. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it typically requires continued advertising and promotional support and ongoing product improvements to maintain its relative market position. For further information regarding the intense competition the Company faces, see “Risk Factors – The Company faces intense competition in its markets, which could lead to reduced net sales, net earnings and cash flow” in Item 1.A.

Research and Development

The Company conducts research and development primarily at its facility located in Pleasanton, CA, which the Company has leased since 2011. The Pleasanton facility consists of approximately 357,000 square feet of leased space, utilizing advanced labs and open work spaces to encourage creativity, collaboration and innovation. In addition to the leased facility in Pleasanton, CA, the Company conducts research and development activities in Buenos Aires, Argentina; Meriden, CT; Willowbrook, IL; Durham, NC; and Cincinnati, OH.

The Company devotes significant resources and attention to product development, process technology and consumer insight research to develop commercially viable consumer-preferred products with innovative and distinctive features. The Company incurred expenses of$135million,$141million and$136million in fiscal years2017,2016and2015, respectively, on research activities relating to the product innovation and cost savings. In addition, the Company obtains technologies from third parties for use in its products. Royalties relating to such technologies are reflected in the Company’s Cost of products sold. For further information regarding the Company’s research and development costs, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Exhibit 99.1.

Environmental Matters

For information regarding noncapital expenditures related to environmental matters, see the discussions below under “Risk Factors – Environmental matters create potential liabilities that could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations or financial condition” in Item 1.A. No material capital expenditures relating to environmental compliance are presently anticipated.











Number of Persons Employed

As ofJune 30, 2017, the Company employed approximately 8,100 people.

Available Information

The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available on the Company’s website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. These reports are available at TheCloroxCompany.com under Investors/Financial Information/SEC Filings. Information relating to corporate governance at Clorox, including the Company’s Code of Conduct, the Clorox Company Board of Directors Governance Guidelines and Board Committee charters for the Management Development and Compensation Committee, the Audit Committee, and the Nominating and Governance Committee, is available at TheCloroxCompany.com under Who We Are//Corporate Governance  or https://www.thecloroxcompany.com/who-we-are/corporate-governance/. The Company will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to Corporate Communications, The Clorox Company, 1221 Broadway, Oakland, CA 94612-1888. The information contained on the Company’s website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Report.











