ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview of Business

The Clorox Company is a leading
multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer and professional products
with approximately 8,400 employees worldwide as of June 30, 2013, and fiscal
year 2013 net sales of $5.6 billion. Clorox sells its products primarily through
mass merchandisers, retail outlets, e-commerce channels, distributors and
medical supply providers. Clorox markets some of consumers’ most trusted and
recognized brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products,
Clorox Healthcare™, HealthLink®, Aplicare®and
Dispatch®products, Green Works®naturally derived
products, Pine-Sol®cleaners, Poett®home care products,
Fresh Step®cat litter, Glad®bags, wraps and containers,
Kingsford®charcoal, Hidden Valley®and KC
Masterpiece®dressings and sauces, Brita®water-filtration
products, and Burt’s Bees®and güd®natural personal care
products. Nearly 90% of the Company's brands hold the No. 1 or No. 2 market
share positions in their categories. The Company manufactures products in more
than two dozen countries and markets them in more than 100 countries. The
Company was founded in Oakland, Calif., in 1913 and is incorporated in
Delaware.

The Company’s strategy is focused on
creating stockholder value by investing in new and existing sales channels and
countries with profitable growth potential and attractive categories,
particularly those categories aligned with global consumer megatrends in the
areas of health and wellness, sustainability and affordability, and appealing to
a multicultural marketplace. The Company uses economic profit as the key
financial metric in its decisions to drive enhanced performance, make portfolio
choices and determine resource allocations. Economic profit represents profit
generated over and above the cost of capital used by the business to generate
that profit.

®

®

®

®

®

®

$15 million

$1.3



Financial Information About Operating
Segments and Principal Products

The Company operates through strategic
business units that are aggregated into four reportable segments: Cleaning,
Household, Lifestyle and International. The four reportable segments consist of
the following:

Cleaningconsists of laundry, home
  care and professional products marketed and sold in the United States.
  Products within this segment include laundry additives, including bleach
  products under the Clorox®brand and Clorox 2®stain
  fighter and color booster; home care products, primarily under the
  Clorox®, Formula 409®, Liquid-Plumr®,
  Pine-Sol®, S.O.S®and Tilex®brands;
  naturally derived products under the Green Works®brand; and
  professional cleaning and disinfecting products under the Clorox®,
  Dispatch®, Aplicare®, HealthLink®and Clorox
  Healthcare™ brands.








Householdconsists of charcoal, cat litter and plastic bags, wraps and container
  products marketed and sold in the United States. Products within this segment
  include plastic bags, wraps and containers under the Glad®brand;
  cat litter products under the Fresh Step®, Scoop Away®and Ever Clean®brands; and charcoal products under the
  Kingsford®and Match Light®brands.Lifestyleconsists of food products, water-filtration systems and filters, and
  natural personal care products marketed and sold in the United States.
  Products within this segment include dressings and sauces, primarily under the
  Hidden Valley®, KC Masterpiece®and Soy Vay®brands; water-filtration systems and filters under the Brita®brand; and natural personal care products under the Burt’s Bees®and güd®brands.Internationalconsists of products sold outside the United States.
  Products within this segment include laundry, home care, water-filtration,
  charcoal and cat litter products, dressings and sauces, plastic bags, wraps
  and containers and natural personal care products, primarily under the
  Clorox®, Javex®, Glad®, PinoLuz®,
  Ayudin®, Limpido®, Clorinda®,
  Poett®, Mistolin®, Lestoil®, Bon
  Bril®, Nevex®, Brita®, Green
  Works®, Pine-Sol®, Agua Jane®,
  Chux®, Kingsford®, Fresh Step®, Scoop
  Away®, Ever Clean®, KC Masterpiece®, Hidden
  Valley®and Burt’s Bees®brands.

The Company has three product lines that
have accounted for 10% or more of consolidated net sales during each of the past
three fiscal years. Sales of liquid bleach represented approximately 14% of the
Company’s consolidated net sales in each of the fiscal years 2013, 2012 and
2011, approximately 26%, 26% and 27% of net sales in the Cleaning segment and
approximately 28%, 27% and 27% of net sales in the International segment,
respectively. Sales of trash bags represented approximately 13% of the Company’s
consolidated net sales in each of the fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011,
approximately 37%, 35% and 34% of net sales in the Household segment and
approximately 10%, 10% and 11% of net sales in the International segment,
respectively. Sales of charcoal represented approximately 10%, 11% and 11% of
the Company’s consolidated net sales and approximately 32%, 35% and 34% of net
sales in the Household segment in fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011,
respectively.

Information about the results of each of
the Company’s reportable segments for the last three fiscal years and total
assets as of the end of the last two fiscal years, reconciled to the
consolidated results, is set forth below. For additional information, refer to
the information set forth under the caption “Segment Results from Continuing
Operations” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations,” on page 7 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto.

(Dollars in millions)FiscalYearCleaningHouseholdLifestyleInternationalCorporateTotalCompanyNet sales2013$1,783$1,693$929$1,218$-$5,62320121,6921,6769011,199-5,46820111,6191,6118491,152-5,231Earnings (losses) from continuingoperations before income taxes201342033625996(258)8532012381298265119(272)79120113562789155(217)563Total assets20139057998781,2025274,31120129428188871,2194894,35520118388488861,2013904,163



Fiscal year 2011 earnings from continuing
operations before income taxes for the Lifestyle and International reportable
segments included a noncash goodwill impairment charge of $164 and $94,
respectively, related to the Burt’s Bees business. Fiscal year 2011 diluted net
earnings per share from continuing operations included the impact of $1.86 from
this noncash goodwill impairment charge.








Principal Markets and Methods of
Distribution

In the United States, most of the
Company’s products are nationally advertised and sold to mass merchandisers,
warehouse clubs, and dollar, military and other types of retail stores primarily
through a direct sales force, and to grocery stores and grocery wholesalers
primarily through a combination of direct sales teams and a network of brokers.
Within the United States, the Company sells institutional, janitorial and
food-service versions of many of its products through distributors, and sells
healthcare products through a direct sales force and medical supply providers.
Outside the United States, the Company sells products to the retail trade
through subsidiaries, licensees, distributors and joint-venture arrangements
with local partners. Additionally, the Company sells many of its products
through online retailers and sells its Burt’s Bees®and
güd®natural personal care products directly to consumers online.

Financial Information About Foreign and
Domestic Operations

For detailed financial information about
the Company’s foreign and domestic operations, including net sales and property,
plant and equipment, net, by geographic area, see Note 20 –Segment Reportingof the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page60of Exhibit 99.1
hereto.

Sources and Availability of Raw
Materials

The Company purchases raw materials from
numerous unaffiliated domestic and international suppliers, some of which are
sole-source or single-source suppliers. Interruptions in the delivery of these
materials could adversely impact the Company. Key raw materials used by the
Company include resin, diesel, sodium hypochlorite, corrugate and agricultural
commodities. Sufficient raw materials were available during fiscal year 2013 but
costs for many materials continued to increase amid volatility and inflation,
which the Company expects to continue in fiscal year 2014. The Company generally
utilizes supply and forward-purchase contracts to help ensure availability and
help manage the volatility of the pricing of raw materials needed in its
operations. However, the Company is nonetheless highly exposed over the short
term to changes in the prices of commodities used as raw materials in the
manufacturing of its products. For further information regarding the impact of
changes in commodity prices, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about
Market Risk” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” on page16of Exhibit 99.1 hereto and “Risk Factors –
Volatility and increases in thecostsof raw materials, energy, shipping and
transportation, and other necessary supplies or services could harm the
Company’s profits” in Item 1.A herein.

Patents and Trademarks

Most of the Company’s brand name consumer
products are protected by registered trademarks. The Company’s brand names and
trademarks are highly important to its business, and the Company vigorously
protects its trademarks from apparent infringements. Maintenance of brand equity
value is critical to the Company’s success. The Company’s patent rights are also
material to its business and are asserted, where appropriate, against apparent
infringements.

Seasonality

Most sales of the Company’s charcoal
products occur in the first six months of each calendar year. A moderate
seasonality trend also occurs in the net sales of the Company’s Burt’s
Bees®natural personal care products, with slightly more than half of
the annual net sales occurring during the months of October through March.
Short-term borrowings may be used to fund inventories of those products in the
off-season.

Customers

Net sales to the Company’s largest
customer, Walmart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, were 26%, 26% and 27% for the
fiscal years ended 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, of consolidated net sales
and occurred in each of the Company’s reportable segments. No other customers
accounted for more than 10% of consolidated net sales in any of these fiscal
years. During fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, the Company’s five largest
customers accounted for 45%, 44% and 44% of its net sales, respectively, and its
ten largest customers accounted for 55% of its net sales for each of the three
fiscal years.








Competition

The markets for consumer products are
highly competitive. Most of the Company’s products compete with other nationally
advertised brands within each category and with “private label” brands.
Competition comes from similar and alternative products, some of which are
produced and marketed by major multinational or national companies having
financial resources greater than those of the Company. Depending on the product,
the Company’s products compete on product performance, brand recognition, price,
value or other benefits to consumers. A newly introduced consumer product
(whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition
requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade
merchandising support. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally
requires continued advertising and promotional support and ongoing product
improvements to maintain its relative market position.

Research and Development

During fiscal year 2013, the Company
completed the relocation of certain employees from its general office building
in Oakland, Calif. to a new facility located in Pleasanton, Calif., which the
Company has leased since 2011. Employees from the Company’s Technical and Data
Center in Pleasanton, Calif. were also relocated to this new facility during
fiscal year 2013. The new facility consists of approximately 343,000 square feet
of leased space and includes the Company’s primary research and development
facility, utilizing state-of-the-art labs and open work spaces to encourage
creativity, collaboration and innovation. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year
2013, the Company also sold its former Pleasanton, Calif. Technical and Data
Center. In addition to the new leased facility in Pleasanton, Calif., the
Company conducts research and development activities in Kennesaw, Ga.;
Cincinnati, Oh.; Willowbrook, Il.; Midland, Mi.; Durham, NC; and Buenos Aires,
Argentina.

The Company devotes significant resources
and attention to product development, process technology and consumer insight
research to develop commercially viable consumer-preferred products with
innovative and distinctive features. The Company incurred expenses of $130
million, $121 million and $115 million in fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011,
respectively, on direct research activities relating to the development of new
products and/or the maintenance and improvement of existing products. In
addition, the Company also obtains technologies from third parties for use in
its products. Royalties relating to such technologies are reflected in the
Company’s cost of sales. For further information regarding the Company’s
research and development costs, see “Research and development costs” in
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” on page 5 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto.

Environmental Matters

For information regarding noncapital
expenditures related to environmental matters, see the discussions below under
“Risk Factors – Environmental matters create potential liability risks” in Item
1.A. No material capital expenditures relating to environmental compliance are
presently anticipated.

Number of Persons
Employed

As of June 30, 2013, the Company employed
approximately 8,400 people.

Available Information

The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to
those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Exchange Act are available on the Company’s website, free of charge, as soon as
reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed with or
furnished to the SEC. These reports are available at TheCloroxCompany.com under
Investors/Financial Reporting/SEC Filings. Information relating to corporate
governance at Clorox, including the Company’s Code of Conduct, the Clorox
Company Board of Directors Governance Guidelines and Board Committee charters,
including charters for the Management Development and Compensation Committee,
the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee and the Nominating and Governance
Committee, is available at TheCloroxCompany.com under Corporate
Responsibility/Performance/Corporate Governance or
http://www.thecloroxcompany.com/corporate-responsibility/performance/corporate-governance.
The Company will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon
written request to Corporate Communications, The Clorox Company, 1221 Broadway,
Oakland, CA 94612-1888. The information contained on the Company’s website is
not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Report.








