ITEM 1.
BUSINESS

Overview of
Business

The Clorox Company is a
leading multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer and professional
products with approximately 8,200 employees worldwide as of June 30, 2014, and
fiscal year 2014 net sales of $5.6 billion. Clorox sells its products primarily
through mass retail outlets, e-commerce channels, distributors, and medical
supply providers. Clorox markets some of the most trusted and recognized
consumer brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products,Kingsford®charcoal, Pine-Sol®cleaners,
Liquid-Plumr®, Poett®home care products, Fresh
Step®cat litter, Glad®bags, wraps and containers, Hidden
Valley®and KC Masterpiece®dressings and sauces,
Brita®water-filtration products and Burt’s Bees®natural
personal care products. The Company also markets brands for professional
services, including Clorox Healthcare®and Dispatch®infection control products for the healthcare industry. The Company manufactures
products in more than a dozen countries and markets them in more than 100
countries. More than 80% of the Company’s brands hold the No. 1 or No. 2 market
share positions in their categories. The Company manufactures products in more
than a dozen countries and markets them in more than 100 countries. The Company
was founded in Oakland, Calif., in 1913 and is incorporated in
Delaware.

The Company’s strategy is
focused on creating stockholder value by investing in new and existing sales
channels and countries with profitable growth potential and attractive
categories. In particular the Company continues to reshape its portfolio toward
businesses aligned with consumer megatrends in the areas of health and wellness,
sustainability, consumer fragmentation and affordability/value.

®

®

®

®

®

®

Finally, the Company continued
its commitment to corporate responsibility by maintaining strong, transparent
governance practices and continuing to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions,
water and energy use and waste to landfills. The Company was also recognized as
one of the most responsible companies by Corporate Responsibility magazine and
one of the greenest companies in the 2014 Newsweek Green Rankings. In fiscal
year 2014, The Clorox Company Foundation awarded approximately $4 million in
cash grants, and the Company made product donations valued at approximately $9
million and contributed another $1 million to deserving nonprofits through cause
marketing programs for social and charitable causes.

For additional information on
recent business developments, refer to the information set forth under the
caption “Executive Overview” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” on page 1 of Exhibit 99.1
hereto, incorporated herein by reference.








Table of
Contents

Financial Information About
Operating Segments and Principal Products

The Company operates through
strategic business units that are aggregated into four reportable segments:
Cleaning, Household, Lifestyle and International. The four reportable segments
consist of the following:

Cleaningconsists of laundry, home care and professional
  products marketed and sold in the United States. Products within this segment
  include laundry additives, including bleach products under the
  Clorox®brand and Clorox 2®stain fighter and color
  booster; home care products, primarily under the Clorox®, Formula
  409®, Liquid-Plumr®, Pine-Sol®,S.O.S®andTilex®brands; naturally derived products
  under the Green Works®brand; and professional cleaning and
  disinfecting products under the Clorox®, Dispatch®,
  Aplicare®, HealthLink®and Clorox Healthcare®brands.

Householdconsists of charcoal, cat litter and plastic
  bags, wraps and container products marketed and sold in the United States.
  Products within this segment include plastic bags,wraps andcontainers under
  the Glad®brand; cat litter products under the Fresh
  Step®,Scoop Away®andEver Clean®brands;
  and charcoal products under the Kingsford®and Match
  Light®brands.

Lifestyleconsists of food products, water-filtration
  systems and filters and natural personal care products marketed and sold in
  the United States. Products within this segment include dressings and sauces,
  primarily under the Hidden Valley®, KC Masterpiece®and
  Soy Vay®brands; water-filtration systems and filters under the
  Brita®brand; and natural personal care products under the Burt’s
  Bees®brand.

Internationalconsists of products sold outside the United
  States. Products within this segment include laundry, home care,
  water-filtration, charcoal and cat litter products, dressings and sauces,
  plastic bags, wraps andcontainers andnatural personal care products,
  primarily under the Clorox®, Javex®, Glad®,
  PinoLuz®, Ayudin®, Limpido®,
  Clorinda®, Poett®, Mistolin®,
  Lestoil®, Bon Bril®, Nevex®,
  Brita®, Green Works®, Pine-Sol®, Agua
  Jane®, Chux®, Kingsford®, Fresh
  Step®, Scoop Away®, Ever Clean®, KC
  Masterpiece®, Hidden Valley®and Burt’s Bees®brands.

Three of the Company’s product
lines have accounted for 10% or more of consolidated net sales during each of
the past three fiscal years. In fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, sales of
liquid bleach represented approximately 13%, 14% and 14% of the Company’s
consolidated net sales, respectively, approximately 26%, 26% and 26% of net
sales in the Cleaning segment, respectively, and approximately 27%, 28% and 27%
of net sales in the International segment, respectively. Sales of trash bags
represented approximately 13% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in each of
the fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, approximately 36%, 37% and 35% of net
sales in the Household segment, respectively, and approximately 8%, 10% and 10%
of net sales in the International segment, respectively. Sales of charcoal
represented approximately 11%, 10% and 11% of the Company’s consolidated net
sales and approximately 34%, 32% and 35% of net sales in the Household segment
in fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.









Information about the results
of each of the Company’s reportable segments for the last three fiscal years and
total assets as of the end of the last three fiscal years, reconciled to the
consolidated results, is set forth below. For additional information, refer to
the information set forth under the caption “Segment Results from Continuing
Operations” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations,” on page 7 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto.

(Dollars in millions)FiscalYearCleaningHouseholdLifestyleInternationalCorporateTotalCompanyNet sales2014$1,776$1,709$936$1,170$-$5,59120131,7831,6939291,218-5,62320121,6921,6769011,199-5,468Earnings (losses) from
      continuingoperations before
      income taxes201442832625876(227)861201342033625996(258)8532012381298265119(272)791Total assets20148877458691,1905674,25820139057998781,2025274,31120129428188871,2194894,355



Principal Markets and
Methods of Distribution

In the United States, most of
the Company’s products are nationally advertised and sold to mass merchandisers,
warehouse clubs, and dollar, military and other types of retail stores primarily
through a direct sales force, and to grocery stores and grocery wholesalers
primarily through a combination of direct sales teams and a network of brokers.
TheCompany sells institutional, janitorial, and
food-service versions of many of its products through distributors, and sells
healthcare products through a direct sales force and medical supply providers.
Outside the United States, the Company sells products to the retail trade
through subsidiaries, licensees, distributors and joint-venture arrangements
with local partners. Additionally, the Company sells many of its products
through online retailers and sells its Burt’s Bees®natural personal
care products directly to consumers online.

Financial Information About
Foreign and Domestic Operations

For detailed financial
information about the Company’s foreign and domestic operations, including net
sales and property, plant and equipment, net, by geographic area, see Note 19 –Segment Reportingof the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
beginning on page61of Exhibit 99.1 hereto.

Sources and Availability of
Raw Materials

The Company purchases raw
materials from numerous unaffiliated domestic and international suppliers, some
of which are sole-source or single-source suppliers. Interruptions in the
delivery of these materials could adversely impact the Company. Key raw
materials used by the Company include resin, diesel, sodium hypochlorite,
corrugate and agricultural commodities. Sufficient raw materials were available
during fiscal year 2014 but costs for many materials continued to increase amid
volatility and inflation in some key geographic and commodity markets, which the
Company expects to continue in fiscal year 2015. The Company generally utilizes
supply and forward-purchase contracts to help ensure availability and help
manage the volatility of the pricing of raw materials needed in its operations.
However, the Company is nonetheless highly exposed over the short term to
changes in the prices of commodities used as raw materials in the manufacturing
of its products. For further information regarding the impact of changes in
commodity prices, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
Risk” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” on page 17 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto and “Risk Factors –
Volatility and increases in the costs of raw materials, energy, transportation,
labor and other necessary supplies or services could harm the Company’s profits”
in Item 1.A herein.








Table of
Contents

Patents and
Trademarks

Most of the Company’s brand
name consumer products are protected by registered trademarks. The Company’s
brand names and trademarks are highly important to its business, and the Company
vigorously protects its trademarks from apparent infringements. Maintenance of
brand equity value is critical to the Company’s success. The Company’s patent
rights are also material to its business and are asserted, where appropriate,
against apparent infringements.

Seasonality

Most sales of the Company’s
charcoal products occur in the first six months of each calendar year. A
moderate seasonality trend also occurs in the net sales of the Company’s Burt’s
Bees®natural personal care products, with slightly more than half of
the annual net sales occurring during the months of October through March.
Short-term borrowings may be used to fund inventories of those products in the
off season.

Customers

Net sales to the Company’s
largest customer, Walmart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, were 26% of
consolidated net sales for each of the fiscal years ended 2014, 2013 and 2012
and occurred in each of the Company’s reportable segments. No other customers
accounted for more than 10% of consolidated net sales in any of these fiscal
years. During fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, the Company’s five largest
customers accounted for 45%, 45% and 44% of its net sales, respectively, and its
ten largest customers accounted for 55% of its net sales for each of the three
fiscal years.

Competition

The markets for consumer
products are highly competitive. Most of the Company’s products compete with
other nationally advertised brands within each category and with “private label”
brands. Competition comes from similar and alternative products, some of which
are produced and marketed by major multinational or national companies having
financial resources greater than those of the Company. Depending on the product,
the Company’s products compete on product performance, brand recognition, price,
value or other benefits to consumers. A newly introduced consumer product
(whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition
requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade
merchandising support. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally
requires continued advertising and promotional support and ongoing product
improvements to maintain its relative market position.

Research and Development

The Company conducts research
and development primarily at its facility located in Pleasanton, Calif., which
the Company has leased since 2011. The Pleasanton facility consists of
approximately 357,000 square feet of leased space, utilizing state-of-the-art
labs and open work spaces to encourage creativity, collaboration and innovation.
In addition to the leased facility in Pleasanton, Calif., the Company conducts
research and development activities in Meriden, Ct.; Kennesaw, Ga.; Willowbrook,
Il.; Midland, Mi.; Durham, NC; Cincinnati, Oh.; and Buenos Aires,
Argentina.

The Company devotes
significant resources and attention to product development, process technology
and consumer insight research to develop commercially viable consumer-preferred
products with innovative and distinctive features. The Company incurred expenses
of $125 million, $130 million and $121 million in fiscal years 2014, 2013 and
2012, respectively, on direct research activities relating to the development of
new products and/or the maintenance and improvement of existing products. In
addition, the Company also obtains technologies from third parties for use in
its products. Royalties relating to such technologies are reflected in the
Company’s cost of sales. For further information regarding the Company’s
research and development costs, see “Research and development costs” in
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” on page 5 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto.








Table of
Contents

Environmental
Matters

For information regarding
noncapital expenditures related to environmental matters, see the discussions
below under “Risk Factors – Environmental matters create potential liabilities”
in Item 1.A. No material capital expenditures relating to environmental
compliance are presently anticipated.

Number of Persons
Employed

As of June 30, 2014, the
Company employed approximately 8,200 people.

Available
Information

The Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or
15(d) of the Exchange Act are available on the Company’s website, free of
charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically
filed with or furnished to the SEC. These reports are available at
TheCloroxCompany.com under Investors/Financial Reporting/SEC Filings.
Information relating to corporate governance at Clorox, including the Company’s
Code of Conduct, the Clorox Company Board of Directors Governance Guidelines and
Board Committee charters, including charters for the Management Development and
Compensation Committee, the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee and the
Nominating and Governance Committee, is available at TheCloroxCompany.com under
Corporate Responsibility/Performance/Corporate Governance or
http://www.thecloroxcompany.com/corporate-responsibility/performance/corporate-governance.
The Company will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon
written request to Corporate Communications, The Clorox Company, 1221 Broadway,
Oakland, CA 94612-1888. The information contained on the Company’s website is
not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Report.








Table of
Contents

