ITEM 1.
BUSINESS

Overview of
Business

The Clorox Company is a
leading multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer and professional
products with approximately 7,700 employees worldwide as of June 30, 2015, and
fiscal year 2015 net sales of $5.7 billion. Clorox sells its products primarily
through mass retail outlets, e-commerce channels, wholesale distributors, and
medical supply distributors. Clorox markets some of the most trusted and
recognized consumer brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning
products, Pine-Sol®cleaners, Liquid-Plumr®clog removers,
Poett®home care products, Fresh Step®cat litter,
Glad®bags, wraps and containers, Kingsford®charcoal,
Hidden Valley®dressings and sauces, Brita®water-filtration products and Burt’s Bees®natural personal care
products. The Company also markets brands through professional services
channels, including infection control products for the healthcare industry under
Clorox Healthcare®, HealthLink®, Aplicare®and
Dispatch®brands. The Company manufactures products in more than a
dozen countries and markets them in more than 100 countries. More than 80% of
the Company’s sales are generated from brands that hold the No. 1 or No. 2
market share positions in their categories. The Company was founded in Oakland,
Calif. in 1913 and is incorporated in Delaware.

The Company’s 2020 strategy,
which was introduced in fiscal year 2014, focuses on delivering long-term,
profitable growth and strong stockholder returns. The Company’s long-term
financial goals include annual net sales growth of 3-5%, market share growth,
annual EBIT margin growth of between 25-50 basis points and annual free cash
flow as a percentage of net sales of about 10-12%.

In fiscal year 2015, the
Company delivered strong results including 3% net sales growth and a 4% increase
in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations despite a difficult
environment, particularly in International markets that included unfavorable
foreign exchange rates and slowing economies. The Company focused on driving
profitable growth in its U.S. business, including continuing to invest in
innovation and increasing brand investments to drive category growth and market
share improvements. In particular, the Company launched new products in many
categories in fiscal year 2015, including Clorox®ScrubSingles™;
Clorox®Triple Action Dust Wipes; Burt’s Bees®facial
products; Burt’s Bees®lip crayons; new flavors of Burt’s
Bees®lip balms; Glad®OdorShield®Gain®Original Scent; new flavors of Hidden Valley®dressings; Fresh Step®light weight cat litter; and
Kingsford®lightweight charcoal, among others. The Company also
continued its focus on delivering cost savings to offset the impact of
inflation, particularly on the cost of manufacturing and distributing its
products.








Table of
Contents

Internationally, the Company
faced particularly difficult political and economic challenges in Venezuela. For
nearly three years and in the first quarter of fiscal year 2015, the Company’s
affiliate, Corporación Clorox de Venezuela S.A. (Clorox Venezuela), was required
to sell more than two-thirds of its products at prices frozen by the Venezuelan
government. During this same period, Venezuela experienced cumulative
triple-digit inflation resulting in significant increases in Clorox Venezuela's
input costs leading to ongoing operating losses. Consequently, Clorox Venezuela
discontinued operations in the first quarter of fiscal year 2015 and its results
are reflected in discontinued operations in the Company’s Consolidated
Statements of Earnings.

In fiscal year 2015, the
Company also faced economic challenges in Argentina, including significant
currency declines and inflation. However, the Company was able to partially
offset these economic factors by implementing price increases and delivering
cost savings in Argentina.

To partially offset economic
challenges in international markets, including foreign currency declines and
slowing economies, the Company focused on cost savings, operational efficiencies
and, wherever possible, implemented price increases in order to mitigate high
inflation. Despite the slowing of certain international economies, the Company’s
international business continued to play an important strategic role, with No. 1
and No. 2 brands inmultiplecountries. In addition, the Company continued to expand
its Burt’s Bees®brand internationally.

In fiscal year 2015, the
Company repurchased approximately 4 million shares of its common stock for $434
million, returned $385 million in dividends to stockholders and announced a 4%
increase in its quarterly dividend, payable in August 2015.

Finally, the Company continued
its commitment to corporate responsibility by maintaining strong and transparent
environmental, social and governance practices. In fiscal year 2015, the Company
continued to reduce its water and energy use, waste to landfill and its
greenhouse gas emissions, receiving two Climate Leadership Awards from the
Environmental Protection Agency. The Company was also recognized as one of the
most responsible companies by Corporate Responsibility magazine and one of the
greenest companies in the 2015 Newsweek Green Rankings. In fiscal year 2015, The
Clorox Company Foundation awarded approximately $4 million in cash grants, and
the Company made product donations valued at approximately $4 million and
contributed another $1 million to deserving nonprofits through cause marketing
programs for social and charitable causes.

For additional information on
recent business developments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” in Exhibit 99.1, incorporated
herein by reference.

Financial Information About
Operating Segments and Principal Products

The Company operates through
strategic business units that are aggregated into four reportable
segments: Cleaning,
      Household, Lifestyle and International. The four reportable segments
      consist of the following:

●Cleaningconsists of
      laundry, home care and professional products marketed and sold in the
      United States. Products within this segment include laundry additives,
      including bleach products under the Clorox®brand and Clorox
      2®stain fighter and color booster; home care products,
      primarily under the Clorox®, Formula 409®,
      Liquid-Plumr®, Pine-Sol®, S.O.S®and
      Tilex®brands; naturally derived products under the Green
      Works®brand; and professional cleaning and disinfecting
      products under the Clorox®, Dispatch®,
      Aplicare®, HealthLink®and Clorox
      Healthcare®brands.●Householdconsists of charcoal, cat litter and
      plastic bags, wraps and container products marketed and sold in the United
      States. Products within this segment include plastic bags, wraps and
      containers under the Glad®brand; cat litter products under the
      Fresh Step®, Scoop Away®and Ever Clean®brands; and charcoal products under the Kingsford®and Match
      Light®brands.








Table of
Contents

●Lifestyleconsists of food products, water-filtration
      systems and filters and natural personal care products marketed and sold
      in the United States. Products within this segment include dressings and
      sauces, primarily under the Hidden Valley®, KC
      Masterpiece®and Soy Vay®brands; water-filtration
      systems and filters under the Brita®brand; and natural
      personal care products under the Burt’s Bees®brand.●Internationalconsists of products sold outside the
      United States. Products within this segment include laundry, home care,
      water-filtration, charcoal and cat litter products, dressings and sauces,
      plastic bags, wraps and containers and natural personal care products,
      primarily under the Clorox®, Glad®,
      PinoLuz®, Ayudin®, Limpido®,
      Clorinda®, Poett®, Mistolin®,
      Lestoil®, Bon Bril®, Brita®, Green
      Works®, Pine-Sol®, Agua Jane®,
      Chux®, Kingsford®, Fresh Step®, Scoop
      Away®, Ever Clean®, KC Masterpiece®,
      Hidden Valley®and Burt’s Bees®brands.

Three of the Company’s product
lines have accounted for 10% or more of consolidated net sales during each of
the past three fiscal years. In fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013, sales of
liquid bleach represented approximately 14%, 13% and 14% of the Company’s
consolidated net sales, respectively, approximately 26% of net sales for each
such years in the Cleaning segment, and approximately 27%, 28% and 28% of net
sales in the International segment, respectively. Sales of trash bags
represented approximately 14%, 13% and 13% of the Company’s consolidated net
sales in each of the fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively,
approximately 38%, 36% and 37% of net sales in the Household segment,
respectively, and approximately 8%, 8% and 10% of net sales in the International
segment, respectively. Sales of charcoal represented approximately 11%, 11% and
10% of the Company’s consolidated net sales and approximately 34%, 34% and 32%
of net sales in the Household segment in fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013,
respectively.

Information about the results
of each of the Company’s reportable segments for the last three fiscal years and
total assets as of the end of the last three fiscal years, reconciled to the
consolidated amounts, is set forth below. For additional information, refer to
the information set forth under the caption “Segment Results from Continuing
Operations” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations,” in Exhibit 99.1.

(Dollars in millions)FiscalYearCleaningHouseholdLifestyleInternationalCorporateTotalCompanyNet sales2015$1,824$1,794$950$1,087$-$5,65520141,7761,7099361,093-5,51420131,7831,6939291,128-5,533Earnings (losses) fromcontinuing operations beforeincome taxes201544537525779(235)921201442832625899(227)884201342033625995(258)852Total assets20158767258601,0576464,16420148877458691,1905674,258



Principal Markets and
Methods of Distribution

In the United States, most of
the Company’s products are nationally advertised and sold to mass merchandisers,
warehouse clubs, and dollar, military and other types of retail stores primarily
through a direct sales force, and to grocery stores and grocery wholesalers
primarily through a combination of direct sales teams and a network of brokers.
The Company sells institutional, janitorial, and food-service versions of many
of its products through distributors, and sells healthcare products through a
direct sales force and medical supply distributors. Outside the United States,
the Company sells products to the retail trade through subsidiaries, licensees,
distributors and joint-venture arrangements with local partners. Additionally,
the Company sells many of its products through online retailers and sells its
Burt’s Bees®natural personal care products directly to consumers
online.








Table of
Contents

Financial Information About
Foreign and Domestic Operations

For detailed financial
information about the Company’s foreign and domestic operations, including net
sales and property, plant and equipment, net, by geographic area, see the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 99.1.

Sources and Availability of
Raw Materials

The Company purchases raw
materials from numerous unaffiliated domestic and international suppliers, some
of which are sole-source or single-source suppliers. Interruptions in the
delivery of these materials could adversely impact the Company. Key raw
materials used by the Company include resin, diesel, sodium hypochlorite,
corrugated cardboard and agricultural commodities. Sufficient raw materials were
available during fiscal year 2015 but costs for many materials continued to
increase amid volatility and inflation in some key geographic and commodity
markets, which the Company expects to continue in fiscal year 2016. The Company
generally utilizes supply and forward-purchase contracts to help ensure
availability and help manage the volatility of the pricing of raw materials
needed in its operations. However, the Company is nonetheless highly exposed to
changes in the prices of commodities used as raw materials in the manufacturing
of its products. For further information regarding the impact of changes in
commodity prices, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” in Exhibit 99.1 and “Risk Factors –
Volatility and increases in the costs of raw materials, energy, transportation,
labor and other necessary supplies or services could harm the Company’s profits
and cash flow” in Item 1.A.

Patents and
Trademarks

Most of the Company’s brand
name consumer products are protected by registered trademarks. The Company’s
brand names and trademarks are highly important to its business, and the Company
vigorously protects its trademarks from apparent infringements. Maintenance of
brand equity value is critical to the Company’s success. The Company’s patent
rights are also material to its business and are asserted, where appropriate,
against apparent infringements.

Seasonality

Most sales of the Company’s
charcoal products occur in the first six months of each calendar year. A
moderate seasonality trend also occurs in the net sales of the Company’s Burt’s
Bees®natural personal care products, with slightly more than half of
the annual net sales occurring during the months of October through March.
Short-term borrowings may be used to fund inventories of those products in the
off season.

Customers

Net sales to the Company’s
largest customer, Walmart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, were 26%, 27% and 27%
of consolidated net sales for each of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2015, 2014
and 2013, respectively, and occurred in each of the Company’s reportable
segments. No other customers accounted for more than 10% of consolidated net
sales in any of these fiscal years. During fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013, the
Company’s five largest customers accounted for 45% of its consolidated net sales
for each of the three fiscal years.

Competition

The markets for consumer
products are highly competitive. Most of the Company’s products compete with
other nationally advertised brands within each category and with “private label”
brands. Competition comes from similar and alternative products, some of which
are produced and marketed by major multinational or national companies having
financial resources greater than those of the Company. Depending on the product,
the Company’s products compete on product performance, brand recognition, price,
value or other benefits to consumers. A newly introduced consumer product
(whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition
requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade
merchandising support. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it typically
requires continued advertising and promotional support and ongoing product
improvements to maintain its relative market position. For further information
regarding the intense competition the Company faces, see “Risk Factors – The
Company faces intense competition in its markets, which could lead to reduced
net sales, profitability and cash flow” in Item 1.A.








Table of
Contents

Research and Development

The Company conducts research
and development primarily at its facility located in Pleasanton, Calif., which
the Company has leased since 2011. The Pleasanton facility consists of
approximately 357,000 square feet of leased space, utilizing state-of-the-art
labs and open work spaces to encourage creativity, collaboration and innovation.
In addition to the leased facility in Pleasanton, Calif., the Company conducts
research and development activities in Meriden, Ct.; Kennesaw, Ga.; Willowbrook,
Il.; Midland, Mi.; Durham, NC; Cincinnati, Oh.; and Buenos Aires,
Argentina.

The Company devotes
significant resources and attention to product development, process technology
and consumer insight research to develop commercially viable consumer-preferred
products with innovative and distinctive features. The Company incurred expenses
of $136 million, $125 million and $130 million in fiscal years 2015, 2014 and
2013, respectively, on direct research activities relating to the development of
new products and/or the improvement of existing products. In addition, the
Company obtains technologies from third parties for use in its products.
Royalties relating to such technologies are reflected in the Company’s cost of
sales. For further information regarding the Company’s research and development
costs, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” in Exhibit 99.1.

Environmental
Matters

For information regarding
noncapital expenditures related to environmental matters, see the discussions
below under “Risk Factors – Environmental matters create potential liabilities
that could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations or financial
condition” in Item 1.A. No material capital expenditures relating to
environmental compliance are presently anticipated.

Number of Persons
Employed

As of June 30, 2015, the
Company employed approximately 7,700 people.

Available
Information

The Company’s Annual Report on  Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and  amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or  15(d)
of the Exchange Act are available on the Company’s website, free of  charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the
reports are electronically  filed with or furnished to the SEC. These reports are available at  TheCloroxCompany.com under
Investors/Financial Reporting/SEC Filings.  Information relating to corporate governance at Clorox, including the
Company’s  Code of Conduct, the Clorox Company Board of Directors Governance Guidelines and  Board Committee charters,
including charters for the Management Development and  Compensation Committee, the Audit Committee, and the Nominating and
Governance  Committee, is available at TheCloroxCompany.com under Corporate  Responsibility/Performance/Corporate Governance
or http://www.thecloroxcompany.com/corporate-responsibility/performance/corporate-governance.  The Company will provide any
of the foregoing information without charge upon  written request to Corporate Communications, The Clorox Company, 1221
Broadway,  Oakland, CA 94612-1888. The information contained on the Company’s website is  not included as a part of, or
incorporated by reference into, this  Report.

