ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview of Business

The Clorox Company is a leading multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer and professional products with fiscal year2018net sales of $6.1 billion and approximately 8,700 employees worldwide as ofJune 30, 2018. Clorox sells its products primarily through mass retailers, grocery outlets, warehouse clubs, dollar stores, home hardware centers, third-party and owned e-commerce channels, military stores and distributors. Clorox markets some of the most trusted and recognized consumer brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products, Pine-Sol®cleaners, Liquid-Plumr®clog removers, Poett®home care products, Fresh Step®cat litter, Glad®bags, wraps and containers, Kingsford®charcoal, Hidden Valley®dressings, Brita®water-filtration products, Burt’s Bees®natural personal care products, RenewLife®digestive health products, and Rainbow Light®, Natural Vitality®and Neocell®dietary supplements. The Company also markets brands for professional services, including Clorox Healthcare®and Clorox Commercial Solutions®. More than 80% of the Company’s sales are generated from brands that hold the No. 1 or No. 2 market share positions in their categories. The Company was founded in Oakland, California in 1913 and is incorporated in Delaware.

The Company’s 2020 strategy focuses on delivering long-term, profitable growth and total shareholder return. The Company’s long-term financial goals include annual net sales growth of 3-5%, annual EBIT margin growth of 25-50 basis points and annual free cash flow of 11-13% of net sales.

In April 2018, the Company acquired 100 percent of Nutranext, a health and wellness company based in Sunrise, Florida, for $681 million. Results for Nutranext's global business are reflected in the Lifestyle reportable segment. In May 2016, the Company acquired 100 percent of RenewLife, a digestive health company, for $290 million. The purchases of Nutranext and RenewLife reflect the Company's strategy to acquire leading brands in economically attractive categories with a focus on health and wellness.

In fiscal year2018, the Company delivered net sales growth of 3% as well as 17% increase in diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations in a macroeconomic environment that included high levels of competition in select categories, increasingly competitive retail dynamics, significantly rising logistics and commodity costs and global inflationary pressures, as well as a difficult macroeconomic environment in international markets.









The Company continued to focus on driving profitable sales growth in its United States (U.S.) business, leveraging strong demand building investments, including product innovation to support category and market share growth. The Company launched new products in many categories in fiscal year2018, including Clorox®performance bleach with Cloromax®, Clorox®Scentiva™bathroom cleaners, Fresh Step®Clean Paws™low tracking litter, Glad®ForceFlex®Plus™advanced protection trash bags, Burt’s Bees®natural cosmetics, RenewLife®probiotic and prebiotic supplements, Hidden Valley®Simply Dinners meal preparation kits, Clorox®Triple Accion bleach and Clorox®Clothes Powder.

In international markets, the Company continued to focus on execution of its Go Lean Strategy, which emphasizes driving the long-term profitability of its international business. The Company’s international business continues to play an important strategic role, with No. 1 and No. 2 brands in the majority of categories and countries where we operate.

In February 2018, the Company announced an increase of 14% in its quarterly dividend, which was an accelerated declaration of the Company’s dividend increase that has typically taken place in the month of May and was a result of the passage of The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) in the U.S. in December 2017. In fiscal year 2018, the Company paid$450 millionin dividends to stockholders.

In May 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to $2 billion in shares of common stock on the open market, which replaced the prior open-market purchase program with an authorized aggregate purchase amount of up to $750 million. In fiscal year2018, the Company repurchased749,000shares of its common stock for$95 millionunder the open-market purchase program.



Finally, in fiscal year 2018, the Company remained committed to corporate responsibility by maintaining strong and transparent environmental, social and governance practices. As part of its 2020 sustainability goals, the Company continued to work to reduce water and energy use, solid waste to landfill and greenhouse gas emissions as well as improve the sustainability of its product portfolio. The Company's achievements were acknowledged through multiple external recognitions, including a No. 9 ranking on Barron’s Most Sustainable Companies list and No. 20 ranking on the annual list of top corporate citizens by Corporate Responsibility magazine. The Company also earned the top rating of 100 percent on the Human Rights Campaign's Corporate Equality Index for the 12

th

consecutive year, was ranked No. 28 on the 2017 Thomson Reuters Diversity and Inclusion Index and was listed in the first sector-neutral Bloomberg Gender Equality Index among leading companies helping to advance gender equality around the world. In fiscal year


, The Clorox Company Foundation and The Burt’s Bees Greater Good Foundation together awarded approximately $5 million in cash grants, and the Company donated products with a fair market value of approximately $14 million, which included providing support following hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria in the U.S. and Puerto Rico as well as the California wildfires. Additionally, the Company contributed approximately $1 million to deserving nonprofits and research foundations through cause marketing programs benefiting social and other charitable causes.

In fiscal year 2019, the Company anticipates ongoing challenges that may impact its sales and margins, including continued high levels of competition in select categories, a more competitive retail environment, rising logistics and commodity costs, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and the continuation of a difficult macroeconomic environment in many international markets.

For additional information on recent business developments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” in Exhibit 99.1, incorporated herein by reference.

Financial Information About Operating Segments and Principal Products

The Company operates through strategic business units (SBUs) that are aggregated into four reportable segments: Cleaning, Household, Lifestyle and International. The four reportable segments consist of the following:

•Cleaningconsists of laundry, home care and professional products marketed and sold in the United States. Products within this segment include laundry additives, including bleach products under the Clorox®brand and Clorox 2®stain fighter and color booster; home care products, primarily under the Clorox®, Formula 409®, Liquid-Plumr®, Pine-Sol®, S.O.S®and Tilex®brands; naturally derived products under the Green Works®brand; and professional cleaning, disinfecting, and Food service products under the Clorox®, Dispatch®, HealthLink®, Clorox Healthcare®, Hidden Valley®, KC Masterpiece®, and Soy Vay®brands.

•Householdconsists of charcoal, bags, wraps and containers, cat litter, and digestive health products marketed and sold in the United States. Products within this segment include charcoal products under the Kingsford®and Match Light®brands; bags, wraps and containers under the Glad®brand; cat litter products under the Fresh Step®, Scoop Away®and Ever Clean®brands; and digestive health products under the RenewLife®brand.









•Lifestyleconsists of food products, water-filtration systems and filters, natural personal care products and dietary supplements primarily marketed and sold in the United States. Products within this segment include dressings and sauces, primarily under the Hidden Valley®, KC Masterpiece®,Kingsford®and Soy Vay®brands; water-filtration systems and filters under the Brita®brand; natural personal care products under the Burt’s Bees®brand; and dietary supplements under the Rainbow Light®, Natural Vitality®and Neocell®brands.

•Internationalconsists of products sold outside the United States. Products within this segment include laundry, home care, water-filtration systems and filters, digestive health products, charcoal, cat litter products, food products, bags, wraps and containers, natural personal care products and professional cleaning and disinfecting products primarily under the Clorox®, Glad®, PinoLuz®, Ayudin®, Limpido®, Clorinda®, Poett®, Mistolin®, Lestoil®, Bon Bril®, Brita®, Green Works®,Pine-Sol®, Agua Jane®, Chux®, RenewLife®, Kingsford®, Fresh Step®, Scoop Away®, Ever Clean®, KC Masterpiece®, Hidden Valley®, Burt’s Bees®and Clorox Healthcare®brands.

Information about the results of each of the Company’s reportable segments for the last three fiscal years and total assets as of the end of the last two fiscal years, reconciled to the consolidated amounts, is set forth below. Certain non-allocated administrative costs, interest income, interest expense and various other non-operating income and expenses are reflected in Corporate. For additional information, refer to the information set forth under the caption “Segment Results from Continuing Operations” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” in Exhibit 99.1.

(Dollars in millions)FiscalYearCleaningHouseholdLifestyleInternationalCorporateTotalCompanyNet Sales2018$2,060$1,959$1,077$1,028$—$6,12420172,0021,9611,0001,010—5,97320161,9121,862990997—5,761Earnings (losses) fromcontinuing operations beforeIncome taxes201857437024384(217)1,054201752341924481(234)1,033201651142825166(273)983Total assets20189021,2231,5331,0453575,06020178811,1039021,0606274,573



The Company’s product lines that accounted for 10% or more of consolidated net sales (U.S. and international) for the fiscal years ended June 30 were as follows:

201820172016Home Care products26%25%24%Bags, wraps and containers18%18%19%Laundry additives15%15%16%Charcoal products10%11%11%Food products10%10%10%

Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

In the U.S., most of the Company’s products are nationally advertised and sold to mass retailers, grocery outlets, warehouse clubs, dollar stores, home hardware centers, military stores and other retail outlets primarily through a direct sales force, and to grocery stores and grocery wholesalers primarily through a combination of direct sales teams and a network of brokers. Some brands are sold using the direct-to-consumer model. The Company sells institutional, janitorial, and food-service versions of many of its products through distributors using a network of brokers, and sells healthcare products through a direct sales force and medical supply distributors. Outside the U.S., the Company sells products to the retail trade through subsidiaries, licensees, distributors and joint-venture arrangements with local partners. In the U.S. and in the international markets, the Company also sells many of its products through e-commerce.









Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations

For detailed financial information about the Company’s foreign and domestic operations, including net sales and property, plant and equipment, net, by geographic area, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 99.1.

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials

Patents and Trademarks

Most of the Company’s brand name consumer products are protected by registered trademarks. The Company’s brand names and trademarks are highly important to its business, and the Company vigorously protects its trademarks from apparent infringements. Maintenance of brand equity value is critical to the Company’s success. The Company’s patent rights are also material to its business and are asserted, where appropriate, against apparent infringements.

Seasonality

Most sales of the Company’s charcoal products occur during the months of March through Septembereach calendar year. The volume and sales of charcoal products may be affected by weather conditions.

Customers

Net sales to the Company’s largest customer, Walmart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, were26%,26%and27%of consolidated net sales for the fiscal years ended June 30,2018,2017and2016, respectively, and occurred across all of the Company’s reportable segments. No other individual customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company's consolidated net sales in any of these fiscal years. The Company's five largest customers accounted for nearly half of the Company's consolidated net sales for each of the fiscal years2018,2017and2016.

Competition

The markets for consumer products are highly competitive. The Company’s products compete with other nationally advertised brands and with “private label” brands within each category. Competition comes from similar and alternative products, some of which are produced and marketed by major multinational or national companies having financial resources greater than those of the Company. The Company’s products generally compete on the basis of product performance, brand recognition, image and price. A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade merchandising support. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it typically requires continued advertising and promotional support and ongoing product  innovation to maintain its relative market position. For further information regarding the intense competition the Company faces, see “Risk Factors – The Company faces intense competition in its markets, which could lead to reduced net sales, net earnings and cash flow” in Item 1.A.

Research and Development

The Company conducts research and development primarily at its facility located in Pleasanton, CA, which the Company has leased since 2011. The Pleasanton facility consists of approximately 357,000 square feet of leased space, utilizing advanced labs and open work spaces to encourage creativity, collaboration and innovation. In addition to the leased facility in Pleasanton, CA, the Company conducts research and development activities in Buenos Aires, Argentina; Santa Cruz, CA; Willowbrook, IL; Durham, NC; and Cincinnati, OH.









The Company devotes significant resources and attention to product development, process technology and consumer insight research to develop commercially viable consumer-preferred products with innovative and distinctive features. The Company incurred expenses of$132million,$135million and$141million in fiscal years2018,2017and2016, respectively, on research activities relating to the product innovation and cost savings. In addition, the Company obtains technologies from third parties for use in its products. Royalties relating to such technologies are reflected in the Company’s Cost of products sold. For further information regarding the Company’s research and development costs, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Exhibit 99.1.

Environmental Matters

For information regarding noncapital expenditures related to environmental matters, see the discussions below under “Risk Factors – Environmental matters create potential liabilities that could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations or financial condition” in Item 1.A. No material capital expenditures relating to environmental compliance are presently anticipated.

Number of Persons Employed

As ofJune 30, 2018, the Company employed approximately 8,700 people.

Available Information

The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available on the Company’s website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. These reports are available at TheCloroxCompany.com under Investors/Financial Information/SEC Filings. Information relating to corporate governance at Clorox, including the Company’s Code of Conduct, the Clorox Company Board of Directors Governance Guidelines and Board Committee charters for the Management Development and Compensation Committee, the Audit Committee, and the Nominating and Governance Committee, is available at TheCloroxCompany.com under Who We Are/Corporate Governance  or https://www.thecloroxcompany.com/who-we-are/corporate-governance/. The Company will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to Corporate Communications, The Clorox Company, 1221 Broadway, Oakland, CA 94612-1888. The information contained on the Company’s website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Report.











