ITEM 1. BUSINESS



Overview of Business



The Company is a leading manufacturer and marketer of consumer and institutional products with approximately 8,100 employees worldwide and fiscal year 2011 net sales of $5.2 billion. The Company sells its products primarily through mass merchandisers, grocery stores and other retail outlets. It markets some of consumers’ most trusted and recognized brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products, Green Works®natural cleaning and laundry products, Poett®and Mistolín®cleaning products, Fresh Step®and Scoop Away®cat litter, Kingsford®charcoal, Hidden Valley®and K C Masterpiece®dressings and sauces, Brita®water-filtration systems, Glad®bags, wraps and containers, and Burt’s Bees®natural personal care products. The Company’s products are manufactured in more than two dozen countries and marketed in more than 100 countries. The Company was founded in Oakland, Calif., in 1913 and is incorporated in Delaware.



The Company has developed a strategy focused on creating shareholder value by investing in new and existing saleschannels andcountries with profitable growth potential and categories, particularly those categories aligned with global consumer trends in the areas of health and wellness, sustainability and affordability, and appealing to a multicultural marketplace. The Company uses economic profit as the key financial metric in its decisions to drive enhanced performance, make portfolio choices and determine resource allocations. Economic profit represents profit generated over and above the cost of capital used by the business to generate that profit. For information on recent business developments, refer to the information set forth under the caption “Executive Overview - Fiscal Year 2011 Summary” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” on page1of Exhibit 99.1 hereto, incorporated herein by reference.



Financial Information About Operating Segments and Principal Products



The Company operates through strategic business units that are aggregated into four reportable segments: Cleaning, Lifestyle, Household and International. As a result of the sale of theCompany’s global auto care businesses (Auto Businesses), the results of the Auto Businesses are no longer included in the Cleaning and International reportable segments. The four reportable segments consist of the following:

Cleaning consists of laundry, home-care and professional products marketed and sold in the United States. Products within this segment include laundry additives, including bleaches under the Clorox®brand and Clorox 2®stain fighter and color booster; home-care products, primarily under the Clorox®, Formula 409®, Liquid-Plumr®, Pine-Sol®, S.O.S®and Tilex®brands; and natural cleaning and laundry products under the Green Works®brand.

Household consists of charcoal, cat litter and plastic bags, wraps and container products marketed and sold in the United States. Products within this segment include plastic bags, wraps andcontainersunder the Glad®brand; cat litterproductsunder the Fresh Step®, Scoop Away®and Ever Clean®brands; and charcoal products under the Kingsford®and Match Light®brands.

Lifestyle consists of food products, water-filtration systems and filters marketed and sold in the United States and natural personal care products. Products within this segment include dressings and sauces, primarily under the Hidden Valley®and K C Masterpiece®brands; water-filtration systems and filters under the Brita®brand; and natural personal care products under the Burt’s Bees®brand.

International consists of products sold outside the United States, excluding natural personal care products. These products include home-care, laundry, water filtration, charcoal and cat litter products, dressings and sauces, plastic bags, wraps and containers, and insecticides, primarily under the Clorox®, Javex®, Glad®, PinoLuz®, Ayudin®, Limpido®, Clorinda®, Poett®,Mistolín®, Lestoil®, Bon Bril®, Nevex®, Brita®, Green Works®, Pine-Sol®, Agua Jane®, Chux®, Kingsford®, Fresh Step®, Scoop Away®, Ever Clean®, K C Masterpiece®and Hidden Valley®brands.










The Company has three product lines that have accounted for 10% or more of total consolidated net sales during each of the past three fiscal years. In fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, sales of liquid bleach represented approximately 14%, 13% and 14% of the Company’s total consolidated net sales, approximately 27%, 28% and 29% of net sales in the Cleaning segment for each of the three fiscal years and 24%, 23% and 27% of net sales in the International segment. In fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, sales of trash bags represented approximately 13%, 12% and 13% of the Company’s total consolidated net sales, approximately 34%, 31% and 33% of net sales in the Household segment and approximately 10% of net sales in the International segment for each of the three fiscal years. Sales of charcoal represented approximately 11%of the Company’s total consolidated net salesin each of thefiscal years 2011, 2010 and2009 andapproximately 34%, 36% and 32% of net sales in the Household segment, respectively.



Informationabout the results of each of the Company’s reportable segments for the last three fiscal yearsand identifiable assets as of the end of the last two fiscal years, reconciled to the consolidated results,isset forth below. For additional information, refer to the information set forth in Note 21 –Segment Reportingof the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page58of Exhibit 99.1 hereto.



(Millions)FiscalYearCleaning(1)HouseholdLifestyle(2)International(1)Corporate(3)TotalCompanyNet sales2011$1,619$1,611$883$1,118$-$5,23120101,6241,6638641,083-5,23420091,6211,726813998-5,158Earnings (losses) from continuing operationsbefore income taxes2011356278(1)147(217)5632010368290303144(300)8052009345289270121(316)709Identifiable assets20118388481,1509373904,16320101,2097881,3789022714,548





(1)Identifiable assets for fiscal year 2010 included $405 of net assets and liabilities of the Auto Businesses classified as assets held for sale, net.See “Results of Operations” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on page3of Exhibit 99.1 hereto.(2)Fiscal year 2011 losses from continuing operations before income taxes for the Lifestyle reportable segment included the non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $258 for the Burt’s Bees business.See “Results of Operations” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on page3of Exhibit 99.1 hereto.Fiscal year 2011 diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.07 included the impact of $1.86 from this non-cash goodwill impairment charge.(3)Corporate includes certain nonallocated administrative costs, interest income, interest expense and certain other nonoperating income and expenses. Corporate assets include cash and cash equivalents, the Company’sheadquarters and research and development facilities, information systems hardware and software, pension balances and other investments.Identifiable assets for Corporate included $259 and $87 of cash and cash equivalents for fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. See “Financial Position and Liquidity” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on page 13 of Exhibit 99.1hereto.



Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution



In the United States, most of the Company’s products are nationally advertised and sold to mass merchandisers, warehouse clubs, and dollar, military and other types of retail stores primarily through a direct sales force, and to grocery stores and grocery wholesalers primarily through a combination of direct sales teams and a network of brokers. Within the United States, the Company sells institutional, janitorial, healthcare and food-service versions of many of its products through distributors. Outside the United States, the Company sells products to the retail trade through subsidiaries, licensees, distributors and joint-venture arrangements with local partners. Additionally, the Company sells many of its products through online retailers and sells its natural personal care products directly to consumers online.












Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations



For detailed financial information about the Company’s foreign and domestic operations, including net sales and long-lived assets by geographic area, see Note 21 –Segment Reportingof the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 58 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto.



Sources and Availability of Raw Materials



The Company purchases raw materials from numerous unaffiliated domestic and international suppliers, some of which are sole-source or single-source suppliers. Interruptions in the delivery of these materials or services could adversely impact the Company. Key raw materials used by the Company include resin, diesel, chlor-alkali, sodium hypochlorite, high-strength bleach, corrugate and agricultural commodities. Sufficient raw materials were available during fiscal year 2011 and costs for materials continue to be volatile. During fiscal year 2011, the Company experienced escalating commodity costs. The Company generally utilizes supply and forward-purchase contracts to help ensure availability and help manage the volatility of the pricing of raw materials needed in its operations. However, the Company is nonetheless highly exposed over the short term to changes in the price of commodities used as raw materials in the manufacturing of its products. For further information regarding the impact of changes in commodity prices, see “Quantitative and QualitativeDisclosuresabout Market Risk” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on page 16 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto and “Risk Factors – Volatility and increases in the price of raw materials, energy, shipping and transportation, and other necessary supplies or services could harm the Company’s profits” in Item 1.Aherein.



Patents and Trademarks



Most of the Company’s brand name consumer products are protected by registered trademarks. Its brand names and trademarks are highly important to its business, and the Company pursues a course of vigorous action against apparent infringements. Maintenance of brand equity value is critical to the Company’s success. The Company’s patent rights are also material to its business and are asserted, where appropriate, against apparent infringements.



Seasonality



Most sales of the Company’s charcoal products occur in the first six months of each calendar year. A moderate seasonality trend also occurs in the net sales of the Company’s Burt’s Bees®natural personal care products, with slightly more than half of the annual net sales occurring during the months of October through March. Short-term borrowings are used to build inventories of those products in the off-season.



Customers



Net sales to the Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, were 26% for fiscal year 2011 and 27% for fiscal years 2010 and 2009 of consolidated net sales and occurred in each of the Company’s reportable segments. No other customers exceeded 10% of consolidated net sales in any year. During fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for 44%, 45% and 44% of its net sales, respectively, and its ten largest customers accounted for 55%, 55% and 54% of its net sales, respectively.



Competition



The markets for consumer products are highly competitive. Most of the Company’s products compete with other nationally advertised brands within each category and with “private label” brands. Competition is encountered from similar and alternative products, some of which are produced and marketed by major multinational or national companies having financial resources greater than those of the Company. Depending on the product, the Company’s products compete on product performance, brand recognition, price, value or other benefits to consumers. A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade merchandising support. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires continued advertising and promotional support and ongoing product improvement to maintain its relative market position.












Research and Development



The Company conducts research and development primarily at its Technical Center in Pleasanton, Calif. and also conducts research and development activities in Kennesaw, Ga.; Cincinnati, Oh.; Willowbrook, Il.; Midland, Mi.; Durham, NC; and Buenos Aires, Argentina. The Company devotes significant resources and attention to product development, process technology and consumer insight research to develop commercially viable consumer-preferred products with innovative and distinctive features. The Company incurred expenses of $115 million, $118 million, and $113 million in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, on direct research activities relating to the development of new products and/or the maintenance and improvement of existing products. In addition, the Company also obtains technologies from third parties for use in its products. Royalties relating to such technologiesare reflected in the Company’s cost of sales. For further information regarding the Company’s research and development costs, see “Research and development costs” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on page 6 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto.



Environmental Matters



For information regarding noncapital expenditures related to environmental matters, see the discussions below under “Risk Factors – Environmental matters create potential liability risks” in Item 1.A. No material capital expenditures relating to environmental compliance are presently anticipated.



Number of Persons Employed



At June 30, 2011, the Company employed approximately 8,100 people.



Available Information



The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available on the Company’s Internet Web site, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. These reports are available at www.thecloroxcompany.com under Investors/Financial Information/SEC Filings. Information relating to corporate governance at Clorox, including the Company’s Code of Conduct, Board of Directors Governance Guidelines and Board Committee charters, including charters for the Management Development and Compensation Committee, the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee, is available at www.thecloroxcompany.com under Company Information/Corporate Governance. The Company will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to Corporate Communications, The Clorox Company, 1221 Broadway, Oakland, CA 94612-1888. The information contained on the Company’s Internet Web site is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Report.












