ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview of Business

The Clorox Company is a leading
manufacturer and marketer of consumer and professional products with
approximately 8,400 employees worldwide and fiscal year 2012 net sales of $5.5
billion. Clorox sells its products primarily through mass merchandisers, grocery
stores, other retail outlets, distributors and medical supply providers. Clorox
markets some of consumers’ most trusted and recognized brand names, including
its namesake bleach and cleaning products, Clorox Healthcare™,
HealthLink®, Aplicare®and Dispatch®products,
Green Works®naturally derived home care products,
Pine-Sol®cleaners, Poett®home care products, Fresh
Step®cat litter, Glad®bags, wraps and containers,
Kingsford®charcoal, Hidden Valley®and K C
Masterpiece®dressings and sauces, Brita®water-filtration
products, and Burt’s Bees®and güd®natural personal care
products. The Company manufactures products in more than two dozen countries and
markets them in more than 100 countries. The Company was founded in Oakland,
Calif., in 1913 and is incorporated in Delaware.

The Company’s strategy is focused on
creating shareholder value by investing in new and existing sales channels and
countries with profitable growth potential and attractive categories,
particularly those categories aligned with global consumer megatrends in the
areas of health and wellness, sustainability and affordability, and appealing to
a multicultural marketplace. The Company uses economic profit as the key
financial metric in its decisions to drive enhanced performance, make portfolio
choices and determine resource allocations. Economic profit represents profit
generated over and above the cost of capital used by the business to generate
that profit.

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

Financial Information About Operating
Segments and Principal Products

The Company operates through strategic
business units that are aggregated into four reportable segments: Cleaning,
Household, Lifestyle and International. Beginning in the fourth quarter of
fiscal year 2012, natural personal care financial results outside the U.S. are
being reported in the International segment rather than in the Lifestyle segment
because management of the International segment now has primary oversight of the
natural personal care financial results outside the U.S. All periods presented
have been recast to reflect this change. The four reportable segments consist of
the following:

Cleaningconsists of laundry, home
  care and professional products marketed and sold in the United States.
  Products within this segment include laundry additives, including bleach
  products under the Clorox®brand and Clorox 2®stain
  fighter and color booster; home care products, primarily under the
  Clorox®, Formula 409®, Liquid-Plumr®,
  Pine-Sol®, S.O.S®and Tilex®brands;
  naturally derived home care products under the Green Works®brand;
  and professional cleaning and disinfecting products under the
  Clorox®, Dispatch®, Aplicare®,
  HealthLink®and Clorox Healthcare™ brands.








Householdconsists of charcoal, cat
  litter and plastic bags, wraps and container products marketed and sold in the
  United States. Products within this segment include plastic bags, wraps and
  containers under the Glad®brand; cat litter products, under the
  Fresh Step®, Scoop Away®and Ever Clean®brands; and charcoal products under the Kingsford®and Match
  Light®brands.Lifestyleconsists of food products,
  water-filtration systems and filters, and natural personal care products
  marketed and sold in the United States. Products within this segment include
  dressings and sauces, primarily under the Hidden Valley®, K C
  Masterpiece®and Soy Vay®brands; water-filtration
  systems and filters under the Brita®brand; and natural personal
  care products under the Burt’s Bees®and güd®brands.Internationalconsists of products
  sold outside the United States, including laundry, home care, water
  filtration, charcoal and cat litter products, dressings and sauces, plastic
  bags, wraps and containers and natural personal care products, primarily under
  the Clorox®, Javex®, Glad®,
  PinoLuz®, Ayudin®, Limpido®,
  Clorinda®, Poett®, Mistolin®,
  Lestoil®, Bon Bril®, Nevex®,
  Brita®, Green Works®, Pine-Sol®, Agua
  Jane®, Chux®, Kingsford®, Fresh
  Step®, Scoop Away®, Ever Clean®, K C
  Masterpiece®, Hidden Valley®and Burt’s Bees®brands.

The Company has three product lines that
have accounted for 10% or more of consolidated net sales during each of the past
three fiscal years. In fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, sales of
liquid bleach represented approximately 13%, 14% and 13% of the Company’s
consolidated net sales, approximately 26%, 27% and 28% of net sales in the
Cleaning segment and approximately 22%, 23% and 22% of net sales in the
International segment. In fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, sales
of trash bags represented approximately 13%, 13% and 12% of the Company’s
consolidated net sales, approximately 35%, 34% and 31% of net sales in the
Household segment and approximately 10%, 11% and 10% of net sales in the
International segment. Sales of charcoal represented approximately 11% of the
Company’s consolidated net sales in each of the fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010
and approximately 35%, 34% and 36% of net sales in the Household segment,
respectively.

Information about the results of each of
the Company’s reportable segments for the last three fiscal years and total
assets as of the end of the last two fiscal years, reconciled to the
consolidated results, is set forth below. For additional information, refer to
the information set forth under the caption “Segment Results from Continuing
Operations” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations,” on page8of Exhibit 99.1 hereto.

FiscalYearCleaningHouseholdLifestyleInternationalCorporateTotalCompanyNet sales2012$1,692$1,676$901$1,199$-$5,46820111,6191,6118491,152-5,23120101,6241,6638351,112-5,234Earnings (losses) from continuingoperations before income taxes2012381298265119(272)79120113562789155(217)5632010368290304143(300)805Total assets20129428188871,2194894,35520118388488861,2013904,163



Fiscal year 2011 earnings (losses) from
continuing operations before income taxes for the Lifestyle and International
reportable segments included a noncash goodwill impairment charge of $164 and
$94, respectively, for the Burt’s Bees business. Fiscal year 2011 diluted net
earnings per share from continuing operations included the impact of $1.86 from
this noncash goodwill impairment charge.

Fiscal years 2011 and 2010 net sales for
the International segment included $34 and $29, respectively, that was
previously reported in the Lifestyle segment. Fiscal years 2011 and 2010
earnings (losses) from continuing operations before income taxes for the
International segment also included $92 and $1 of losses, respectively, that
were previously reported in the Lifestyle segment. In addition, total assets for
fiscal year 2011 for the International segment included $264 that was previously
reported in the Lifestyle segment.








Total assets for Corporate included $267
and $259 of cash and cash equivalents for fiscal years 2012 and 2011,
respectively.

Principal Markets and Methods of
Distribution

In the United States, most of the
Company’s products are nationally advertised and sold to mass merchandisers,
warehouse clubs, and dollar, military and other types of retail stores primarily
through a direct sales force, and to grocery stores and grocery wholesalers
primarily through a combination of direct sales teams and a network of brokers.
Within the United States, the Company sells institutional, janitorial and
food-service versions of many of its products through distributors, and sells
healthcare products through a direct sales force and medical supply providers.
Outside the United States, the Company sells products to the retail trade
through subsidiaries, licensees, distributors and joint-venture arrangements
with local partners. Additionally, the Company sells many of its products
through online retailers and sells its natural personal care products directly
to consumers online.

Financial Information about Foreign and
Domestic Operations

For detailed financial information about
the Company’s foreign and domestic operations, including net sales and
long-lived assets by geographic area, see Note 20 –Segment Reportingof the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page62of Exhibit 99.1
hereto.

Sources and Availability of Raw
Materials

The Company purchases raw materials from
numerous unaffiliated domestic and international suppliers, some of which are
sole-source or single-source suppliers. Interruptions in the delivery of these
materials could adversely impact the Company. Key raw materials used by the
Company include resin, diesel, chlor-alkali, sodium hypochlorite, high-strength
bleach, corrugate and agricultural commodities. Sufficient raw materials were
available during fiscal year 2012 but costs for many materials continued to
increase amid volatility and inflation. The Company generally utilizes supply
and forward-purchase contracts to help ensure availability and help manage the
volatility of the pricing of raw materials needed in its operations. However,
the Company is nonetheless highly exposed over the short term to changes in the
prices of commodities used as raw materials in the manufacturing of its
products. For further information regarding the impact of changes in commodity
prices, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” on page18of Exhibit 99.1 hereto and “Risk Factors – Volatility and
increases in the price of raw materials, energy, shipping and transportation,
and other necessary supplies or services could harm the Company’s profits” in
Item 1.A herein.

Patents and Trademarks

Most of the Company’s brand name consumer
products are protected by registered trademarks. Its brand names and trademarks
are highly important to the Company’s business, and the Company vigorously
protects its trademarks from apparent infringements. Maintenance of brand equity
value is critical to the Company’s success. The Company’s patent rights are also
material to its business and are asserted, where appropriate, against apparent
infringements.

Seasonality

Most sales of the Company’s charcoal
products occur in the first six months of each calendar year. A moderate
seasonality trend also occurs in the net sales of the Company’s Burt’s
Bees®natural personal care products, with slightly more than half of
the annual net sales occurring during the months of October through March.
Short-term borrowings may be used to fund inventories of those products in the
off-season.

Customers

Net sales to the Company’s largest
customer, Walmart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, were 26%, 27% and 27% for the
fiscal years ended 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, of consolidated net sales
and occurred in each of the Company’s reportable segments. No other customers
exceeded 10% of consolidated net sales in any year. During fiscal years 2012,
2011 and 2010, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for 44%, 44% and
45% of its net sales, respectively, and its ten largest customers accounted for
55% of its net sales for each of the three fiscal years.








Competition

The markets for consumer products are
highly competitive. Most of the Company’s products compete with other nationally
advertised brands within each category and with “private label” brands.
Competition is encountered from similar and alternative products, some of which
are produced and marketed by major multinational or national companies having
financial resources greater than those of the Company. Depending on the product,
the Company’s products compete on product performance, brand recognition, price,
value or other benefits to consumers. A newly introduced consumer product
(whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition
requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade
merchandising support. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally
requires continued advertising and promotional support and ongoing product
improvement to maintain its relative market position.

Research and Development

In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012,
the Company began the process of relocating certain employees from its general
office building in Oakland, Calif. to a new facility located in Pleasanton,
Calif. Employees from its Technical and Data Center in Pleasanton, Calif. are
also expected to be relocated to the new facility by the end of fiscal year
2013. The new facility consists of approximately 343,000 square feet of leased
space and will include the Company’s primary research and development facility,
utilizing state-of-the-art labs and open work spaces to encourage creativity,
collaboration and innovation. The Company also anticipates selling the previous
Technical and Data Center in fiscal year 2013. In addition, the Company conducts
research and development activities in Kennesaw, Ga.; Cincinnati, Oh.;
Willowbrook, Il.; Midland, Mi.; Durham, NC; and Buenos Aires,
Argentina.

The Company devotes significant resources
and attention to product development, process technology and consumer insight
research to develop commercially viable consumer-preferred products with
innovative and distinctive features. The Company incurred expenses of $121
million, $115 million, and $118 million in fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010,
respectively, on direct research activities relating to the development of new
products and/or the maintenance and improvement of existing products. In
addition, the Company also obtains technologies from third parties for use in
its products. Royalties relating to such technologies are reflected in the
Company’s cost of sales. For further information regarding the Company’s
research and development costs, see “Research and development costs” in
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” on page 6 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto.

Environmental Matters

For information regarding noncapital
expenditures related to environmental matters, see the discussions below under
“Risk Factors – Environmental matters create potential liability risks” in Item
1.A. No material capital expenditures relating to environmental compliance are
presently anticipated.

Number of Persons
Employed

As of June 30, 2012, the Company employed
approximately 8,400 people.

Available Information

The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to
those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Exchange Act are available on the Company’s website, free of charge, as soon as
reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed with or
furnished to the SEC. These reports are available at TheCloroxCompany.com under
Investors/Financial Reporting/SEC Filings. Information relating to corporate
governance at Clorox, including the Company’s Code of Conduct, the Clorox
Company Board of Directors Governance Guidelines and Board Committee charters,
including charters for the Management Development and Compensation Committee,
the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee and the Nominating and Governance
Committee, is available at TheCloroxCompany.com under Corporate
Responsibility/Performance/Corporate Governance or
http://www.thecloroxcompany.com/corporate-responsibility/performance/corporate-governance/
.. The Company will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon
written request to Corporate Communications, The Clorox Company, 1221 Broadway,
Oakland, CA 94612-1888. The information contained on the Company’s website is
not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this
Report.








