ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS



RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS

IF OUR PRODUCTS DO NOT ACHIEVE MARKET ACCEPTANCE, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO GENERATE THE REVENUE NECESSARY TO SUPPORT OUR BUSINESS.

Theda VinciSurgical System and our other products represent a fundamentally new way of performing surgery.  Achieving physician, patient and third-party payor acceptance ofda VinciSurgery as a preferred method of performing surgery will be crucial









to our success.  If our products fail to achieve market acceptance, customers will not purchase our products and we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business.  We believe that physicians and third-party payors’ acceptance of the benefits of procedures performed using our products will be essential for acceptance of our products by patients.  Physicians will not recommend the use of our products unless we can demonstrate that they produce results comparable or superior to existing surgical techniques.  Even if we can prove the effectiveness of our products through clinical trials, surgeons may elect not to use our products for any number of other reasons.  For example, cardiologists may continue to recommend conventional heart surgery simply because such surgery is already widely accepted.  In addition, surgeons may be slow to adopt our products because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of reimbursement from third-party payors, particularly in light of ongoing health care reform initiatives.

We expect that there will be a learning process involved for surgical teams to become proficient in the use of our products.  Broad use of our products will require training of surgical teams.  Market acceptance could be delayed by the time required to complete this training.  We may not be able to rapidly train surgical teams in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our products.

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR COMPANY.

During 2008 and 2009, the global economy experienced a severe downturn due to the sequential effects of the subprime lending crisis, the credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns.  More recently, credit and sovereign debt issues have destabilized certain European economies as well and thereby increased global macroeconomic uncertainties.  Uncertainty about current global economic conditions continue to pose a risk as customers may postpone or reduce spending in response to restraints on credit.  There could be additional effects from the credit crisis on our business, including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance the development and/or manufacture of our products resulting in product delays, and the inability of our customers and distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products.  If conditions worsen or if the improved economic conditions are slower than anticipated, our forecasted demand may not materialize to the levels we require to achieve our anticipated financial results, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and the market price of our stock.

BECAUSE OUR MARKETS ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, CUSTOMERS MAY CHOOSE TO PURCHASE OUR COMPETITORS’ PRODUCTS OR MAY NOT ACCEPT DA VINCI SURGERY, WHICH WOULD RESULT IN REDUCED REVENUE AND LOSS OF MARKET SHARE.

da VinciSurgery is a new technology that competes with established and emerging treatment options in both disease management and reconstructive medical procedures.   These competitive treatment options include conventional MIS, open surgery, interventional approaches or pharmacological regimens.  Some of these procedures are widely accepted in the medical community and in many cases have a long history of use.  Technological advances could make such treatments more effective or less expensive than using our products, which could render our products obsolete or unmarketable.  Studies could be published that show that other treatment options are more beneficial and/or cost-effective thanda VinciSurgery.  We cannot be certain that physicians will use our products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will continue to be competitive with current or future technologies.

In addition, we may face competition from companies that develop wristed, robotic or computer-assisted surgical systems and products in the future.  For example, SOFAR S.p.A, an Italian medical device company, supported by the European Commission’s Joint Research Centre, has developed a telesurgical robot system.  Our revenues may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective or less expensive than our products.  If we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues will suffer.  We may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater resources.

NEW PRODUCT INTRODUCTIONS MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS.

We introduce new products with enhanced features and extended capabilities from time to time.  Our products are subject to various regulatory processes, and we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in order to sell our new products.  If a potential purchaser believes that we plan to introduce a new product in the near future or if a potential purchaser is located in a country where a new product that we have introduced has not yet received regulatory approval, planned purchases may be deferred or delayed.  As a result, new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results.

WE EXPERIENCE LONG AND VARIABLE CAPITAL SALES CYCLES AND SEASONALITY IN OUR BUSINESS, WHICH MAY CAUSE FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS.

Ourda VinciSurgical System has a lengthy sales and purchase order cycle because it is a major capital item and its purchase generally requires the approval of senior management of hospitals, their parent organizations, purchasing groups, and government bodies, as applicable.  This approval process can be lengthy.  In addition, hospitals may delay or accelerate system purchases in









conjunction with timing of their capital budget timelines.  As a result, it is difficult for us to predict the length of capital sales cycles and, therefore, the exact timing of capital sales.  Historically, our sales ofda VinciSurgical Systems have tended to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter, and lighter in the third and first fiscal quarters and heavier in the fourth fiscal quarter.

Recently, we have experienced procedure growth for a number of benign conditions, including hysterectomies for benign conditions, sacrocolpopexies, myomectomies, and certain other surgeries.  Many of these types of surgeries may be postponed in the short term by patients to avoid vacation periods and for other personal scheduling reasons.  Patients may also accelerate procedures to take advantage of insurance funding cut-off dates.  Historically, we have experienced lower procedure counts in the first and third fiscal quarter and higher procedure counts in the fourth fiscal quarter.  Timing of procedures and changes in procedure growth directly affect the timing of instrument and accessory purchases and capital purchases.

The above factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results.  Because of these fluctuations, it is possible that in some future quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors.  If that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease.  These fluctuations, among other factors, also mean that you will not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance.  In addition, the introduction of new products could adversely impact our sales cycle, as customers take additional time to assess the benefits and costs of such products.

INTERNATIONAL SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS ACCOUNT FOR A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR REVENUES, WHICH EXPOSES US TO RISKS INHERENT IN INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. OUR GROWTH MAY BE LIMITED IF WE ARE UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES.

Our business currently depends in part on our activities in international markets.  Revenue from markets outside of the United States accounted for approximately28%,21%, and22%of our revenue for the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012, and2011, respectively.  We are subject to a number of challenges that specifically relate to our international business activities.  These challenges include:

•failure to obtain the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property rights as we have in the United States;

•protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in international markets;

•local or national regulations that make it difficult or impractical to market or use our products;

•inability or regulatory limitations of our ability to move goods across borders;

•the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;

•the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; and

•building an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations.

A large portion of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars.  As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive and/or less affordable in international markets.  If we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges our international operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business.

WE UTILIZE DISTRIBUTORS FOR A PORTION OF OUR SALES, WHICH SUBJECTS US TO A NUMBER OF RISKS THAT COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS.

We have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products in certain foreign countries.  If these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected.  In addition, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits against our distributors related to sales or service of our products performed by them.  Please see our risk factor below titled “Unfavorable Results of Legal Proceedings Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition.”  The actions of our distributors may affect our ability to effectively market our products in certain foreign countries or regulatory jurisdictions if the distributor holds the regulatory authorization in such countries or within such regions and causes, by action or inaction, the suspension of such marketing authorization or sanctions for non-compliance.  It may be difficult, expensive and time consuming for Intuitive to re-establish market access or regulatory compliance in such case.

WE MAY INCUR LOSSES ASSOCIATED WITH CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS AND MAY NOT BE ABLE TO EFFECTIVELY HEDGE OUR EXPOSURE.

Our operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.  We attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk, opportunity and expense.  We have established a hedging program to partially hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily









for the Euro and the British Pound.  We regularly review our hedging program and make adjustments as necessary based on our assessment of the relevant risks, opportunities and expenses.  Our hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.

IF DEFECTS ARE DISCOVERED IN OUR PRODUCTS, WE MAY INCUR ADDITIONAL UNFORESEEN COSTS, HOSPITALS MAY NOT PURCHASE OUR PRODUCTS AND OUR REPUTATION MAY SUFFER.

Our products incorporate mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components and computer software, any of which can contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced.  In addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment.  Because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, we expect that our customers will have an increased sensitivity to such defects.  In the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain products as a result of performance problems.  We cannot assure that our products will not experience component aging, errors or performance problems in the future.  If we experience flaws or performance problems, any of the following could occur:

•delays in product shipments;

•loss of revenue;

•delay in market acceptance;

•diversion of our resources;

•damage to our reputation;

•product recalls;

•regulatory actions;

•increased service or warranty costs; or

•product liability claims.

WE ARE SUBJECT TO PRODUCT LIABILITY AND NEGLIGENCE CLAIMS RELATING TO THE USE OF OUR PRODUCTS THAT COULD BE EXPENSIVE, DIVERT MANAGEMENT’S ATTENTION AND HARM OUR BUSINESS.

Our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims, which are inherent to the medical device industry.  Product liability claims may be brought by individuals or by groups seeking to represent a class.  We currently are subject to product liability claims, which are described in more detail under Part I, “Item 3.  Legal Proceedings,” and which have been brought by individuals alleging that they have sustained personal injuries and/or death as a result of purported product defects, the alleged failure to warn, and/or the alleged inadequate training by us of physicians regarding the use of the

da Vinci

Surgical System.  The individuals who have brought the product liability claims seek recovery for the alleged personal injuries and in many cases, punitive damages.  Current product liability claims have resulted in negative publicity regarding our Company, and these and any other product liability or negligence claims or product recalls also could harm our reputation.  In addition, there have been articles published and papers written questioning patient safety and efficacy associated with

da Vinci

surgery, the cost of

da Vinci

surgery relative to other disease management methods, and the adequacy of surgeon training.  Negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our Company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues.  In addition, significant negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, regardless of whether these claims are meritorious.  The number of claims could be further increased by plaintiffs’ law firms that use a wide variety of media to advertise their services and solicit clients for product liability cases against the Company.

The outcome of product liability litigation is inherently uncertain and difficult to quantify, and the magnitude of potential damages, if any, may not be known for a substantial period of time.  Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover current or future claims.  Particularly as sales of our products increase, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts.  In addition, current or future product liability claims, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal costs (including settlements, judgments, legal fees and other related defense costs).  It is possible that future legal costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

UNFAVORABLE RESULTS OF LEGAL PROCEEDINGS COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION.

We are and may become subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. Certain current lawsuits and pending proceedings are described under Part I, “Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.”









The results of these lawsuits and other legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty.  Accordingly, we cannot determine whether our insurance coverage would be sufficient to cover the costs or potential losses, if any.  Regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention.  If we do not prevail in the purported class action lawsuit or other legal proceedings, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

WE MAY ENCOUNTER MANUFACTURING PROBLEMS OR DELAYS THAT COULD RESULT IN LOST REVENUE.

Manufacturing our products is a complex process.  We (or our critical suppliers) may encounter difficulties in scaling up or maintaining production of our products, including:

•problems involving production yields;

•quality control and assurance;

•component supply shortages;

•import or export restrictions on components, materials or technology;

•shortages of qualified personnel; and

•compliance with state, federal and foreign regulations.

If demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we could develop a substantial backlog of customer orders.  If we are unable to maintain larger-scale manufacturing capabilities, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged.

OUR RELIANCE ON SOLE AND SINGLE SOURCE SUPPLIERS COULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO MEET DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS IN A TIMELY MANNER OR WITHIN BUDGET.

Some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers or single-sourced suppliers.  We generally purchase components through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory.  While alternative suppliers exist and could be identified for sole-sourced components, the disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our operating results.  A disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation.  Furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of our products, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines.  The delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget.

IF INSTITUTIONS OR SURGEONS ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN COVERAGE AND REIMBURSEMENT FROM THIRD-PARTY PAYORS FOR PROCEDURES USING OUR PRODUCTS, OR IF REIMBURSEMENT IS INSUFFICIENT TO COVER THE COSTS OF PURCHASING OUR PRODUCTS, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO GENERATE SUFFICIENT SALES TO SUPPORT OUR BUSINESS.

IF WE LOSE OUR KEY PERSONNEL OR ARE UNABLE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL, OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE WILL BE HARMED.

We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff.  Our product development plans depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain engineers with experience in mechanics, electronics, software and optics.









Attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success, and competition for qualified personnel is intense.  We may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among technology and healthcare companies and universities.  The loss of any of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete.

NATURAL OR OTHER DISASTERS COULD DISRUPT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULT IN LOSS OF REVENUE OR IN HIGHER EXPENSES.

Natural disasters, terrorist activities and other business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses.  For example, the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan and their aftermath created economic uncertainty and disrupted economic activities in Japan, including a reduction in hospital spending.

Our corporate headquarters and many of our operations are located in California, a seismically active region.  A natural disaster in any of our major markets could have a material adverse impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition.  Further, any unanticipated business disruption caused by Internet security threats, damage to global communication networks or similar events could have a material adverse impact on our operating results.

IF WE FAIL TO SUCCESSFULLY ACQUIRE OR INTEGRATE NEW BUSINESSES, PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGY, WE MAY NOT REALIZE EXPECTED BENEFITS OR OUR BUSINESS MAY BE HARMED.

We need to grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures.  In some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development.  For example, we purchased our Korean distributor in January 2012.  Identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions.  In addition, completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results.  Even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products, technologies or employees into our operations, or may not fully realize some of the expected synergies.  An acquired company may have deficiencies in product quality or regulatory marketing authorizations which are not detected during due diligence activities or which are unasserted at the time of acquisition.  It may be difficult, expensive and time consuming for us to re-establish market access, regulatory compliance or cure such deficiencies in product quality in such cases.

Integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming, and may strain our resources.  In many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company at a business that lacks them.  In addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company’s customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners for a variety of reasons, including the fact that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors.

CHANGES TO FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS MAY AFFECT OUR REPORTED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective.  New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future.  Changes to existing standards or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.

WE ARE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT, UNINSURED LIABILITIES.

For certain risks, we do not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability.  For example, we indemnify our directors and officers for third-party claims and do not insure for the underlying losses, and we do not carry earthquake insurance, among other types of coverage that we do not maintain.  In addition, in the future, we may not continue to maintain certain existing insurance coverage or adequate levels of coverage.  Premiums for many types of insurance have increased significantly in recent years, and depending on market conditions and our circumstances, in the future, certain types of insurance such as directors’ and officers’ insurance or products liability insurance may not be available on acceptable terms or at all.  Because we retain some portion of our insurable risks, and in some cases self-insure completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insurance coverage could require us to pay substantial amounts, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.

WE USE ESTIMATES, MAKE JUDGMENTS AND APPLY CERTAIN METHODS IN MEASURING THE PROGRESS OF OUR BUSINESS IN DETERMINING OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND IN APPLYING OUR ACCOUNTING POLICIES. AS THESE ESTIMATES, JUDGMENTS, AND METHODS CHANGE, OUR ASSESSMENT OF THE PROGRESS OF OUR BUSINESS AND OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD VARY.

The methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations.  Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and









assumptions, and factors may arise over time may lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments.  Changes in any of our assumptions may adversely affect our reported financial results.

In addition, we utilize methods for determining surgical market sizes andda Vinciprocedures completed that involve estimates and judgments, which are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions.  Our estimates of surgical market sizes orda Vinciprocedures performed do not have an impact on our results of operations but are used to estimate the progress of our business.  Estimates and judgments for determining surgical market sizes andda Vinciprocedures may vary over time with changes in treatment modalities, hospital reporting behavior, increases in procedures per field employee and other factors.  In addition, from time to time, we may change the method for determining market sizes andda Vinciprocedures, causing variation in our reporting.

CHANGES IN OUR EFFECTIVE TAX RATE MAY HARM OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

A number of factors may harm our future effective tax rates including:

•the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;

•the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities;

•changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;

•increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired intangibles and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions;

•changes in available tax credits and deductions;

•changes in share-based compensation;

•changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and

•the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes.

Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could harm net income for future periods.

DISRUPTION OF CRITICAL INFORMATION SYSTEMS OR MATERIAL BREACHES IN THE SECURITY OF OUR SYSTEMS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS, CUSTOMER RELATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.

Information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency and accurately produce our financial statements.  If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach.  If our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially.  Any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results.

Our business requires us to use and store customer, employee and business partner personally identifiable information (“PII”).  This may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers and payment account information.  We require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems.  We also use encryption and authentication technologies to secure the transmission and storage of data.  These security measures may be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularity, and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to our data or accounts.  Third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems.

We devote significant resources to network security, data encryption and other security measures to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security.  We may experience a breach of our systems and may be unable to protect sensitive data.  The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate network security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in unexpected interruptions, delays, cessation of service and may harm our business operations.  Moreover, if a computer security breach affects our systems or results in the unauthorized release of PII, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged and use of the Company’s products and services could decrease.  We would also be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and potential liability, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.











RISKS RELATING TO OUR REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT

RECENTLY ENACTED HEALTHCARE LEGISLATION REFORMING THE U.S. HEALTHCARE SYSTEM, AS WELL AS FUTURE REFORMS, MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

In March 2010, the U.S. President signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, “the PPACA”), which makes changes that are expected to significantly impact the pharmaceutical and medical device industries.  One of the principal aims of the PPACA as currently enacted is to expand health insurance coverage to approximately 32 million Americans who are currently uninsured.  The consequences of these significant coverage expansions on the sales of our products are unknown and speculative at this point.

The PPACA contains a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions among other things.  This includes new fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers.  Beginning in 2013, medical device manufacturers were required to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% of certain U.S. medical device revenues.  Though there are some exceptions to the excise tax, this excise tax does apply to all or most of our products sold within the United States.  The PPACA also establishes a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee and identify priorities in comparative clinical effectiveness research in an effort to coordinate and develop such research; implements payment  system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage  hospitals, physicians, and other providers to improve the coordination, quality, and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models; and creates an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to reduce Medicare spending if projected Medicare spending exceeds a specified growth rate.

The PPACA provisions on comparative clinical effectiveness research also extend the initiatives of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, known as the stimulus package, which included $1.1 billion in funding to study the comparative effectiveness of health care treatments and strategies.  This stimulus funding was designated for, among other things, conducting, supporting or reviewing research that compares and evaluates the risks and benefits, clinical outcomes, effectiveness and appropriateness of products.  The PPACA appropriates additional funding to comparative clinical effectiveness research.  Although Congress has indicated that this funding is intended to improve the quality of health care, it remains unclear how the research will impact current Medicare coverage and reimbursement or how new information will influence other third-party payor policies.  The taxes imposed by the PPACA and the expansion in the government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits to us, lower reimbursement by payors for our products, and/or reduced medical procedure volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted.  More recently, on August 2, 2011, the U.S. President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, creates the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress.  The Joint Select Committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs.  This included aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year,, which went into effect on April 1, 2013.  On January 2, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare  payments  to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute  of limitations  period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years.

We expect that additional state and federal health care reform measures may be adopted in the future, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and our ability to successfully commercialize our products or could limit or eliminate our spending on certain development projects.

The U. S. government has in the past considered, is currently considering and may in the future consider healthcare policies and proposals intended to curb rising healthcare costs, including those that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services.  State and local governments, as well as a number of foreign governments, are also considering or have adopted similar types of policies.  Future significant changes in the healthcare systems in the United States or elsewhere, and current uncertainty about whether and how changes may be implemented, could have a negative impact on the demand for our products.  We are unable to predict whether other healthcare policies, including policies stemming from legislation or regulations affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future; what effect such policies would have on our business; or the effect ongoing uncertainty about these matters will have on the purchasing decisions of our customers.











WE ARE SUBJECT TO FEDERAL, STATE AND FOREIGN LAWS GOVERNING OUR BUSINESS PRACTICES WHICH, IF VIOLATED, COULD RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL PENALTIES. ADDITIONALLY, CHALLENGES TO OR INVESTIGATION INTO OUR PRACTICES COULD CAUSE ADVERSE PUBLICITY AND BE COSTLY TO RESPOND TO AND THUS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS.

The PPACA also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers.  Such information must be made publicly available in a searchable format.  In addition, device manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year.  Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for “knowing failures”), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. Device manufacturers were required to begin collecting data on August 1, 2013 and will be required to submit reports  to CMS by March  31, 2014 and the 90th day of each subsequent calendar  year.

In addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians, including the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians.  Certain states mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws, impose restrictions on device manufacturer marketing practices and/or require the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians.  The shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may be found out of compliance of one or more of the requirements, subjecting us to significant civil monetary penalties.

Compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties in the United States and/or abroad.  These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, which became effective on July 1, 2011.  Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation.  Although we have implemented policies and procedures











designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies.

OUR PRODUCTS ARE SUBJECT TO A LENGTHY AND UNCERTAIN DOMESTIC REGULATORY REVIEW PROCESS. IF WE DO NOT OBTAIN AND MAINTAIN THE NECESSARY DOMESTIC REGULATORY AUTHORIZATIONS, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO PROVIDE OUR PRODUCTS IN THE UNITED STATES.

For example, in 2011, the FDA announced a Plan of Action to modernize and improve the FDA’s premarket review of medical devices, and has implemented, and continues to implement, reforms intended to streamline the premarket review process. In addition, as part of the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act of 2012, or FDASIA, Congress enacted several reforms entitled the Medical Device Regulatory Improvements and additional miscellaneous provisions which will further affect medical device regulation both pre- and post-approval.

Changes in the FDA 510(k) process could make approval more difficult to obtain, increase delay, add uncertainty and have other significant adverse effects on our ability to obtain and maintain approval for our products.  The FDA may also, instead of accepting a 510(k) submission, require us to submit a PMA, which is typically a much more complex, lengthy and burdensome application than a 510(k).  To support a PMA, the FDA would likely require that we conduct one or more clinical studies to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective.  In some cases such studies may be requested for a 510(k) as well.  We may not be able to meet the requirements to obtain 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, in which case the FDA may not grant any necessary clearances or approvals.  In addition, the FDA may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition to a 510(k) clearance or PMA approval.  Product applications can also be denied or withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following clearance or approval.  Any delays or failure to obtain FDA clearance or approvals of new products we develop, any limitations imposed by the FDA on new product use, or the costs of obtaining FDA clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

In addition, some products may be regulated by the FDA as Drugs, Biologics or Combination devices which carry still greater requirements for clinical trials, regulatory submissions and approvals.











COMPLYING WITH FDA REGULATIONS IS A COMPLEX PROCESS, AND OUR FAILURE TO COMPLY FULLY COULD SUBJECT US TO SIGNIFICANT ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.

Because our products, including theda VinciSurgical System, are commercially distributed, numerous quality and postmarket regulatory requirements apply, including the following:

•continued compliance to the QSR, which requires manufacturers to follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the development and manufacturing process;

•labeling regulations;

•the FDA’s general prohibition against false or misleading statements in the labeling or promotion of products for unapproved or “off-label” uses;

•stringent complaint reporting and Medical Device Reporting regulations, which requires that manufacturers keep detailed records of investigations or complaints against their devices and to report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur;

•adequate use of the Corrective and Preventive Actions process to identify and correct or prevent significant systemic failures of products or processes or in trends which suggest same; and

•the reporting of Corrections and Removals, which requires that manufacturers report to the FDA recalls and field corrective actions taken to reduce a risk to health or to remedy a violation of the FFDCA that may pose a risk to health.

We are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements.  If the FDA finds that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from inspectional observations (Form FDA 483) to a public Warning Letter to more severe civil and criminal sanctions including the seizure of our products and equipment or ban on the import or export of our products.  Our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Any modification or change of medical devices cleared for market requires the manufacturer to make a determination whether the change is significant enough to require new 510(k) clearance.  We have created labeling, advertising and user training for the

da Vinci

Surgical System to describe specific surgical procedures that we believe are fully within the scope of our existing 510(k) indications for use stated in our 510(k) clearances.  Although we have relied on expert in-house and external staff, consultants and advisors, many of whom were formerly employed by FDA and familiar with FDA requirements, we cannot assure that the FDA would agree that all such specific procedures are within the scope of the existing general clearance or that we have compiled adequate information to support the safety and efficacy of using the

da Vinci

Surgical System for all such specific procedures.  We also have modified the hardware and software in the

da Vinci

Surgical System since obtaining 510(k) clearance in ways that we do not believe require new 510(k) clearance.  We cannot assure that the FDA would agree in all cases with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes.  Computer Motion, which we acquired in 2003, also modified the hardware and software in its products subsequent to 510(k) clearance without seeking new clearance.  The FDA could impose enforcement sanctions and/or require us to obtain 510(k) clearance for any modification to our products or Computer Motion’s products.  We may be prohibited from marketing the modified device until such 510(k) clearance is granted.

A FDA inspection of the Company’s facilities occurred in April-May 2013 and the FDA issued a Form FDA 483 listing four observations relating to the reporting of field corrections, information which is to be included on reports of field corrections, written procedures for changes to certain product labeling, and design input documentation.  We responded to each observation with corrective actions during the course of the inspection and provided additional evidence of corrective actions to the FDA in response to the Form FDA 483.  The FDA issued a Warning Letter, dated July 16, 2013, related to two of the four Form FDA 483 observations asking for additional corrective actions and indicated their intent to perform a follow-up inspection.  We have responded to the Warning Letter with plans for corrective action, and continue to provide supplemental responses with objective evidence of corrections as they are completed.  In addition, the FDA collected electronic samples of all our advertising and promotional material for review, and to date have taken no action in connection therewith.  However, we cannot assure that, upon re-inspection, the FDA will find that our corrective actions are acceptable or that they have been adequately implemented.  We also cannot assure that the FDA will not find other observations.  The FDA previously inspected our Sunnyvale, CA facilities in January 2012 and did not issue a Form FDA 483 as a result of this inspection.

The receipt of a Warning Letter places certain limits on the ability to obtain FDA issued Certificates to Foreign Government (“CFGs”) used for new and re-registration of products in certain foreign countries.

We have a wholly owned manufacturing facility located in Mexicali, Mexico which manufactures reusable and disposable surgical instruments.  This facility is registered with the U.S. FDA as well as Mexican authorities.  The facility is operated under U.S. and international quality system regulations including those applicable to Canada, the European Union and Japan among others.  Our wholly owned manufacturing facility in Mexicali, Mexico has an FDA Establishment Registration but has not been











FDA inspected to date.  If the FDA were to determine non-conformances in our product documentation or quality system compliance, they could hold indefinitely the importation of instruments at the border which would deprive us of the ability to sell and supply the majority of our customers until the FDA requirements have been satisfied.  Similar supply disruptions could occur if key suppliers outside of U.S. were to encounter non-conformances with their documentation or quality system compliance.

OUR PRODUCTS ARE SUBJECT TO VARIOUS INTERNATIONAL REGULATORY PROCESSES AND APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS. IF WE DO NOT OBTAIN AND MAINTAIN THE NECESSARY INTERNATIONAL REGULATORY APPROVALS, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO PROVIDE OUR PRODUCTS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.

To be able to provide our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries which may differ substantially from those of the United States.  These regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country.  Obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals is complex, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or to obtain such approvals on a favorable schedule.  If we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed.  In particular, if the US FDA refuses to provide CFGs our ability to register products or renew such registrations may be delayed or denied.

The EU requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the CE mark to their products before selling them in member countries of the EU.  The CE mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable European medical device directives.  In order to obtain the authorization to affix the CE mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes meet certain European quality standards.  In January 1999, we received permission to affix the CE mark to ourda VinciSurgical System andEndoWristinstruments and have maintained this authorization continuously since that time.  From time to time we seek the authorization to affix the CE mark to new or modified products. Subsequent products and accessories have received marketing authorization by our Notified Body, DGM.  In September 2013 we received notice that DGM has changed their name to PreSafe following acquisition by a larger Notified Body.  This is expected to have little impact on our operations other than replacement of various quality system certificates with the new name.

As we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, including new instruments, we currently plan to apply for authorization to affix the CE mark to such products.  In addition, we will be subject to annual regulatory audits in order to maintain the CE mark authorizations we have already obtained including inspection of our compliance to required standards and directives to enable this path to CE marking.  We cannot be certain we will be able to affix the CE mark for new or modified products or that we will continue to meet the quality and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations we have already received.  If we are unable to maintain permission to affix the CE mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the EU and many affiliated countries that accept the CE mark, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  Some member states of the European Union have additional requirements for registration and notification which may add to the time and effort to obtain market access.  In addition, the regulations applied to end users of our products may increase over time, forcing us to provide additional solutions to regulations which do not apply directly to us, but which apply indirectly as they may limit our customers’ ability to use our products.

In November 2009, we received Shonin approval from the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (“MHLW”) for our

da Vinci S

Surgical System and in October 2012, we received approval for our

da Vinci Si

system and various associated instruments and accessories for use in certain

da Vinci

procedures.  We may seek additional approvals for other products and/or procedures, however, there can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted.  In addition, because only a subset of our instruments have received Shonin approval, and reimbursement is an additional process to generate market acceptance, it is possible that approved procedures will be adopted slowly or not at all. Sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are reimbursed by governmental health administration authorities.  To date, we have received reimbursement approvals in Japan for a limited set of procedures and products.  If we are not successful in obtaining the necessary reimbursement approvals or obtaining approvals for future products and procedures, then the demand for our products could be limited.  These limitations could eliminate a significant market opportunity for our products in Japan.  In addition, in January 2012 we acquired certain assets of our distributor in Korea, Bio-Robotics. Our

da Vinci S

system was approved in Korea in April 2007 and our SI system was approved in December 2009.  Since that time, we have received regulatory approvals for additional instruments and accessories from these regulatory agencies.  Our products are highly regulated in Korea and we face many of the same risks and limitations on the commercialization of our products as in Japan and the United States.











IF OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES DO NOT CONTINUE TO MEET FEDERAL, STATE OR OTHER MANUFACTURING STANDARDS, WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO TEMPORARILY CEASE ALL OR PART OF OUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS, IMPORT/EXPORT OF OUR PRODUCTS AND/OR RECALL SOME PRODUCTS WHICH WOULD RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT PRODUCT DELIVERY DELAYS AND LOST REVENUE.

Our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities and our operations will continue to be regulated and inspected by the FDA and other regulatory agencies for compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice requirements contained in the QSR and other regulatory requirements.  We are also required to comply with International Organization for Standardization (“ISO”) quality system standards as well as European Directives and norms in order to produce products for sale in the European Union.  In addition, many countries such as Canada and Japan have very specific additional regulatory requirements for quality assurance and manufacturing.  If we fail to continue to comply with Good Manufacturing Practice requirements, as well as ISO or other regulatory standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations.  Our last FDA inspection occurred in January 2012.  The FDA did not issue a Form FDA 483, also known as a Notice of Inspectional Observations, and the Establishment Inspection Report, dated February 29, 2012 has been received.  In 2010 the FDA issued a Form FDA 483 listing deficiencies under the QSR relating to complaint handling and manufacturing/inspection handling.  We responded to each observation with proposed corrective actions which were thereafter completed and verified.

In April of 2013, the FDA conducted an inspection of our facilities which resulted in the issuance of a Form FDA 483 on May 30, 2013.  The Form FDA 483 listed deficiencies in the areas of reporting of Field Actions, the documentation of our Letter to File process and specific observations about Design Inputs.  On July 16, 2013, FDA issued a Warning Letter to Intuitive expanding on two of the four observations in the Form FDA 483 issued May 30, 2013.  We responded to the FDA Form 483 observations and Warning Letter citations with plans for corrective action and objective evidence of corrections as they are completed.  The receipt of a Warning Letter places certain limits on the ability to obtain FDA issued CFGs used for new and re-registration of products in certain foreign countries.  In addition, it creates a limitation on the use of so-called “special 510(k)” regulatory submissions which have a shorter review cycle than “traditional” 510(k)'s.  These limitations are expected to result in delays in the registration of some products in a small number of foreign countries and lengthen the submission cycle for simple changes which are subject to 510(k) clearance.

Although we have made the closure of the Warning Letter a top priority and have engaged additional highly qualified outside experts to thoroughly examine and assist in the remediation of the areas cited by the FDA in the Form FDA 483 and Warning Letter, there can be no guarantee of the timing to clear the Warning Letter or preclude additional FDA requirements or enforcement actions.

We continue to be subject to FDA and certain other inspections at any time.  Maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly.  We cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with Good Manufacturing Practice requirements or ISO standards and other regulatory requirements in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities.

Our Sunnyvale, California facility is licensed by the State of California to manufacture medical devices.  We have been subject to periodic inspections by the California Department of Health Services Food and Drug Branch and, if we are unable to maintain this license following any future inspections, we will be unable to manufacture or ship some products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  In 2012 the State of California announced suspension of routine inspections but this policy could be modified or inspections could be resumed for specific circumstances.  In addition, both our Sunnyvale, California and Mexicali, Mexico facilities are subject to periodic inspections by other regulatory bodies, including third party auditors on behalf of national regulatory authorities.  Compliance with multiple regulatory standards is complex, difficult and costly to maintain, and material deficiencies could result in significant limitations on our ability to manufacture, transport and sell our products in one or more countries.

In January 2013, we leased additional manufacturing space in Mexicali, Mexico and we are in the process of installing manufacturing lines in this new space as well as making changes to the configurations of existing manufacturing space.  Such changes require various types of regulatory notifications and approvals depending on the country where product manufactured in these buildings is shipped.  The process for obtaining those approvals and providing notifications or registrations is underway but delays or limitations could adversely affect our ability to deliver products to certain countries until all required regulatory authorizations are in place.  This facility will be subject to the same types of periodic inspections and compliance requirements described above.



RISKS RELATING TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO REPLACE OUR EXPIRING PATENTS, OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE IN THE MARKET WILL BE HARMED.

We believe new competitors will emerge in medical robotics.  We also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies as older patents expire.  If we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual









property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, our ability to prevent others from using our intellectual property could be adversely affected, resulting in harm to our business.

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY CONTAINED IN OUR PRODUCTS FROM USE BY THIRD PARTIES, OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE IN THE MARKET WILL BE HARMED.

Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third-party challenges.  We will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights.  The patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions.  We do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged.  We also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies.  We may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party’s products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations.  Furthermore, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.

In addition to patents, we typically rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights.  Nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products.  If these measures do not protect our rights adequately, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced.  In addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in developing our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach.  We also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries.  For a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection outside the United States.  We also realize that our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us.  Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing any of our intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies, which would harm our ability to compete in the market.

OTHERS MAY ASSERT THAT OUR PRODUCTS INFRINGE THEIR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, WHICH MAY CAUSE US TO ENGAGE IN COSTLY DISPUTES AND, IF WE ARE NOT SUCCESSFUL IN DEFENDING OURSELVES, COULD ALSO CAUSE US TO PAY SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGES AND PROHIBIT US FROM SELLING OUR PRODUCTS.

There may be U.S. and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to our products.  Some of these patents may be broad enough to cover one or more aspects of our present or future technology.  We do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be held valid, enforceable and infringed.  From time to time, we receive, and likely will continue to receive, letters from third parties accusing us of infringing and/or inviting us to license their patents.  We may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these third parties.

We cannot assure that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses we may have concerning invalidity, unenforceability or non-infringement of any third-party patent.  In addition to the issued patents of which we are aware, other parties may have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering products that are similar or identical to ours.  We cannot assure that any patents issuing from applications filed by a third party will not cover our products or will not have priority over our patent applications.

The medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies have employed such actions to gain a competitive advantage.  If third parties assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us, our technical and management personnel will experience a significant diversion of time and effort and we will incur large expenses defending our Company.  If third parties in any patent action are successful, our patent portfolio may be damaged, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we may be required to stop selling our products or obtain a license which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties.  We cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources or the substantive arguments to defend our patents from infringement or claims of invalidity or unenforceability, or to defend against allegations of infringement of third-party patents.  In addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated by us, or initiated or threatened against us, could cause our stock price to decline.

OUR PRODUCTS RELY ON LICENSES FROM THIRD PARTIES, AND IF WE LOSE ACCESS TO THESE TECHNOLOGIES, OUR REVENUES COULD DECLINE.

We rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our products.  We have entered into license agreements with several industry partners.  Any of these agreements may be terminated for breach.  If any of these agreements are terminated, we may be unable to reacquire the necessary license on satisfactory terms, or at all.  The loss or failure









to maintain these licenses could prevent or delay further development or commercialization of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.



RISKS RELATING TO OUR TRADING MARKETS

OUR FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE BELOW SECURITIES ANALYSTS’ OR INVESTORS’ EXPECTATIONS, WHICH COULD CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE.

Due to the nascent nature of our industry, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge in our market and affect our business.  The revenue and income potential of our market are unproven, and we may be unable to continue to generate significant revenues.  Our products typically have a lengthy sales cycle.  In addition, our costs may be higher than we anticipated.  If we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations will suffer.  Further, future revenue from sales of our products is difficult to forecast because the market for new surgical technologies is still evolving.  Our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including:

•the extent to which our products gain market acceptance;

•actions relating to regulatory matters;

•our timing and ability to develop our manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities;

•demand for our products;

•the size and timing of particular sales and any collection delays related to those sales;

•product quality and supply problems;

•the progress of surgical training in the use of our products;

•our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis;

•third-party payor reimbursement policies;

•our ability to protect our proprietary rights and defend against third party challenges;

•our ability to license additional intellectual property rights; and

•the progress and results of clinical trials.

Our operating results in any particular period will not be a reliable indication of our future performance.  It is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors.  If this occurs, the price of our common stock, and the value of your investment, will likely decline.

OUR STOCK PRICE HAS BEEN, AND WILL LIKELY CONTINUE TO BE, VOLATILE.

The market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and is likely to fluctuate significantly in the future.  For example, during fiscal 2010, the NASDAQ closingprice of one share of our common stock reached a high of $388.01 and a low of $247.50, during fiscal 2011, it reached a high of $466.30 and a low of $267.40, during fiscal 2012, it reached a high of $588.28 and a low of $440.00, and during fiscal 2013, it reached a high of $583.67 and a low of $355.93.  Our stock price can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including:

•announcements about us or our competitors;

•quarterly variations in operating results;

•introduction or abandonment of new technologies or products;

•regulatory approvals and enforcement actions;

•changes in product pricing policies;

•changes in earnings estimates by analysts or changes in accounting policies;

•economic changes and overall market volatility; and

•political uncertainties.

In addition, stock markets have experienced significant price and volume volatility in the past, especially recently.  This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies.  In addition, the securities of many medical device companies, including us have historically been subject to extensive price and volume fluctuations that may affect the market price of their common stock.  If these broad market fluctuations continue, they may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.



