Item 1A.  Risk Factors.

You should read the following risk factors carefully when evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While we believe we have identified and discussed
below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we do not currently believe to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial
condition in the future.

We operate in a highly competitive industry.

The food and snacking industry is highly competitive. Our principal competitors include major international food, snack and beverage companies that, like us, operate in
multiple geographic areas as well as numerous local and regional companies. We compete based on product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, service, product innovation, taste, convenience, the ability to identify and satisfy consumer
preferences, effectiveness of sales and marketing, routes to market and distribution networks, promotional activity and price. If we do not effectively respond to challenges from our competitors, our business could be adversely affected.

Competitor and customer pressures may require that we reduce our prices. These pressures may also restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and
other cost increases. Failure to effectively assess, timely change and set proper pricing or trade incentives may negatively impact the achievement of our strategic and financial goals. The rapid emergence of new distribution channels, such as
e-commerce, may create consumer price deflation, affecting our retail customer relationships and presenting additional challenges to increasing prices in response to commodity or other cost increases. We may need to increase or reallocate spending
on marketing, advertising and new product innovation to protect or increase market share. These expenditures might not result in trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts. If we reduce prices or our costs increase but we cannot increase sales
volumes to offset those changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer.

In addition, companies in our industry are under increasing
pressure to improve the efficiency of their overall cost structures. We are pursuing a transformation agenda with the goals of focusing our portfolio, improving our cost structure and operating model, and accelerating our growth. If we do not
achieve these objectives or do not implement transformation in a way that minimizes disruptions to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.







Maintaining, extending and expanding our reputation and brand image is essential to our business success.

Our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products, extend our brands into new geographies and to new distribution platforms,
including e-commerce, and expand our brand image with new and renewed product offerings.

We seek to maintain, extend and expand our brand image through marketing
investments, including advertising and consumer promotions, and both product renovation and innovation. Failure to effectively address the continuing global focus on well-being, including weight management, changing consumer perceptions of certain
ingredients, and increasing attention from the media, shareholders, consumers, activists and other stakeholders on the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image. Undue caution on our part in addressing these challenges could
weaken our competitive position. Such pressures could also lead to stricter regulations and increased focus on food and snacking marketing practices. Increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our advertising, consumer promotions and marketing,
or our response to those restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend and expand our brands. Moreover, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, product quality and safety, where we manufacture our products or
environmental and human and workplace rights risks in our supply chain could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers’ confidence and reduce demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or
these matters are immaterial to our operations. Our sponsorship relationships could also subject us to negative publicity.

We are
subject to risks from operating globally.

We are a global company and generated 75.6% of our 2016 net revenues, 78.7% of our 2015 net revenues and 82.1% of our
2014 net revenues outside the United States. We manufacture and market our products in approximately 165 countries and have operations in more than 80 countries. Therefore, we are subject to risks inherent in global operations. Those risks include:



•compliance with U.S. laws affecting operations outside of the United States, including anti-bribery laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”);

•compliance with antitrust and competition laws, trade laws, data privacy laws, anti-bribery laws, and a variety of other local, national and multi-national regulations and laws in multiple regimes;

•changes in tax laws, including enactment of new U.S. and foreign jurisdiction tax laws, interpretation of tax laws and tax audit outcomes;

•currency devaluations or fluctuations in currency values, including in developing markets such as Argentina, Brazil, China, Mexico, Russia, Turkey, Egypt, Nigeria, Ukraine and South Africa as well as in developed
markets such as the United Kingdom and other countries within the European Union;

•the imposition of increased or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers or similar restrictions on our sales or key commodities like cocoa, potential changes in U.S. trade programs and trade relations with other countries,
or regulations, taxes or policies that might negatively affect our sales;

•changes in capital controls, including currency exchange controls, government currency policies such as demonetization in India or other limits on our ability to import raw materials or finished product into various
countries or repatriate cash from outside the United States;

•increased sovereign risk, such as default by or deterioration in the economies and credit ratings of governments, particularly in our Latin America and AMEA regions;







•changes in local regulations and laws, the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions, and foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other
resources;

•varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights;

•discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies;

•greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; and

•design, implementation and use of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base.

In addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public
corruption, expropriation and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations or customer demand. High unemployment or the slowdown in economic growth in some markets could constrain consumer
spending. As a branded food company that seeks to sell our products at a premium, declining consumer purchasing power could result in loss of market share and adversely impact our profitability. Continued instability in the banking and governmental
sectors of certain countries or the dynamics and uncertainties associated with the United Kingdom’s vote to exit the European Union (“Brexit”), including currency exchange rate fluctuations and volatility in global stock markets,
could have a negative effect on our business. All of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, results of operations, and our relationships
with customers, suppliers and employees in the short or long term.

Our operations in certain emerging markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory
risks.

Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in emerging markets, including among others Brazil, China, India, Mexico,
Russia, Argentina, Ukraine, the Middle East, Africa and Southeast Asia. However, some emerging markets have greater political, economic and currency volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than more established
markets. In many countries, particularly those with emerging economies, engaging in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations with extraterritorial reach, such as the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act, or local anti-bribery laws may be more
common. These laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials, including in connection with obtaining permits or engaging in other actions necessary to do business.
Failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations.

In addition, competition in emerging markets is increasing as our competitors grow their global operations and low cost local manufacturers expand and improve their
production capacities. Our success in emerging markets is critical to achieving our growth strategy. If we cannot successfully increase our business in emerging markets and manage associated political, economic and regulatory risks, our product
sales, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, such as occurred when we deconsolidated and changed to the cost method of accounting for our Venezuelan operations at the close of 2015 or any potential impact on our
business in Venezuela from future economic or political developments.

Unanticipated business disruptions could adversely affect our ability to provide our
products to our customers.







We are subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations.

At December 31, 2016, we sold our products in approximately 165 countries and had operations in more than 80 countries. Consequently, a significant portion of our
business is exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our financial results and capital ratios are sensitive to movements in currency exchange rates because a large portion of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses must be translated
into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes or converted into U.S. dollars to service obligations such as our U.S. dollar-denominated indebtedness and to pay dividends to our shareholders. In addition, movements in currency exchange rates can affect
transaction costs because we source product ingredients from various countries. We seek to mitigate our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, primarily on cross-currency transactions, but our efforts may not be successful. Accordingly, changes in
the currency exchange rates that we use to translate our results into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes or for transactions involving multiple currencies could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of
operations.

Commodity and other input prices are volatile and may increase or decrease significantly or availability of commodities may become constrained.

Complying with
changes in and inconsistencies among laws and regulations in many countries in which we operate could increase our costs.

Our activities throughout the world
are highly regulated and subject to government oversight. Various laws and regulations govern food production, storage, distribution, sales, advertising, labeling and marketing, as well as licensing, trade, labor, tax and environmental matters, and
health and safety practices. Government authorities regularly change laws and regulations and their interpretations. Our compliance with new or revised laws and regulations or the interpretation and application of existing laws and regulations could
materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. For instance, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected by the regulatory and economic impact of changes in
taxation and trade relations among the United States and other countries or changes in the European Union such as Brexit.

We may be unable to hire or retain and
develop key personnel or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce or manage changes in our workforce.

We must hire, retain and develop effective leaders
and a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. We compete to hire new personnel in the many countries in which we manufacture and market our products and then to develop and retain their skills and competencies. Unplanned turnover or failure to
develop adequate succession plans for leadership positions or to hire and retain a diverse global workforce with the skills and in the locations we need to operate and grow our business could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our
competitiveness.







We also face increased personnel-related risks in connection with implementing the changes in our transformation agenda
related to our operating model and business processes, including building a global shared services capability and reconfiguring our supply chain. These risks could lead to operational challenges, including increased competition for employees with
the skills we require to achieve our business goals; higher employee turnover, including of employees with key capabilities; and challenges in developing the capabilities necessary to build and effectively execute a shared services function and
transform our business processes. Furthermore, we might be unable to manage appropriately changes in, or that affect, our workforce or satisfy the legal requirements associated with how we manage and compensate our employees. This includes our
management of employees represented by labor unions or workers’ councils, who represent approximately 65% of our 78,000 employees outside the United States and approximately 28% of our 12,000 U.S. employees. Strikes, work stoppages or other
forms of labor unrest by our employees or those of our suppliers or distributors, or situations like the re-negotiation of collective bargaining agreements covering eight U.S. facilities that expired in February 2016, could cause disruptions to our
supply chain, manufacturing or distribution processes.

These risks could materially and adversely affect our reputation, ability to meet the needs of our
customers, product sales, financial condition and results of operations.

Our retail customers are consolidating and we must leverage our value proposition in
order to compete against retailer and other economy brands.

Retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers’ business operations or financial performance will have a corresponding material
adverse effect on us. For example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases.

If we do not effectively respond to retail consolidation, increasing retail power and competition from retailer and other economy brands, our reputation, brands,
product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

We are subject to changes in our relationships with
significant customers or suppliers.

During 2016, our five largest customers accounted for 16.6% of our net revenues. There can be no assurance that our
customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers continue to demand lower pricing and develop their own brands. The loss of or
disruptions related to significant customers could result in a material reduction in sales or change in the mix of products we sell to a significant customer. This could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and
results of operations.

Additionally, disputes with significant suppliers, including disputes related to pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability
to supply products to our customers or operate our business and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations.







We may decide or be required to recall products or be subjected to product liability claims.

We could decide, or laws or regulations could require us, to recall products due to suspected or confirmed and deliberate or unintentional product contamination,
spoilage or other adulteration, product mislabeling or product tampering. In addition, if another company recalls or experiences negative publicity related to a product in a category in which we compete, consumers might reduce their overall
consumption of products in this category. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our reputation, brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations.

We may also suffer losses if our products or operations or those of our suppliers violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our or our suppliers’ products
cause injury, illness or death. In addition, our marketing could face claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. A significant product liability or other legal judgment against us, a related regulatory enforcement action, a
widespread product recall or attempts to manipulate us based on threats related to the safety of our products could materially and adversely affect our reputation and profitability. Moreover, even if a product liability, consumer fraud or other
claim is unsuccessful, has no merit or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our reputation, brands, product sales, financial condition and results of
operations.

We could be subject to legal or tax claims or other regulatory enforcement actions.

We are a large snack food company operating in highly regulated environments and constantly evolving legal, tax and regulatory frameworks around the world.
Consequently, we are subject to greater risk of litigation, legal or tax claims, or other regulatory enforcement actions. There can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate policies and procedures we have
implemented to promote compliance with existing laws and regulations. Moreover, our failure to maintain effective control environment processes, including in connection with the development of our global shared services capability, could lead to
violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. Litigation, legal or tax claims, or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or controls could subject
us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations.

We
may not successfully identify, complete or manage strategic transactions.

We regularly evaluate a variety of potential strategic transactions, including
acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, equity method investments and other strategic alliances that could further our strategic business objectives. We may not successfully identify, complete or manage the risks presented by these strategic
transactions. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable transactions; negotiate favorable contractual terms; comply with applicable regulations and receive necessary consents, clearances and approvals (including regulatory
and antitrust clearances and approvals); integrate or separate businesses; realize the full extent of the benefits, cost savings or synergies presented by strategic transactions; effectively implement control environment processes with employees
joining us as a result of a transaction; minimize adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; achieve accurate estimates of fair value; minimize potential loss of customers or key employees; and minimize
indemnities and potential disputes with buyers, sellers and strategic partners. In addition, execution or oversight of strategic transactions may result in the diversion of management attention from our existing business and may present financial,
managerial and operational risks.







Furthermore, we may not be able to complete, on terms favorable to us, desired or proposed divestitures of businesses that
do not meet our strategic objectives or our growth or profitability targets. Our divestiture activities, or related activities such as reorganizations, restructuring programs and transformation initiatives, may require us to recognize impairment
charges or to take action to reduce costs that remain after we complete a divestiture. Gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses may also affect our profitability.

Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, product sales, financial condition and results of operations.

We must correctly predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand and offer new products that meet those changes.

Consumer preferences for food and snacking products change continually. Our success depends on our ability to predict, identify and interpret the tastes, dietary
habits, packaging, sales channel and other preferences of consumers around the world and to offer products that appeal to these preferences. Moreover, weak economic conditions, recession, equity market volatility or other factors could affect
consumer preferences and demand. If we do not offer products that appeal to consumers or if we misjudge consumer demand for our products, our sales and market share will decrease and our profitability could suffer.

We must distinguish among short-term fads, mid-term trends and long-term changes in consumer preferences. If we do not accurately predict which shifts in consumer
preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those changing preferences, our sales could decline. In addition, because of our varied consumer base, including by geography, we must offer an array of
products that satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. If we fail to expand our product offerings successfully across product categories, or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster growing and more profitable categories, demand
for our products could decrease and our profitability could suffer.

Prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health, environmental and social implications of
certain food products and ingredients could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. For example, consumers have increasingly focused on health and wellness, including weight management and
reducing sodium and added sugar consumption. In addition, consumer preferences differ by region, and we must monitor and adjust our use of ingredients to respond to these regional preferences. We might be unsuccessful in our efforts to effectively
respond to changing consumer preferences and social expectations. Continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of
operations.

We could fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting.

The accuracy of our financial reporting depends on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting can
provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements and may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations. These limitations include, among others, the possibility
of human error, inadequacy or circumvention of controls and fraud. If we do not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or design and implement controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation
and fair presentation of our financial statements, including in connection with controls executed for us by third parties, we might fail to timely detect any misappropriation of corporate assets or inappropriate allocation or use of funds and could
be unable to file accurate financial reports on a timely basis. As a result, our reputation, results of operations and stock price could be materially adversely affected.

We increasingly rely on information technology and third party service providers.

We rely on information technology and third party service providers to process, transmit and store company information via business applications, internal networks and
the Internet. We use these technologies and third party service providers to support our global business processes and activities, including communicating with our employees, customers and suppliers; running critical business operations; engaging in
mergers and acquisitions and other corporate transactions; conducting research and development activities; meeting regulatory, legal and tax requirements; and executing various digital marketing and consumer promotion activities.







Working with these technologies and third party service providers creates risks related to confidentiality, integrity and
continuity, and some of these risks may be outside of our control. Confidentiality and integrity of information may be jeopardized by deliberate or unintentional misuse, manipulation or disclosure of information; physical theft; or cybersecurity
data breaches by our employees, suppliers, hackers, criminal groups, nation-state organizations, social-activist organizations or other third parties. We currently utilize third party e-commerce providers and request that they have the appropriate
cybersecurity controls and meet regulatory requirements. Going forward, should we decide to transact e-commerce direct to consumers as the merchant, we would implement additional procedures, controls and technology to address cybersecurity and
regulatory compliance. We might face increased risk if new initiatives such ase-commerceincrease the amount of confidential information that we process and maintain, and the cybersecurity and compliance
controls we or our third party providers implement are not effective. Continuity of business applications and services may be disrupted by errors in systems’ maintenance, migration of applications to the cloud, power outages, hardware or
software failures, viruses or malware, denial of service and other cyber security attacks, telecommunication failures, natural disasters, terrorist attacks and other catastrophic events.

Should any of these risks materialize, the need to coordinate with various third party service providers might complicate our efforts to resolve the related issues. If
our controls, disaster recovery and business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we may experience
delays in reporting our financial results.

In addition, should confidential information belonging to us or our employees, customers, consumers, partners,
suppliers, or governmental or regulatory authorities be misused or breached, we may suffer financial losses relating to remediation, damage to our reputation or brands, loss of intellectual property, or penalties or litigation related to violation
of data privacy laws and regulations.

Weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, illiquid global capital markets and volatile global economic
conditions could limit our access to the global capital markets, reduce our liquidity and increase our borrowing costs.

We access the long-term and short-term
global capital markets to obtain financing. Our financial performance, ourshort-and long-term debt credit ratings, interest rates, the stability of financial institutions with which we partner, the liquidity
of the overall global capital markets and the state of the global economy, including the food industry, could affect our access to, and the availability or cost of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions and our ability to pay dividends in the
future. There can be no assurance that we will have access to the global capital markets on terms we find acceptable.

We regularly access the commercial paper
markets in the United States and Europe for ongoing funding requirements. A downgrade in our credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our borrowing costs and adversely affect our ability to issue commercial paper. Disruptions in the
global commercial paper market or other effects of volatile economic conditions on the global credit markets also could reduce the amount of commercial paper that we could issue and raise our borrowing costs for both short- and long-term debt
offerings.

Limitations on our ability to access the global capital markets, a reduction in our liquidity or an increase in our borrowing costs could materially and
adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

Volatility in the equity markets, interest rates, our participation in multi-employer
pension plans or other factors could substantially increase our pension costs.

We sponsor a number of defined benefit pension plans for our employees
throughout the world. At the end of 2016, the projected benefit obligation of our defined benefit pension plans was $11.4 billion and plan assets were $9.5 billion. The difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the
plans, significantly affects the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. Our largest funded defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified
portfolio of investments, including equities and corporate and government debt. Among other factors, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, funding requirements in the jurisdictions in which the plans
operate, the viability of other employers in the multi-employer pension plans in which we participate and the market value of plan assets can affect the level of plan funding, cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost and increase our future
funding requirements. Legislative and other governmental regulatory actions may also increase funding requirements for our pension plans’ benefits obligation.







Volatility in the global capital markets may increase the risk that we are required to make additional cash contributions
to the pension plans and recognize further increases in our net periodic pension cost.

Due to our participation in multi-employer pension plans, we may have
exposure under those plans that extends beyond what our obligation would be with respect to our employees. Our contributions to a multi-employer plan may increase beyond our bargaining obligations depending on the financial condition of the
multi-employer plan. We may be required to participate in funding the unfunded obligations of the plan allocable to a withdrawing employer, and our costs might increase as a result. Further, if we partially or completely withdraw from a
multi-employer pension plan, we may be required to pay a partial or complete withdrawal liability. This withdrawal liability will generally increase if there is also a mass withdrawal of other participating employers or if the plan terminates. (See
Note 9,Benefit Plans, to the consolidated financial statements for more information on our multi-employer pension plans.)

A significant increase in our
pension benefit obligations or funding requirements could curtail our ability to invest in the business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

Our failure to protect our valuable intellectual property rights could reduce the value of our products and brands.

We consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to
be a significant and valuable part of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by taking advantage of a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in various countries, as well as licensing
agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. Our failure to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property rights, or any change in law or other changes
that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business.

We may be unaware of third party claims of intellectual property infringement relating to our technology, brands or products. Any litigation regarding patents or other
intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert management’s and other key personnel’s attention from our business operations. Third party claims of intellectual property infringement might require us to pay
monetary damages or enter into costly license agreements. We also may be subject to injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. Any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales,
financial condition and results of operations.

