10-K


y89793e10vk.htm

COACH, INC.

COACH, INC.


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

Commission file number: 1-16153

Coach, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

(212) 594-1850

(Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code)

Securities Registered Pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities Registered Pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days.     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this
Form 10-K.

þ

The approximate aggregate market value of the
voting and non-voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant was approximately $5,287,719,864 as of
August 29, 2003. For purposes of determining this amount
only, the registrant has excluded shares of common stock held by
directors and officers. Exclusion of shares held by any person
should not be construed to indicate that such person possesses
the power, direct or indirect, to direct or cause the direction
of the management or policies of the registrant, or that such
person is controlled by or under common control with the
registrant.

On August 29, 2003, the Registrant had
91,954,939 outstanding shares of common stock, which is the
Registrant’s only class of capital stock.



COACH, INC.

TABLE OF CONTENTS FORM 10-K



Founded in 1941, Coach has grown from a
family-run workshop in a Manhattan loft to a premier accessories
marketer in the United States. Coach developed its initial
expertise in the small-scale production of classic, high-quality
leather goods constructed from “glove-tanned” leather
with close attention to detail. Coach has grown from a maker of
traditionally styled, high-quality leather goods to a
well-recognized marketer of a diversified modern classic
assortment of leather and mixed material handbags and
accessories, selling its products through upscale department and
specialty stores, its own retail stores, its direct mail catalog
and its internet site. Coach has built upon its national brand
awareness, expanded into international sales, particularly in
Japan and East Asia, further developed its multi-channel
distribution strategy and licensed products with the Coach brand
name.

SPECIAL NOTE ON FORWARD-LOOKING
INFORMATION

This document and the documents incorporated by
reference in this document contain forward-looking statements
that involve risks and uncertainties. We use words such as
“believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,”
“intend,” “plan,” “foresee,”
“likely,” “project,” “estimate,”
“will,” “may,” “should,”
“future,” “predicts,” “potential,”
“continue” and similar expressions to identify these
forward-looking statements.

Coach’s actual results could differ
materially from the results contemplated by these
forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including
those discussed in the sections of this Form 10-K filing
entitled “Risk Factors” and “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations of Coach, Inc.”. These factors are not
necessarily all of the important factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those expressed in any of the
forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K.

WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION

Coach’s quarterly financial results and
other important information are available by calling the
Investor Relations Department at (212) 629-2618.

Coach maintains a website at www.coach.com where
investors and other interested parties may obtain, free of
charge, press releases, other information and gain access to
periodic reports to the SEC.



PART I

Item 1.

Business of Coach, Inc.

OVERVIEW

Coach is a designer, producer and marketer of
high-quality, modern American classic accessories. Coach
believes that it is one of the best recognized leather goods
brands in the U.S. and is enjoying increased recognition in
targeted international markets. Net sales were
$953.2 million in the year ended June 28, 2003
(“fiscal 2003”), $719.4 million in the year ended
June 29, 2002 (“fiscal 2002”) and
$600.5 million in the year ended June 30, 2001,
(“fiscal 2001”). Operating income was
$243.8 million in fiscal 2003, $133.6 million in
fiscal 2002 and $101.7 million in fiscal 2001. Coach’s
primary product offerings include handbags, women’s and
men’s accessories, business cases, weekend and travel
accessories, leather outerwear, gloves, hats, scarves and
personal planning products. Together with its licensing
partners, Coach also offers watches, footwear and home and
office furniture with the Coach brand name. Coach’s
products are sold through a number of direct to consumer
channels, which at the end of fiscal 2003 included:

Coach’s direct-to-consumer business
represented approximately 59% of its total sales in fiscal 2003.
Its remaining sales were generated from products sold through a
number of indirect channels, which at the end of fiscal 2003
included:

Over the last several years, Coach has
successfully transformed itself from a manufacturer of classic
leather products, to a marketer of more modern, fashionable
handbags and accessories, using a broader range of fabrics and
materials. Today, Coach’s updated styles and multiple
product categories address an increasing portion of its
consumer’s accessory wardrobe, responding to its
customer’s demands for both fashion and function. Along
with the rejuvenation of the product line, Coach has created a
similarly modern environment to showcase its product assortments
and reinforce a consistent brand position. Finally, Coach has
established a flexible, cost-effective manufacturing model in
which independent manufacturers supply most of its products
which allows Coach to bring its broader range of products to
market more rapidly and efficiently.

Coach has developed a number of key
differentiating elements that set it apart from the competitive
landscape including:

•

A Distinctive
    Brand

— Coach believes
    that it is one of America’s leading accessible luxury
    accessories brand offering an aspirational product that is
    relevant, extremely well made, and provides exceptional value.

•

A Market Leadership Position with Growing
    Share

— Coach is
    America’s leading accessories brand and each year, as its
    market share increases, our leadership position strengthens.

•

Coach’s Loyal and Involved
    Consumer

— Coach
    consumers have a specific emotional connection with the brand.
    Part of the Company’s everyday mission is to cultivate
    consumer relationships by strengthening this emotional
    connection.



•

Multi-Channel International
    Distribution

— This
    allows Coach to maintain a critical balance, as results do not
    depend solely on the performance of a single channel. Further,
    in the context of current global events, Coach finds itself
    fairly well insulated against disruptive factors such as
    declining international travel. This is because nearly 90% of
    the company’s sales come from consumers who purchase Coach
    products in their home country.

•

Coach is Innovative and
    Consumer-Centric

— Coach
    listens to its consumer through rigorous consumer research,
    strong customer orientation and it works to anticipate her
    changing needs by keeping the product assortment fresh and
    relevant.

Coach believes that these differentiating
elements have enabled Coach to enjoy a unique proposition in the
market place. In fiscal 2003 net sales increased 32.5% and
operating income increased 82.4% compared to fiscal 2002. In
fiscal 2002 net sales increased 19.8% and operating income
increased 31.4% compared to fiscal 2001.

However, to remain competitive in its industry,
Coach must also accurately anticipate consumer trends and tastes.

Growth Strategies

Based on its established strengths Coach is
pursuing the following strategies for future growth:

Expand Market Share.

Coach is driving market share by
leveraging its leadership position as an accessible luxury
lifestyle brand and gaining a greater share of its
consumer’s accessories wardrobe. Coach is intensifying its
awareness as an everyday lifestyle accessory resource for self
purchase and gifts. As part of this strategy, Coach is
emphasizing new usage occasions, such as weekend and evening and
offering items at a broader range of prices.

Modernize Retail Presentation.

Coach has modernized its brand
image by remodeling its U.S. retail stores to create a
distinctive environment to showcase its new product assortments
and reinforce a consistent brand position. Coach recently
completed its retail renovation program and opened an additional
flagship location in Japan. Coach expects that:

•

about ten international wholesale locations will
    be converted to, or opened with, the new store design by June
    2004 (86 locations were remodeled as of end of fiscal 2003);

•

at least 20 U.S. department store locations will
    be remodeled or opened in the new store design by June 2004 (67
    U.S. department store locations were remodeled as of end of
    fiscal 2003); and

•

about 20 U.S. factory locations will be remodeled
    or opened in the new store design by June 2004 (50 U.S.
    factory locations were remodeled as of the end of fiscal 2003).

Increase U.S. Retail Store Openings.

Coach opened 20 new U.S. retail
stores in both fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002. In each of the next
two years, Coach plans to expand its network of 156 retail
stores by opening at least 20 new stores per year located
primarily in high volume markets. Coach believes that it has a
successful retail store format that reinforces its brand image,
generates strong sales per square foot and can be readily
adapted to different location requirements. The modernized store
environment has an open, loft-like feeling, with crisp white
brick walls, ebony-stained wood floors and a timeless,
uncluttered look. It generally takes four to six months from the
time Coach takes possession of a store to open it.

Expand Business with the Japanese Consumer.

In June 2001, Coach and Sumitomo
Corporation (“Sumitomo”) commenced a joint venture to
form Coach Japan, Inc., to manage the Coach business in Japan.
Coach owns 50% of Coach Japan and is deemed to have control, as
Coach appoints a majority of the Board of Directors; as such,
Coach Japan is accounted for as a consolidated subsidiary. Under
the terms of the joint venture agreement, Coach supplies its
merchandise to Coach Japan for distribution and sale in Japan.
In order to expand its presence in the Japanese market and to
exercise greater control over its brand in that country, Coach
Japan acquired the existing distributors of Coach products in
Japan.



On July 31, 2001, Coach Japan completed the
purchase of 100% of the capital stock of P.D.C. Co. Ltd.
(“PDC”) from the Mitsukoshi Department Store Group for
a total purchase price of $9.0 million. At the time of
acquisition PDC operated 63 retail and department store
locations in Japan. This acquisition was accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting and as such, the results of the
acquired business are included in the consolidated financial
statements from August 1, 2001 onward.

On January 1, 2002, Coach Japan completed
the buyout of the distribution rights and assets, related to the
Coach business, from J. Osawa and Company, Ltd.
(“Osawa”) for $5.8 million. At the time of the
acquisition, Osawa operated 13 retail and department store
locations in Japan. This acquisition was accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting and as such, the results of the
acquired business are included in the consolidated financial
statements from January 1, 2002, onward.

As of June 28, 2003 there were 95 Coach
locations in Japan, including 75 department stores, 16 Coach
stores and two flagship locations managed by Coach Japan and two
airport locations operated by a distributor. Coach Japan plans
to open additional locations within existing major retailers,
enter new department store relationships and open freestanding
retail locations.

Further Penetrate International Markets.

Coach is increasing its
international distribution and targeting international
consumers, and Japanese travelers in particular, to take
advantage of substantial growth opportunities for Coach. Its
current network of international distributors serves markets
such as, Australia, the United Kingdom, the Caribbean, Korea,
Hong Kong, Singapore and Japan. Coach has significant
opportunities to increase sales through existing and new
international distribution channels. Coach believes Japanese
consumers represent a major growth opportunity because they
spend substantially more on a per capita basis on luxury
accessories than U.S. consumers.

Improve Operational Efficiencies.

Coach has upgraded and reorganized
its manufacturing, distribution and information systems over the
past five years to allow it to bring new and existing products
to market more efficiently. While enhancing its quality control
standards, Coach has shifted its manufacturing processes from
owned domestic factories to independent manufacturers in lower
cost markets. As a result, Coach has increased its flexibility,
improved its quality and lowered its costs. In fiscal 2003,
Coach’s gross margin increased to 71.1% from 67.2% during
fiscal 2002. This improvement was driven by a shift in product
mix and channel mix; combined with the operating efficiencies
previously discussed. Coach intends to continue to increase
efficiencies in its sourcing, manufacturing and distribution
processes by:

Promote Gift Purchases of its Products.

Coach believes that a substantial
amount of its U.S. sales are gift purchases, as evidenced by
Coach’s higher sales during the holiday season. Coach
intends to further promote the Coach brand as an appealing
resource for gift-giving occasions by developing new products
well-suited for gift selection, such as coin purses, mirrors,
notepad holders and card cases in new styles and designs.



In addition, Coach’s marketing communication
efforts, including advertising, catalog mailings and outbound
e-mails, are timed to reach consumers before important holidays
throughout the year.

Capitalize on Growing Interest in
e-Commerce.

In October 1999 Coach
launched its on-line store. Coach’s website meets growing
consumer demand for the flexibility and convenience of shopping
over the Internet by offering a selective array of its products.
Coach views its website, like its catalogs, as a key
communications vehicle for the brand that also promotes store
traffic.

Coach’s Products

Handbags.

Coach’s original business was
the design, manufacture and distribution of fine handbags, which
accounted for approximately 56% of its net sales in fiscal 2003.
Coach makes quarterly offerings of its handbag collections,
featuring classically inspired designs as well as fashion trend
designs. Typically, there are three to four collections per
quarter and four to seven styles per collection, depending on
the concept and opportunity.

Accessories.

Women’s accessories,
consisting of wallets, cosmetic cases, wristlets, key fobs and
belts, represented approximately 15% of Coach’s net sales
in fiscal 2003. Coach recently completed a comprehensive
updating in the design of the small leather goods collections to
coordinate them with its popular handbag collections. Men’s
accessories, consisting of belts, leather gift boxes and other
small leather goods, represented approximately 3% of
Coach’s net sales in fiscal 2003.

Business Cases.

Business cases represented
approximately 5% of Coach’s net sales in fiscal 2003. We
recently expanded this category to include nylon cases and
computer bags.

Outerwear, Gloves, Hats and Scarves.

Primarily a cold weather category,
the assortment is approximately 70% women’s and contains a
fashion assortment in all three components of this category. In
total, this category represented approximately 5% of
Coach’s net sales in fiscal 2003.

Weekend and Travel Accessories.

The Coach weekend collection is
comprised of cabin bags, duffels, suitcases, garment bags and a
comprehensive collection of travel accessories. Weekend and
travel accessories represented approximately 3% of Coach’s
net sales in fiscal 2003.

Personal Planning Products.

A complement to Coach’s
business cases and handbag collections, its personal planning
assortment includes folios, planners and desk agendas in a
variety of leathers and fabrics. The category represented
approximately 2% of Coach’s net sales in fiscal 2003.

Watches.

Movado Group, Inc.
(“Movado”) has been Coach’s watch licensee since
1998 and has developed a distinctive collection of watches
inspired by both the women’s and men’s collections.
These watches are manufactured in Switzerland and are branded
with the Coach name and logo.

Footwear.

Jimlar Corporation
(“Jimlar”) has been Coach’s footwear licensee
since 1999. The footwear is developed and manufactured primarily
in Italy and is distributed through more than 600 locations in
the U.S., including a majority of Coach retail stores and U.S.
department stores. Approximately 90% of the business is in
women’s footwear, which coordinates with Coach handbags and
employs fine materials, including calf and suede.

Furniture and Home Furnishings.

The Coach for Baker furniture
collection was launched in the Spring of 1999 with Baker Knapp
& Tubbs, Inc. (“Baker”) as the licensee. The
furniture collection is comprised of classic styles of sofas,
chairs and benches that are given a modern interpretation
through crisp tailoring, straightforward lines and chic details.
The collection is sold through Baker showrooms and select
dealers across the U.S.

Office/ Home Office.

Coach office furniture launched in
the Fall of 2001 with Steelcase Inc. (“Steelcase”) as
the licensee. Steelcase and Coach offer consumers high-end
furniture products to outfit the home office and executive
workplace.



Jewelry.

In
November 2001, Coach, in conjunction with Carolee Designs, Inc.,
launched its first jewelry collection. The collection consists
of pure sterling silver and leather combinations, some with a
touch of brass. Select cuff bracelets are also offered in a
variety of colors of genuine crocodile.

Eyewear.

Coach eyewear will launch in the
Fall of 2003 with Marchon Eyewear (“Marchon”) as the
licensee. The eyewear collection is a collaborative effort from
Marchon and Coach that combines the Coach aesthetic for fashion
accessories with the latest fashion directions in eyewear and
sunglasses. Coach sunglasses will be sold in Coach retail
stores, department stores, select sunglass retailers and optical
retailers in major markets. Marchon also plans to unveil the
ophthalmic collection later in 2003 through their extensive
network of optical retailers.

Design and Merchandising

Coach’s New York-based design team, led by
its executive creative director, is responsible for
conceptualizing and directing the design of all Coach products.
Designers have access to Coach’s extensive archives of
product designs created over the past 50 years which are a
valuable resource for new product concepts. Coach designers are
also supported by a strong merchandising team that analyzes
sales, market trends and consumer preferences to identify
business opportunities that help guide each season’s design
process. Merchandisers also analyze products to edit, add and
delete styles with the objective of profitable sales across
channels. Three product category teams, each comprised of
design, merchandising/ product development and manufacturing
specialists, help Coach execute design concepts that are
consistent with the brand’s strategic direction.

Coach’s merchandising team works in close
collaboration with our licensing partners to ensure that the
licensed products, such as watches, footwear and furniture, are
conceptualized and designed to address the intended market
opportunity and convey the distinctive perspective and lifestyle
associated with the Coach brand. While Coach’s licensing
partners employ their own designers, Coach oversees the
development of their collection concepts and the design of
licensed products. Licensed products are also subject to
Coach’s quality control standards, and we exercise final
approval for all new licensed products prior to their sale.

Marketing

Coach’s marketing strategy is to deliver a
consistent message every time the consumer comes in contact with
the Coach brand through all of its communications and visual
merchandising. The Coach image is created and executed
internally by the creative marketing, visual merchandising and
public relations teams.

In conjunction with promoting a consistent global
image, Coach uses its extensive customer database and consumer
knowledge to target specific products and communications to
specific consumers to efficiently stimulate sales across all
distribution channels.

Coach engages in a wide range of direct marketing
activities, including catalogs, brochures and email contacts
targeted to stimulate sales to consumers in their preferred
shopping venue. As part of Coach’s direct marketing
strategy, it uses its database consisting of approximately
seven million active U.S. households. Catalogs and email
contacts are Coach’s principal means of communication and
are sent to selected households to stimulate consumer purchases
and build brand awareness. The growing number of visitors to the
www.coach.com on-line store provides an opportunity to increase
the size of this database in order to increase on-line and store
sales and build brand awareness. Coach’s on-line store,
like its catalogs and brochures, provides a showcase environment
where consumers can browse through a strategic offering of our
latest styles and colors.

In the U.S., Coach spent approximately
$20 million, or 2% of net sales in fiscal 2003, for
national, regional and local advertising, primarily print and
outdoor advertising, in support of its major selling seasons.
Coach catalogs and www.coach.com also serve as effective brand
communications vehicles, driving store traffic as well as
direct-to-consumer sales. Coach’s co-branding partners
include Lexus, Palm and Motorola. Through their targeted sales
and advertising programs, they have helped to strengthen
Coach’s brand cachet. Advertising by the co-branding
partners provides important additional exposure of the Coach
brand, although



the revenues generated from the purchase of Coach
products by the co-branding partners are not material to the
Coach business.

Coach also has a sophisticated consumer and
market research capability, which helps us assess consumer
attitudes and trends and gauge likelihood of success in the
marketplace prior to product introduction.

Channels of Distribution

Direct
Channels

Coach has four different direct channels that
provide it with immediate, controlled access to consumers:
retail stores, factory stores, e-commerce and direct mail. The
direct-to-consumer business represented approximately 59% of
Coach’s total net sales in fiscal year 2003.

North America Retail Stores.

Coach’s retail stores
establish, reinforce and capitalize on the image of the Coach
brand. Coach operates 156 retail stores in North America that
are located in upscale regional shopping centers and
metropolitan areas. It operates flagship stores, which offer the
broadest assortment of Coach products in high-visibility
locations in New York, Chicago and San Francisco. The following
table shows the number of Coach retail stores and their total
and average square footage:

Depending on their size and location, the retail
stores present product lines that include handbags, business
cases, wallets, footwear, watches, weekend and related
accessories. The modern store design creates a distinctive
environment that showcases the various products. Store
associates are trained to maintain high standards of visual
presentation, merchandising and customer service. The result is
a complete statement of the Coach modern American style at the
retail level.

U.S. Factory Stores.

Coach’s 76 factory stores
serve as an efficient means to sell discontinued and irregular
inventory, as well as manufactured-for-factory-store product,
outside the retail channels. These stores operate under the
Coach Factory name and are geographically positioned primarily
in established centers that are usually between 50 and
100 miles from major markets. The following table shows the
number of Coach factory stores and their total and average
square footage:

Coach’s factory store design, visual
presentations and customer service levels support and reinforce
the brand’s image. Prices are generally discounted from 15%
to 50% below full retail prices. Through these factory



stores, Coach targets both value-oriented
customers who would not otherwise buy the Coach brand and dual
channel shoppers.

e-Commerce.

Coach views its e-commerce website
as a key communications vehicle for the brand, which also
promotes store traffic. Like Coach catalogs and brochures, the
on-line store provides a showcase environment where consumers
can browse through a selected offering of the latest styles and
colors.

Direct Mail.

Coach mailed its first Coach
catalog in 1980. In fiscal 2003, it mailed at least one Coach
catalog to approximately 2 million strategically selected
households, primarily from its database. While direct mail sales
comprise a small portion of Coach’s net sales, Coach views
its catalog as a key communications vehicle for the brand,
because it promotes store traffic. As an integral component of
its communications strategy, the graphics, models and
photography are upscale and modern and present the product in an
environment consistent with the Coach brand position. The
catalogs highlight selected products and serve as a reference
for customers, whether ordering through the catalog, making
in-store purchases or purchasing over the Internet.

Indirect
Channels

Coach began as a wholesaler to department stores.
This channel remains very important to its overall consumer
reach. Coach has grown its indirect business by the formation of
Coach Japan and working closely with its partners, both domestic
and international, to ensure a clear and consistent product
presentation. As part of Coach’s business transformation,
selected shop-within-shop locations in major department stores
are being renovated to achieve the same modern look and feel as
the Coach retail stores. At the end of fiscal 2003, 86
international locations and 67 U.S. department stores had been
renovated to reflect the new modern design. The indirect channel
represented approximately 41% of total net sales in fiscal 2003.

Coach Japan, Inc.

In order to expand its presence in
the Japanese market and to exercise greater control over its
brand in that country, Coach formed Coach Japan. This entity
manages the Coach business in Japan and is a joint venture with
Sumitomo. This channel represented approximately 18% of total
net sales in fiscal 2003. On July 31, 2001 Coach Japan
purchased P.D.C., Coach’s largest distributor in Japan, and
on January 1, 2002 completed the buyout of the distribution
rights and assets related to the Coach business from Osawa.
Coach Japan operates two flagship stores, which offer the
broadest assortment of Coach products, in the Ginza and Shibuya
shopping districts of Tokyo. The following table shows the
number of Coach Japan locations and their total and average
square footage:

(1)

Fiscal 2001 represents locations operated by PDC
    and Osawa prior to their acquisition by Coach Japan.

U.S. Wholesale.

Coach’s products are sold in
the U.S. at approximately 1,400 wholesale locations. This
channel represented approximately 11% of total sales in fiscal
2003. Recognizing the continued importance of U.S. department
and specialty stores as a distribution channel for premier
accessories, Coach is strengthening its longstanding
relationships with its key customers through its products and
styles and Coach’s renovation program. This channel offers
access to Coach partners who prefer shopping at department and
specialty stores or who live in geographic areas that are not
large enough to support a Coach retail store. Coach’s more
significant U.S. wholesale customers include Federated
Department Stores (including Macy’s, Blooming-



dale’s, Rich’s/ Lazarus,
Burdine’s, and Bon Marche), May Co. (including Lord &
Taylor, Filene’s, Hecht’s, Foley’s,
Robinson’s/ May and Famous Barr), Dillard’s, Marshall
Fields, Saks Inc. and Nordstrom.

International Wholesale.

Coach’s international
business, which represented approximately 6% of total sales in
fiscal 2003, is generated through wholesale distributors and
authorized retailers. Coach has developed relationships with a
select group of distributors who market Coach products through
specialty retailers, department stores, travel shopping
locations, and freestanding Coach stores in 18 countries.
Coach’s current network of international distributors
serves markets such as Australia, the United Kingdom, the
Caribbean, Korea, Hong Kong and Singapore. Coach has created
image enhancing environments in these locations to increase
brand appeal and stimulate growth. Within the international
arena, the primary focus is the Japanese consumer. Coach targets
this consumer in Japan and in areas with significant levels of
Japanese tourism. The importance of Japanese consumers is
illustrated by a comparison of consumption levels: per capita
spending on handbags in Japan is substantially greater than in
the U.S. Coach’s more significant international wholesale
customers include Dickson Concepts, Inc., Duty Free Shops and
Unisia.

On July 1, 2002 Coach signed an agreement
with Case London Ltd. (“Case”) for the exclusive
distribution of Coach products in the United Kingdom and
Ireland. Over the next three years, Case, a privately held
British retailer and distributor of fine accessories and
luggage, plans to open up to 25 Coach locations in the United
Kingdom. Case will develop a multi channel distribution strategy
consistent with the successful Coach model in the United States
and Japan. In addition, Case assumed the responsibility of
operating the existing Coach store on Sloane Street and the
Coach shop in Harrods in London.

The following table shows the number of
international retail stores, international department store
locations and other international locations at which Coach
products are sold:

Business to Business.

As part of the indirect channel of
distribution, Coach sells some of its products in selected
military locations and through corporate incentive and
gift-giving programs.

Licensing.

In
our licensing relationships, Coach takes an active role in the
design process and controls the marketing and distribution of
products under the Coach brand. The current licensing
relationships as of June 28, 2003 are as follows:

Products made under license are, in most cases,
sold through all of the channels discussed above and, with
Coach’s approval, these licensees have the right to
distribute Coach brand products selectively through several
other channels: shoes in department store shoe salons, furniture
through Baker’s own showrooms, watches in selected jewelry
stores and eyewear in selected optical retailers. These venues
provide additional, yet controlled, exposure of the Coach brand.
Coach’s licensing partners pay Coach royalties on their
sales of Coach branded products. However, such royalties
currently comprise less than 1% of Coach’s revenues and are



not material to the Coach business. The licensing
agreements generally give Coach the right to terminate the
license if specified sales targets are not achieved.

Manufacturing

Coach has refined its production capabilities in
coordination with the repositioning of its brand. By shifting
its production from owned domestic facilities to independent
manufacturers in lower-cost markets, it can support a broader
mix of product types, materials and a seasonal influx of new,
more fashion-oriented styles. During fiscal year 2003,
approximately 47% of Coach’s net sales, excluding Coach
Japan, were generated from products introduced within the fiscal
year. At the same time, we help manage total inventory and limit
our exposure to excess and obsolete inventory by designating a
large number of the new styles as “limited editions”
that are planned to be discontinued and replaced with fresh new
products.

Coach has developed a flexible model that meets
shifts in marketplace demand and changes in consumer
preferences. It uses two main sources to make Coach products:
outsourcing with skilled partners and production by its
licensing partners. All product sources must achieve and
maintain Coach’s high quality standards which are an
integral part of the Coach identity. One of Coach’s keys to
success lies in the rigorous selection of raw materials. Coach
has long-standing relationships with purveyors of fine leathers
and hardware. As it has moved its production to external
sources, Coach still requires that these same raw materials are
used in all of its products, wherever they are made. We monitor
compliance with the quality control standards through on-site
quality inspections at all independent manufacturing facilities.

All of Coach’s fiscal year 2003 product
requirements were supplied by independent manufacturers. Coach
buys independently manufactured products from a variety of
countries including China, Costa Rica, Mexico, India, Italy,
Spain, Hungary and Turkey. It operates a European sourcing and
product development organization based in Florence, Italy that
works closely with the New York design team. This broad-based
multi-country manufacturing strategy is designed to optimize the
mix of cost, lead times and construction capabilities. Coach
carefully balances its commitments to a limited number of
“better brand” partners with demonstrated integrity,
quality and reliable delivery. No one vendor provides more than
15% of Coach’s total requirements. Before partnering with a
vendor, Coach evaluates each facility by conducting a quality
and business practice standards audit. Periodic evaluations of
existing, previously approved facilities are conducted on a
random basis. We believe that all of our manufacturing partners
are in compliance with Coach’s integrity standards.

As part of the strategy to shift production to
independent manufacturers in lower-cost markets, Coach ceased
operations at its remaining facility, located in Lares, Puerto
Rico, in April 2002.

Distribution

In July 1999, Coach consolidated its worldwide
warehousing, distribution and repair functions into one location
in Jacksonville, Florida. This highly automated, computerized,
560,000 square foot facility uses a bar code scanning warehouse
management system. Coach’s distribution center employees
use handheld optical scanners to read product bar codes which
allows them to more accurately process and pack orders, track
shipments, manage inventory and generally provide better service
to our customers. Coach’s products are primarily shipped
via Federal Express and common carriers to Coach retail stores
and wholesale customers and via Federal Express direct to
consumers.

Management Information Systems

The foundation of Coach’s information
systems is its Enterprise Resource Planning system. Implemented
in 1997, this fully integrated system supports all aspects of
finance and accounting, procurement, inventory control, sales
and store replenishment, resulting in increased efficiencies,
improved inventory control and a better understanding of
consumer demand. The system functions as a central repository
for all of Coach’s transactional information, resulting in
increased efficiencies and greater inventory control. This
system is fully scalable to accommodate rapid growth.



Complementing its Enterprise Resource Planning
system are several other system solutions, each of which Coach
believes is well-suited for its needs. The data warehouse system
summarizes the transaction information and provides a single
platform for all management reporting. The supply chain
management system supports corporate sales and inventory
functions, creating a monthly demand plan and reconciling
production/ procurement with financial plans. Product
fulfillment is facilitated by Coach’s highly automated
warehouse management system and electronic data interchange
system, while the unique requirements of Coach’s catalog
and Internet businesses are supported by Coach’s direct
sales system. Finally, the point-of-sale system supports all
in-store transactions, distributes management reporting to each
store, and collects sales and payroll information on a daily
basis. This daily collection of store sales and inventory
information results in early identification of business trends
and provides a detailed baseline for store inventory
replenishment. Updates and upgrades of these systems are made on
a periodic basis in order to ensure that we constantly improve
our functionality. All complementary systems are integrated with
the central Enterprise Resource Planning system.

Trademarks and Patents

Coach owns all of the material trademark rights
used in connection with the production, marketing and
distribution of all of its products, both in the U.S. and in
other countries in which the products are principally sold.
Coach owns and maintains worldwide registrations for trademarks
in all relevant classes of products in each of the countries in
which Coach products are sold. Its major trademarks include

Coach, Coach and lozenge design

and

Coach and tag
design

and it has applications pending for a proprietary

“C” signature fabric design

. Coach is not
dependent on any one particular trademark or design patent
although Coach believes that the Coach name is important for its
business. In addition, several of Coach’s products are
covered by design patents or patent applications. Coach
aggressively polices its trademarks and trade dress, and pursues
infringers both domestically and internationally. It also
pursues counterfeiters domestically and internationally through
leads generated internally, as well as through its network of
investigators, the Coach hotline and business partners around
the world.

Coach’s trademarks in the United States will
remain in existence for as long as Coach continues to use and
renew them on their expiration date. Coach has no material
patents.

Employees

As of June 28, 2003, Coach employed
approximately 3,200 people, approximately 50 of which were
covered by collective bargaining agreements. Of the total,
approximately 1,700 are engaged in retail selling and
administration positions, approximately 400 are engaged in
manufacturing, sourcing or distribution functions and
approximately 600 are employed through Coach Japan. The
remaining employees are engaged in other aspects of the Coach
business. Coach believes that its relations with its employees
are good, and it has never encountered a strike or significant
work stoppage.

Government Regulation

Most of Coach’s imported products are
subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that
may limit the quantity of products that Coach may import into
the U.S. and other countries or may impact the cost of such
products. Coach has not been restricted by quotas in the
operation of its business and customs duties have not comprised
a material portion of the total cost of its products. In
addition, Coach is subject to foreign governmental regulation
and trade restrictions, including U.S. retaliation against
certain prohibited foreign practices, with respect to its
product sourcing and international sales operations.

RISK FACTORS

You should consider carefully all of the
information set forth or incorporated by reference in this
document and, in particular, the following risk factors
associated with the Business of Coach and forward-looking
information in this document. Please also see “Special Note
on Forward-Looking Information” on page 2.



If Coach is unable to successfully
implement its growth strategies or manage its growing business,
its future operating results will suffer.

Successful implementation of Coach’s
strategies and initiatives will require it to manage its growth.
To manage growth effectively, Coach will need to continue to
increase its outsourced manufacturing while maintaining strict
quality control. Coach will also need to continue to improve its
operating systems to respond to any increased demand. It could
suffer a loss of consumer goodwill and a decline in sales if its
products do not continue to meet its quality control standards
or if it is unable to adequately respond to increases in
consumer demand for its products.

Coach’s inability to respond to
changes in consumer demands and fashion trends in a timely
manner could adversely affect its sales.

Coach’s success depends on its ability to
identify, originate and define product and fashion trends as
well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer
demands in a timely manner. Its products must appeal to a broad
range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with
certainty and are subject to rapid change. Coach cannot assure
that it will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or
meet changing consumer demands in the future.

If Coach misjudges the demand for its
products it may incur increased costs due to excess
inventories.

If Coach misjudges the market for its products it
may be faced with significant excess inventories for some
products and missed opportunities for other products. In
addition, because Coach places orders for products with its
manufacturers before it receives wholesale customers’
orders, it could experience higher excess inventories if
wholesale customers order fewer products than anticipated.

Competition in the markets in which Coach
operates is intense, and our competitors may develop products
that are more popular with consumers.

Coach faces intense competition in the product
lines and markets in which it operates. Coach’s products
compete with other brands of products within their product
category and with private label products sold by retailers,
including some of Coach’s wholesale customers. In its
wholesale business, Coach competes with numerous manufacturers,
importers and distributors of handbags, accessories and other
products for the limited space available for the display of
these products to the consumer. Moreover, the general
availability of contract manufacturing allows new entrants easy
access to the markets in which Coach operates, which may
increase the number of competitors and adversely affect its
competitive position and business. Some of Coach’s
competitors have achieved significant recognition for their
brand names or have substantially greater financial,
distribution, marketing and other resources than the Company.

A downturn in the economy may affect
consumer purchases of discretionary luxury items, which could
adversely affect Coach’s sales.

Many factors affect the level of consumer
spending in the handbag and luxury accessories industry,
including, among others, general business conditions, interest
rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and
consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer
purchases of discretionary luxury items, such as Coach products,
tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable
income is lower. A downturn in the economies in which Coach
sells its products may adversely affect Coach’s sales.

Coach’s business is subject to foreign
exchange risk.

Coach sells products to its international
wholesale customers in U.S. dollars. However those distributors
sell Coach product in the relevant local currency. Currency
exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect the retail
prices of the products and result in decreased international
demand.

In order to manage this risk, Coach Japan enters
into forward exchange contracts that allow them to obtain
dollars at a rate that is set concurrent with the requisition of
inventory. These contracts meet the



definition of a derivative under Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, “Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”. As
these contracts are entered into before the receipt of
inventory, the contract rate may be higher or lower than market
rates when the goods are received and the payment is completed.
All contracts are fair valued at the end of the reporting
period. If the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge,
effective subsequent changes in the fair value of the derivative
are recorded in other comprehensive income and are recognized in
the statement of operations when the hedged items affect
earnings. Ineffective portions of changes in the fair value of
cash flow hedges are recognized in earnings immediately. This
non-cash charge or credit can result in fluctuations in the
reported financial results.

Coach consolidates the financial results of Coach
Japan into its financial statements. The functional currency of
Coach Japan is the Japanese Yen. These operating results are
converted to U.S. dollars based on the average exchange rate
during the period and the balance sheet is converted to U.S.
dollars based on the exchange rate at the end of the reporting
period.

If Coach loses key management or design
personnel or is unable to attract and retain the talent required
for its business, its operating results could
suffer.

Coach’s performance depends largely on the
efforts and abilities of its senior management and design teams.
These executives and employees have substantial experience and
expertise in Coach’s business and have made significant
contributions to its growth and success. Coach is a party to
employment agreements with certain executives which provide for
compensation and other benefits. The agreements also provide for
severance payments under certain circumstances. The unexpected
loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have
an adverse effect on Coach’s business. As the business
grows, Coach will need to attract and retain additional
qualified personnel and develop, train and manage an increasing
number of management-level, sales and other employees. Coach
cannot guarantee that it will be able to attract and retain
personnel as needed in the future.

Coach’s operating results are subject
to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, which could adversely
affect the market price of its common stock.

Because Coach products are frequently given as
gifts, Coach has experienced, and expects to continue to
experience, substantial seasonal fluctuations in its sales and
operating results. Over the past two fiscal years approximately
33% of Coach’s annual sales and approximately 47% of its
operating income were recognized in the second fiscal quarter,
which includes the holiday months of November and December.

Coach’s gross profit may decrease if
it becomes unable to obtain its products from, or sell its
products in, other countries due to adverse international events
that are beyond its control.

In order to lower its sourcing costs and increase
its gross profit, Coach has shifted its production to
independent non-U.S. manufacturers in lower-cost markets.
Coach’s international manufacturers are subject to many
risks, including foreign governmental regulations, political
unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments, changes in local
economic conditions and trade issues. These factors, among
others, could influence the ability of these independent
manufacturers to make or export Coach products cost-effectively
or at all or to procure some of the materials used in these
products. The violation of labor or other laws by any of
Coach’s independent manufacturers, or the divergence of an
independent manufacturer’s labor practices from those
generally accepted as ethical by Coach or others in the U.S.,
could damage Coach’s reputation and force it to locate
alternative manufacturing sources. Currency exchange rate
fluctuations could increase the cost of raw materials for these
independent manufacturers, which they could pass along to Coach,
resulting in higher costs and decreased margins for its
products. If any of these factors were to render a particular
country undesirable or impractical as a source of supply, there
could be an adverse effect on Coach’s business, including
its gross profit.

Coach’s failure to continue to increase
sales of its products in international markets could adversely
affect its gross profit. International sales are subject to many
risks, including foreign governmental regulations, foreign
consumer preferences, political unrest, disruptions or delays in
shipments to other nations, tourism and



changes in local economic conditions. These
factors, among others, could influence Coach’s ability to
sell products successfully in international markets. Coach
generally purchases products from international manufacturers in
U.S. dollars and sells these products in the U.S. and to its
international wholesale customers in U.S. dollars. However,
Coach’s international wholesale customers sell Coach
products in the relevant local currencies, and currency exchange
rate fluctuations could adversely affect the retail prices of
the products and result in decreased international consumer
demand.

Coach’s trademark and other
proprietary rights could potentially conflict with the rights of
others and it may be inhibited from selling some of its
products. If Coach is unable to protect its trademarks and other
proprietary rights, others may sell imitation brand
products.

Coach believes that its registered and common law
trademarks and design patents are important to its ability to
create and sustain demand for Coach products. Coach cannot
assure you that it will not encounter trademark, patent or trade
dress disputes in the future as it expands its product line and
the geographic scope of its marketing. Coach also cannot assure
that the actions taken by it to establish and protect its
trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to
prevent imitation of its products or infringement of its
trademarks and proprietary rights by others. The laws of some
foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same
extent as do the laws of the U.S. and it may be more difficult
for Coach to successfully challenge the use of its proprietary
rights by other parties in these countries.

Provisions in Coach’s charter and
bylaws, Maryland law or its “poison pill” may delay or
prevent an acquisition of Coach by a third party.

Coach’s charter and bylaws and Maryland law
contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party
to acquire Coach without the consent of Coach’s Board of
Directors. Coach’s charter permits its Board of Directors,
without stockholder approval, to amend the charter to increase
or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the
number of shares of stock of any class or series that Coach has
the authority to issue. In addition, Coach’s Board of
Directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of
common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences,
rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares.
Although Coach’s Board of Directors has no intention to do
so at the present time, it could establish a series of preferred
stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or
preventing a transaction or a change in control that might
involve a premium price for Coach’s common stock or
otherwise be in the best interest of Coach’s stockholders.

On May 3, 2001 Coach declared a “poison
pill” dividend distribution of rights to buy additional
common stock to the holder of each outstanding share of
Coach’s common stock. Subject to limited exceptions, these
rights may be exercised if a person or group intentionally
acquires 10% or more of Coach’s common stock or announces a
tender offer for 10% or more of the common stock on terms not
approved by the Coach Board of Directors. In this event, each
right would entitle the holder of each share of Coach’s
common stock to buy one additional common share of Coach stock
at an exercise price far below the then-current market price.
Subject to certain exceptions, Coach’s Board of Directors
will be entitled to redeem the rights at $0.001 per right at any
time before the close of business on the tenth day following
either the public announcement that, or the date on which a
majority of Coach’s Board of Directors becomes aware that,
a person has acquired 10% or more of the outstanding common
stock. We are currently aware of one institutional shareholder
whose common stock holdings exceed the 10% threshold established
by the rights plan. This holder has been given permission to
increase its ownership in the Company to a maximum of 15%,
subject to certain exceptions, before triggering the provision
of the rights plan.

Coach’s bylaws can only be amended by
Coach’s Board of Directors. Coach’s bylaws also
provide that nominations of persons for election to Coach’s
Board of Directors and the proposal of business to be considered
at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the
meeting, by Coach’s Board of Directors or by a stockholder
who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the
advance notice procedures of Coach’s bylaws. Also, under
Maryland law, business combinations, including issuances of
equity securities, between Coach and any person who beneficially
owns 10% or more of Coach’s common stock or an affiliate of
such person are prohibited for a five-year period unless
exempted in accordance with the statute.



After this period, a combination of this type
must be approved by two super-majority stockholder votes, unless
some conditions are met or the business combination is exempted
by Coach’s Board of Directors. Coach’s Board has
exempted any business combination with us or any of our
affiliates from the five-year prohibition and the super-majority
vote requirements.

These and other provisions of Maryland law or
Coach’s charter and bylaws could have the effect of
delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in
control that might involve a premium price for Coach’s
common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of
Coach’s stockholders.

Item 2.

Properties

The following table sets forth the location, use
and size of Coach’s distribution, corporate and product
development facilities as of June 28, 2003, all of which
are leased. The leases expire at various times through 2015,
subject to renewal options.

Coach also occupies 156 retail and 76 factory
leased retail stores located in North America as of
June 28, 2003. Indirectly, through Coach Japan, Coach
operates 93 retail and department store locations in Japan.
Coach considers these properties to be in good condition
generally and believes that its facilities are adequate for its
operations and provide sufficient capacity to meet its
anticipated requirements.

Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

Coach is involved in various routine legal
proceedings as both plaintiff and defendant incident to the
ordinary course of its business, including proceedings to
protect Coach’s intellectual property rights. Litigation
instituted by persons alleged to have been injured upon premises
within Coach’s control and litigation with present or
former employees. As part of its policing program for its
intellectual property rights, from time to time, Coach files
lawsuits in the U.S. and abroad alleging acts of trademark
counterfeiting, trademark infringement, patent infringement,
trade dress infringement, trademark dilution and/or state or
foreign law claims. At any given point in time, Coach may have
one or more of such actions pending. These actions often result
in seizure of counterfeit merchandise and/or out of court
settlements with defendants. From time to time, defendants will
raise as affirmative defenses or as counterclaims the invalidity
or unenforceability of certain of Coach’s intellectual
properties. Although Coach’s litigation with present or
former employees is routine and incidental to the conduct of
Coach’s business, as well as for any business employing
significant numbers of U.S.-based employees, such litigation can
result in large monetary awards when a civil jury is allowed to
determine compensatory and/or punitive damages for actions
claiming discrimination on the basis of age, gender, race,
religion, disability or other legally protected characteristic
or for termination of employment that is wrongful or in
violation of implied contracts. Coach believes, however, that
the outcome of all pending legal proceedings in the aggregate
will not have a material adverse effect on Coach’s
business, cash flows, results of operations or financial
position.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders

None



Executive Officers and Directors

The following table sets forth information
regarding each of Coach’s executive officers and directors
serving as of June 28, 2003:

(1)

Coach’s executive officers serve indefinite
    terms and may be appointed and removed by Coach’s board of
    directors at any time. Coach’s directors are elected at the
    annual stockholders meeting and serve terms of one year.

(2)

Member of the audit committee.

(3)

Member of the human resources and governance
    committee.

Lew Frankfort

has been involved with the Coach
business in excess of 20 years. He has served as Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer of Coach since November 1995. He has
served as a member of Coach’s board of directors since
June 1, 2000, the date of incorporation. Mr. Frankfort
served as Senior Vice President of Sara Lee from January 1994 to
October 2000. Mr. Frankfort was appointed President and
Chief Executive Officer of the Sara Lee Champion,
Intimates & Accessories group in January 1994, and held
this position through November 1995. From September 1991 through
January 1994, Mr. Frankfort held the positions of Executive
Vice President, Sara Lee Personal Products and Chief Executive
Officer of Sara Lee Accessories. Mr. Frankfort was
appointed President of Coach in July 1985, after Sara Lee
acquired Coach, and held this position through September 1991.
Mr. Frankfort joined Coach in 1979 as Vice President of New
Business Development. Prior to joining Coach, Mr. Frankfort
held various New York City government management positions and
served as Commissioner, New York City Agency for Child
Development. Mr. Frankfort holds a Bachelor of Arts degree
from Hunter College and an MBA in Marketing from Columbia
University.

Keith Monda

was appointed President of Coach
in May 2002 after serving as Executive Vice President and Chief
Operating Officer of Coach from June 1998. He has served as a
member of Coach’s board of directors since June 1,
2000, the date of incorporation. Prior to joining Coach,
Mr. Monda served as Senior Vice President,
Finance & Administration and Chief Financial Officer of
Timberland Company from December 1993 until May 1996, and was
promoted to, and held the position of, Senior Vice President,
Operations from May 1996 until January 1998. From May 1990 to
December 1993, Mr. Monda served as Executive Vice
President, Finance and Administration of J. Crew.
Mr. Monda holds Bachelor of Science and Master of Arts
degrees from Ohio State University.



Reed Krakoff

was appointed President, Executive
Creative Director in September 1999 after joining Coach as
Senior Vice President and Executive Creative Director in
December 1996. Prior to joining Coach, Mr. Krakoff served
as Senior Vice President, Marketing, Design &
Communications from January 1993 until December 1996, and as
Head Designer, Sportswear from April 1992 until January 1993 at
Tommy Hilfiger USA, Inc. From July 1988 through April 1992,
Mr. Krakoff served as a Senior Designer in Design and
Merchandising for Polo/ Ralph Lauren. Mr. Krakoff holds an
A.A.S. degree in Fashion Design from Parsons School of Design
and a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics and Art History from
Tufts University.

Michael Tucci

joined Coach as President, Retail
Division, North America in January 2003. Mr. Tucci joined
Coach from Gap, Inc., where he held the position of Executive
Vice President, Gap, Inc. Direct from May 2002 until January
2003. He held the position of Executive Vice President of Gap
Body from April 2000 until May 2002. From April 1999 to May
2000, Mr. Tucci served as Executive Vice President,
Customer Store Experience, Gap Brand. Between May 1996 and April
1999, Mr. Tucci served as Executive Vice President for GAP
Kids and Baby Gap. He had joined Gap in December 1994 as Vice
President of Merchandising for Old Navy. Prior to joining Gap,
he served as President of Aeropostale, a specialty store
division of Macy’s, which culminated his twelve-year career
with the company that included senior buying and merchandising
roles. He joined Macy’s Executive Training Program from
Trinity College, where he earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in
English.

Mike Devine

has served as Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of Coach since December
2001. Prior to Joining Coach, Mr. Devine served as Chief
Financial Officer and Vice President-Finance of Mothers Work,
Inc. from February 2000 until November 2001. From 1997 to 2000,
Mr. Devine was Chief Financial Officer of Strategic
Distribution, Inc., a Nasdaq-listed industrial store operator.
Previously, Mr. Devine was Chief Financial Officer at
Industrial System Associates, Inc. from 1995 to 1997, and for
the prior six years he was the Director of Finance and
Distribution for McMaster-Carr Supply Co. Mr. Devine holds
a Bachelor of Science degree in Finance and Marketing from
Boston College and an MBA degree in Finance from the Wharton
School of the University of Pennsylvania.

Carole Sadler

has served as Senior Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary since May 2000. She
joined Coach as Vice President, Chief Counsel in March 1997.
From April 1991 until February 1997, Ms. Sadler was Vice
President and Associate General Counsel of Saks Fifth Avenue.
From September 1984 until March 1991, Ms. Sadler practiced
law as a litigation associate in New York City, most recently at
the firm of White & Case, and prior to that at Paskus
Gordon & Mandel and Mound Cotton & Wollan.
Ms. Sadler holds a Juris Doctor degree from American
University, Washington College of Law, and a Bachelor of Arts
degree,

cum laude

, in American Studies from Smith College.

Felice Schulaner

joined Coach as Senior Vice
President, Human Resources in January 2000. Prior to joining
Coach, Ms. Schulaner served as Senior Vice President, Human
Resources of Optimark Technologies from February 1999 through
December 1999 and as Senior Vice President, Human Resources of
Salant Corporation from July 1997 through February 1999.
Ms. Schulaner was Vice President, Worldwide Recruitment
& Selection at American Express from July 1996 until June
1997. From 1990 through 1996, she served in various other human
resources positions at American Express, including Vice
President, Human Resources Reengineering, and, from 1986 until
1990, Ms. Schulaner held human resources positions at
Macy’s Northeast in New York City. Ms. Schulaner holds
a Bachelor of Arts degree from New College of the University of
South Florida. In December 1998, Salant Corporation commenced
bankruptcy proceedings, which concluded in April 1999.

Joseph Ellis

was elected to Coach’s Board
of Directors in September 2000. Mr. Ellis has served as an
Advisory Director of Goldman, Sachs & Co. since May
1999 and served as a Limited Partner of Goldman, Sachs from 1994
to May 1999, and a General Partner from 1986 to 1994.
Mr. Ellis served as senior retail-industry analyst from
1970 through 1994. Before joining Goldman, Sachs in 1970,
Mr. Ellis was Vice President and Investment Analyst with
The Bank of New York. Mr. Ellis also serves as a Director
of The New York State Nature Conservancy and Waterworks, Inc. He
is a member of the Steering Committee of the Center for
Environmental Research and Conservation of Columbia University,
a Northeast trustee of CARE



and a trustee for the RARE Center for Tropical
Conservation. Mr. Ellis holds a Bachelor of Arts degree
from Columbia University.

Sally Frame Kasaks

was elected to Coach’s Board
of Directors in November 2001. Ms. Kasaks has served as a
marketing and retail consultant for ISTA Incorporated since
January 1997. Prior to this, she served as Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of Ann Taylor Stores, Inc. from February 1992
until August, 1996. Ms. Kasaks was the President and Chief
Executive Officer of Abercrombie and Fitch, a division of The
Limited, Inc., from February 1989 through February 1992 and the
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Talbots, Inc., which
was a specialty apparel retailing division of General Mills Co.,
from November 1985 through September 1988. Ms. Kasaks also
serves as a Director of Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc.,
Cortefiel, S.A., Tuesday Morning, Inc., The Children’s
Place, Inc. and Crane & Co. She holds a Bachelor of
Arts degree from American University.

Gary Loveman

was elected to Coach’s Board
of Directors in February 2002. Mr. Loveman has served as
Chief Executive Officer and President of Harrah’s
Entertainment, Inc. since January 2003; he had served as
President of Harrah’s since April 2001 and as Chief
Operating Officer of Harrah’s since May 1998. He was a
member of the three-executive Office of the President of
Harrah’s from May 1999 to April 2001 and was Executive Vice
President from May 1998 to May 1999. From 1994 to 1998,
Mr. Loveman was Associate Professor of Business
Administration, Harvard University Graduate School of Business
Administration, where his responsibilities included teaching MBA
and executive education students, research and publishing in the
field of service management, and consulting and advising large
service companies. Mr. Loveman also serves as a Director of
Harrah’s. He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics
from Wesleyan University and a Ph.D. in Economics from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Irene Miller

was elected to Coach’s Board
of Directors in May 2001. Ms. Miller is Chief Executive
Officer of Akim, Inc., an investment management and consulting
firm and, until June 1997, was Vice Chairman and Chief Financial
Officer of Barnes and Noble, Inc., the world’s largest
bookseller. She joined Barnes & Noble in 1991, became
Chief Financial Officer in 1993 and Vice Chairman in 1995. From
1986 to 1990, Ms. Miller was an investment banker at Morgan
Stanley & Co. Incorporated, serving as Principal in her
last position. Ms. Miller also serves as a director on the
Boards of Barnes & Noble, Inc., Oakley, Inc., Inditex,
S.A. and The Body Shop International PLC. Ms. Miller holds
a Master of Science degree from Cornell University and a
Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Toronto.

Michael Murphy

was elected to Coach’s Board
of Directors on September 12, 2000. From 1994 to 1997,
Mr. Murphy served as Vice Chairman and Chief Administrative
Officer of Sara Lee. Mr. Murphy also served as a director
of Sara Lee from 1979 through October 1997. Mr. Murphy
joined Sara Lee in 1979 as Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial and Administrative Officer and, from 1993 until 1994,
also served as Vice Chairman. Mr. Murphy is also a director
of Bassett Furniture Industries, Inc., Civic Federation, Big
Shoulders Fund, Chicago Cultural Center Foundation, GATX
Corporation, Payless Shoe Source, Inc. and CNH Global N.V. He is
also a member of the Board of Trustees of Northern Funds (a
family of mutual funds). Mr. Murphy holds a Bachelor of
Science degree in Business Administration from Boston College
and an MBA degree from the Harvard Business School.

PART II

Item 5.

Market
for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters

Refer to the information regarding the market for
Coach’s Common Stock and the quarterly market price
information appearing under the caption “Market and
Dividend Information” included herein.

Item
6.

Selected Financial Data (in
thousands except for per share data)

The selected historical financial data presented
below as of and for each of the fiscal years in the five-year
period ended June 28, 2003 have been derived from
Coach’s audited Consolidated Financial Statements. The
financial data should be read in conjunction with
“Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial



Condition and Results of Operations”, the
Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and other
financial data included elsewhere herein.

(1)

Coach’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday
    closest to June 30. Fiscal year 1999 was a 53-week year,
    while fiscal years 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003 were 52-week years.

(2)

During fiscal 1999, Coach committed to and
    completed a reorganization plan involving the closure of its
    Carlstadt, New Jersey, warehouse and distribution center, the
    closure of its Italian manufacturing operation, and the
    reorganization of its Medley, Florida, manufacturing facility.
    During fiscal 2001, Coach committed to and completed a
    reorganization plan involving the complete closure of its
    Medley, Florida manufacturing



operation. These actions, intended to reduce
    costs, resulted in the transfer of production to lower cost
    third-party manufacturers and the consolidation of all of its
    distribution functions at the Jacksonville, Florida,
    distribution center. During fiscal 2002, Coach committed to and
    completed a reorganization plan involving the complete closure
    of its Lares, Puerto Rico, manufacturing operation. These
    actions were intended to reduce costs and resulted in the
    transfer of production to lower cost third-party manufacturers.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion of Coach’s
financial condition and results of operations should be read
together with Coach’s financial statements and notes to
those statements included elsewhere in this document.

Overview

Coach was founded in 1941 and was acquired by
Sara Lee Corporation in July 1985. In October 2000, Coach was
listed on the New York Stock Exchange and sold 17.0 million
shares of stock in an initial public offering. In April 2001,
Sara Lee ended its ownership with a distribution of its
remaining shares in Coach via an exchange offer.

Coach is a designer and marketer of high-quality,
modern American classic accessories. Coach’s primary
product offerings include handbags, women’s and men’s
accessories, business cases, weekend and travel accessories,
personal planning products, leather outerwear, gloves and
scarves.

Coach generates revenue by selling its products
directly to consumers and indirectly through wholesale customers
and by licensing its brand name to select manufacturers.
Direct-to-consumer sales consist of sales of Coach products
through its 156 Company-operated U.S. retail stores,
76 Company-operated U.S. factory stores, its direct mail
catalogs and its e-commerce website. Indirect sales consist of
sales of Coach products to approximately 1,400 department store
and specialty retailer locations in the United States, 107
international department store, retail store, factory store and
duty-free shop locations in 18 countries and 93 retail and
department store locations managed by its joint venture Coach
Japan, Inc. Coach generates additional wholesale sales through
business-to-business programs, in which companies purchase Coach
products to use as gifts or incentive rewards. Licensing
revenues consist of royalties paid to Coach under licensing
arrangements with select partners for the sale of Coach branded
watches, footwear and furniture.

Coach’s cost of sales consists of the costs
associated with the sourcing of its products. Coach’s gross
profit is dependent upon a variety of factors and may fluctuate
from quarter to quarter. These factors include changes in the
mix of products it sells, fluctuations in cost of materials and
changes in the relative sales mix among its distribution
channels.

Selling, general and administrative expenses
comprise four categories of expenses: selling; advertising,
marketing and design; distribution and customer service; and
administration and information services. Selling expenses
comprise store employee compensation, store occupancy costs,
store supply costs, wholesale account administration
compensation and all Coach Japan operating expenses.
Advertising, marketing and design expenses include employee
compensation, media space and production, advertising agency
fees, new product design costs as well as public relations,
market research expenses and mail order costs. Distribution and
customer services expenses comprise warehousing, order
fulfillment, shipping and handling, customer service and bag
repair costs. Administration and information services expenses
comprise compensation costs for the information systems,
executive, finance, human resources and legal departments as
well as consulting and software expenses. Selling, general and
administrative expenses are affected by the number of stores
Coach operates in any fiscal period and the relative proportions
of retail and wholesale sales. Selling, general and
administrative expenses increase as Coach and Coach Japan
operate more stores, although an increase in the number of
stores generally enables them to spread the fixed portion of its
selling, general and administrative expenses over a larger sales
base.

As part of the transformation of Coach’s
business, Coach ceased production at the Medley, Florida,
manufacturing facility in October 2000. This reorganization
involved the termination of 362 manufacturing,



warehousing and management employees at the
Medley facility. These actions reduced costs by the resulting
transfer of production to lower cost third-party manufacturers.

In April 2002, Coach ceased production at the
Lares, Puerto Rico, manufacturing facility. This reorganization
involved the termination of 394 manufacturing, warehousing and
management employees at the Lares facility. These actions
reduced costs by the resulting transfer of production to lower
cost third-party manufacturers.

Coach’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday
closest to June 30.

Results Of Operations

The following is a discussion of the results of
operations for fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002, and fiscal
2002 compared to fiscal 2001 along with a discussion of the
changes in financial condition during fiscal 2003.

Net sales by business segment for fiscal 2003
compared to fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 are as follows:

Consolidated statements of income for fiscal 2003
compared to fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 are as follows:



Fiscal 2003 Compared to Fiscal

Net
Sales

Net sales increased by 32.5% to
$953.2 million in fiscal 2003, from $719.4 million in
fiscal 2002. These results reflect increased volume in both the
direct-to-consumer and the indirect segments.

Direct.

Net sales increased 25.1% to
$559.5 million during fiscal 2003, from $447.1 million
in fiscal 2002. Comparable store sales growth for retail stores
and factory stores open for one full year was 24.6% and 5.0%,
respectively. Comparable store growth for the entire domestic
store chain, for stores open for one full year was 15.2%, which
represented approximately $62 million of the net sales
increase. Since the end of fiscal 2002, Coach opened 20 retail
stores and three factory stores; and expanded four retail and
five factory stores and had wrap from fiscal 2002 openings,
which accounted for approximately $45 million of the
increase in net sales. The Internet and direct marketing
businesses accounted for the remaining sales increase. The
increase in net sales was partially offset by the two retail
stores and one factory store that were closed since the end of
fiscal 2002.

Indirect.

Net
sales increased 44.6% to $393.7 million in fiscal 2003 from
$272.3 million during fiscal 2002. The increase was
primarily driven by Coach Japan, in which net sales increased
$89.4 million over the prior year. We opened 14 locations
in Japan since the end of fiscal 2002, which represented
approximately $42 million of the increase. Our Japan
locations experienced double-digit net sales gains in comparable
locations over the prior year, which represented approximately
$30 million of the increase. In addition, fiscal 2002 only
included 11 months of Coach Japan operations, while fiscal
2003 included a full year. In the third quarter of fiscal 2002,
Coach Japan acquired the distribution rights and assets of
Osawa. The effect of the incremental month of operations and
acquisition of Osawa locations represented approximately
$19 million of the increase in net sales. These increases
were partially offset by the closure of four locations since the
end of fiscal 2002. This decrease was approximately
$2 million. The U.S. wholesale and
business-to-business divisions contributed increased sales of
$21.3 million and $8.3 million, respectively. The
increase in net sales was partially offset by decreased net
sales in the international wholesale division of
$1.3 million. The remaining change in net sales was due to
increases in other indirect channels.

Gross
Profit

Gross profit increased 40.1% to
$677.4 million in fiscal 2003 from $483.4 million in
fiscal 2002. Gross margin increased 388 basis points to 71.1% in
fiscal 2003 from 67.2% in fiscal 2002. This improvement was
primarily driven by a shift in product mix reflecting the
continued diversification into new and successful fabric and
leather collections, which contributed approximately 140 basis
points. There were sourcing cost initiatives, which contributed
approximately 120 basis points. In addition, there was a shift
in channel mix, which contributed approximately 100 basis
points. The remaining improvement was driven primarily by the
consolidation of Coach Japan.



The following chart illustrates the gross margin
performance we have experienced over the last 12 quarters:

Selling, General and Administrative
    Expenses

Selling, general and administrative expenses
increased 25.2% to $433.7 million in fiscal 2003 from
$346.4 million in fiscal 2002. The dollar increase was
caused primarily by increased operating expenses in Coach Japan
and the U.S. stores. These increased expenses were due to
new stores and variable expenses to support increased net sales.
Fiscal 2002 selling, general and administrative expenses
included 11 months of Coach Japan, while fiscal 2003
included a full year. As a percentage of net sales, selling,
general and administrative expenses during fiscal 2003 were
45.5% compared to 48.1% during fiscal 2002. The decline was due
to leveraging our expense base on higher sales.

Selling expenses increased by 28.6% to
$294.9 million in fiscal 2003 from $229.3 million in
fiscal 2002. The dollar increase in these expenses was primarily
due to the operating costs associated with Coach Japan and
operating costs associated with new retail and factory stores.
Fiscal 2002 expenses included 11 months of Coach Japan,
while fiscal 2003 included a full year. The increase in Coach
Japan expenses was $34.6 million. Included in the current
year costs was a $3.4 million favorable fair value
adjustment for foreign currency forward contracts, compared to a
$3.3 million unfavorable fair value adjustment in fiscal
2002. Domestically, Coach opened 20 new retail stores and three
new factory stores since the end of fiscal 2002. The increase in
the U.S. stores expense was $28.1 million. The
remaining increase to selling expenses was due to increased
variable expenses to support comparable store growth. As a
percentage of net sales, selling expenses improved from 31.9% in
fiscal 2002 to 30.9% in fiscal 2003. The decline was due to
leveraging higher sales in the domestic stores division.

Advertising, marketing, and design costs
increased by 10.8% to $57.3 million, or 6.0% of net sales,
in fiscal 2003, from $51.7 million, or 7.2% of net sales,
in fiscal 2002. The dollar increase was primarily due to
increased staffing costs and increased design expenditures.

Distribution and customer service expenses
increased to $29.7 million in fiscal 2003 from
$26.9 million in fiscal 2002. The dollar increase in these
expenses was primarily due to higher sales volumes. However,
efficiency gains at the distribution and customer service
facility resulted in a decline in the ratio to net sales from
3.7% in fiscal 2002 to 3.1% in fiscal 2003.

Administrative expenses increased by 34.5% to
$51.8 million, or 5.5% of net sales, in fiscal 2003 from
$38.5 million, or 5.4% of net sales, in fiscal 2002. The
absolute dollar increase in these expenses was due to increased
total compensation cost of approximately $8 million. The
increase was due primarily to increased base salary and
employment agreements with certain executives, which accounted
for $9 million of the increase. The increase was partially
offset by decreased temporary employee costs. There were higher
occupancy costs of approximately $2 million associated with
the full year impact of acquiring additional space in our New
York City headquarters. Insurance settlement proceeds decreased
approximately $2 million due to the nonrecurrence of store
inventory and fixed asset recoveries relating to our World Trade
Center location.

Reorganization
Costs

In March 2002, Coach ceased production at its
Lares, Puerto Rico, manufacturing facility. This reorganization
involved the termination of 394 manufacturing, warehousing
and management employees and the disposition of the fixed assets
at the Lares facility. These actions were intended to reduce
costs by the resulting transfer of production to lower cost
third-party manufacturers. Coach recorded a reorganization cost



of $3.4 million. The reorganization costs
included $2.2 million for worker separation costs,
$0.7 million for lease termination costs and
$0.5 million for the write-down of long-lived assets to net
realizable value.

Operating
Income

Operating income increased 82.4% to
$243.7 million in fiscal 2003 from $133.6 million in
fiscal 2002. This increase resulted from higher sales, improved
gross margins and the nonrecurrence of reorganization costs,
partially offset by an increase in selling, general and
administrative expenses.

Interest
Income, Net

Net interest income was $1.1 million in
fiscal 2003, as compared to an expense of $0.3 million in
fiscal 2002. The dollar change was due to reduced borrowings and
positive cash balances during fiscal 2003.

Income
Taxes

The effective tax rate increased to 37.0% in
fiscal 2003 compared with the 35.5% recorded in fiscal 2002.
This increase was due in part to the closure of our facility in
Lares, Puerto Rico and the elimination of related tax benefits.

Minority
Interest

Minority interest, net of tax increased to
$7.6 million, or 0.8% of net sales, in fiscal 2003 from
$0.2 million in fiscal 2002. The dollar change was due to
increased profitability in Coach Japan coupled with a stronger
yen.

Net
Income

Net income increased 70.8% to $146.6 million
in fiscal 2003 from $85.8 million in fiscal 2002. This
increase was the result of increased operating income partially
offset by a higher provision for income taxes and higher
minority interest.

Earnings
Per Share

Diluted net income per share was $1.58 in fiscal
2003 and $0.94 in fiscal 2002, which includes the effect of the
two-for-one stock split in July 2002.

Fiscal 2002
Compared to Fiscal 2001

Net
Sales

Net sales increased by 19.8% to
$719.4 million in fiscal 2002 from $600.5 million in
fiscal 2001. These results reflect increased volume in both the
direct-to-consumer and indirect channels.

Direct.

Net sales increased 14.1% to
$447.1 million in fiscal 2002 from $391.8 million in
fiscal 2001. The increase was primarily due to new store
openings. Net sales from new retail and factory stores accounted
for approximately 78% or $42.9 million of the increase in
net sales. Since the end of fiscal 2001, Coach opened 20 retail
stores and six factory stores. In addition, comparable store
sales growth for retail stores and factory stores open for one
full year was 4.3% and 3.4%, which primarily represented the
balance of the increase in net sales, which was partially offset
by the three retail stores that were closed during fiscal 2002.

Indirect.

Net
sales increased 30.5% to $272.3 million in fiscal 2002 from
$208.7 million in fiscal 2001. This increase was driven
primarily by the consolidation of Coach Japan and comparable
store sales growth in Japan. Coach Japan sales to consumers are
recorded at retail, versus sales to the former distributors,
which were recorded at wholesale value. The impact of Coach
Japan accounted for approximately $55 million of the
increase in net sales. This increase is a result of the shift to
retail from wholesale pricing, which contributed approximately
$37 million of the increase, with the balance of this
increase resulting from increased sales volume. The
international wholesale business was relatively consistent
compared to the prior year. The



U.S. wholesale category accounted for
approximately $8 million of the increase in net sales
offset by a decrease in net sales of approximately
$4 million in the business-to-business category.

Gross
Profit

Gross profit increased 26.5% to
$483.4 million in fiscal 2002 from $382.0 million in
fiscal 2001. Gross margin increased approximately 360 basis
points to 67.2% in fiscal 2002 from 63.6% in fiscal 2001. This
improvement was driven by the consolidation of Coach Japan,
which contributed approximately 230 basis points. There was
a shift in product mix, reflecting the continued diversification
into non-leather fabrications with new and successful
mixed-material collections. This contributed approximately
100 basis points. In addition, gross margin benefited from
the continuing impact of sourcing cost reductions, which
contributed 30 basis points.

Selling,
General and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general and administrative expenses
increased 25.6% to $346.4 million in fiscal 2002 from
$275.7 million in fiscal 2001. Selling, general and
administrative expenses increased to 48.1% as a percentage of
net sales versus 45.9% in fiscal 2001.

Selling expenses increased by 40.9% to
$229.3 million, or 31.9% of net sales, in fiscal 2002 from
$162.7 million, or 27.1% of net sales, in fiscal 2001. The
dollar increase in these expenses was primarily due to the
operating costs associated with Coach Japan, which were borne by
former distributors in prior periods. Operating costs associated
with Coach Japan totaled $46.6 million in fiscal 2002.
Included in these costs was a $3.3 million fair value
adjustment for open foreign currency forward contracts. Also
contributing to the increase was $20.1 million in operating
costs associated with new retail and factory stores; increased
variable costs for comparable store sales; store remodels; costs
to support the additional stores; and store sales promotions to
enhance sales.

Advertising, marketing, and design expenses
decreased by 0.8% to $51.7 million, or 7.2% of net sales, in
fiscal 2002 from $52.2 million, or 8.7% of net sales, in
fiscal 2001. The dollar decrease in these expenses was primarily
due to the leveraging of costs through focused media placements,
as well as greater usage of postcards and direct mail.

Distribution and customer service expenses
increased to $26.9 million in fiscal 2002 from
$25.8 million in fiscal 2001. The dollar increase in these
expenses was primarily due to higher sales volumes, partially
offset by efficiency gains at the distribution and customer
service facility, which resulted in a decline in the ratio to
net sales from 4.3% in fiscal 2001 to 3.7% in fiscal 2002.

Administrative expenses increased to
$38.5 million, or 5.4% of net sales, in fiscal 2002 from
$35.0 million, or 5.8% of net sales, in fiscal 2001. The
absolute dollar increase in these expenses was primarily due to
increased staffing costs and consulting services related to
Coach becoming a stand-alone company, offset by a business
interruption proceeds gain recorded for $1.4 million in
fiscal 2002 relating to our World Trade Center location.

Reorganization
Costs

In the third fiscal quarter of 2002, management
of Coach committed to and announced a plan to cease production
at the Lares, Puerto Rico, manufacturing facility in March 2002.
This reorganization involved the termination of
394 manufacturing, warehousing and management employees at
the Lares facility. These actions were intended to reduce costs
by the resulting transfer of production to lower cost
third-party manufacturers. Coach recorded a reorganization cost
of $3.4 million. The reorganization cost included
$2.2 million for worker separation costs, $0.7 million
for lease termination costs and $0.5 million for the
write-down of long-lived assets to net realizable value. By
June 28, 2003, production ceased at the Lares facility and
disposition of the fixed assets and the termination of all
employees had been completed.



Operating
Income

Operating income increased 31.4% to
$133.6 million from $101.7 million in fiscal 2001.
This increase resulted from higher sales and improved gross
margins, partially offset by an increase in selling, general and
administrative expenses. Excluding the impact of both fiscal
2002 and fiscal 2001 reorganization costs, operating income
increased 28.9% to $137.0 million, or 19.0% of net sales,
in fiscal 2002 from $106.3 million, or 17.7% of net sales,
in fiscal 2001.

Interest
Expense, Net

Net interest expense decreased 86.8% to
$0.3 million, or 0.04% of net sales, in fiscal 2002 from
$2.3 million, or 0.4% of net sales, in fiscal 2001. The
dollar decrease was due to reduced borrowings as a result of
positive cash flow and cash on hand in fiscal 2002.

Income
Taxes

The effective tax rate decreased to 35.5% in
fiscal 2002 compared with the 35.6% recorded in fiscal 2001.

Minority
Interest

Minority interest, net of tax was
$0.2 million in fiscal 2002. There was no minority interest
in fiscal 2001. Included in minority interest was the joint
venture partner’s portion of the net income generated from
the operations of Coach Japan.

Net
Income

Net income increased 34.0% to $85.8 million
from $64.0 million in fiscal 2001. This increase was the
result of increased operating income and decreased interest
expense partially offset by a higher provision for income taxes
and minority interest.

Earnings
Per Share

Diluted net income per share was $0.94 in fiscal
2002 and $0.76 in fiscal 2001, which includes the effect of the
two-for-one stock split in July 2002.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

Liquidity and
Capital Resources

Net cash provided from operating and investing
activities was $164.5 million in fiscal 2003. Net cash
provided from operating and investing activities was
$52.0 million in fiscal 2002. The year-to-year improvement
was primarily the result of increased earnings of
$60.8 million, and increases in the tax benefit from the
exercise of stock options of $27.7 million. Prior year
distributor acquisition costs of $14.8 million did not
recur in the current year. The decrease in deferred taxes was
$13.7 million more than the prior year and the increase in
inventory was $9.2 million less than the prior year. This
increase was partially offset by increased capital spending of
$14.3 million over the prior year.

Capital expenditures amounted to
$57.1 million in fiscal 2003, compared to
$42.8 million in fiscal 2002, and in both periods related
primarily to new and renovated retail stores. Coach’s
future capital expenditures will depend on the timing and rate
of expansion of our businesses, new store openings, store
renovations and international expansion opportunities.

Net cash used in financing activities was
$29.3 million in fiscal 2003 as compared to cash provided
of $38.3 million in fiscal 2002. The year-to-year decrease
primarily resulted from an increase of $40.1 million in
funds expended to repurchase common stock, while net borrowings
decreased by $20.7 million, primarily under our Coach Japan
revolving credit facility agreements. Proceeds received of $14.4
from the joint venture partner in the prior year did not recur
in the current year. These amounts were partially offset by
increased proceeds of $7.6 million from the exercise of
stock options.



To provide funding for working capital for
operations and general corporate purposes, on February 27,
2001, Coach, certain lenders and Fleet National Bank
(“Fleet”), as primary lender and administrative agent,
entered into a $100 million senior unsecured revolving
credit facility(the “Fleet facility”). Indebtedness
under this revolving credit facility bears interest calculated,
at Coach’s option, at either a rate of LIBOR plus a margin
or the prime rate announced by Fleet. This facility expires on
February 27, 2004. Management has begun discussions with
Fleet and the other banks to renew the facility. We expect to
enter into a new agreement prior to the expiration of the
current facility.

The Fleet facility contains various covenants and
customary events of default. Coach has been in compliance with
all covenants since its inception.

The initial LIBOR margin under the facility was
125 basis points. For the year ended June 28, 2003, the
LIBOR margin was 100 basis points, reflecting an improvement in
our fixed-charge coverage ratio. Under this revolving credit
facility, Coach pays a commitment fee of 20 to 35 basis
points based on any unused amounts. The initial commitment fee
was 30 basis points. For the year ended June 28, 2003,
the commitment fee was 25 basis points.

During fiscal 2003 there were no borrowings under
the Fleet facility. In fiscal 2002 peak borrowings under the
Fleet facility were $46.9 million. As of June 28,
2003, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Fleet
facility. The facility remains available for seasonal working
capital requirements or general corporate purpose.

In order to provide funding for working capital
and general corporate purposes, Coach Japan has entered into
credit facilities with several Japanese financial institutions.
These facilities allow a maximum borrowing of 7.1 billion
yen or approximately $60 million at June 28, 2003.
Interest is based on the Tokyo Interbank rate plus a margin of
up to 50 basis points.

These Japanese facilities contain various
covenants and customary events of default. Coach Japan has been
in compliance with all covenants since their inception. Coach,
Inc. is not a guarantor on these facilities. These facilities
include automatic renewals based on compliance with the
covenants.

During fiscal 2003 the peak borrowings under the
Japanese credit facilities were $43.4 million. In fiscal
2002 peak borrowings under the under the Japanese facilities
were $35.4 million. As of June 28, 2003 and
June 29, 2002, borrowings under the Japanese revolving
credit facility agreements were $26.5 million and
$34.2 million, respectively.

On September 17, 2001, the Coach Board of
Directors authorized the establishment of a common stock
repurchase program. Under this program, up to $80 million
may be utilized to repurchase common stock through September
2004.

On January 30, 2003, the Coach Board of
Directors approved an additional common stock repurchase program
to acquire up to $100 million of Coach’s outstanding
common stock through January 2006. The duration of Coach’s
existing repurchase program was also extended through January
2006. Purchases of Coach stock may be made from time to time,
subject to market conditions and at prevailing market prices,
through open market purchases. Repurchased shares will be
retired and may be reissued in the future for general corporate
or other purposes. The Company may terminate or limit the stock
repurchase program at any time.

During fiscal 2003, Coach repurchased
1.9 million shares of common stock at an average cost of
$25.89 per share. In fiscal 2002, Coach repurchased
0.9 million shares of common stock at an average cost of
$11.45 per share.

As of June 28, 2003, Coach had approximately
$120 million remaining in the stock repurchase program.

In fiscal 2003 capital expenditures were
$57.1 million. We opened 20 new U.S. retail
stores in fiscal 2003. Capital expenditures for these new
U.S. retail and factory stores were $19 million. Store
expansions and renovations were $15 million. In Japan, we
invested approximately $10 million for the opening of
14 new locations. In addition, spending on department store
renovations and distributor locations was $6 million. The



remaining $7 million was used for
information systems and corporate facilities. We financed these
investments from on hand cash, internally generated cash flows
and funds from our revolving credit facilities.

Coach experiences significant seasonal variations
in its working capital requirements. During the first fiscal
quarter Coach builds inventory for the holiday selling season,
opens new retail stores and generates higher levels of trade
receivables. In the second fiscal quarter its working capital
requirements are reduced substantially as Coach generates
consumer sales and collects wholesale accounts receivable. In
fiscal 2003, Coach purchased approximately $283 million of
inventory, which was funded by on hand cash, operating cash flow
and by borrowings under its revolving credit facility.

Management believes that cash flow from
operations and availability under the revolving credit
facilities will provide adequate funds for the foreseeable
working capital needs, planned capital expenditures and the
common stock repurchase program. Any future acquisitions, joint
ventures or other similar transactions may require additional
capital, and there can be no assurance that any such capital
will be available to Coach on acceptable terms or at all.
Coach’s ability to fund its working capital needs, planned
capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments, and to comply
with all of the financial covenants under its debt agreements,
depends on its future operating performance and cash flow, which
in turn are subject to prevailing economic conditions and to
financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond
Coach’s control.

Currently, Sara Lee is a guarantor or a party to
many of Coach’s leases. Coach has agreed to make efforts to
remove Sara Lee from all of its existing leases, and Sara Lee is
not a guarantor or a party to any new or renewed leases. Coach
has obtained a letter of credit for the benefit of Sara Lee in
an amount approximately equal to the annual minimum rental
payments under leases transferred to Coach by Sara Lee, but for
which Sara Lee retains contingent liability. Coach is required
to maintain this letter of credit until the annual minimum
rental payments under the relevant leases are less than
$2.0 million. The initial letter of credit had a face
amount of $20.6 million, and we expect this amount to
decrease annually as Coach’s guaranteed obligations are
reduced. As of June 28, 2003 the letter of credit was
$19.8 million. We expect that we will be required to
maintain the letter of credit for at least 10 years.

The following represents the scheduled maturities
of Coach’s long-term contractual obligations as of
June 28, 2003.

Coach does not have any off-balance-sheet
financing or unconsolidated special purpose entities.
Coach’s risk management policies prohibit the use of
derivatives for trading purposes. The valuation of financial
instruments that are marked-to-market are based upon independent
third party sources.

Long-Term
Debt

Coach is party to an industrial revenue bond
related to its Jacksonville facility. This loan has a remaining
balance of $3.6 million and bears interest at 8.77%.
Principal and interest payments are made semi-annually, with the
final payment due in 2014.

Tax
Rate

Coach has completed the shutdown of its Lares,
Puerto Rico, manufacturing facility. The shutdown eliminated the
tax benefit Coach has received under Section 936 of the
Internal Revenue Code. As a result, in fiscal year 2003 the
effective tax rate increased to 37%.



Seasonality

Because its products are frequently given as
gifts, Coach has historically realized, and expects to continue
to realize, higher sales and operating income in the second
quarter of its fiscal year, which includes the holiday months of
November and December. We anticipate that our sales and
operating profit will continue to be very seasonal.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND
ESTIMATES

The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America requires management to make estimates
and assumptions. Predicting future events is inherently an
imprecise activity and as such requires the use of judgment.
Actual results may vary from estimates in amounts that may be
material to the financial statements. The accounting policies
discussed below are considered critical because changes to
certain judgments and assumptions inherent in these policies
could affect the financial statements.

In certain instances, accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America allow for the
selection of alternative accounting methods. The Company’s
significant policies that involve the selection of alternative
methods are accounting for stock options and inventories.

Stock-Based
Compensation

Two alternative methods for accounting for stock
options are available: the intrinsic value method and the fair
value method. The Company uses the intrinsic value method of
accounting for stock options, and accordingly, no compensation
expense has been recognized. Under the fair value method, the
determination of the pro forma amounts involves several
assumptions including option life and future volatility. See
Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for
expanded disclosures.

Inventories

U.S. inventories are valued at the lower of cost
(determined by the first-in, first-out method) or market.
Inventories in Japan are valued at the lower of cost (determined
by the last-in, first-out method) or market. Inventory costs
include material, conversion costs, freight and duties. Reserves
for slow moving and aged merchandise are provided based on
historical experience and current product demand. We evaluate
the adequacy of reserves quarterly. A decrease in product demand
due to changing customer tastes, buying patterns or increased
competition could impact Coach’s evaluation of its slow
moving and aged merchandise.

For more information on Coach’s accounting
policies please refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. Other critical accounting policies are as follows:

Valuation of
Long-Lived Assets

In accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 144,
“Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets,” which the Company adopted effective with the
beginning of fiscal 2002, the Company assesses the carrying
value of its long-lived assets for possible impairment based on
a review of forecasted operating cash flows and the
profitability of the related business. The Company did not
record any impairment losses in fiscal 2003. See Note 6 of the
Consolidated Financial Statements for long-lived asset
write-downs recorded in connection with the Company’s
fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 reorganization plans.

Revenue
Recognition

Sales are recognized at the point of sale, which
occurs when merchandise is sold in an over-the-counter consumer
transaction or, for the wholesale channels, upon shipment of
merchandise, when title passes to the customer. Allowances for
estimated uncollectible accounts, discounts, returns and
allowances are provided when sales are recorded based upon
historical experience and current trends. Royalty revenues are
earned



through license agreements with manufacturers of
other consumer products that incorporate the Coach brand.
Revenue earned under these contracts is recognized based upon
reported sales from the licensee.

New
Accounting Standards

On December 31, 2002, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS
No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation — Transition and Disclosure”, which
amends SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation.” SFAS No. 148 provides alternative
methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value
based method of accounting for stock-based employee
compensation. The Company does not expense stock options;
therefore the adoption of this statement will not have any
impact on Coach’s consolidated financial position or
results of operations. In addition, SFAS No. 148 amends the
disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 to require more
prominent and more frequent disclosures in financial statements
of the effects of stock-based compensation. See Note 1 of
the Consolidated Financial Statements for these expanded
disclosures.

In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB
Interpretation (“FIN”) No. 45,
“Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements
for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of
Others.” FIN No. 45 elaborates on the existing
disclosure requirements for most guarantees, including loan
guarantees such as standby letters of credit and product
warranties. It also clarifies that at the time a company issues
a guarantee, the company must recognize an initial liability for
the fair value, or market value, of the obligation it assumes
under the guarantee and must disclose that information in its
interim and annual financial statements. The provisions related
to recognizing a liability at inception of the guarantee for the
fair value of the guarantor’s obligations do not apply to
guarantees accounted for as derivatives. The initial recognition
and measurements provisions were effective for interim or annual
periods ending after December 31, 2002 (see Note 7 of
the Consolidated Financial Statements). The adoption of this
statement did not have a material impact on Coach’s
consolidated financial position or results of operations.

In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46,
“Consolidations of Variable Interest Entities”. This
interpretation requires a company to consolidate variable
interest entities (“VIE”) if the enterprise is a
primary beneficiary (holds a majority of the variable interest)
of the VIE and the VIE possesses specific characteristics. It
also requires additional disclosure for parties involved with
VIEs. The provisions of FIN No. 46 are effective for fiscal
2003. Since the Company does not have any unconsolidated VIEs,
the adoption of FIN No. 46 did not have an impact on its
financial position or results of operations.

In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 149,
“Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities,” to amend and clarify financial
accounting and reporting for derivative instruments embedded in
other contracts and for hedging activities under SFAS
No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities.” SFAS No. 149 requires that
contracts with comparable characteristics be accounted for
similarly and clarifies under what circumstances a contract with
an initial net investment meets the characteristics of a
derivative as discussed in SFAS No. 133. In addition, it
clarifies when a derivative contains a financing component that
warrants special reporting in the statement of cash flows. SFAS
No. 149 is effective for contracts entered into or modified
after June 30, 2003 and for hedging relationships
designated after June 30, 2003. The Company believes that
the adoption of SFAS No. 149 will not have an impact on its
financial position or results of operations.

In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150,
“Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with
Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity.” SFAS
No. 150 establishes standards for how an issuer classifies
and measures certain financial instruments with characteristics
of both liabilities and equity. It requires that an issuer
classify a financial instrument that is within its scope as a
liability (or an asset in some circumstances). The provisions of
SFAS No. 150 are effective for financial instruments
entered into or modified after May 31, 2003, and otherwise
is effective at the beginning of the first interim period
beginning after June 15, 2003. The Company believes that
the adoption of SFAS No. 150 will not have an impact on its
financial position or results of operations.



Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    about Market Risk

The market risk inherent in our financial
instruments represents the potential loss in fair value,
earnings or cash flows arising from adverse changes in interest
rates or foreign currency exchange rates. Coach manages these
exposures through operating and financing activities and, when
appropriate through the use of derivative financial instruments
with respect to Coach Japan. The following quantitative
disclosures are based on quoted market prices obtained through
independent pricing sources for the same or similar types of
financial instruments, taking into consideration the underlying
terms and maturities and theoretical pricing models. These
quantitative disclosures do not represent the maximum possible
loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual results
may differ from those estimates.

Foreign
Exchange

Foreign currency exposures arise from
transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated
contracts, denominated in a currency other than the
entity’s functional currency, and from foreign-denominated
revenues translated into U.S. dollars.

Approximately 92% of Coach’s fiscal 2003
non-licensed product needs were purchased from independent
manufacturers in countries other than the United States. These
countries include China, Costa Rica, Italy, India, Indonesia,
Malaysia, Spain, Turkey, Thailand, Taiwan, Korea, Hungary,
Singapore, Great Britain and the Dominican Republic.
Additionally, sales are made through international channels to
third party distributors. Substantially all purchases and sales
involving international parties, excluding Coach Japan are
denominated in U.S. dollars and, therefore, are not hedged by
Coach using any derivative instruments.

Coach is exposed to market risk from foreign
currency exchange rate fluctuations with respect to Coach Japan
as a result of its U.S. dollar denominated inventory
purchases. The Company, through Coach Japan, enters into certain
foreign currency derivative contracts, primarily foreign
exchange forward contracts, to manage these risks. These
transactions are in accordance with Company risk management
policies. Coach does not enter into derivative transactions for
speculative or trading purposes. Prior to the formation of Coach
Japan, the Company had not used foreign currency derivative
instruments to hedge forecasted inventory purchases. In
addition, the Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange
rate fluctuations related to the euro-denominated expenses of
its Italian sourcing office. During the third quarter of fiscal
2003, the Company began a program to enter into certain foreign
currency derivative contracts, primarily foreign exchange
forward contracts, in order to manage these fluctuations.

The foreign currency contracts entered into by
the Company have durations no greater than 12 months. The
fair values of open foreign currency derivatives included in
accrued liabilities at June 28, 2003 and June 29, 2002
were $0 and $3.3 million, respectively. The fair value of
open foreign currency derivatives included in current assets was
$0.4 million and $0 at June 28, 2003 and June 29,
2002, respectively. For fiscal 2003, open foreign currency
forward contracts not designated as hedges with a notional
amount of $33.2 million were fair valued and resulted in a
pretax non cash benefit to earnings of $3.4 million. At
June 29, 2002, open foreign currency forward contracts not
designated as hedges with a notional amount of
$33.2 million were fair valued and resulted in a pretax non
cash charge to earnings of $3.3 million. The fair value
adjustment is included as a component of selling, general and
administrative expenses. Also, as of June 28, 2003, open
foreign currency forward contracts designated as hedges with a
notional amount of $39.3 million were fair valued resulting
in an increase to equity as a benefit to other comprehensive
income of $0.2 million, net of taxes. There were no foreign
currency forward contracts entered into by the Company as of
June 30, 2001.

Interest
Rate

Coach faces minimal interest rate risk exposure
in relation to its outstanding debt of $30.0 million at
June 28, 2003. Of this amount $26.5 million, under
revolving credit facilities, is subject to interest rate
fluctuations. A hypothetical 1% change in the interest rate
applied to the fair value of debt would not have a material
impact on earnings or cash flows of Coach.



Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data

See the “Index to Financial
Statements”, which is located on page 36 of this
report.

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

Based on the evaluation of the Company’s
disclosure controls and procedures as of June 28, 2003,
each of Lew Frankfort, the Chief Executive Officer of the
Company, and Michael F. Devine, III, the Chief Financial
Officer of the Company, has concluded that the Company’s
disclosure controls and procedures are effective in providing
reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed
by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
specified by the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules
and forms.

Based on an evaluation by management, with the
participation of Messrs. Frankfort and Devine, there was no
change in the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the Company’s fourth fiscal
quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably like to
materially affect, the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant

The information set forth in the Proxy Statement
for the 2003 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated
herein by reference. The Proxy Statement will be filed with the
Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year
covered by this Form 10-K pursuant to Regulation 14A
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

The information set forth in the Proxy Statement
for the 2003 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated
herein by reference. The Proxy Statement will be filed with the
Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year
covered by the Form 10-K pursuant to Regulation 14A
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
    Matters

(a) Security ownership of management set
    forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2003 annual meeting of
    stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.

(b) There are no arrangements known to the
    registrant that may at a subsequent date result in a change in
    control of the registrant.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions

The information set forth in the Proxy Statement
for the 2003 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated
herein by reference. The Proxy Statement will be filed with the
Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year
covered by this Form 10-K pursuant to Regulation 14A
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.



PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and
    Reports on Form 8-K

(a) Financial Statements and Financial
    Statement Schedule. See the “Index to Financial
    Statements” which is located on page 36 of this report.

(b) Exhibits. See the exhibit index which is
    included herein.

(c) Reports on Form 8-K. See the
    exhibit index which is included herein.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Act of 1934, the
Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

COACH, INC.

By:

/s/ LEW FRANKFORT

Name: Lew Frankfort

Title: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities
indicated below on September 17, 2003.



UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

For the Fiscal Year Ended June 28,

COACH, INC.

New York, New York 10001

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

All other schedules are omitted because they are
not applicable or the required information is shown in the
consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.



INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Coach, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Coach, Inc. and subsidiaries (the
“Company”) as of June 28, 2003 and June 29,
2002 and the related consolidated statements of income,
stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the two
years in the period ended June 28, 2003. Our audits also
included the financial statement schedule for each of the two
years in the period ended June 28, 2003 listed in the Index
at Item 15. These financial statements and financial
statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
2003 and 2002 financial statements and financial statement
schedules based on our audits. The financial statements and
financial statement schedule as of June 30, 2001 and for
the year then ended, before the revisions discussed in
Notes 1, 13 and 20 to the financial statements, were
audited by other auditors who have ceased operations. Those
auditors expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial
statements and stated that such 2001 financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the 2001 basic
financial statements taken as a whole, presented fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein, in their
report dated July 26, 2001 (except with respect to the
matter discussed in Note 16, as to which the date is
July 31, 2001. Such information is included as a component
of Note 11 for the year ended June 28, 2003).

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the 2003 and 2002 consolidated
financial statements present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of the Company as of June 28, 2003
and June 29, 2002 and the results of their operations and
their cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended
June 28, 2003, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our
opinion, such financial statement schedule for each of the two
years ended June 28, 2003 when considered in relation to
the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
forth therein.

As discussed above, the financial statements of
the Company as of June 30, 2001 and for the year then ended
were audited by other auditors who have ceased operations. As
described in Note 1, those financial statements have been
revised to give retroactive effect to the change in the method
of accounting for consideration provided to distributors or
retailers to conform to Emerging Issues Task Force of the
Financial Accounting Standards Board Issue 00-25, as
codified by Issue 01-09 and the two-for-one split of the
Company’s common stock distributed on July 3, 2002.
These financial statements have also been revised to provide the
transitional disclosures required by Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets, as described in Note 13, and the proforma
disclosure of earnings per share on the 2001 consolidated
statement of income related to the two-for-one split of the
Company’s common stock described in Note 20. We
audited the reclassification described in Note 1, the
disclosure in Note 13 and the proforma disclosure of
earnings per share on the 2001 consolidated statement of income
that revised the 2001 financial statements. In our opinion, such
revisions are appropriate and have been properly applied.
However, we were not engaged to audit, review, or apply any
procedures to the fiscal 2001 financial statements of the
Company other than with respect to such revisions and,
accordingly, we do not express an opinion or any other form of
assurance on the fiscal 2001 financial statements taken as a
whole.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

New York, New York

July 28, 2003 (August 7,

2003 as to
Note 20)



The following report is a copy of a previously
issued Report of Independent Public Accountants. This report
relates to prior years financial statements. This report has not
been reissued by Arthur Andersen LLP.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC
ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Coach, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Coach, Inc. (a Maryland corporation) as of
June 30, 2001 and July 1, 2000, and the related
consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity and
cash flows for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2001,
July 1, 2000 and July 3, 1999. These financial
statements and the schedule referred to below are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Coach, Inc. as of June 30, 2001 and
July 1, 2000 and the results of its operations and its cash
flows for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2001,
July 1, 2000 and July 3, 1999, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.

Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an
opinion on the basic financial statements taken as a whole. The
schedule listed in the index to financial statements is
presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s rules and is not a required part of
the basic financial statements. This schedule has been subjected
to the auditing procedures applied in our audit of the basic
financial statements and, in our opinion, is fairly stated in
all material respects in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole.

/s/ Arthur Andersen LLP

New York, New York

July 26, 2001 (except

with respect to the

matter discussed in

Note 16, as to
which the

date is
July 31, 2001)



COACH, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.



COACH, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.



COACH, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.



COACH, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

1.     Presentation,
Organization and Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation and
    Organization

Coach (the “Company”) was formed in
1941 and was acquired by Sara Lee Corporation in July 1985. On
June 1, 2000, Coach was incorporated under the laws of the
state of Maryland. Pursuant to the Separation Agreements, Sara
Lee transferred to Coach the assets and liabilities that related
to the Coach business on October 2, 2000 (the
“Separation Date”).

In October 2000, Coach was listed on the New York
Stock Exchange and sold 16,974 shares of its common stock,
representing 19.5% of the outstanding shares in an initial
public offering. In April 2001, Sara Lee completed a
distribution of its ownership in Coach via an exchange offer.

Coach designs, produces and markets high-quality,
modern American classic accessories. Coach products are
manufactured primarily by third-party suppliers. Coach markets
products via Company operated retail stores and factory stores,
direct mail catalogs, an e-commerce website, and via selected
upscale department and specialty retailer locations and
international department, retail and duty-free shop locations.

The consolidated financial statements of Coach
reflect the historical results of operations and cash flows of
the Coach leather goods and accessories business of Sara Lee
during each respective period until the Separation Date. The
historical financial statements have been prepared using Sara
Lee’s historical basis in the assets and liabilities and
the results of Coach’s business. The financial information
included herein may not reflect the consolidated financial
position, operating results, changes in stockholders’
equity and cash flows of Coach in the future, or what they would
have been had Coach been a separate, stand-alone entity during
Sara Lee’s ownership. On the Separation Date, Coach began
operating as a separate legal entity.

Significant Accounting Policies

Fiscal year

The Company’s fiscal year ends on the
Saturday closest to June 30. Unless otherwise stated,
references to years in the financial statements relate to fiscal
years. The fiscal years ended June 28, 2003 (“fiscal
2003”), June 29, 2002 (“fiscal 2002”) and
June 30, 2001 (“fiscal 2001”) were 52-week
periods.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities; the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the financial statements; and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
The level of uncertainty in estimates and assumptions increases
with the length of time the underlying transactions are
completed. Actual results could differ from estimates in amounts
that may be material to the financial statements.

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of the Company, all 100% owned subsidiaries and Coach
Japan. All significant intercompany transactions and balances
within the Company are eliminated in consolidation.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash
balances and highly liquid investments with a maturity of less
than 90 days.

Concentration of Credit Risk

Financial instruments which potentially expose
Coach to concentration of credit risk, consist primarily of cash
investments and accounts receivable. The Company places its cash
investments with high-credit quality financial institutions and
currently invests primarily in bank money market funds placed
with major banks and financial institutions. Accounts receivable
is generally diversified due to the number of entities
comprising Coach’s customer base and their dispersion
across many geographical regions. The Company’s allowance
for bad debts, returns and allowances was $6,095 at
June 28, 2003 and $4,176 at June 29, 2002. The Company
believes no significant concentration of credit risk exists with
respect to these cash investments and accounts receivable.

Inventories

Inventories consist primarily of finished goods.
U.S. inventories are valued at the lower of cost (determined by
the first-in, first-out method (“FIFO”)) or market.
Inventories in Japan are valued at the lower of cost (determined
by the last-in, first-out method (“LIFO”)) or market.
At the end of fiscal 2003 inventories recorded at LIFO were $650
higher than if they were valued at FIFO. In fiscal 2002
inventories recorded at LIFO were $525 lower than if they were
valued at FIFO. Inventories valued under LIFO amounted to
$23,484 and $27,555 in fiscal 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Inventory costs include material, conversion costs, freight and
duties.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at cost less
accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is calculated on a
straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the
assets. Machinery and equipment are depreciated over lives of
five to seven years and furniture and fixtures are depreciated
over lives of three to five years. Leasehold improvements are
amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or
the related lease terms. Maintenance and repair costs are
charged to earnings as incurred while expenditures for major
renewals and improvements are capitalized. Upon the disposition
of property and equipment, the cost and related accumulated
depreciation are removed from the accounts.

Goodwill and Other Intangible
    Assets

In accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142,
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, the
Company’s goodwill account is no longer being amortized but
rather is being evaluated for impairment annually, or more
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the asset might be impaired. The Company adopted SFAS
No. 142 effective with the beginning of fiscal 2002. Based
on this annual evaluation the Company has concluded that there
is no impairment of its goodwill and indefinite life intangible
assets.

Valuation of Long-Lived
    Assets

In accordance with SFAS No. 144,
“Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets,” which the Company adopted effective with the
beginning of fiscal 2002, the Company assesses the carrying
value of its long-lived assets for possible impairment based on
a review of forecasted operating cash flows and the
profitability of the related business. The Company did not
record any impairment losses in fiscal 2003. See



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

Note 6 of the Consolidated Financial
Statements for long-lived asset write-downs recorded in
connection with the Company’s fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001
reorganization plans.

Minority Interest in
    Subsidiary

Minority interest in the statements of income
represents Sumitomo Corporation’s share of the equity in
Coach Japan. The minority interest in the consolidated balance
sheets reflects the original investment by Sumitomo in that
consolidated subsidiary, along with their proportional share of
the cumulative income.

Revenue Recognition

Sales are recognized at the point of sale, which
occurs when merchandise is sold in an over-the-counter consumer
transaction or, for the wholesale channels, upon shipment of
merchandise, when title passes to the customer. Allowances for
estimated uncollectible accounts, discounts, returns and
allowances are provided when sales are recorded. Royalty
revenues are earned through license agreements with
manufacturers of other consumer products that incorporate the
Coach brand. Revenue earned under these contracts is recognized
based upon reported sales from the licensee.

Advertising

Advertising costs, which include media and
production, totaled $19,885, $17,279, $16,445 for fiscal year
2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, and are included in selling,
general and administrative expenses. Advertising costs are
expensed when the advertising first appears.

Shipping and Handling

Shipping and handling costs incurred were
$11,290, $10,694, $10,087 for fiscal year 2003, 2002 and 2001,
respectively and are included in selling, general and
administrative expenses.

Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes in
accordance with SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income
Taxes.” Under SFAS No. 109, a deferred tax liability
or asset is recognized for the estimated future tax consequences
of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets
and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective
tax bases.

For the periods prior to April 5, 2001,
where Sara Lee owned greater than 80% of the Company’s
outstanding capital stock, the Company’s operating results
were included in Sara Lee’s consolidated U.S. and state
income tax returns and in the tax returns of certain Sara Lee
foreign operations. During these periods the provision for
income taxes in the Company’s financial statements was
prepared as if the Company were a stand-alone entity and filed
separate tax returns.

Stock-Based Compensation

The Company has adopted SFAS No. 148,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation—Transition
and Disclosure”, which amends SFAS No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.” SFAS
No. 148 provides alternative methods of transition for a
voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting
for stock-based employee compensation plans; however, it also
allows an entity to continue to measure compensation expense for
those plans using the intrinsic value based method of accounting
prescribed by Accounting Principles Board (“APB”)
Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees.” Under the fair value method, compensation cost
is measured at the grant date based on the value of the award
and is recognized over the service period, which is usually the
vesting period. Under the intrinsic value based



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

method, compensation expense is the excess, if
any, of the quoted market price of the stock at the grant date
or other measurement date over the amount an employee must pay
to acquire the stock. The Company has elected to account for its
stock-based employee compensation plans under APB Opinion
No. 25 with pro forma disclosures of net earnings and
earnings per share, as if the fair value based method of
accounting defined in SFAS No. 123 had been applied.

The pro forma disclosure of net income and net
income per share as if the fair value based method of accounting
defined in the SFAS No. 123 had been applied is as follows:

Fair Value of Financial
    Instruments

The fair value of the revolving credit facility
at June 28, 2003 and June 29, 2002 approximated its
carrying value due to its floating interest rates. The Company
has evaluated its industrial revenue bond and believes, based on
the interest rate, related term and maturity, that the fair
value of such instrument approximates its carrying amount. As of
June 28, 2003 and June 29, 2002, the carrying values
of cash and cash equivalents, trade accounts receivable,
accounts payable, and accrued liabilities approximated their
values due to the short-term maturities of these accounts.

Coach, through Coach Japan, enters into foreign
currency forward contracts that hedge certain U.S. dollar
denominated inventory risk, that have been designated for hedge
accounting. The fair value of these contracts are recognized in
other comprehensive income. The fair value of the foreign
currency derivative is based on its market value as determined
by an independent party. However, considerable judgment is
required in developing estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the
estimates presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the
amounts that Coach could settle in a current market exchange.
The use of different market assumptions or methodologies could
affect the estimated fair value.

Foreign Currency

The functional currency of the Company’s
foreign operations is the applicable local currency. Assets and
liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars using the
current exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date,
while revenues and expenses are translated at the
weighted-average exchange rates for the period. The



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

resulting translation adjustments are recorded as
a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
within stockholders’ equity. These gains and losses were
not significant for fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001.

Net Income Per Share

Basic net income per share was calculated by
dividing net income by the weighted-average number of shares
outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share was
calculated similarly but includes potential dilution from the
exercise of stock options and stock awards.

Stock Split

In May 2002, Coach’s Board of Directors
authorized a two-for-one split of the Company’s common
stock, to be effected in the form of a special dividend of one
share of the Company’s common stock for each share
outstanding. The additional shares issued as a result of the
stock split were distributed on July 3, 2002 to
stockholders of record on June 19, 2002. The effect of the
stock split on earnings per share was retroactively applied to
all periods presented. See Note 20 for Subsequent Event.

Recent Accounting
    Pronouncements

In April 2001, the Emerging Issues Task Force
(“EITF”) of the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) reached a final consensus on
Issue 00-25, “Accounting for Consideration from a
Vendor to a Retailer in Connection with the Purchase or
Promotion of the Vendor’s Products.” In November 2001,
EITF 00-25 was codified in EITF 01-09. This issue
addresses the recognition, measurement and income statement
classification of consideration provided to distributors or
retailers. Previously, the Company had recorded these activities
within selling, general and administrative expenses. The Company
adopted EITF 00-25 in the first quarter of fiscal 2002. In
connection with this adoption, prior period amounts have been
reclassified to conform with the current year’s
presentation. The effect of the adoption resulted in a
reclassification from selling, general and administrative
expense to a reduction in net sales of $15,588 for fiscal 2001.

On December 31, 2002, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation — Transition and Disclosure”, which
amends SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation.” SFAS No. 148 provides alternative
methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value
based method of accounting for stock-based employee
compensation. The Company does not intend to expense stock
options; therefore the adoption of this statement will not have
any impact on Coach’s consolidated financial position or
results of operations. In addition, SFAS No. 148 amends the
disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 to require more
prominent and more frequent disclosures in financial statements
of the effects of stock-based compensation. See above,
“Stock-Based Compensation,” for these expanded
disclosures.

In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB
Interpretation (“FIN”) No. 45,
“Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements
for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of
Others.” FIN No. 45 elaborates on the existing
disclosures requirements for most guarantees, including loan
guarantees such as standby letters of credit and product
warranties. It also clarifies that at the time a company issues
a guarantee, the company must recognize an initial liability for
the fair value, or market value, of the obligation it assumes
under the guarantee and must disclose that information in its
interim and annual financial statements. The provisions related
to recognizing a liability at inception of the guarantee for the
fair value of the guarantor’s obligations do not apply to
guarantees accounted for as derivatives. The Company adopted
this interpretation in second quarter of fiscal 2003. The
adoption of this statement did not have a material impact on
Coach’s consolidated financial position or results of
operations.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46
“Consolidations of Variable Interest Entities”. This
interpretation requires a company to consolidate variable
interest entities (“VIE”) if the enterprise is a
primary beneficiary (holds a majority of the variable interest)
of the VIE and the VIE possesses specific characteristics. It
also requires additional disclosure for parties involved with
VIEs. The provisions of FIN No. 46 are effective for fiscal
2003. Since the Company does not have any unconsolidated VIEs,
the adoption of FIN No. 46 did not have an impact on its
financial position or results of operations.

In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 149,
“Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities,” to amend and clarify financial
accounting and reporting for derivative instruments embedded in
other contracts and for hedging activities under SFAS
No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities.” SFAS No. 149 requires that
contracts with comparable characteristics be accounted for
similarly and clarifies under what circumstances a contract with
an initial net investment meets the characteristics of a
derivative as discussed in SFAS No. 133. In addition, it
clarifies when a derivative contains a financing component that
warrants special reporting in the statement of cash flows. SFAS
No. 149 is effective for contracts entered into or modified
after June 30, 2003 and for hedging relationships
designated after June 30, 2003. The Company believes that
the adoption of SFAS No. 149 will not have an impact on its
financial position or results of operations.

In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150,
“Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with
Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity.” SFAS
No. 150 establishes standards for how an issuer classifies
and measures certain financial instruments with characteristics
of both liabilities and equity. It requires that an issuer
classify a financial instrument that is within its scope as a
liability (or an asset in some circumstances). The provisions of
SFAS No. 150 are effective for financial instruments
entered into or modified after May 31, 2003, and otherwise
is effective at the beginning of the first interim period
beginning after June 15, 2003. The Company believes that
the adoption of SFAS No. 150 will not have an impact on its
financial position or results of operations.

2.     Balance Sheet
Components

The components of certain balance sheet accounts
are as follows:



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

3.     Income
Taxes

The provisions for income taxes computed by
applying the U.S. statutory rate to income before taxes as
reconciled to the actual provisions were:

Current and deferred tax provisions
(benefits) were:



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

The following are the components of the deferred
tax provisions (benefits) occurring as a result of
transactions being reported in different years for financial and
tax reporting:

The deferred tax assets at the respective
year-ends were as follows:

At June 28, 2003, foreign gross tax loss
carryforwards totaled approximately $3,400. These loss
carryforwards have no expiration. Coach believes that it is more
likely than not that the deferred tax asset associated with
these losses will be realized.

4.     Debt

Revolving Credit Facilities

Prior to February 27, 2001, Coach
participated in a cash concentration system requiring that cash
balances be deposited with Sara Lee, which were netted against
borrowings/billings provided by Sara Lee.

On July 2, 2000, Coach entered into a
revolving credit facility with Sara Lee. The maximum borrowing
permitted under this facility was $75,000. Interest accrued at
U.S. dollar LIBOR plus 30 basis points. Any receivable balance
from Sara Lee under this facility earned interest at U.S. dollar
LIBOR minus 20 basis points. The credit facility contained
certain covenants, all of which were complied with. This
facility was repaid and terminated on February 27, 2001.

During October 2000, Coach completed an equity
restructuring, which included the assumption of $190,000 of
long-term debt payable to a subsidiary of Sara Lee. This
long-term debt had an original maturity date of
September 30, 2002, accruing interest at U.S. dollar
LIBOR plus 30 basis points. The note contained certain
covenants, consistent with the above mentioned revolving credit
facility. In fiscal 2001, this loan was fully paid off by the
Company from the net proceeds of the initial public offering,
redeeming the short-term investments with Sara Lee and drawing
down on the Sara Lee revolving credit facility.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

To provide funding for working capital for
operations and general corporate purposes, on February 27,
2001, Coach, certain lenders and Fleet National Bank
(“Fleet”), as primary lender and administrative agent,
entered into a $100,000 senior unsecured three-year revolving
credit facility (the “Fleet facility”). This facility
expires on February 27, 2004. Management has begun
discussions with Fleet and the other banks to renew the
facility. Coach expects to enter into a new agreement prior to
the expiration of the current facility.

The initial LIBOR margin under the Fleet facility
was 125 basis points. For the year ended June 28, 2003, the
LIBOR margin was 100 basis points reflecting an improvement in
our fixed-charge coverage ratio. Under this revolving credit
facility, Coach pays a commitment fee of 20 to 35 basis points
based on any unused amounts. The initial commitment fee was 30
basis points. For the year ended June 28, 2003, the
commitment fee was 25 basis points. This credit facility may be
prepaid without penalty or premium.

During fiscal 2003, there were no borrowings
under the Fleet facility. During fiscal 2002, peak borrowings
under the Fleet facility were $46,850, which was repaid from
operating cash flow by June 29, 2002. As of June 28,
2003, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Fleet
facility. This facility remains available for seasonal working
capital requirements or general corporate purposes.

The Fleet facility prohibits Coach from paying
dividends while the credit facility is in place, with certain
exceptions. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will
be at the discretion of Coach’s Board of Directors and will
be dependent upon Coach’s financial condition, operating
results, capital requirements and such other factors as the
Board of Directors deems relevant.

The Fleet facility contains various covenants and
customary events of default. The Company has been in compliance
with all covenants since its inception.

In order to provide funding for working capital
and general corporate purposes, Coach Japan has entered into
credit facilities with several Japanese financial institutions.
These facilities allow a maximum borrowing of 7.1 billion
yen or approximately $60,000 at June 28, 2003. Interest is
based on the Tokyo Interbank rate plus a margin of up to 50
basis points.

These facilities contain various covenants and
customary events of default. Coach Japan has been in compliance
with all covenants since their inception. Coach, Inc. is not a
guarantor on any of these facilities. These facilities include
automatic renewals based on compliance with the covenants.

During fiscal 2003, the peak borrowings under the
Japanese credit facilities were $43,443. During fiscal 2002, the
peak borrowings under the Japanese credit facilities were
$35,426. As of June 28, 2003, the outstanding borrowings
under the Japanese facilities were $26,471.

Long-Term
Debt

Coach is party to an Industrial Revenue Bond
related to its Jacksonville facility. This loan has a remaining
balance of $3,615 and bears interest at 8.77%. Principal and
interest payments are made semi- annually, with the final
payment due in 2014.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

Future principal payments under the Industrial
Revenue Bond are as follows:

5.     Leases

Coach leases certain office, distribution, retail
and manufacturing facilities. The lease agreements, which expire
at various dates through 2019, are subject, in some cases, to
renewal options and provide for the payment of taxes, insurance
and maintenance. Certain leases contain escalation clauses
resulting from the pass-through of increases in operating costs,
property taxes and the effect on costs from changes in consumer
price indices. Certain rentals are also contingent upon factors
such as sales. Rent-free periods and other incentives granted
under certain leases and scheduled rent increases are charged to
rent expense on a straight-line basis over the related terms of
such leases. Contingent rentals are recognized when the
achievement of the target (i.e. sales levels), which triggers
the related payment, is considered probable. Rent expense for
the Company’s operating leases consisted of the following:

Future minimum rental payments under
noncancelable operating leases are as follows:

Certain operating leases provide for renewal for
periods of three to five years at their fair rental value at the
time of renewal. In the normal course of business, operating
leases are generally renewed or replaced by new leases.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

6.     Reorganization
Costs

In March 2002, Coach ceased production at its
Lares, Puerto Rico, manufacturing facility. This reorganization
involved the termination of 394 manufacturing, warehousing and
management employees and the disposition of the fixed assets at
the Lares, Puerto Rico, facility. These actions reduced costs by
the resulting transfer of production to lower cost third-party
manufacturers. Coach recorded reorganization costs of $3,373 in
fiscal 2002. The reorganization costs included $2,229 for worker
separation costs, $659 for lease termination costs and $485 for
the write-down of long-lived assets to net realizable value. The
composition of the reorganization reserve, included in accrued
liabilities, is set forth in the following table.

In the first quarter of fiscal 2001, management
of Coach committed to and announced a plan to cease production
at the Medley, Florida, manufacturing facility in October 2000.
This reorganization involved the termination of 362
manufacturing, warehousing and management employees at that
facility. These actions reduced costs by the resulting transfer
of production to lower cost third-party manufacturers. Coach
recorded a reorganization cost of $4,569 in fiscal 2001. The
reorganization costs included $3,103 for worker separation
costs, $832 for lease termination costs and $634 for the
write-down of long-lived assets to net realizable value.

The composition of the reorganization reserve is
set forth in the following table. By June 30, 2001,
production ceased at the Medley facility and disposition of the
fixed assets and the termination of the 362 employees had been
completed.

7.     Commitments
and Contingencies

At June 28, 2003 and June 29, 2002, the
Company had letters of credit outstanding totaling $48,336 and
$40,116, respectively. Included in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002
balance is a letter of credit totaling $19,820, which relates to
leases transferred to the Company by the Sara Lee, for which
Sara Lee retains contingent liability. Coach expects that it
will be required to maintain the letter of credit for at least
10 years. The remaining letters of credit have terms
ranging from one to three months and primarily collateralize the
Company’s obligation to third parties for the purchase of
inventory.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

The adoption of FIN No. 45 did not require
additional disclosures and did not impact the Company’s
consolidated financial statements, as the Company does not issue
guarantees related to third party indebtedness or performance.

Coach is a party to employment agreements with
certain executives, which provide for compensation and other
benefits. The agreements also provide for severance payments
under certain circumstances.

Coach is a party to several pending legal
proceedings and claims. Although the outcome of such items
cannot be determined with certainty, Coach’s general
counsel and management are of the opinion that the final outcome
should not have a material effect on Coach’s cash flow,
results of operations or financial position.

The Company is not party to any off-balance sheet
transactions or unconsolidated special purpose entities for any
of the periods presented herein.

8.

Stock-Based Compensation

Coach Stock-Based
Plans.

At the time of the initial
public offering, Coach established the 2000 Stock Incentive Plan
and the 2000 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan to award stock
options and other forms of equity compensation to certain
members of Coach management and the outside members of its Board
of Directors. These plans were approved by Coach’s
stockholders during fiscal 2002. The exercise price of each
stock option equals 100% of the market price of Coach’s
stock on the date of grant and generally has a maximum term of
10 years. Options generally vest ratably over three years.

Concurrent with its initial public offering in
October 2000, Coach granted 6,382 options to essentially all
full-time employees and 30 options to outside members of the
Board of Directors at the initial public offering price of $8.

Coach employees, at the initial public offering
date, converted 2,408 Sara Lee options into the same number of
Coach options while maintaining the same exercise price.

Under Coach’s stock option plans, an active
employee can receive a replacement stock option equal to the
number of shares surrendered upon a stock-for-stock exercise.
The exercise price of the replacement option was 100% of the
market value at the date of exercise of the original option and
will remain exercisable for the remaining term of the original
option. Replacement stock options generally vest six months from
the grant date. Replacement stock options of 1,840, 1,084 and
191 were granted in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

A summary of options held by Coach employees
under the Coach option plans follows:

The following table summarizes information about
stock options under the Coach option plans at June 28, 2003.

The fair value of each Coach option grant is
estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model and the following weighted-average
assumptions:



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

The weighted-average fair values of individual
options granted were $4.89 during fiscal 2003, $4.81 during
fiscal 2002 and $3.34 during fiscal 2001.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan.

During fiscal 2002, Coach
established the employee stock purchase plan and received
stockholder approval of this program. Under this plan, full-time
Coach employees are permitted to purchase a limited number of
Coach common shares at 85% of market value. Under this plan,
Coach sold 67 shares to employees in fiscal 2003 and 26 shares
to employees in fiscal year 2002. Pro forma compensation expense
is calculated for the fair value of employees purchase rights
using the Black-Scholes model. Underlying assumptions are an
expected life of .5 years, risk free interest of 1.2%,
expected volatility of 38.3% and dividend yield of 0%. The
weighted-average fair value of the purchase rights granted
during fiscal 2003 was $10.37 and $5.88 in fiscal 2002.

Stock Unit Awards.

Restricted stock unit awards of
Coach common stock have been granted to employees as retention
awards. The value of retention awards is determined based upon
the fair value of Coach stock at the grant date.

Stock awards are generally restricted and subject
to forfeiture until the retention period is completed. The
retention period is generally three years. As of June 28,
2003, retention awards of 257 shares are outstanding. This value
is initially recorded as unearned compensation and is charged to
earnings over the retention period. The amortization expense
related to these awards was $1,568 for fiscal 2003 and $766 for
fiscal 2002.

Deferred
Compensation.

Under the Coach,
Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, executive officers
and employees at or above the director level may elect to defer
all or a portion of their annual bonus or annual base salary
into the plan. Under the Coach, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan
for Non-Employee Directors, Coach’s outside directors may
similarly defer their director’s fees. Amounts deferred
under these plans may, at the participants’ election, be
either represented by deferred stock units, which represent the
right to receive shares of Coach common stock on the
distribution date elected by the participant, or placed in an
interest-bearing account to be paid on such distribution date.
The amounts accrued under these plans were $2,915 at
June 28, 2003 and $2,051 at June 29, 2002. These
amounts are reflected in other noncurrent liabilities in the
consolidated balance sheets.

The following table summarizes share and exercise
price information about Coach’s equity compensation plans
as of June 28, 2003.

9.     Retirement
Plans

Coach has established the Coach, Inc. Savings and
Profit Sharing Plan, which is a noncontributory defined
contribution plan. Employees who meet certain eligibility
requirements and are not part of a collective bargaining
agreement participate in this program.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

Coach sponsors a noncontributory defined benefit
plan, The Coach Leatherware Company, Inc. Supplemental Pension
Plan, for individuals who are a part of collective bargaining
arrangements.

Employees who met certain eligibility
requirements and were not part of a collective bargaining
arrangement participate in defined benefit pension plans
sponsored by Sara Lee through June 30, 2001. These defined
benefit pension plans include employees from a number of
domestic Sara Lee business units. The annual cost of the Sara
Lee defined benefit plans is allocated to all of the
participating businesses based upon a specific actuarial
computation. All obligations pursuant to these plans are
obligations of Sara Lee.

The annual expense incurred by Coach for the
defined contribution and benefit plans is as follows:

The components of the Coach Leatherware Company,
Inc. Supplemental Pension Plan expense were:

The funded status of the Coach Leatherware
Company, Inc. Supplemental Pension Plan at the respective year
ends was:



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

Net pension expense for the Coach Leatherware
Company, Inc. Plan is determined using assumptions as of the
beginning of each year. Funded status is determined using
assumptions as of the end of each year.

The assumptions used at the respective year-ends
were:

10.     Segment
Information

The Company operates its business in two
reportable segments: Direct-to-Consumer and Indirect. The
Company’s reportable segments represent channels of
distribution that offer similar merchandise, service and
marketing strategies. Sales of Coach products through
Company-operated retail and factory stores, the Coach catalog
and the Internet constitute the Direct-to-Consumer segment.
Indirect refers to sales of Coach products to other retailers
and includes sales through Coach Japan. In deciding how to
allocate resources and assess performance, Coach’s
executive officers regularly evaluate the sales and operating
income of these segments. Operating income is the gross margin
of the segment less direct expenses of the segment.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

Unallocated corporate expenses include production
variances, general marketing, administration and information
systems, distribution and customer service expenses.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

The following is a summary of the common costs
not allocated in the determination of segment performance.

Geographic Area Information

As of June 28, 2003, Coach operated 156
retail stores and 76 factory stores in North America and
operated four distribution, product development and quality
control locations in the United States, Italy and China.
Geographic revenue information is based on the location of the
end customer. Geographic long-lived asset information is based
on the physical location of the assets at the end of each
period. Indirectly, through Coach Japan, Coach operates 93
retail and department store locations in Japan.

(1)

Other International sales reflect shipments to
    third-party distributors primarily in East Asia and, in fiscal
    2002 and fiscal 2001, sales from Coach-operated retail stores in
    the United Kingdom.

11.     Coach Japan,
Inc. and the Acquisition of Distributors

In order to expand its presence in the Japanese
market and to exercise greater control over its brand in that
country, Coach formed Coach Japan, Inc. and has completed a
program to acquire the existing distributors. This entity is a
joint venture with Sumitomo, which manages the Coach business in
Japan. Coach owns 50% of Coach Japan and is deemed to have
control as Coach appoints a majority of the Board of Directors,
and, as such, Coach Japan is accounted for as a consolidated
subsidiary. Under the terms of the joint venture agreement,
Coach supplies its merchandise to Coach Japan for distribution
and sale in Japan. Additionally, the joint venture agreement
contains provisions to enable Coach to purchase the remaining
minority interest in Coach Japan after the beginning of the
seventh year of the joint venture agreement. Alternatively,
Sumitomo could require Coach to purchase its ownership interest
in the joint venture after such time as established in the terms
of the joint venture agreement.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

On July 31, 2001, Coach Japan completed the
purchase of 100% of the capital stock of P.D.C. Co. Ltd.
(“PDC”) from the Mitsukoshi Department Store Group
(“Mitsukoshi”) for a total purchase price of $9,018.
Mitsukoshi established PDC in 1991 to expand Coach distribution
to select department stores throughout Japan. At the time of
acquisition PDC operated 63 retail and department store
locations in Japan. The strength of the going concern and the
established locations supported a premium above the fair value
of the individual assets. The fair value of assets acquired was
$22,351, and liabilities assumed were $20,732. Excess purchase
price over fair market value is reported as goodwill. Results of
the acquired business are included in the consolidated financial
statements from August 1, 2001, onward. Unaudited pro forma
information related to this acquisition are not included, as the
impact of this transaction is not material to the consolidated
results of the Company.

On January 1, 2002, Coach Japan completed
the buyout of the distribution rights and assets, related to the
Coach business, from J. Osawa and Company, Ltd.
(“Osawa”) for $5,792 in cash. At the time of the
acquisition, Osawa operated 13 retail and department store
locations in Japan. The strength of the going concern and the
established locations supported a premium above the fair value
of the individual assets. The assets acquired of $5,371 were
recorded at estimated fair values as determined by the
Company’s management. Goodwill of $421 has been recognized
for the excess of the purchase price over the estimate of fair
market value of the net assets acquired. Results of the acquired
business are included in the consolidated financial statements
from January 1, 2002, onward. Unaudited pro forma
information related to this acquisition are not included, as the
impact of this transaction is not material to the consolidated
results of the Company.

As of June 28, 2003 there were 95 Coach
locations in Japan, including 75 department stores and
18 retail stores managed by Coach Japan and two airport
locations operated by a distributor.

12.     Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities

Effective July 2, 2000, the Company adopted
SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities”. SFAS No. 133, as amended and
interpreted, establishes accounting and reporting standards for
derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments
embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. All
derivatives, whether designated in hedging relationships or not,
are required to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
If the derivative is designated as a fair value hedge, the
changes in fair value of the hedged item are recorded in the
statements of operations in the period incurred. If the
derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, effective changes
in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in other
comprehensive income and are recognized in the statement of
operations when the hedged items affect earnings. Ineffective
portions of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges are
recognized in earnings immediately. It is the Company’s
policy not to enter into derivative instruments for trading or
speculative purposes.

Substantially all purchases and sales involving
international parties are denominated in U.S. dollars, the
majority of which are not hedged using any derivative
instruments. However, the Company is exposed to market risk from
foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations with respect to
Coach Japan as a result of its U.S. dollar-denominated
inventory purchases. The Company, through Coach Japan, enters
into certain foreign currency derivative contracts, primarily
foreign exchange forward contracts, to manage these risks. Prior
to the formation of Coach Japan, the Company had not used
foreign currency derivative instruments. In addition, the
Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate
fluctuations related to the euro-denominated expenses of its
Italian sourcing office. During the third quarter of fiscal
2003, the Company began a program to enter into certain foreign
currency derivative contracts, primarily foreign exchange
forward contracts, in order to manage these fluctuations.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

In assessing the fair value of these contracts,
the Company has utilized independent valuations. However, some
judgment is required in developing estimates of fair values.
Accordingly, the estimates presented herein are not necessarily
indicative of the amounts that the Company could settle in a
current market exchange. The use of different market assumptions
or methodologies could affect the estimated fair value.

The foreign currency contracts entered into by
the Company have durations no greater than 12 months. The
fair values of open foreign currency derivatives included in
accrued liabilities at June 28, 2003 and June 29, 2002
were $0 and $3,308, respectively. The fair value of open foreign
currency derivatives included in current assets was $405 and $0
at June 28, 2003 and June 29, 2002, respectively. For
fiscal 2003, open foreign currency forward contracts not
designated as hedges with a notional amount of $33,150 were fair
valued and resulted in a pretax non cash benefit to earnings of
$3,357. At June 29, 2002, open foreign currency forward
contracts not designated as hedges with a notional amount of
$33,150 were fair valued and resulted in a pretax non cash
charge to earnings of $3,252. The fair value adjustment is
included as a component of selling, general and administrative
expenses. Also, as of June 28, 2003, open foreign currency
forward contracts designated as hedges with a notional amount of
$39,300 were fair valued resulting in an increase to equity as a
benefit to other comprehensive income of $168, net of taxes.
There were no foreign currency forward contracts entered into by
the Company as of June 30, 2001.

13.     Goodwill and
Intangible Assets

The Company adopted SFAS No. 142 in the
first quarter of fiscal 2002, resulting in no goodwill or
trademark amortization expense in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2003.
Under this standard, goodwill and indefinite life intangible
assets, such as the Company’s trademarks, are no longer
amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests. In
accordance with SFAS No. 142, prior period amounts were not
restated. Coach recorded goodwill and trademark amortization
expense of $900 in fiscal 2001. If the guidance of the statement
had been applied retroactively, prior year results would have
been different than previously reported. A reconciliation of net
income as reported to adjusted net income for the exclusion of
goodwill and trademark amortization, net of tax, for fiscal 2001
is as follows:



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

Changes in the carrying amounts of net goodwill
for the years ended June 28, 2003 and June 29, 2002 are as
follows:

14.     Earnings Per
Share

Prior to October 2, 2000, Coach operated as
a division of Sara Lee and did not have any shares outstanding.
The initial capitalization of Coach, Inc. was two shares. On
October 2, 2000, a stock dividend was declared resulting in
70,052 shares held by Sara Lee. The number of shares
outstanding has been restated to reflect the effect of this
stock dividend for all periods presented prior to
October 2, 2000. During October 2000, the initial public
offering of the Company’s common stock was accomplished,
resulting in the issuance of an additional 16,974 shares.
Following the offering, 87,026 shares were outstanding. Dilutive
securities include share equivalents held in employee benefit
programs and the impact of stock option programs.

The following is a reconciliation of the
weighted-average shares outstanding and calculation of basic and
diluted earnings per share:

15.     Relationship
with Sara Lee

Prior to the Separation Date, Coach operated as a
division of Sara Lee. As a division three types of intercompany
transactions were recorded in the Coach intercompany account
with Sara Lee: cash collections from Coach’s operations
that were deposited into the intercompany account; cash
borrowings that were used to fund operations; and allocations of
corporate expenses and charges. Cash collections included all
cash receipts required to be deposited into the intercompany
account as part of the Sara Lee cash concentration



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

system. Cash borrowings made by Coach from the
Sara Lee cash concentration system were used to fund operating
expenses.

The Company was charged with allocations of
corporate expenses in the amounts of $31,437 for fiscal 2001,
which was included as a component of selling, general and
administrative expenses. These charges consisted of expenses for
business insurance, medical insurance, employee benefit plan
amounts, income, employment and other tax amounts and
allocations from Sara Lee for certain centralized administration
costs for treasury, real estate, accounting, auditing, tax, risk
management, human resources and benefits administration. As of
the Separation Date there are no further transactions of this
nature.

16.     Shareholder
Rights Plan

On May 3, 2001 Coach declared a “poison
pill” dividend distribution of rights to buy additional
common stock to the holder of each outstanding share of
Coach’s common stock.

Subject to limited exceptions, these rights may
be exercised if a person or group intentionally acquires 10% or
more of the Company’s common stock or announces a tender
offer for 10% or more of the common stock on terms not approved
by the Coach Board of Directors. In this event, each right would
entitle the holder of each share of Coach’s common stock to
buy one additional common share of the Company at an exercise
price far below the then-current market price. Subject to
certain exceptions, Coach’s Board of Directors will be
entitled to redeem the rights at $0.001 per right at any time
before the close of business on the tenth day following either
the public announcement that, or the date on which a majority of
Coach’s Board of Directors becomes aware that, a person has
acquired 10% or more of the outstanding common stock. The
Company is currently aware of one institutional shareholder
whose common stock holdings exceed the 10% threshold established
by the rights plan. This holder has been given permission to
increase its ownership in the Company to a maximum of 15%,
subject to certain exceptions, before triggering the provision
of the rights plan.

17.     Business
Interruption Insurance

Coach operated a retail store in the World Trade
Center since 1995. During fiscal 2001, the store generated sales
of $4,382. As a result of the September 11, 2001 attack,
the store was destroyed. Inventory of $180 and fixed assets of
$353 were removed from the accounts, and Coach has received
payments under its property insurance coverage.

Losses relating to the Company’s business
interruption coverage have been filed with the insurers. Coach
has held discussions with its insurance carriers and expects to
fully recover these losses. In fiscal 2003 Coach received
payments of $1,484 under its business interruption coverage. In
fiscal 2002 Coach received payments of $1,413 under its business
interruption coverage. These amounts have been included as a
reduction of selling, general and administrative expenses.

18.     Stock
Repurchase Program

On September 17, 2001, the Coach Board of
Directors authorized the establishment of a common stock
repurchase program. Under this program, up to $80,000 may be
utilized to repurchase common stock through September 2004.
Purchases of Coach stock may be made from time to time, subject
to market conditions and at prevailing market prices, through
open market purchases. Repurchased shares will become authorized
but unissued shares and may be issued in the future for general
corporate and other uses. The Company may terminate or limit the
stock repurchase program at any time.

On January 30, 2003, the Coach Board of
Directors approved an additional common stock repurchase program
to acquire up to $100,000 of Coach’s outstanding common
stock through January 2006. The duration



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

of Coach’s existing repurchase program was
also extended through January 2006. Purchases of Coach stock may
be made from time to time, subject to market conditions and at
prevailing market prices, through open market purchases.
Repurchased shares will be retired and may be reissued in the
future for general corporate or other purposes. The Company may
terminate or limit the stock repurchase program at any time.

During the fiscal 2003, the Company repurchased
1,929 shares of common stock at an average cost of $25.89 per
share. During fiscal 2002, the Company repurchased 860 shares of
common stock at an average cost of $11.45 per share.

As of June 28, 2003, Coach had approximately
$120,000 remaining in the stock repurchase program.

19.     Related-Party
Transaction

On July 26, 2001, Coach made a loan to Reed
Krakoff, its President, Executive Creative Director, in the
principal amount of $2,000. The loan bears interest at a rate of
5.12% per annum, compounded annually. This loan amount and the
applicable accrued interest, less payments received, is recorded
as a component of other noncurrent assets in the accompanying
balance sheet as of June 28, 2003. Repayments of $400
principal must be made on or before each of July 26, 2003,
2004, 2005; the remaining $800 of principal, together with all
accrued interest under the loan, must be paid on or before
July 26, 2006. Mr. Krakoff may repay these amounts at
any time. As collateral for the loan, Mr. Krakoff pledged
to Coach his options to purchase 300 shares of Coach common
stock at a price of $8.00 per share, including the shares of
stock and any cash or other property he receives upon exercise
of or in exchange for those options. Mr. Krakoff would be
obligated to repay the loan in full immediately following
certain events of default, including his failure to make
payments under the loan as scheduled, his bankruptcy or the
termination of his employment with Coach for any reason.

On November 7, 2002, Mr. Krakoff paid
Coach the first principal payment of $400 under the loan
agreement. Upon receipt of this payment, the collateral options
were reduced proportionately under the terms of the agreement.

20.     Subsequent
Event

On August 7, 2003, Coach’s Board of
Directors authorized a two-for-one split of the Company’s
common stock, to be effected in the form of a special dividend
of one share of the Company’s common stock for each share
outstanding. The additional shares issued as a result of the
stock split will be distributed on October 1, 2003 to
stockholders of record on September 17, 2003. The presented
financial statements do not reflect the impact of the stock
split other than the proforma disclosures presented on the
consolidated statements of income, as the distribution of the
additional shares has not occurred.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

21.     Quarterly
Financial Data (Unaudited)

The sum of the quarterly earnings per common
share may not equal the full-year amount since the computations
of the weighted-average number of common-equivalent shares
outstanding for each quarter and the full year are made
independently.



COACH, INC.

Market and Dividend Information

Coach’s common stock is listed on the New
York Stock Exchange and is traded under the symbol
“COH”. Prior to the October 4, 2000 initial
public offering, there was no public trading market for any of
our securities. The following table sets forth, for the fiscal
periods indicated, the high and low closing prices per share of
Coach’s common stock as reported on the New York Stock
Exchange Composite Tape.

Coach has never declared or paid any cash
dividends on its common stock. Coach currently intends to retain
future earnings, if any, for use in its business and is
presently not planning to pay regular cash dividends in its
common stock. The Fleet facility prohibits Coach from paying
dividends while the credit facility is in place, with certain
exceptions. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will
be at the discretion of Coach’s Board of Directors and will
be dependent upon Coach’s financial condition, operating
results, capital requirements and such other factors as the
Board of Directors deems relevant.



COACH, INC.

Schedule II — Valuation and
Qualifying Accounts

For the Fiscal Years Ended June 28, 2003,
June 30, 2002 and June 30, 2001

(1)

Includes a reclassification to accrued
    liabilities of $2,412 related to consumer returns where there is
    not an outstanding receivable.



COACH, INC.

EXHIBITS TO FORM 10-K

For the Fiscal Year Ended June 28,

Commission File No. 1-16153

(a) Exhibits (numbered in accordance with
Item 601 of Regulation S-K)


(b) Reports on Form 8-K

Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the
Commission on April 22, 2003. This report contained the
Company’s preliminary earnings result for the third quarter
of fiscal year 2003.

Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the
Commission on June 13, 2003. This report described a
Rule 10b5-1 trading plan instituted by the Company’s
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.

Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the
Commission on July 29, 2003. This report contained the
Company’s preliminary earnings result for the fourth
quarter of, and full year for, fiscal year 2003.