10-K


y64070e10vk.htm

COACH INC

COACH INC


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

Commission file number: 1-16153

COACH, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

(212) 594-1850

(Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code)

Securities Registered Pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities Registered Pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days.     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this
Form 10-K.

þ

The approximate aggregate market value of the
voting and non-voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant was approximately $2,158,000,000 as of
August 30, 2002. For purposes of determining this amount
only, the registrant has excluded shares of common stock held by
directors and officers. Exclusion of shares held by any person
should not be construed to indicate that such person possesses
the power, direct or indirect, to direct or cause the direction
of the management or policies of the registrant, or that such
person is controlled by or under common control with the
registrant.

On August 30, 2002, the Registrant had
88,116,511 outstanding shares of common stock, which is the
Registrant’s only class of common stock.



COACH, INC.

TABLE OF CONTENTS FORM 10-K



Founded in 1941, Coach has grown from a
family-run workshop in a Manhattan loft to a premier accessories
marketer in the United States. Coach developed its initial
expertise in the small-scale production of classic, high-quality
leather goods constructed from “glove-tanned” leather
with close attention to detail. Coach has grown into a niche
maker and marketer of traditionally styled, high-quality leather
goods with expanding national brand recognition, selling its
products through upscale department and specialty stores, its
own retail stores and its direct mail catalog. Coach has built
upon its national brand awareness, expanded into international
sales, particularly in Japan and East Asia, diversified its
product offerings beyond leather handbags, further developed its
multi-channel distribution strategy and licensed products with
the Coach brand name.

SPECIAL NOTE ON FORWARD-LOOKING
INFORMATION

This document and the documents incorporated by
reference in this document contain forward-looking statements
that involve risks and uncertainties. We use words such as
“believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,”
“intend,” “plan,” “foresee,”
“likely,” “project,” “estimate,”
“will,” “may,” “should,”
“future,” “predicts,” “potential,”
“continue” and similar expressions to identify these
forward-looking statements.

Coach’s actual results could differ
materially from the results contemplated by these
forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including
those discussed in the sections of this Form 10-K filing
entitled “Risk Factors” and “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations of Coach, Inc.”. These factors are not
necessarily all of the important factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those expressed in any of the
forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K.

WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION

Coach’s quarterly financial results and
other important information are available by calling the
Investor Relations Department at (212) 629-2618.

Coach maintains a web site at www.coach.com where
investors and other interested parties may obtain press
releases, other information and gain access to periodic reports
to the SEC.



PART I

Item
1.

Business of Coach,
Inc.

OVERVIEW

Coach is a designer, producer and marketer of
high-quality, modern American classic accessories. Coach
believes that it is one of the best recognized leather goods
brands in the U.S. and is enjoying increased recognition in
targeted international markets. Net sales were
$719.4 million in the year ended June 29, 2002
(“fiscal 2002”), $600.5 million in the year ended
June 30, 2001 (“fiscal 2001”) and
$537.7 million in the year ended July 1, 2000,
(“fiscal 2000”). Operating income was
$133.6 million in fiscal 2002, $101.7 million in
fiscal 2001 and $56.0 million in fiscal 2000. Operating
income excluding reorganization costs was $137.0 million in
fiscal 2002, $106.3 million in fiscal 2001 and
$56.0 million in fiscal 2000. Coach’s primary product
offerings include handbags, women’s and men’s
accessories, business cases, weekend and travel accessories,
leather outerwear, gloves, scarves and personal planning
products. Together with its licensing partners, Coach also
offers watches, footwear and home and office furniture with the
Coach brand name. Coach’s products are sold through a
number of direct to consumer channels, which at the end of
fiscal 2002 included:

Coach’s direct to consumer business
represented approximately 62% of its total sales in fiscal 2002.
Its remaining sales were generated from products sold through a
number of indirect channels, which at the end of fiscal 2002
included:

Beginning in 1997 Coach embarked on a fundamental
transformation of its brand. Coach repositioned its image in a
modern, fashionable direction to make it more appealing to
consumers. Coach built upon its popular core categories by
introducing new products in a broader array of materials and
styles to respond to consumers’ demands for both fashion
and function and it introduced new product categories. In 1999,
Coach began renovating its retail stores, select U.S. department
store locations and key international locations to create a
modern environment to showcase its new product assortments and
reinforce a consistent brand position. Over the last four years
Coach also has been implementing a flexible, cost-effective
manufacturing model in which independent manufacturers supply
most of its products which allows Coach to bring its broader
range of products to market more rapidly and efficiently.

Coach has developed a number of strengths
including:

•

an established and growing brand franchise; and,
    a loyal consumer base reinforced by years of investment in
    effective marketing communications;

•

distinctive product attributes including a
    reputation for product quality, durability, function, premium
    leather and fabrics and classic styling;

•

comprehensive internal creative direction that
    defines Coach’s image, delivers a consistent message and
    differentiates it from other brands;



•

a well-developed multi-channel presence allowing
    Coach to serve its customers wherever they choose to shop; and

•

recognition as a desirable resource for both
    personal and business gift-giving occasions.

Coach believes that these strategic initiatives
have succeeded in repositioning it as a modern lifestyle
accessories brand. In fiscal 2002 net sales increased 19.8% and
operating income increased 31.4% compared to fiscal 2001. In
fiscal 2001 net sales increased 11.7% and operating income
increased 81.5% compared to fiscal 2000. Excluding the impact of
reorganization costs, operating income increased 28.9% in fiscal
2002 compared to fiscal 2001 and 89.7% in fiscal 2001 compared
to fiscal 2000.

However, to remain competitive in its industry,
Coach must also accurately anticipate consumer trends and tastes.

Growth Strategies

Based on its established strengths Coach is
pursuing the following strategies for future growth:

Accelerate New Product Development.

Coach has accelerated the
development of new products, styles and product categories to
support its image as a broader lifestyle accessories brand
through:

During fiscal 2002, approximately 65% of
Coach’s net sales, excluding factory store business, were
generated from products introduced during this period, including
new product categories and line extensions.

Modernize Retail Presentation.

Coach has modernized its brand
image by remodeling its retail stores to create a distinctive
environment to showcase its new product assortments and
reinforce a consistent brand position. Coach recently completed
its retail renovation program and opened additional flagship
locations in Chicago and Japan. Coach expects that:

•

approximately 20 international wholesale
    locations will be converted to, or opened with, the new store
    design by June 2003 (78 locations were remodeled as of end of
    fiscal 2002); and

•

at least 20 U.S. department store locations will
    be remodeled or opened in the new store design by June 2003
    (43 U.S. department store locations were remodeled as of
    end of fiscal 2002).

Increase U.S. Retail Store
Openings.

Coach opened 20 new
U.S. retail stores in fiscal 2002 and 15 in fiscal 2001. In
each of the next two years, Coach plans to expand its network of
138 retail stores by opening at least 20 new stores per year
located primarily in high volume markets. Coach believes that it
has a successful retail store format that reinforces its brand
image, generates strong sales per square foot and can be readily
adapted to different location requirements. The modernized store
environment, as exemplified by the Coach flagship store at 57th
Street and Madison Avenue in Manhattan, has an open, loft-like
feeling, with crisp white brick walls, ebony-stained wood floors
and a timeless, uncluttered look. It generally takes four to six
months from the time Coach takes possession of a store to open
it.



Expand Market Share with Japanese Consumer.

In June 2001

,

Coach Japan
was formed. Coach Japan is a joint venture with Sumitomo
Corporation, which manages the Coach business in Japan. Coach
owns 50% of Coach Japan and appoints a majority of the Board of
Directors. It is accounted for as a consolidated subsidiary. In
order to expand its presence in the Japanese market and to
exercise greater control over its brand in that country, Coach
Japan has acquired the existing distributors of Coach products
in Japan.

On July 31, 2001, Coach Japan completed the
purchase of 100% of the capital stock of P.D.C. Co. Ltd.
(“PDC”) from the Mitsukoshi Department Store Group for
a total purchase price of $9.0 million. At the time of
acquisition PDC operated 63 retail and department store
locations in Japan. This acquisition was accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting and as such, the results of the
acquired business are included in the consolidated financial
statements from August 1, 2001, onward.

On January 1, 2002, Coach Japan completed
the buyout of the distribution rights and assets, related to the
Coach business, from J. Osawa and Company, Ltd. for
$5.8 million. At the time of the acquisition, J. Osawa
operated 13 retail and department store locations in Japan. This
acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting and as such, the results of the acquired business are
included in the consolidated financial statements from
January 1, 2002, onward.

As of June 29, 2002 there were 85 Coach
locations in Japan, including 68 department stores, 14 Coach
stores and one flagship location managed by Coach Japan and two
airport locations operated by a distributor. Coach Japan plans
to open additional locations within existing major retailers,
enter new department store relationships and open freestanding
retail locations.

Further Penetrate International Markets.

Coach is increasing its
international distribution and targeting international
consumers, and Japanese travelers in particular, to take
advantage of substantial growth opportunities for Coach. Its
current network of international distributors serves markets in
Australia, the United Kingdom, the Caribbean, Korea, Hong Kong,
Singapore and Japan. Coach has significant opportunities to
increase sales through existing and new international
distribution channels. Coach believes Japanese consumers
represent a major growth opportunity because they spend
substantially more on a per capita basis on luxury accessories
than U.S. consumers.

Improve Operational Efficiencies.

Coach has upgraded and reorganized
its manufacturing, distribution and information systems over the
past five years to allow it to bring new and existing products
to market more efficiently. While enhancing its quality control
standards, Coach has shifted its manufacturing processes from
owned domestic factories to independent manufacturers in lower
cost markets. As a result, Coach has increased its flexibility,
improved its quality and lowered its costs. In fiscal 2002,
Coach’s gross margin increased to 67.2% from 63.6% during
fiscal 2001. This improvement was driven by the consolidation of
Coach Japan combined with the operating efficiencies previously
discussed. Coach intends to continue to increase efficiencies in
its sourcing, manufacturing and distribution processes by:



Promote Gift Purchases of its Products.

Coach believes that a substantial
amount of its U.S. sales are gift purchases, as evidenced by
Coach’s higher sales during the holiday season. Coach
intends to further promote the Coach brand as an appealing
resource for gift-giving occasions by developing new products
well-suited for gift selection, such as coin purses, mirrors,
notepad holders and card cases in new styles and designs. In
addition, Coach’s marketing communication efforts,
including advertising, catalog mailings and outbound e-mails,
are timed to reach consumers before important holidays
throughout the year.

For holiday 2001, Coach introduced proprietary
packaging designed to further enhance the experience of buying
or receiving a gift from Coach.

Capitalize on Growing Interest in
e-Commerce.

In October 1999 Coach
launched its on-line store. Coach’s website meets growing
consumer demand for the flexibility and convenience of shopping
over the Internet by offering a selective array of its products.
Coach views its website, like its catalogs, as a key
communications vehicle for the brand that also promotes store
traffic.

Coach’s Products

Handbags.

Coach’s original business was
the design, manufacture and distribution of fine handbags, which
accounted for approximately 56% of its net sales in fiscal 2002.
Coach makes quarterly offerings of its handbag collections,
featuring classically inspired designs as well as fashion trend
designs. Typically, there are three to four collections per
quarter and four to seven styles per collection, depending on
the concept and opportunity.

Accessories.

Women’s accessories,
consisting of wallets, cosmetic cases, key fobs and belts,
represented approximately 13% of Coach’s net sales in
fiscal 2002. Coach recently completed a comprehensive updating
in the design of the small leather goods collections to
coordinate them with its popular handbag collections. Men’s
accessories, consisting of belts, leather gift boxes and other
small leather goods, represented approximately 6% of
Coach’s net sales in fiscal 2002.

Business Cases.

Business cases represented
approximately 7% of Coach’s net sales in fiscal 2002. We
recently expanded this category to include nylon cases and
computer bags.

Weekend and Travel Accessories.

The Coach luggage collection is
comprised of cabin bags, duffels, suitcases, garment bags and a
comprehensive collection of travel accessories. Luggage and
travel accessories represented approximately 3% of Coach’s
net sales in fiscal 2002.

Outerwear, Gloves and Scarves.

Primarily a cold weather category,
the assortment is approximately 70% women’s and contains a
fashion assortment in all three components of this category. In
total, this category represented approximately 3% of
Coach’s net sales in fiscal 2002.

Personal Planning Products.

A complement to Coach’s
business cases and handbag collections, its personal planning
assortment includes folios, planners and desk agendas in a
variety of leathers and fabrics. The category represented
approximately 2% of Coach’s net sales in fiscal 2002.

Footwear.

Jimlar Corporation
(“Jimlar”) has been Coach’s footwear licensee
since 1999. The footwear is developed and manufactured primarily
in Italy and is distributed through more than 450 locations in
the U.S. including certain Coach stores and U.S. department
stores. Approximately 87% of the business is in women’s
footwear which coordinates with Coach handbags and employs fine
materials including calf and suede.

Watches.

Movado Group, Inc.
(“Movado”) has been Coach’s watch licensee since
1998 and has developed a distinctive collection of watches
inspired by both the women’s and men’s collections.
These watches are manufactured in Switzerland and are branded
with the Coach name and logo.

Furniture and Home Furnishings.

Coach furniture was launched in
the Spring of 1999 with Baker Knapp & Tubbs, Inc.
(“Baker”) as the licensee. The furniture collection is
comprised of a range of leather and suede sofas, chairs and
benches and includes Coach’s distinctive ebony wood and
leather field chairs and ottomans. The collection is sold
through Baker showrooms and select dealers across the U.S. The
home



furnishings collection was developed for Coach
retail stores with an assortment of leather frames, mirrors,
boxes, trays and pillows.

Office/ Home Office.

Coach office furniture launched in
the Fall of 2001 with Steelcase Inc. (“Steelecase”) as
the licensee. Steelcase and Coach offer consumers high-end
furniture products to outfit the home office and executive
workplace.

Jewelry.

In
November 2001, Coach, in conjunction with Carolee Designs, Inc.,
launched its first jewelry collection. The collection consists
of pure sterling silver and leather combinations, some with a
touch of brass. Select cuff bracelets are also offered in a
variety of colors of genuine crocodile.

Design and Merchandising

Coach’s New York-based design team, led by
its executive creative director, is responsible for
conceptualizing and directing the design of all Coach products.
Designers have access to Coach’s extensive archives of
product designs created over the past 50 years which are a
valuable resource for new product concepts. Coach designers are
also supported by a strong merchandising team that analyzes
sales, market trends and consumer preferences to identify
business opportunities that help guide each season’s design
process. Merchandisers also analyze products and edit, add and
delete styles with the objective of profitable sales across
channels. Three product category teams, each comprised of
design, merchandising/product development and manufacturing
specialists, help Coach execute design concepts that are
consistent with the brand’s strategic direction.

Coach’s merchandising team works in close
collaboration with our licensing partners to ensure that the
licensed products, such as watches, footwear and furniture, are
conceptualized and designed to address the intended market
opportunity and convey the distinctive perspective and lifestyle
associated with the Coach brand. While Coach’s licensing
partners employ their own designers, Coach oversees the
development of their collection concepts and the design of
licensed products. Licensed products are also subject to
Coach’s quality control standards, and we exercise final
approval for all new licensed products prior to their sale.

Marketing

Coach’s marketing strategy is to deliver a
consistent message every time the consumer comes in contact with
the Coach brand through all of its communications and visual
merchandising. The Coach image is created and executed
internally by the creative marketing, visual merchandising and
public relations teams.

In conjunction with promoting a consistent global
image, Coach uses its extensive customer database and consumer
knowledge to target specific products and communications to
specific consumers to efficiently stimulate sales across all
distribution channels.

Coach engages in a wide range of direct marketing
activities, including catalogs, brochures and email contacts
targeted to stimulate sales to consumers in their preferred
shopping venue. As part of Coach’s direct marketing
strategy, it uses its database consisting of approximately seven
million active U.S. households. Catalogs and email contacts are
Coach’s principal means of communication and are sent to
selected households to stimulate consumer purchases and build
brand awareness. The growing number of visitors to the
www.coach.com on-line store provides an opportunity to increase
the size of this database to increase on-line and store sales
and build brand awareness. Coach’s on-line store, like its
catalogs and brochures, provides a showcase environment where
consumers can browse through a strategic offering of
Coach’s latest styles and colors.

In the U.S., Coach spent approximately
$17 million, or 2% of net sales in fiscal 2002, for
national, regional and local advertising, primarily print and
outdoor advertising, in support of its major selling seasons.
Coach catalogs and www.coach.com also serve as effective brand
communications vehicles, driving store traffic as well as
direct-to-consumer sales. Coach’s co-branding partners,
include Lexus, Palm and Motorola. Through their targeted sales
and advertising programs they have helped to strengthen
Coach’s brand cachet. Advertising by the co-branding
partners provides important additional exposure of the Coach
brand, although the revenues generated from the purchase of
Coach products by the co-branding partners are not material to



the Coach business. In fiscal 2002 Coach
licensees spent an additional $5.5 million as part of an
integrated advertising and marketing campaign, in which Coach
controls concept, design and execution.

Coach also has a sophisticated consumer and
market research capability, which helps us assess consumer
attitudes and trends and gauge likelihood of success in the
marketplace prior to product introduction.

Channels of Distribution

Direct
Channels

Coach has four different direct channels that
provide it with immediate, controlled access to consumers:
retail stores, factory stores, e-commerce and direct mail. The
direct to consumer business represented approximately 62% of
Coach’s total net sales in fiscal year 2002.

Retail Stores.

Coach’s retail stores
establish, reinforce and capitalize on the image of the Coach
brand. Coach operates 138 retail stores in the United States
that are located in upscale regional shopping centers and
metropolitan areas. It operates eight flagship stores, which
offer the broadest assortment of Coach products in
high-visibility locations such as New York, Chicago and San
Francisco. The following table shows the number of Coach retail
stores and their total and average square footage:

Depending on their size and location, the retail
stores present product lines that include handbags, business
cases, wallets, footwear, watches, weekend and related
accessories. As of June 29, 2002 Coach completed the retail
renovation program of its stores that began in fiscal 1999. This
modern store design creates a distinctive environment that
showcases the various products. Store associates are trained to
maintain high standards of visual presentation, merchandising
and customer service. The result is a complete statement of the
Coach modern American style at the retail level.

Factory Stores.

Coach’s 74 factory stores
serve as an efficient means to sell discontinued and irregular
inventory, as well as, manufactured-for-factory-store product,
outside the retail channels. These stores operate under the
Coach Factory name and are geographically positioned primarily
in established centers that are usually between 50 and 100 miles
from major markets. The following table shows the number of
Coach factory stores and their total and average square footage:



Coach’s factory store design, visual
presentations and customer service levels support and reinforce
the brand’s image. Prices are generally discounted from 15%
to 50% below full retail prices. Through these factory stores,
Coach primarily targets value-oriented customers who would not
otherwise buy the Coach brand.

e-Commerce.

Coach views its e-commerce website as a key communications
vehicle for the brand, which also promotes store traffic. Like
Coach catalogs and brochures, the on-line store provides a
showcase environment where consumers can browse through a
selected offering of the latest styles and colors.

Direct Mail.

Coach mailed its first Coach
catalog in 1980. In fiscal 2002, it mailed at least one Coach
catalog to approximately 2 million strategically selected
households, primarily from its database. While direct mail sales
comprise a small portion of Coach’s net sales, Coach views
its catalogs as a key communications vehicle for the brand,
which also promotes store traffic. As an integral component of
its communications strategy, the graphics, models and
photography are upscale and modern and present the product in an
environment consistent with the Coach brand position. The
catalogs highlight selected products and serve as a reference
for customers, whether ordering through the catalog, making
in-store purchases or purchasing over the Internet.

Indirect Channels

Coach began as a wholesaler to department stores.
This channel remains very important to its overall consumer
reach. Coach has grown its indirect business by the formation of
Coach Japan and working closely with its customers, both
domestic and international, to ensure a clear and consistent
product presentation. As part of Coach’s business
transformation, selected shop-within-shop locations in major
department stores are being renovated to achieve the same modern
look and feel as the Coach retail stores. At the end of fiscal
2002, 130 international locations and 43 U.S. department stores
were renovated to reflect the new modern design. The indirect
channel represented approximately 38% of total net sales in
fiscal 2002.

Coach Japan,
Inc.

In order to expand its
presence in the Japanese market and to exercise greater control
over its brand in that country, Coach formed Coach Japan. This
entity is a joint venture with Sumitomo Corporation and manages
the Coach business in Japan. This channel represented
approximately 12% of total net sales in fiscal 2002. On
July 31, 2001 Coach Japan purchased PDC, Coach’s
largest distributor in Japan and on January 1, 2002 Coach
Japan completed the buyout of the distribution rights and assets
related to the Coach business from J. Osawa. Coach Japan
operates one flagship store, which offers the broadest
assortment of Coach products, in the Ginza shopping district of
Tokyo. The following table shows the number of Coach Japan
locations and their total and average square footage:

(1)

Fiscal 2001 and 2000 represent locations operated
    by PDC and J. Osawa prior to their acquisition by Coach
    Japan.

U.S.
Wholesale.

Coach’s products
are currently sold in the U.S. at approximately 1,400 wholesale
locations. This channel represented approximately 12% of total
sales in fiscal 2002. Recognizing the continued importance of
U.S. department and specialty stores as a distribution channel
for premier accessories, Coach is strengthening its longstanding
relationships with its key customers through its products and
styles and Coach’s renovation program. This channel offers
access to Coach customers who prefer shopping at department and
specialty stores or who live in geographic areas that are not
large enough to support a Coach retail store.



Coach’s more significant U.S. wholesale
customers include Federated (including Macy’s,
Bloomingdale’s, Rich’s/ Lazarus, Burdine’s, and
Bon Marche), May Co. (including Lord & Taylor,
Foley’s, Hecht’s, Kaufman’s, Robinson’s/
May, Famous Barr, Filene’s and Meier & Frank),
Marshall Fields, Dillard’s, Saks Inc. and Nordstrom.

International Wholesale.

Coach’s international
business, which represented approximately 8% of total sales in
fiscal 2002, is generated through wholesale distributors and
authorized retailers. Coach has developed relationships with a
select group of distributors who market Coach products through
specialty retailers, department stores, travel shopping
locations, and freestanding Coach stores in 18 countries.
Coach’s current network of international distributors
serves markets such as Australia, the United Kingdom, the
Caribbean, Korea, Hong Kong and Singapore. Coach has created
image enhancing environments in these locations to increase
brand appeal and stimulate growth. Within the international
arena, the primary focus is the Japanese consumer. Coach targets
this consumer in Japan and in areas with significant levels of
Japanese tourism. The importance of Japanese consumers is
illustrated by a comparison of consumption levels: per capita
spending on handbags in Japan is substantially greater than in
the U.S. Coach’s more significant international wholesale
customers include Dickson Concepts, Inc., Duty Free Shops and
Unisia.

The following table shows the number of
international retail stores, international department store
locations and other international locations at which Coach
products are sold:

On July 1, 2002 Coach signed an agreement
with Case London Ltd. (“Case”) for the exclusive
distribution of Coach products in the United Kingdom and
Ireland. Over the next three years, Case, a privately held
British retailer and distributor of fine accessories and
luggage, plans to open up to 25 Coach locations in the United
Kingdom. Case will develop a multi channel distribution strategy
consistent with the successful Coach model in the United States
and Japan. In addition, Case assumed the responsibility of
operating the existing Coach store on Sloane Street and the
Coach shop in Harrods in London.

Business to Business.

As part of the indirect channel of
distribution, Coach sells some of its products in selected
military locations and through corporate incentive and
gift-giving programs.

Licensing.

In
our licensing relationships, Coach takes an active role in the
design process and controls the marketing and distribution of
products under the Coach brand. The current licensing
relationships as of June 29, 2002 are as follows:

Products made under license are, in most cases,
sold through all of the channels discussed above and, with
Coach’s approval, these licensees have the right to
distribute Coach brand products selectively through several
other channels: shoes in department store shoe salons, furniture
through Baker’s own showrooms, and watches in selected
jewelry stores. These venues provide additional, yet controlled,
exposure of the Coach brand. Coach’s licensing partners pay
Coach royalties on their sales of Coach branded products.
However, such royalties currently comprise less than 1% of
Coach’s revenues and are not material to the Coach
business. The licensing agreements generally give Coach the
right to terminate the license if specified sales targets are
not achieved.



Manufacturing

Coach has refined its production capabilities in
coordination with the repositioning of its brand. By shifting
its production from owned domestic facilities to independent
manufacturers in lower-cost markets, it can support a broader
mix of product types, materials and a seasonal influx of new,
more fashion-oriented styles. During fiscal year 2002,
approximately 65% of Coach’s net sales, excluding factory
store business, were generated from products introduced within
the fiscal year. At the same time, we help manage total
inventory and limit our exposure to excess and obsolete
inventory by designating a large number of the new styles as
“limited editions” that are planned to be discontinued
and replaced with fresh new products.

Coach has developed a flexible model that meets
shifts in marketplace demand and changes in consumer
preferences. It uses two main sources to make Coach products:
outsourcing with skilled partners and production by its
licensing partners. All product sources must achieve and
maintain Coach’s high quality standards which are an
integral part of the Coach identity. We monitor compliance with
the quality control standards through on-site quality
inspections at all independent manufacturing facilities. One of
Coach’s keys to success lies in the rigorous selection of
raw materials. Coach has long-standing relationships with
purveyors of fine leathers and hardware. As it has moved its
production to external sources, Coach still requires that these
same raw materials are used in all of its products, wherever
they are made.

Approximately 95% of Coach’s fiscal year
2002 non-licensed product requirements were supplied by
independent manufacturers, measured as a percentage of total
units produced. Coach buys independently manufactured products
from a variety of countries including China, Costa Rica, Mexico,
India, Italy, Spain, Hungary and Turkey. It operates a European
sourcing and product development organization based in Florence,
Italy that works closely with the New York-based design team.
This broad-based multi-country manufacturing strategy is
designed to optimize the mix of cost, lead times and
construction capabilities. Coach carefully balances its
commitments to a limited number of “better brand”
partners with demonstrated integrity, quality and reliable
delivery. No one vendor provides more than 20% of Coach’s
total requirements. Before partnering with a vendor, Coach
evaluates each facility by conducting a quality and business
practice standards audit. Periodic evaluations of existing,
previously approved facilities are conducted on a random basis.
We believe that all of our manufacturing partners are in
compliance with Coach’s integrity standards.

As part of the strategy to shift production to
independent manufacturers in lower-cost markets, Coach ceased
operations at its remaining facility, located in Lares, Puerto
Rico, in April 2002. In fiscal year 2002, this 66,000 square
foot facility contributed approximately 5% of production.

Distribution

In July 1999, Coach consolidated its worldwide
warehousing, distribution and repair functions into one location
in Jacksonville, Florida. This highly automated, computerized,
560,000 square foot facility uses a bar code scanning warehouse
management system. Coach’s distribution center employees
use handheld optical scanners to read product bar codes which
allows us to more accurately process and pack orders, track
shipments, manage inventory and generally provide better service
to its customers. Coach’s products are primarily shipped
via Federal Express and common carriers to Coach retail stores
and wholesale customers and via Federal Express direct to
consumers.

The average order processing time is 2 to
3 days. During Coach’s peak season in the second
quarter of fiscal 2002, Coach shipped approximately 96% of all
orders complete.

Management Information Systems

The foundation of Coach’s information
systems is its Enterprise Resource Planning system. Implemented
in 1997, this fully integrated system supports all aspects of
finance and accounting, procurement, inventory control, sales
and store replenishment, resulting in increased efficiencies,
improved inventory control and a better understanding of
consumer demand. The system functions as a central repository
for all of Coach’s transactional information, resulting in
increased efficiencies and greater inventory control. This
system is fully scalable to accommodate rapid growth.



Complementing its Enterprise Resource Planning
system are several other newly-implemented system solutions,
each of which, Coach believes, is well-suited for its needs. The
data warehouse system summarizes the transaction information and
provides a single platform for all management reporting. The
supply chain management system supports corporate sales and
inventory functions, creating a monthly demand plan and
reconciling production/procurement with financial plans. Product
fulfillment is facilitated by Coach’s highly automated
warehouse management system and electronic data interchange
system, while the unique requirements of Coach’s catalog
and Internet businesses are supported by Coach’s direct
sales system. Finally, the point-of-sale system supports all
in-store transactions, distributes management reporting to each
store, and collects sales and payroll information on a daily
basis. This daily collection of store sales and inventory
information results in early identification of business trends
and provides a detailed baseline for store inventory
replenishment. All complementary systems are integrated with the
central Enterprise Resource Planning system.

Trademarks and Patents

Coach owns all of the material trademark rights
used in connection with the production, marketing and
distribution of all of its products, both in the U.S. and in
other countries in which the products are principally sold.
Coach owns and maintains worldwide registrations for trademarks
in all relevant classes of products in each of the countries in
which Coach products are sold. Its major trademarks include

Coach, Coach and lozenge design

and

Coach and tag
design

and it has applications pending for a proprietary

“C” signature fabric design

. Coach is not
dependent on any one particular trademark or design patent
although Coach believes that the Coach name is important for its
business. In addition, several of Coach’s products are
covered by design patents or patent applications. Coach
aggressively polices its trademarks and trade dress, and pursues
infringers both domestically and internationally. It also
pursues counterfeiters domestically and internationally through
leads generated internally, as well as through its network of
investigators, the Coach hotline and business partners around
the world.

Coach’s trademarks in the United States will
remain in existence for as long as Coach continues to use and
renew them on their expiration date. Coach has no material
patents.

Employees

As of June 29, 2002, Coach employed
approximately 2,900 people, approximately 50 of which were
covered by collective bargaining agreements. Of the total,
approximately 1,600 are engaged in retail selling and
administration positions, approximately 500 are engaged in
manufacturing, sourcing or distribution functions and
approximately 400 are employed through Coach Japan. The
remaining employees are engaged in other aspects of the Coach
business. Coach believes that its relations with its employees
are good, and it has never encountered a strike or significant
work stoppage.

Government Regulation

Most of Coach’s imported products are
subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that
may limit the quantity of products that Coach may import into
the U.S. and other countries or may impact the cost of such
products. Coach has not been restricted by quotas in the
operation of its business and customs duties have not comprised
a material portion of the total cost of a majority of its
products. In addition, Coach is subject to foreign governmental
regulation and trade restrictions, including U.S. retaliation
against certain prohibited foreign practices, with respect to
its product sourcing and international sales operations.

RISK FACTORS

You should consider carefully all of the
information set forth or incorporated by reference in this
document and, in particular, the following risk factors
associated with the Business of Coach and forward-looking
information in this document. Please also see “Special Note
on Forward-Looking Information” on page 2.



If Coach is unable to successfully
implement its growth strategies or manage its growing business,
its future operating results will suffer.

Successful implementation of Coach’s
strategies and initiatives will require it to manage its growth.
To manage growth effectively, Coach will need to continue to
increase its outsourced manufacturing while maintaining strict
quality control. Coach will also need to continue to improve its
operating systems to respond to any increased demand. It could
suffer a loss of consumer goodwill and a decline in sales if its
products do not continue to meet its quality control standards
or if it is unable to adequately respond to increases in
consumer demand for its products.

Coach’s inability to respond to
changes in consumer demands and fashion trends in a timely
manner could adversely affect its sales.

Coach’s success depends on its ability to
identify, originate and define product and fashion trends as
well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer
demands in a timely manner. Its products must appeal to a broad
range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with
certainty and are subject to rapid change. Coach cannot assure
that it will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or
meet changing consumer demands in the future.

If Coach misjudges the demand for its
products it may incur increased costs due to excess
inventories.

If Coach misjudges the market for its products it
may be faced with significant excess inventories for some
products and missed opportunities for other products. In
addition, because Coach places orders for products with its
manufacturers before it receives wholesale customers’
orders, it could experience higher excess inventories if
wholesale customers order fewer products than anticipated.

Competition in the markets in which Coach
operates is intense, and our competitors may develop products
more popular with consumers.

Coach faces intense competition in the product
lines and markets in which it operates. Coach’s products
compete with other brands of products within their product
category and with private label products sold by retailers,
including some of Coach’s wholesale customers. In its
wholesale business, Coach competes with numerous manufacturers,
importers and distributors of handbags, accessories and other
products for the limited space available for the display of
these products to the consumer. Moreover, the general
availability of contract manufacturing allows new entrants easy
access to the markets in which Coach operates, which may
increase the number of competitors and adversely affect its
competitive position and business. Some of Coach’s
competitors have achieved significant recognition for their
brand names or have substantially greater financial,
distribution, marketing and other resources than the Company.

A downturn in the economy may affect
consumer purchases of discretionary luxury items, which could
adversely affect Coach’s sales.

Many factors affect the level of consumer
spending in the handbag and luxury accessories industry,
including, among others, general business conditions, interest
rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and
consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer
purchases of discretionary luxury items, such as Coach products,
tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable
income is lower. A downturn in the economies in which Coach
sells its products, such as the economic downturn in Asia during
1997, may adversely affect Coach’s sales.

Coach’s business is subject to foreign
exchange risk

Coach sells products to its international
wholesale customers (including Coach Japan), in U.S. dollars.
However those distributors sell Coach product in the relevant
local currency. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could
adversely affect the retail prices of the products and result in
decreased international demand.



In order to manage this risk, Coach Japan enters
into forward exchange contracts that allow them to obtain
dollars at a rate that is set concurrent with the requisition of
inventory. As these contracts are entered into before the
receipt of inventory, the contract rate may be higher or lower
than market rates when the goods are received and the payment is
completed. Currently in accordance with GAAP, these contracts
are fair valued (i.e. marked-to-market) at the end of each
reporting period. This non-cash charge or credit can result in
fluctuations in the reported financial results.

Coach consolidates the financial results of Coach
Japan into its financial statements. The functional currency of
Coach Japan is the Japanese Yen. These operating results are
converted to U.S. dollars based on the average exchange rate
during the period and the balance sheet is converted to U.S.
dollars based on the exchange rate at the end of the reporting
period.

If Coach loses key management or design
personnel or is unable to attract and retain the talent required
for its business, its operating results could
suffer.

Coach’s performance depends largely on the
efforts and abilities of its senior management and design teams.
These executives and employees have substantial experience and
expertise in Coach’s business and have made significant
contributions to its growth and success. Coach does not have
employment agreements with any of its key executives or design
personnel. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of
these individuals could have an adverse effect on Coach’s
business. As the business grows, Coach will need to attract and
retain additional qualified personnel and develop, train and
manage an increasing number of management-level, sales and other
employees. Coach cannot guarantee that it will be able to
attract and retain personnel as needed in the future.

Coach’s operating results are subject
to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, which could adversely
affect the market price of its common stock.

Because Coach products are frequently given as
gifts, Coach has experienced, and expects to continue to
experience, substantial seasonal fluctuations in its sales and
operating results. Over the past two fiscal years approximately
35% of Coach’s annual sales and over 50% of its operating
income were recognized in the second fiscal quarter, which
includes the holiday months of November and December.

Coach’s gross profit may decrease if
it becomes unable to obtain its products from, or sell its
products in, other countries due to adverse international events
that are beyond its control.

In order to lower its sourcing costs and increase
its gross profit, Coach has shifted its production to
independent non-U.S. manufacturers in lower-cost markets.
Coach’s international manufacturers are subject to many
risks, including foreign governmental regulations, political
unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments, changes in local
economic conditions and trade issues. These factors, among
others, could influence the ability of these independent
manufacturers to make or export Coach products cost-effectively
or at all or to procure some of the materials used in these
products. The violation of labor or other laws by any of
Coach’s independent manufacturers, or the divergence of an
independent manufacturer’s labor practices from those
generally accepted as ethical by Coach or others in the U.S.,
could damage Coach’s reputation and force it to locate
alternative manufacturing sources. Currency exchange rate
fluctuations could increase the cost of raw materials for these
independent manufacturers, which they could pass along to Coach,
resulting in higher costs and decreased margins for its
products. If any of these factors were to render a particular
country undesirable or impractical as a source of supply, there
could be an adverse effect on Coach’s business, including
its gross profit.

Coach’s failure to continue to increase
sales of its products in international markets could adversely
affect its gross profit. International sales are subject to many
risks, including foreign governmental regulations, foreign
consumer preferences, political unrest, disruptions or delays in
shipments to other nations and changes in local economic
conditions. These factors, among others, could influence
Coach’s ability to sell products successfully in
international markets. Coach generally purchases products from
international manufacturers in U.S. dollars and sells these
products in the U.S. and to its international wholesale
customers in U.S. dollars.



However, Coach’s international wholesale
customers sell Coach products in the relevant local currencies,
and currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect
the retail prices of the products and result in decreased
international consumer demand.

Coach’s trademark and other
proprietary rights could potentially conflict with the rights of
others and it may be inhibited from selling some of its
products. If Coach is unable to protect its trademarks and other
proprietary rights, others may sell imitation brand
products.

Coach believes that its registered and common law
trademarks and design patents are important to its ability to
create and sustain demand for Coach products. Coach cannot
assure you that it will not encounter trademark, patent or trade
dress disputes in the future as it expands its product line and
the geographic scope of its marketing. Coach also cannot assure
that the actions taken by it to establish and protect its
trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to
prevent imitation of its products or infringement of its
trademarks and proprietary rights by others. The laws of some
foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same
extent as do the laws of the U.S. and it may be more difficult
for Coach to successfully challenge the use of its proprietary
rights by other parties in these countries.

Provisions in Coach’s charter and
bylaws and Maryland law may delay or prevent an acquisition of
Coach by a third party.

Coach’s charter and bylaws and Maryland law
contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party
to acquire Coach without the consent of Coach’s Board of
Directors. Coach’s charter permits its Board of Directors,
without stockholder approval, to amend the charter to increase
or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the
number of shares of stock of any class or series that Coach has
the authority to issue. In addition, Coach’s Board of
Directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of
common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences,
rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares.
Although Coach’s Board of Directors has no intention to do
so at the present time, it could establish a series of preferred
stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or
preventing a transaction or a change in control that might
involve a premium price for Coach’s common stock or
otherwise be in the best interest of Coach’s stockholders.

On May 3, 2001 Coach declared a “poison
pill” dividend distribution of rights to buy additional
common stock to the holder of each outstanding share of
Coach’s common stock.

Subject to limited exceptions, these rights may
be exercised if a person or group intentionally acquires 10% or
more of Coach’s common stock or announces a tender offer
for 10% or more of the common stock on terms not approved by the
Coach Board of Directors. In this event, each right would
entitle the holder of each share of Coach’s common stock to
buy one additional common share of Coach stock at an exercise
price far below the then-current market price. Subject to
certain exceptions, Coach’s Board of Directors will be
entitled to redeem the rights at $0.001 per right at any time
before the close of business on the tenth day following either
the public announcement that, or the date on which a majority of
Coach’s Board of Directors becomes aware that, a person has
acquired 10% or more of the outstanding common stock. We are
currently aware of one institutional shareholder whose common
stock holdings exceed the 10% threshold established by the
rights plan. This holder has been given permission to increase
its ownership in the company to a maximum of 15%, subject to
certain exceptions, before triggering the provision of the
rights plan.

Coach’s bylaws can only be amended by
Coach’s Board of Directors. Coach’s bylaws also
provide that nominations of persons for election to Coach’s
Board of Directors and the proposal of business to be considered
at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the
meeting, by Coach’s Board of Directors or by a stockholder
who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the
advance notice procedures of Coach’s bylaws. Also, under
Maryland law, business combinations, including issuances of
equity securities, between Coach and any person who beneficially
owns 10% or more of Coach’s common stock or an affiliate of
such person are prohibited for a five-year period unless
exempted in accordance with the statute. After this period, a
combination of this type must be approved by two super-majority
stockholder votes, unless some conditions are met or the
business combination is exempted by Coach’s Board of
Directors. Coach’s



Board has exempted any business combination with
us or any of our affiliates from the five-year prohibition and
the super-majority vote requirements.

These and other provisions of Maryland law or
Coach’s charter and bylaws could have the effect of
delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in
control that might involve a premium price for Coach’s
common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of
Coach’s stockholders.

Item
2.

Properties

The following table sets forth the location, use
and size of Coach’s distribution, corporate and product
development facilities as of June 29, 2002, all of which
are leased. The leases expire at various times through 2015,
subject to renewal options.

Coach also occupies 138 retail and 74 factory
leased retail stores located in the United States and two retail
locations in the United Kingdom as of June 29, 2002.
Indirectly, through Coach Japan, Coach operates 83 retail and
department store locations in Japan. Coach considers these
properties to be in good condition generally and believes that
its facilities are adequate for its operations and provide
sufficient capacity to meet its anticipated requirements.

Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

Coach is involved in various routine legal
proceedings as both plaintiff and defendant incident to the
ordinary course of its business. In the ordinary course of
business, Coach is involved in the policing of its intellectual
property rights. As part of its policing program, from time to
time, Coach files lawsuits in the U.S. and abroad alleging acts
of trademark counterfeiting, trademark infringement, patent
infringement, trade dress infringement, trademark dilution
and/or state or foreign law claims. At any given point in time,
Coach may have one or more of such actions pending. These
actions often result in seizure of counterfeit merchandise
and/or out of court settlements with defendants. From time to
time, defendants will raise as affirmative defenses or as
counterclaims the invalidity or unenforcability of certain of
Coach’s intellectual properties. Coach believes that the
outcome of all pending legal proceedings in the aggregate will
not have a material adverse effect on the Coach business, cash
flows, results of operations or financial position.



Item
4.

Submission of Matters to a
Vote of Security Holders

None

Executive Officers and Directors

The following table sets forth information
regarding each of Coach’s executive officers and directors
serving as of June 29, 2002:

(1)

Coach’s executive officers serve indefinite
    terms and may be appointed and removed by Coach’s board of
    directors at any time. Coach’s directors are elected at the
    annual stockholders meeting and serve terms of one year.

(2)

Member of the audit committee.

(3)

Member of the compensation and employee benefits
    committee.

Lew Frankfort

has been involved with the Coach
business in excess of 20 years. He has served as Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer of Coach since November 1995. He has
served as a member of Coach’s board of directors since
June 1, 2000, the date of incorporation. Mr. Frankfort
served as Senior Vice President of Sara Lee from January 1994 to
October 2000. Mr. Frankfort was appointed President and
Chief Executive Officer of the Sara Lee Champion,
Intimates & Accessories group in January 1994, and held
this position through November 1995. From September 1991 through
January 1994, Mr. Frankfort held the positions of Executive
Vice President, Sara Lee Personal Products and Chief Executive
Officer of Sara Lee Accessories. Mr. Frankfort was
appointed President of Coach in July 1985, after Sara Lee
acquired Coach, and held this position through September 1991.
Mr. Frankfort joined Coach in 1979 as Vice President of New
Business Development. Prior to joining Coach, Mr. Frankfort
held various New York City government management positions and
served as Commissioner, New York City Agency for Child
Development. Mr. Frankfort holds a Bachelor of Arts degree
from Hunter College and an MBA in Marketing from Columbia
University.

Keith Monda

was appointed President of Coach
in May 2002 after serving as Executive Vice President and Chief
Operating Officer of Coach from June 1998. He has served as a
member of Coach’s board of directors since June 1,
2000, the date of incorporation. Prior to joining Coach,
Mr. Monda served as Senior Vice President,
Finance & Administration and Chief Financial Officer of
Timberland Company from December 1993 until May 1996, and was
promoted to, and held the position of, Senior Vice President,



Operations from May 1996 until January 1998. From
May 1990 to December 1993, Mr. Monda served as Executive
Vice President, Finance and Administration of J. Crew.
Mr. Monda holds Bachelor of Science and Master of Arts
degrees from Ohio State University.

David DeMattei

joined Coach as President, Retail
Division in July 1998 and was named President, North American
Retail and Wholesale Divisions in March 2002. From June 1995 to
April 1998, Mr. DeMattei served as Retail President of
J. Crew, and from January 1994 to January 1995 he served as
Chief Financial Officer of the Nature Company, a division of CML
Group. From January 1993 to January 1994, he served as President
of Banana Republic Retail Stores. From January 1983 through
January 1993, Mr. DeMattei held various positions at Gap,
Inc., including Chief Financial Officer. Mr. DeMattei holds
a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration from the
University of San Francisco.

Reed Krakoff

was appointed President, Executive
Creative Director in September 1999 after joining Coach as
Senior Vice President and Executive Creative Director in
December 1996. Prior to joining Coach, Mr. Krakoff served
as Senior Vice President, Marketing, Design &
Communications from January 1993 until December 1996, and as
Head Designer, Sportswear from April 1992 until January 1993 at
Tommy Hilfiger USA, Inc. From July 1988 through April 1992,
Mr. Krakoff served as a Senior Designer in Design and
Merchandising for Polo/ Ralph Lauren. Mr. Krakoff holds an
A.A.S. degree in Fashion Design from Parsons School of Design
and a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics and Art History from
Tufts University.

Mike Devine

has served as Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of Coach since December
2001. Prior to Joining Coach, Mr. Devine served as Chief
Financial Officer and Vice President-Finance of Mothers Work,
Inc. from February 2000 until November 2001. From 1997 to 2000,
Mr. Devine was Chief Financial Officer of Strategic
Distribution, Inc., a Nasdaq-listed industrial store operator.
Previously, Mr. Devine was Chief Financial Officer at
Industrial System Associates, Inc. from 1995 to 1997, and for
the prior six years he was the Director of Finance and
Distribution for McMaster-Carr Supply Co. Mr. Devine holds
a Bachelor of Science degree in Finance and Marketing from
Boston College and an MBA degree in Finance from the Wharton
School of the University of Pennsylvania.

Carole Sadler

has served as Senior Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary since May 2000. She
joined Coach as Vice President, Chief Counsel in March 1997.
From April 1991 until February 1997, Ms. Sadler was Vice
President and Associate General Counsel of Saks Fifth Avenue.
From September 1984 until March 1991, Ms. Sadler practiced
law as a litigation associate in New York City, most recently at
the firm of White & Case, and prior to that at Paskus
Gordon & Mandel and Mound Cotton & Wollan.
Ms. Sadler holds a Juris Doctor degree from American
University, Washington College of Law, and a Bachelor of Arts
degree,

cum laude

, in American Studies from Smith College.

Felice Schulaner

joined Coach as Senior Vice
President, Human Resources in January 2000. Prior to joining
Coach, Ms. Schulaner served as Senior Vice President, Human
Resources of Optimark Technologies from February 1999 through
December 1999 and as Senior Vice President, Human Resources of
Salant Corporation from July 1997 through February 1999.
Ms. Schulaner was Vice President, Worldwide Recruitment
& Selection at American Express from July 1996 until June
1997. From 1990 through 1996, she served in various other human
resources positions at American Express, including Vice
President, Human Resources Reengineering, and, from 1986 until
1990, Ms. Schulaner held human resources positions at
Macy’s Northeast in New York City. Ms. Schulaner holds
a Bachelor of Arts degree from New College of the University of
South Florida. In December 1998, Salant Corporation commenced
bankruptcy proceedings, which concluded in April 1999.

Joseph Ellis

was elected to Coach’s Board
of Directors on September 12, 2000. Mr. Ellis has
served as an Advisory Director of Goldman Sachs & Co.
since May 1999 and served as a Limited Partner of Goldman, Sachs
from 1994 to May 1999, and a General Partner from 1986 to 1994.
Mr. Ellis served as senior retail-industry analyst from
1970 through 1994. Before joining Goldman Sachs in 1970,
Mr. Ellis was Vice President and Investment Analyst with
The Bank of New York. Mr. Ellis also serves as a Director
of The New York State Nature Conservancy and Waterworks, Inc. He
is a member of the Steering Committee of the Center for
Environmental Research and Conservation of Columbia University,
a Northeast trustee of CARE and a



trustee for the RARE Center for Tropical
Conservation. Mr. Ellis holds a Bachelor of Arts degree
from Columbia University.

Sally Frame Kasaks

was elected to Coach’s Board
of Directors in November 2001. Ms. Kasaks has served as a
marketing and retail consultant for ISTA Incorporated since
January 1997. Prior to this, she served as Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of Ann Taylor Stores, Inc. from February 1992
until August, 1996. Ms. Kasaks was the President and Chief
Executive Officer of Abercrombie and Fitch, a division of The
Limited, Inc., from February 1989 through February 1992 and the
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Talbots, Inc., which
was a specialty apparel retailing division of General Mills Co.,
from November 1985 through September 1988. Ms. Kasaks also
serves as a Director of Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc.,
Cortefiel, S.A., The White House, Inc., Tuesday Morning, Inc.,
The Children’s Place, Inc. and Learning Curve
International, Inc. She holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from The
American University.

Gary Loveman

was elected to Coach’s Board
of Directors in February 2002. Mr. Loveman has served as
President of Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. since April 2001
and Chief Operating Officer of Harrah’s since May 1998.
Effective January 1, 2003, Mr. Loveman will asssume
the role of Chief Executive Officer of Harrah’s. He was a
member of the three-executive Office of the President of
Harrah’s from May 1999 to April 2001 and was Executive Vice
President from May 1998 to May 1999. From 1994 to 1998,
Mr. Loveman was Associate Professor of Business
Administration, Harvard University Graduate School of Business
Administration, where his responsibilities included teaching MBA
and executive education students, research and publishing in the
field of service management, and consulting and advising large
service companies. Mr. Loveman also serves as a director of
Ventas, Inc. and JCC Holding Company. He holds a Bachelor of
Arts degree in Economics from Wesleyan University and a Ph.D. in
Economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Irene Miller

was elected to Coach’s Board
of Directors in May 2001. Ms. Miller is Chief Executive
Officer of Akim, Inc., an investment management and consulting
firm and, until June 1997, was Vice Chairman and Chief Financial
Officer of Barnes and Noble, Inc., the world’s largest
bookseller. She joined Barnes & Noble in 1991, became
Chief Financial Officer in 1993 and Vice Chairman in 1995. From
1986 to 1990 Ms. Miller was an investment banker at Morgan
Stanley & Co. Incorporated, serving as Principal in her
last position. Ms. Miller also serves as a director on the
Boards of Barnes & Noble, Inc., Oakley, Inc., Inditex,
S.A. and The Body Shop International PLC. Ms. Miller holds
a Master of Science degree from Cornell University and a
Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Toronto.

Michael Murphy

was elected to Coach’s Board
of Directors on September 12, 2000. From 1994 to 1997,
Mr. Murphy served as Vice Chairman and Chief Administrative
Officer of Sara Lee. Mr. Murphy also served as a director
of Sara Lee from 1979 through October 1997. Mr. Murphy
joined Sara Lee in 1979 as Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial and Administrative Officer and, from 1993 until 1994,
also served as Vice Chairman. Mr. Murphy is also a director
of Bassett Furniture Industries, Inc., Civic Federation, Big
Shoulders Fund, Chicago Cultural Center Foundation, GATX
Corporation, Payless Shoe Source, Inc. and CNH Global N.V. He is
also a member of the Board of Trustees of Northern Funds (a
family of mutual funds). Mr. Murphy holds a Bachelor of
Science degree in Business Administration from Boston College
and an MBA degree from the Harvard Business School.

PART II

Item 5.

Market
for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters

Refer to the information regarding the market for
Coach’s Common Stock and the quarterly market price
information appearing under the caption “Market and
Dividend Information” included herein.



Item
6.

Selected Financial Data (in
thousands except for per share data)

The selected historical financial data presented
below as of and for each of the fiscal years in the five-year
period ended June 29, 2002 have been derived from
Coach’s audited Consolidated Financial Statements. The
financial data should be read in conjunction with
“Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, the
Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and other
financial data included elsewhere herein.



Operating income excluding reorganization costs
and net income excluding reorganization costs are financial
indicators utilized by management to measure operating
performance. These measures should not be construed as an
alternative to, or better indicator of, operating earnings as
determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.



Item
7.

Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

The following discussion of Coach’s
financial condition and results of operations should be read
together with Coach’s financial statements and notes to
those statements included elsewhere in this document.

Overview

Coach was founded in 1941 and was acquired by
Sara Lee Corporation in July 1985. In October 2000, Coach was
listed on the New York Stock Exchange and sold 17.0 million
shares of stock in an initial public offering. In April 2001,
Sara Lee ended its ownership with a distribution of its
remaining shares in Coach via an exchange offer.

Coach is a designer and marketer of high-quality,
modern American classic accessories. Coach’s primary
product offerings include handbags, women’s and men’s
accessories, business cases, luggage and travel accessories,
personal planning products, leather outerwear, gloves and
scarves.

Coach generates revenue by selling its products
directly to consumers and indirectly through wholesale customers
and by licensing its brand name to select manufacturers.
Direct-to-consumer sales consist of sales of Coach products
through its 138 Company-operated U.S. retail stores, 74
Company-operated U.S. factory stores, its direct mail catalogs
and its e-commerce website. Indirect sales consist of sales of
Coach products to approximately 1,400 department store and
specialty retailer locations in the United States, 118
international department store, retail store, factory store and
duty-free shop locations in 18 countries and 83 retail and
department store locations managed by its joint venture Coach
Japan, Inc. Coach generates additional wholesale sales through
business-to-business programs, in which companies purchase Coach
products to use as gifts or incentive rewards. Licensing
revenues consist of royalties paid to Coach under licensing
arrangements with select partners for the sale of Coach branded
watches, footwear and furniture.

Coach’s cost of sales consists of the costs
associated with the sourcing of its products. Coach’s gross
profit is dependent upon a variety of factors and may fluctuate
from quarter to quarter. These factors include changes in the
mix of products it sells, fluctuations in cost of materials and
changes in the relative sales mix among its distribution
channels.

Selling, general and administrative expenses
comprise four categories of expenses: selling; advertising,
marketing and design; distribution and customer service; and
administration and information services. Selling expenses
comprise store employee compensation, store occupancy costs,
store supply costs, wholesale account administration
compensation and all Coach Japan operating expenses.
Advertising, marketing and design expenses include employee
compensation, media space and production, advertising agency
fees, new product design costs as well as public relations,
market research expenses and mail order costs. Distribution and
customer services expenses comprise warehousing, order
fulfillment, shipping and handling, customer service and bag
repair costs. Administration and information services expenses
comprise compensation costs for the information systems,
executive, finance, human resources and legal departments as
well as consulting and software expenses. Selling, general and
administrative expenses are affected by the number of stores
Coach operates in any fiscal period and the relative proportions
of retail and wholesale sales. Selling, general and
administrative expenses increase as Coach and Coach Japan
operate more stores, although an increase in the number of
stores generally enables them to spread the fixed portion of its
selling, general and administrative expenses over a larger sales
base.

As part of the transformation of Coach’s
business, Coach ceased production at the Medley, Florida,
manufacturing facility in October 2000. This reorganization
involved the termination of 362 manufacturing, warehousing and
management employees at the Medley facility. These actions
reduced costs by the resulting transfer of production to lower
cost third-party manufacturers.



In April 2002, Coach ceased production at the
Lares, Puerto Rico, manufacturing facility. This reorganization
involved the termination of 394 manufacturing, warehousing and
management employees at the Lares facility. These actions will
reduce costs by the resulting transfer of production to lower
cost third-party manufacturers.

Coach’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday
closest to June 30.

Results of Operations

The following is a discussion of the results of
operations for fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001, and fiscal
2001 compared to fiscal 2000 along with a discussion of the
changes in financial condition during fiscal 2002.

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis
should be read in conjunction with Coach’s Consolidated
Financial Statements and accompanying footnotes thereto.

Net sales by business segment for fiscal 2002
compared to fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2000 are as follows:

Consolidated statements of income for fiscal 2002
compared to fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2000 are as follows:



Fiscal 2002
Compared to Fiscal 2001

Net
Sales

Net sales increased by 19.8% to
$719.4 million in fiscal 2002 from $600.5 million in fiscal
2001. These results reflect increased volume in both the
direct-to-consumer and indirect channels.

Direct.

Net
sales increased 14.1% to $447.1 million in fiscal 2002 from
$391.8 million in fiscal 2001. The increase was primarily
due to new store openings. Net sales from new retail and factory
stores accounted for approximately 78% or $42.9 million of
the increase in net sales. Since the end of fiscal 2001, Coach
opened 20 retail stores and six factory stores. In addition,
comparable store sales growth for retail stores and factory
stores open for one full year was 4.3% and 3.4%, which primarily
represented the balance of the increase in net sales, which was
partially offset by the three retail stores that were closed
during fiscal 2002.

Indirect.

Net
sales increased 30.5% to $272.3 million in fiscal 2002 from
$208.7 million in fiscal 2001. This increase was driven
primarily by the consolidation of Coach Japan and comparable
store sales growth in Japan. Coach Japan sales to consumers are
recorded at retail, versus sales to the former distributors,
which were recorded at wholesale value. The impact of Coach
Japan accounted for approximately $55 million of the
increase in net sales. This increase is a result of the shift to
retail from wholesale pricing, which contributed approximately
$37 million of the increase, with the balance of this
increase resulting from increased sales volume. The
international wholesale business was relatively consistent
compared to the prior year. The U.S. wholesale category
accounted for approximately $8 million of the increase in
net sales offset by a decrease in net sales of approximately
$4 million in the business-to-business category.

Gross
Profit

Gross profit increased 26.5% to
$483.4 million in fiscal 2002 from $382.0 million in
fiscal 2001. Gross margin increased approximately 360 basis
points to 67.2% in fiscal 2002 from 63.6% in fiscal 2001. This
improvement was driven by the consolidation of Coach Japan,
which contributed approximately 230 basis points. There was a
shift in product mix, reflecting the continued diversification
into non-leather fabrications with new and successful
mixed-material collections. This contributed approximately 100
basis points. In addition, gross margin benefited from the
continuing impact of sourcing cost reductions, which contributed
30 basis points.



The following chart illustrates the gross margin
performance we have experienced over the last eight quarters:

Selling,
General and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general and administrative expenses
increased 25.6% to $346.4 million in fiscal 2002 from
$275.7 million in fiscal 2001. Selling, general and
administrative expenses increased to 48.1% as a percentage of
net sales versus 45.9% in fiscal 2001.

Selling expenses increased by 40.9% to
$229.3 million, or 31.9% of net sales, in fiscal 2002 from
$162.7 million, or 27.1% of net sales, in fiscal 2001. The
dollar increase in these expenses was primarily due to the
operating costs associated with Coach Japan; which were borne by
former distributors in prior periods. Operating costs associated
with Coach Japan totaled $46.6 million in fiscal 2002.
Included in these costs was a $3.3 million fair value
adjustment for open foreign currency forward contracts. Also
contributing to the increase was $20.1 million in operating
costs associated with new retail and factory stores; increased
variable costs for comparable store sales; store remodels; costs
to support the additional stores; and store sales promotions to
enhance sales.

Advertising, marketing, and design expenses
decreased by 0.8% to $51.7 million, or 7.2% of net sales,
in fiscal 2002 from $52.2 million, or 8.7% of net sales, in
fiscal 2001. The dollar decrease in these expenses was primarily
due to the leveraging of costs through focused media placements,
as well as greater usage of postcards and direct mail.

Distribution and customer service expenses
increased to $26.9 million in fiscal 2002 from
$25.8 million in fiscal 2001. The dollar increase in these
expenses was primarily due to higher sales volumes, partially
offset by efficiency gains at the distribution and customer
service facility, which resulted in a decline in the ratio to
net sales from 4.3% in fiscal 2001 to 3.7% in fiscal 2002.

Administrative expenses increased to
$38.5 million, or 5.4% of net sales, in fiscal 2002 from
$35.0 million, or 5.8% of net sales, in fiscal 2001. The
absolute dollar increase in these expenses was primarily due to
increased staffing costs and consulting services related to
Coach becoming a stand-alone company, offset by business
interruption proceeds gain recorded for $1.4 million in
fiscal 2002 relating to our World Trade Center location.

Reorganization
Costs

In the third fiscal quarter of 2002, management
of Coach committed to and announced a plan to cease production
at the Lares, Puerto Rico, manufacturing facility in March 2002.
This reorganization involved the termination of 394
manufacturing, warehousing and management employees at the Lares
facility. These actions were intended to reduce costs by the
resulting transfer of production to lower cost third-party
manufacturers. Coach expects to achieve costs savings of
$3.9 million in fiscal 2003 and $5.2 million in
ongoing savings from these actions, to be realized in the form
of lower cost of goods. Coach recorded a reorganization cost of
$4.5 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2002. In the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, this charge was reduced to
$3.4 million. This was primarily due to the complete
disposition of the fixed assets, in which proceeds exceeded
original estimates by management. This reorganization cost
includes $2.2 million for worker separation costs,
$0.7 million for lease termination costs and
$0.5 million for the write-down of long-lived assets to net
realizable value. By June 29, 2002, production ceased at
the Lares facility and disposition of the fixed assets and the
termination of all employees had been completed.



Operating
Income

Operating income increased 31.4% to
$133.6 million from $101.7 million in fiscal 2001.
This increase resulted from higher sales and improved gross
margins, partially offset by an increase in selling, general and
administrative expenses. Excluding the impact of both fiscal
2002 and fiscal 2001 reorganization costs, operating income
increased 28.9% to $137.0 million, or 19.0% of net sales,
in fiscal 2002 from $106.3 million, or 17.7% of net sales,
in fiscal 2001.

Interest
Expense, Net

Net interest expense decreased 86.8% to
$0.3 million, or 0.04% of net sales, in fiscal 2002 from
$2.3 million or 0.4% of net sales, in fiscal 2001. The
dollar decrease was due to reduced borrowings as a result of
positive cash flow and cash on hand in fiscal 2002.

Income
Taxes

The effective tax rate decreased to 35.5% in
fiscal 2002 compared with the 35.6% recorded in fiscal 2001.

Minority
Interest

Minority interest, net of tax was
$0.2 million in fiscal 2002. There was no minority interest
in fiscal 2001. Included in minority interest was the joint
venture partner’s portion of the net income generated from
the operations of Coach Japan.

Net
Income

Net income increased 34.0% to $85.8 million
from $64.0 million in fiscal 2001. This increase was the
result of increased operating income. Excluding the impact of
both fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 reorganization costs, net of
related tax effect, net income increased 31.4% to
$88.0 million, or 12.2% of net sales, in fiscal 2002 from
$67.0 million, or 11.2% of net sales, in fiscal 2001.

Earnings
Per Share

Diluted net income per share was $0.94 in fiscal
2002 and $0.76 in fiscal 2001, which includes the effect of the
two-for-one stock split in July 2002. Diluted net income per
share excluding the impact of the reorganization costs, net of
related tax effect, was $0.97 in fiscal 2002 and $0.79 in fiscal
2001.

Fiscal 2001
Compared to Fiscal 2000

Net
Sales

Net sales increased by 11.7% to
$600.5 million in fiscal 2001 from $537.7 million in
fiscal 2000. These results reflect increased volume in both the
direct-to-consumer and indirect channels.

Direct.

Net sales increased 11.3% to
$391.8 million in fiscal 2001 from $352.0 million in
fiscal 2000. The increase was primarily due to new store
openings, store renovations, store expansions and comparable
stores sales growth. Comparable store sales growth for retail
stores and factory stores open for one full year was 2.1% and
4.3%, respectively. During fiscal 2001, Coach opened 15 new
retail stores and five new factory stores. In addition, 28
retail stores and five factory stores were remodeled, while
three retail stores and one factory store were expanded. No
stores were closed during fiscal 2001.

Indirect.

Net
sales attributable to United States and international wholesale
shipments increased 12.4% to $208.7 million in fiscal 2001
from $185.7 million in fiscal 2000. The increase was
primarily due to strong gains in the international wholesale
channel, highlighted by continued double-digit increases in
comparable location sales to Japanese consumers worldwide and
increased demand for new products. Licensing revenue increased
23.5% to $2.2 million in fiscal 2001 from $1.8 million
in fiscal 2000 due primarily to expanded distribution of
licensed footwear product.



Gross
Profit

Gross profit increased 20.3% to
$382.0 million in fiscal 2001 from $317.6 million in
fiscal 2000. Gross margin increased approximately 450 basis
points to 63.6% in fiscal 2001 from 59.1% in fiscal 2000. This
improvement was driven by a shift in product mix, reflecting the
continued diversification into non-leather fabrications with new
and successful mixed-material collections. In addition, gross
margin benefited from the continuing impact of sourcing cost
reductions as well as channel mix, as the international channel
continued to expand as a percentage of sales.

Selling,
General and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general and administrative expenses
increased 5.4% to $275.7 million in fiscal 2001 from
$261.6 million in fiscal 2000. Selling, general and
administrative expenses decreased to 45.9% as a percentage of
net sales versus 48.7% in fiscal 2000.

Selling expenses increased by 12.9% to
$162.7 million, or 27.1% of net sales, in fiscal 2001 from
$144.2 million, or 26.8% of net sales, in fiscal 2000. The
dollar increase in these expenses was primarily due to
$16.3 million of operating costs associated with new retail
and factory stores; increased variable costs for comparable
store sales; store remodels; costs to support the additional
stores; and store sales promotions to enhance sales. The
remaining selling expense increase was caused primarily by
volume-related costs in our indirect sales channels.

Advertising, marketing, and design expenses
increased by 4.0% to $52.2 million, or 8.7% of net sales,
in fiscal 2001 from $50.2 million, or 9.3% of net sales, in
fiscal 2000. The dollar increase in these expenses was primarily
due to increased staffing expenses of $1.0 million and
increased advertising expenses of $0.6 million.

Distribution and customer service expenses
increased slightly to $25.8 million, or 4.3% of net sales,
in fiscal 2001 from $25.3 million, or 4.7% of net sales, in
fiscal 2000. The dollar increase in these expenses was due to
higher sales volumes, partially offset by efficiency gains at
our distribution and customer service facility.

Administrative expenses decreased to
$35.0 million, or 5.8% of net sales, in fiscal 2001 from
$41.9 million, or 7.8% of net sales, in fiscal 2000. The
decrease in these expenses was due to lower fringe benefit costs
and lower performance based compensation expenses, partially
offset by higher occupancy costs associated with the lease
renewal of our New York City corporate headquarters location and
incremental expenses incurred to support new corporate
governance activities relating to Coach becoming publicly owned.

Reorganization
Costs

In the first fiscal quarter of 2001, management
of Coach committed to and announced a plan to cease production
at the Medley, Florida, manufacturing facility in October 2000.
This reorganization involved the termination of 362
manufacturing, warehousing and management employees at the
Medley facility. These actions were intended to reduce costs by
the resulting transfer of production to lower cost third-party
manufacturers. Coach achieved cost savings of $2.7 million
in fiscal 2001. Coach recorded a reorganization cost of
$5.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2001. In
the second half of fiscal year 2001, this charge was reduced to
$4.6 million. This was due primarily to the complete
disposition of the fixed assets, in which the proceeds exceeded
original estimates by management. This reorganization cost
includes $3.1 million for worker separation costs,
$0.8 million for lease termination costs and
$0.6 million for the write-down of long-lived assets to net
realizable value. By June 30, 2001, production ceased at
the Medley facility, disposition of the fixed assets had been
accomplished and the termination of the 362 employees had been
completed.

Operating
Income

Operating income increased 81.5% to
$101.7 million from $56.0 million in fiscal 2000. This
increase resulted from higher sales and improved gross margins,
partially offset by an increase in selling, general and
administrative expenses. Before the impact of reorganization
costs, operating income increased 89.7% to $106.3 million,
or 17.7% of net sales, in fiscal 2001 from $56.0 million,
or 10.4% of net sales, in fiscal 2000.



Interest
Expense, Net

Net interest expense increased 483% to
$2.3 million, or 0.4% of net sales, in fiscal 2001 from
$0.4 million or 0.1% of net sales, in fiscal 2000. The
increase was due to interest expense on the note payable to an
affiliate of Sara Lee that Coach assumed in October 2000 as part
of the initial public offering and interest expense on
borrowings on the Fleet National Bank facility (the “Fleet
facility”), which replaced the facility previously provided
by Sara Lee. There was no interest expense incurred on the
facility provided by Sara Lee in the prior year.

Income
Taxes

The effective tax rate increased to 35.6% in
fiscal 2001 from 30.6% in fiscal 2000. This increase was caused
by a lower percentage of income in fiscal 2001 attributable to
Company-owned offshore manufacturing, which is taxed at lower
rates.

Net
Income

Net income increased 65.9% to $64.0 million
from $38.6 million in fiscal 2000. This increase was the
result of increased operating income partially offset by a
higher provision for income taxes and increased interest
expense. Before the impact of reorganization costs, net of
related tax effect, net income increased 73.5% to
$67.0 million, or 11.2% of net sales, in fiscal 2001 from
$38.6 million, or 7.2% of net sales, in fiscal 2000.

Earnings
Per Share

Diluted net income per share was $0.76 in fiscal
2001. This reflects a weighted-average of the shares outstanding
before and after the public offering of common stock in October
2000 and the effect of the two-for-one stock split in July 2002.
Fiscal 2000 diluted net income per share was $0.55 since only
the shares owned by Sara Lee are used in the calculation.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

Liquidity and
Capital Resources

Net cash provided from operating and investing
activities was $52.0 million for fiscal 2002. Net cash provided
from operating and investing activities was $93.3 million
in fiscal 2001, a period not fully comparable since it
represented Coach as a subsidiary of Sara Lee through
April 5, 2001. Fiscal 2001 benefited by a decrease in
Receivables from Sara Lee. Excluding the impact of the decrease
in Receivables from Sara Lee, net cash provided from operating
and investing activities would have been $61.8 million in
fiscal 2001. The year-on-year decrease was the result of
increased working capital requirements for the joint venture in
Japan, its acquisition of P.D.C. Co. Ltd. and its buyout of
distribution rights and assets from J. Osawa, partially offset
by higher earnings during the year.

Capital expenditures amounted to
$42.8 million in fiscal 2002, compared with
$31.9 million in fiscal 2001 and in both periods related
primarily to new and renovated retail and factory stores.
Coach’s future capital expenditures will depend on the
timing and rate of expansion of our businesses, new store
openings, store renovations, international expansion
opportunities and management information systems initiatives.

Net cash provided from financing activities was
$38.3 million for fiscal 2002 as compared with a use of
cash of $89.7 million in fiscal 2001. The year-to-year
increase resulted from proceeds received from its joint venture
partner and net proceeds from the exercise of stock options,
offset by the repurchase of common stock. During fiscal 2001
Coach repaid long-term debt that was assumed as part of the
equity restructuring related to the initial public offering
completed in October 2000.

To provide funding for working capital for
operations and general corporate purposes, on February 27,
2001, Coach, certain lenders and Fleet National Bank, as primary
lender and administrative agent, entered into a
$100 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility.
Indebtedness under this revolving credit facility



bears interest calculated, at Coach’s
option, at either a rate of LIBOR plus a margin or the prime
rate announced by Fleet.

The Fleet facility contains various covenants and
customary events of default. Coach has been in compliance with
all covenants since its inception.

The initial LIBOR margin under the facility was
125 basis points. For the year ended June 29, 2002, the
LIBOR margin was 100 basis points reflecting an improvement in
our fixed-charge coverage ratio. Under this revolving credit
facility, Coach pays a commitment fee of 20 to 35 basis points
based on any unused amounts. The initial commitment fee was 30
basis points. For the year ended June 29, 2002, the
commitment fee was 25 basis points.

During fiscal 2002 the peak borrowings under the
Fleet facility were $46.9 million. In fiscal 2001 the peak
borrowings under the Sara Lee credit facility were
$37.7 million. As of June 29, 2002, the borrowings
under the Fleet facility were fully repaid from operating cash
flow. The facility remains available for seasonal working
capital requirements or general corporate purpose.

In order to provide funding for working capital,
the acquisition of distributors and general corporate purposes,
Coach Japan has entered into credit facilities with several
Japanese financial institutions. These facilities allow a
maximum borrowing of 6.7 billion yen or approximately
$56 million at June 29, 2002. Interest is based on the
Tokyo Interbank rate plus a margin of up to 50 basis points.

These Japanese facilities contain various
covenants and customary events of default. Coach Japan has been
in compliance with all covenants since their inception. Coach,
Inc. is not a guarantor on these facilities.

During fiscal 2002 the peak borrowings under the
Japanese credit facilities were $35.4 million. As of
June 29, 2002, borrowings under the Japanese revolving
credit facility agreements were $34.2 million.

On September 17, 2001 the Coach Board of
Directors authorized the establishment of a common stock
repurchase program. Under this program, up to $80 million
may be utilized to repurchase common stock through September
2004. Purchases of Coach stock may be made from time to time,
subject to market conditions and at prevailing market prices,
through open market purchases. Repurchased shares will become
authorized but unissued shares and may be issued in the future
for general corporate and other uses. Coach may terminate or
limit the stock repurchase program at any time.

During fiscal 2002, Coach repurchased
0.9 million shares at an average cost of $11.45 per share,
which were financed out of operating cash flows and borrowings
under the credit facility, which were repaid during fiscal 2002.

During August 2002, Coach repurchased
1.9 million shares at an average cost of $25.92 per share.
The stock repurchases of approximately $50 million were
financed out of cash on hand and operating cash flows. As of
August 30, 2002, Coach had expended approximately
$60 million of the $80 million authorized to date
under the stock repurchase program.

Coach opened 20 new U.S. retail stores in fiscal
2002. As of June 29, 2002 we completed our store renovation
program, which began in fiscal 1999. We expect that fiscal 2003
capital expenditures for new retail stores will be approximately
$20 million and that capital expenditures for retail,
factory and department store renovations will be approximately
$15 million. We intend to finance these investments from
internally generated cash flows or by using funds from our
revolving credit facility.

Coach experiences significant seasonal variations
in its working capital requirements. During the first fiscal
quarter Coach builds inventory for the holiday selling season,
opens new retail stores and generates higher levels of trade
receivables. In the second fiscal quarter its working capital
requirements are reduced substantially as Coach generates
consumer sales and collects wholesale accounts receivable. In
fiscal 2002, Coach purchased approximately $253 million of
inventory, which was funded by operating cash flow and by
borrowings under its revolving credit facility.

Management believes that cash flow from
operations and availability under the revolving credit
facilities will provide adequate funds for the foreseeable
working capital needs, planned capital expenditures and the



common stock repurchase program. Any future
acquisitions, joint ventures or other similar transactions may
require additional capital and there can be no assurance that
any such capital will be available to Coach on acceptable terms
or at all. Coach’s ability to fund its working capital
needs, planned capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments,
and to comply with all of the financial covenants under its debt
agreements, depends on its future operating performance and cash
flow, which in turn are subject to prevailing economic
conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of
which are beyond Coach’s control.

Currently, Sara Lee is a guarantor or a party to
many of Coach’s leases. Coach obtained a letter of credit
for the benefit of Sara Lee in an amount approximately equal to
the annual minimum rental payments under leases transferred to
Coach by Sara Lee but for which Sara Lee retains contingent
liability. Coach is required to maintain the letter of credit
until the annual minimum rental payments under the relevant
leases are less than $2.0 million. Coach has agreed to make
efforts to remove Sara Lee from all of its existing leases, and
Sara Lee is not a guarantor or a party to any new or renewed
leases. The initial letter of credit had a face amount of
$20.6 million, and we expect this amount to decrease
annually as Coach’s guaranteed obligations are reduced. As
of June 2002 the letter of credit was reduced to
$19.8 million. We expect that it will be required to
maintain the letter of credit for at least 10 years.

The following represents the scheduled maturities
of Coach’s long-term contractual obligations as
June 29, 2002.

Coach does not have any off-balance-sheet
financing or unconsolidated special purpose entities.
Coach’s risk management policies prohibit the use of
derivatives for trading purposes. The valuation of financial
instruments that are marked-to-market are based upon independent
third party sources.

Long-Term
Debt

Coach is party to an Industrial Revenue Bond
related to its Jacksonville facility. This loan has a remaining
balance of $3.7 million and bears interest at 8.77%.
Principal and interest payments are made semi-annually, with the
final payment due in 2014.

Tax
Rate

Coach has completed the shutdown of its Lares,
Puerto Rico, manufacturing facility. The shutdown eliminated the
tax benefit Coach has received under Section 936 of the
Internal Revenue Code. As a result, in fiscal year 2003 it is
anticipated that the effective tax rate will increase to
approximately 37%.

Seasonality

Because its products are frequently given as
gifts, Coach has historically realized, and expects to continue
to realize, higher sales and operating income in the second
quarter of its fiscal year, which includes the holiday months of
November and December. We anticipate that our sales and
operating profit will continue to be seasonal in nature.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND
ESTIMATES

The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America requires management to make estimates
and assumptions. Predicting future events



is inherently an imprecise activity and as such
requires the use of judgement. Actual results may vary from
estimates in amounts that may be material to the financial
statements. The accounting policies discussed below are
considered critical because changes to certain judgements and
assumptions inherent in these policies could affect the
financial statements.

In certain instances, accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America allow for the
selection of alternative accounting methods. Coach’s more
significant policies where alternative methods are available
include accounting for stock options and inventories. For more
information on Coach’s accounting policies please refer to
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Other critical
accounting policies are as follows:

Inventories

U.S. inventories are valued at the lower of cost
(determined by the first-in, first-out method) or market.
Inventories in Japan are valued at the lower of cost (determined
by the last-in, first-out method) or market. Inventory costs
include material, conversion costs, freight and duties. Reserves
for slow moving and aged merchandise are provided based on
historical experience and current product demand. We evaluate
the adequacy of reserves quarterly. A decrease in product demand
due to changing customer tastes, buying patterns or increased
competition could impact Coach’s evaluation of its slow
moving and aged merchandise.

Valuation of
Long-Lived Assets

Long-lived assets, other than intangible assets
and goodwill, primarily include property and equipment.
Long-lived assets being retained for use by Coach are
periodically reviewed for impairment by comparing the carrying
value of the assets with their estimated future undiscounted
cash flows. If it is determined that an impairment loss has
occurred, the loss would be recognized during the period. The
impairment loss would be calculated as the difference between
asset carrying values and the present value of estimated net
cash flows or comparable market values, giving consideration to
recent operating performance. Prior to the adoption of Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”)
No. 142 (“SFAS 142”) (discussed in New
Accounting Standards) we included intangible assets and goodwill
as a component of the long-lived asset categories reviewed for
impairment as discussed above. Subsequent to the adoption of
SFAS 142, indefinite lived intangible assets and goodwill
were reviewed for impairment in accordance with the new
accounting standards.

Long-lived assets that are to be disposed of, are
reported at the lower of carrying value or fair value less cost
to sell. Reductions in carrying value are recognized in the
period in which management commits to a plan to dispose of the
assets. However, our estimates project cash flows several years
into the future and could be affected by variable factors such
as inflation, real estate markets and economic conditions.

Revenue
Recognition

Sales are recognized at the point of sale, which
occurs when merchandise is sold in an over-the-counter consumer
transaction or, for the wholesale channels, upon shipment of
merchandise, when title passes to the customer. Allowances for
estimated uncollectible accounts, discounts, returns and
allowances are provided when sales are recorded based upon
historical experience and current trends. Royalty revenues are
earned through license agreements with manufacturers of other
consumer products that incorporate the Coach brand. Revenue
earned under these contracts is recognized based upon reported
sales from the licensee.

New
Accounting Standards

In April 2001, the Emerging Issues Task Force
(“EITF”) of the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) reached a final consensus on Issue 00-25
“Accounting for Consideration from a Vendor to a Retailer
in Connection with the Purchase or Promotion of the
Vendor’s Products.” In November 2001, EITF 00-25,
was codified in EITF 01-09. This issue addresses the
recognition, measurement and income statement classification of
consideration provided to distributors or retailers. Previously,
Coach had recorded these activities within selling, general and
administrative expenses. Coach adopted EITF 00-25 in the
first



quarter of fiscal 2002. In connection with this
adoption, prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform
with the current year’s presentation. The effect of the
adoption resulted in a reclassification from selling, general
and administrative expense to a reduction in net sales of
$15.6 million for fiscal 2001 and $11.2 million for
fiscal 2000.

In July 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141,
“Business Combinations” and SFAS No. 142,
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”
(“SFAS 142”). SFAS 141 requires all business
combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 to be accounted
for using the purchase method. As such all business combinations
initiated after June 30, 2001 are now accounted for using
the purchase method. The adoption of SFAS 141 did not have
any effect on our consolidated financial statements. Under
SFAS 142, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite
lives, such as our trademarks, are no longer amortized but are
reviewed annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators
arise) for impairment. Separable intangible assets that are not
deemed to have indefinite lives will continue to be amortized
over their useful lives (but with no maximum life). Coach
adopted this pronouncement in the first quarter of fiscal 2002
resulting in no goodwill or trademark amortization expense in
fiscal 2002. Goodwill and trademark amortization of
$0.9 million was recorded in fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2000.
The transitional impairment tests were completed and did not
result in an impairment charge.

In November 2001, the EITF reached consensus on
Issue 01-10, “Accounting for the Impact of the
Terrorist Attacks of September 11, 2001”. Related to
their discussion of this topic, the EITF also reached consensus
on Issue 01-13, “Income Statement Display of Business
Interruption Insurance Recoveries”. These issues primarily
relate to supplemental disclosure of the impact of the terrorist
attacks and the recognition of business interruption insurance
recoveries. Refer to Note 18, “Terrorist
Attacks”, of the consolidated financial statements, for a
discussion of the relevant impact on the Coach business and
financial statements.

In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143,
“Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations”
(“SFAS 143”). SFAS 143 addresses financial
accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the
retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated
asset retirement costs. SFAS 143 requires that the fair
value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation be
recognized in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable
estimate of fair value can be made. The associated asset
retirement costs are capitalized as part of the carrying amount
of the long-lived asset. SFAS 143 is effective for the
first quarter in the fiscal year ending June 28, 2003.
Coach does not expect the adoption of this statement to have a
material impact on its consolidated results of operations or
financial position.

In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets” (“SFAS 144”).
SFAS 144 addresses financial accounting and reporting for
the impairment of long-lived assets and for long-lived assets to
be disposed of. SFAS 144 supersedes FASB Statement
No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of. However,
SFAS 144 retains the fundamental provisions of Statement
121 for (a) recognition and measurement of the impairment
of long-lived assets to be held and used and
(b) measurement of long-lived assets to be disposed of by
sale. SFAS 144 is effective for the first quarter in the
fiscal year ending June 28, 2003. Coach is currently
evaluating the impact, if any, of adopting this statement on its
consolidated results of operations or financial position.

In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145,
“Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64,
Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical
Corrections” (“SFAS 145”). SFAS 145
rescinds the provisions of SFAS No. 4 that require
companies to classify certain gains and losses from debt
extinguishments as extraordinary items, eliminates the
provisions of SFAS No. 44 regarding transition to the Motor
Carrier Act of 1980 and amends the provisions of SFAS
No. 13 to require that certain lease modifications be
treated as sale-leaseback transactions. The provisions of
SFAS 145 related to classification of debt extinguishments
are effective for fiscal years beginning after May 15,
2002. Gains and losses from extinguishment of debt will be
classified as extraordinary items only if they meet the criteria
in APB Opinion No. 30; otherwise such costs will be
classified within income from operations. The provisions of SFAS
145 related to lease modification are effective for transactions
occurring after May 15, 2002. It is not expected that



the adoption of this statement will have a
material impact on Coach’s consolidated financial position
or results of operations.

In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146,
“Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal
Activities” (“SFAS 146”). SFAS 146
addresses financial accounting and reporting costs associated
with exit or disposal activities and nullifies EITF Issue
No. 94-3, “Liability Recognition for Certain Employee
Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity
(including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring).” It
applies to costs associated with an exit activity that does not
involve an entity newly acquired in a business combination or
with a disposal activity covered by SFAS 144. A liability
for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity shall be
recognized and measured initially at its fair value in the
period in which the liability is incurred. SFAS 146 is
effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated
after December 31, 2002. We do not expect the adoption of
this statement to have a material impact on Coach’s
consolidated results of operations or financial position.

Item 7A

— Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

The market risk inherent in our financial
instruments represents the potential loss in fair value,
earnings or cash flows arising from adverse changes in interest
rates or foreign currency exchange rates. Coach manages these
exposures through operating and financing activities and, when
appropriate through the use of derivative financial instruments
with respect to Coach Japan. The following quantitative
disclosures are based on quoted market prices obtained through
independent pricing sources for the same or similar types of
financial instruments, taking into consideration the underlying
terms and maturities and theoretical pricing models. These
quantitative disclosures do not represent the maximum possible
loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual results
may differ from those estimates.

Foreign
Exchange

Foreign currency exposures arise from
transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated
contracts, denominated in a currency other than the
entity’s functional currency, and from foreign-denominated
revenues translated into U.S. dollars.

Approximately 90% of Coach’s fiscal 2002
non-licensed product needs were purchased from independent
manufacturers in countries other than the United States. These
countries include China, Costa Rica, Italy, India, Spain,
Turkey, Thailand, Taiwan, Korea, Hungary, Singapore, Great
Britain and the Dominican Republic. Additionally, sales are made
through international channels to third party distributors.
Substantially all purchases and sales involving international
parties are denominated in U.S. dollars and, therefore, are
not hedged by Coach using any derivative instruments.

Coach is exposed to market risk from foreign
currency exchange rate fluctuations with respect to Coach Japan.
Coach, through Coach Japan, enters into certain foreign currency
derivative instruments that economically hedge certain of its
risks but have not been designated for hedge accounting. These
transactions are in accordance with Company risk management
policies. Coach does not enter into derivative transactions for
speculative or trading purposes. During fiscal 2002, Coach Japan
entered into forward foreign currency contracts for its
U.S. dollar-denominated inventory purchases. The foreign
currency forward contracts have durations no greater than
12 months. At June 29, 2002, open foreign currency
forward contracts with a notional amount of $33.2 million
were fair valued (i.e., marked to market) and resulted in a
pre-tax non cash charge to earnings of $3.3 million,
included as a component of selling, general and administrative
expenses, with a corresponding liability recorded in accrued
expenses. There were no foreign currency forward contracts as of
June 30, 2001.

Interest
Rate

Coach faces minimal interest rate risk exposure
in relation to its outstanding debt of $37.9 million at
June 29, 2002. Of this amount $34.2 million, under
revolving credit facilities, is subject to interest rate
fluctuations. A hypothetical 1% change in interest rate
applied to the fair value of debt would not have material impact
on earnings or cash flows of Coach.



Item 8.

Financial Statement and Supplementary
    Data

See the “Index to Financial
Statements”, which is located on page 38 of this
report.

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Coach engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP as its
independent accountants as of May 2, 2002, as reported on
the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on May 8, 2002.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant

The information set forth in the Proxy Statement
for the 2002 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated
herein by reference. The Proxy Statement will be filed with the
Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year
covered by this Form 10-K pursuant to Regulation 14A
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

The information set forth in the Proxy Statement
for the 2002 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated
herein by reference. The Proxy Statement will be filed with the
Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year
covered by the Form 10-K pursuant to Regulation 14A
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management

(a) Security ownership of management set
    forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2002 annual meeting of
    stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.

(b) There are no arrangements known to the
    registrant that may at a subsequent date result in a change in
    control of the registrant.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions

The information set forth in the Proxy Statement
for the 2002 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated
herein by reference. The Proxy Statement will be filed with the
Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year
covered by this Form 10-K pursuant to Regulation 14A
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

PART IV

Item 14.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and
    Reports on Form 8-K

(a) Financial Statements and Financial
    Statement Schedules See the “Index to Financial
    Statements” which is located on page 38 of this report.

(b) Exhibits. See the exhibit index which is
    included herein.

(c) Reports on Form 8-K. See the
    exhibit index which is included herein.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Act of 1934, the
Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

COACH, INC.

By:

/s/ LEW FRANKFORT

Name: Lew Frankfort

Title: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities
indicated below on September 20, 2002.



CERTIFICATIONS

I, Lew Frankfort, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this annual report on
    Form 10-K of Coach, Inc.

2.

Based on my knowledge, this annual report does
    not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to
    state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
    light of the circumstances under which such statements were
    made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
    annual report; and

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements,
    and other financial information included in this annual report,
    fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this annual report.

Date: September 20, 2002

By:

/s/ LEW FRANKFORT

Name: Lew Frankfort

Title: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

I, Michael F. Devine, III, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this annual report on
    Form 10-K of Coach, Inc.

2.

Based on my knowledge, this annual report does
    not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to
    state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
    light of the circumstances under which such statements were
    made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
    annual report; and

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements,
    and other financial information included in this annual report,
    fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this annual report.

Date: September 20, 2002

By:

/s/ MICHAEL F. DEVINE, III

Name: Michael F. Devine, III

Title: Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer



Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §1350, as created
by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the
undersigned officer of Coach, Inc. (the “Company”)
hereby certifies, to such officer’s knowledge, that:

(i) the accompanying Annual Report on
    Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended
    June 29, 2002 (the “Report”) fully complies with
    the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section 15(d), as
    applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended;
    and

(ii) the information contained in the Report
    fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
    condition and results of operations of the Company.

Date: September 20, 2002

By:

/s/ LEW FRANKFORT

Name: Lew Frankfort

Title: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §1350, as created
by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the
undersigned officer of Coach, Inc. (the “Company”)
hereby certifies, to such officer’s knowledge, that:

(i) the accompanying Annual Report on
    Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended
    June 29, 2002 (the “Report”) fully complies with
    the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section 15(d), as
    applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended;
    and

(ii)     the information
    contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
    respects, the financial condition and results of operations of
    the Company.

Date: September 20, 2002

By:

/s/ MICHAEL F. DEVINE, III

Name: Michael F. Devine, III

Title: Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer



UNITED STATES

SECURITES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

For the Fiscal Year Ended June 29,

COACH, INC.

New York, New York 10001

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

All other schedules are omitted because they are
not applicable or the required information is shown in the
consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.



INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Coach, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheet of Coach, Inc. and subsidiaries (the
“Company”) as of June 29, 2002 and the related
consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity and
cash flows for the year then ended. Our audit also included the
financial statement schedule for the year ended June 29,
2002, listed in the Index at Item 14. These financial
statements and the financial statement schedule are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and financial statement schedule based on our audit.
The Company’s financial statements and financial statement
schedules for the years ended June 30, 2001 and
July 1, 2000, before the revisions described in Note 2
to the financial statements, were audited by other auditors who
have ceased operations. Those auditors expressed an unqualified
opinion on those financial statements in their report dated
July 26, 2001 (except with respect to the matter discussed
in Note 16, as to which the date is July 31, 2001.
Such information is included as a component of Note 12 for the
year ended June 29, 2002).

We conducted our audit in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial
statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of the Company as of June 29, 2002 and
the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year
then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion,
such financial statement schedule for the year ended
June 29, 2002, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents
fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.

As discussed above, the financial statements of
the Company as of June 30, 2001 and July 1, 2000, and
for the years then ended were audited by other auditors who have
ceased operations. We audited the adjustments described in Note
2 that were applied to revise the financial statements for the
years ended June 30, 2001 and July 1, 2000 to give
retroactive effect to the change in the method of accounting for
consideration provided to distributors or retailers to conform
to Emerging Issues Task Force of the Financial Accounting
Standards Board Issue 00-25, as codified by
Issue 01-09 and the two-for-one split of the Company’s
common stock. In our opinion, such adjustments are appropriate
and have been properly applied. However, we were not engaged to
audit, review, or apply any procedures to the 2001 and 2000
financial statements of the Company other than with respect to
such adjustments and, accordingly, we do not express an opinion
or any other form of assurance on the 2001 and 2000 financial
statements taken as a whole.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

New York, New York

July 29, 2002 (August 30,

2002 as to
Note 22)



The following report is a copy of a previously
issued Report of Independent Public Accountants. This report
relates to prior years financial statements. This report has not
been reissued by Arthur Andersen LLP.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC
ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Coach, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Coach, Inc. (a Maryland corporation) as of
June 30, 2001 and July 1, 2000, and the related
consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity and
cash flows for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2001,
July 1, 2000 and July 3, 1999. These financial
statements and the schedule referred to below are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Coach, Inc. as of June 30, 2001 and
July 1, 2000 and the results of its operations and its cash
flows for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2001,
July 1, 2000 and July 3, 1999, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.

Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an
opinion on the basic financial statements taken as a whole. The
schedule listed in the index to financial statements is
presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s rules and is not a required part of
the basic financial statements. This schedule has been subjected
to the auditing procedures applied in our audit of the basic
financial statements and, in our opinion, is fairly stated in
all material respects in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole.

/s/ Arthur Andersen LLP

New York, New York

July 26, 2001 (except

with respect to the

matter discussed in

Note 16, as to
which the

date is
July 31, 2001)



COACH, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.



COACH, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.



COACH, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.



COACH, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

(1)

In fiscal 2000 the Company was a division of Sara
    Lee and tax payments were included in the Sara Lee receivable
    account.

See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

1.     Basis of
Presentation and Organization

Coach (“Coach” or the
“Company”) was formed in 1941 and was acquired by Sara
Lee Corporation (“Sara Lee”) in July 1985. On
June 1, 2000, Coach was incorporated under the laws of the
state of Maryland. Pursuant to the Separation Agreements, Sara
Lee transferred to Coach the assets and liabilities that related
to the Coach business on October 2, 2000 (the
“Separation Date”), prior to the date of completion of
Coach’s initial public offering.

In October 2000, Coach was listed on the New York
Stock Exchange and sold 16,974 shares of its common stock,
representing 19.5% of the outstanding shares. In April 2001,
Sara Lee completed a distribution of its ownership in Coach via
an exchange offer.

Coach designs, produces and markets high-quality,
modern American classic accessories. Coach products are
manufactured primarily by third-party suppliers. Coach markets
products via Company operated retail stores and factory stores,
direct mail catalogs, an e-commerce website, and via selected
upscale department and specialty retailer locations and
international department, retail and duty-free shop locations.

The consolidated financial statements of Coach
reflect the historical results of operations and cash flows of
the Coach leather goods and accessories business of Sara Lee
during each respective period until the Separation Date. Coach
was operated as a division of Sara Lee in the United States and
as a subsidiary in foreign countries until April 5, 2001.
The historical financial statements have been prepared using
Sara Lee’s historical basis in the assets and liabilities
and the results of Coach’s business. The financial
information included herein may not reflect the consolidated
financial position, operating results, changes in
stockholders’ equity and cash flows of Coach in the future,
or what they would have been had Coach been a separate,
stand-alone entity during Sara Lee’s ownership. On the
Separation Date, Coach began operating as a separate legal
entity.

In June 2001, Coach and Sumitomo Corporation
(“Sumitomo”) commenced a joint venture to form Coach
Japan, Inc. (“CJI”). Coach has a 50% interest in the
joint venture and is deemed to have control; therefore the
financial statements of the joint venture have been consolidated
with the Company.

2.     Significant
Accounting Policies

Fiscal
year

The Company’s fiscal year ends on the
Saturday closest to June 30. Unless otherwise stated,
references to years in the financial statements relate to fiscal
years. The fiscal years ended June 29, 2002, June 30,
2001 and July 1, 2000 were all 52-week periods.

Use of
Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities; the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the financial statements; and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
The level of uncertainty in estimates and assumptions increases
with the length of time the underlying transactions are
completed. Actual results could differ from estimates in amounts
that may be material to the financial statements.

Principles of
Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of the Company, all 100% owned subsidiaries and CJI.
All significant intercompany transactions and balances within
the Company are eliminated in consolidation.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

Cash and Cash
Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash
balances and highly liquid investments with an initial maturity
of less than 90 days.

Concentration
of Credit Risk

Financial instruments which potentially expose
Coach to concentration of credit risk, consist primarily of cash
investments and accounts receivable. The Company places its cash
investments with high-credit quality financial institutions and
currently invests primarily in bank money market funds placed
with major banks and financial institutions. Accounts receivable
is generally diversified due to the number of entities
comprising Coach’s customer base and their dispersion
across many geographical regions. The Company’s allowance
for bad debts and returns was $4,176 at June 29, 2002 and
$6,288 at June 30, 2001. The Company believes no
significant concentration of credit risk exists with respect to
these cash investments and accounts receivable.

Inventories

U.S. inventories are valued at the lower of cost
(determined by the first-in, first-out method) or market.
Inventories in Japan are valued at the lower of cost (determined
by the last-in, first-out method) or market. Inventories
recorded at LIFO were $525 lower than if they were valued at
FIFO at the end of fiscal 2002. Inventories valued under LIFO
amount to $27,555 in fiscal 2002. There were no inventories
recorded at LIFO at the end of fiscal 2001. Inventory costs
include material, conversion costs, freight and duties.

Property and
Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at cost less
accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is calculated on a
straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the
assets. Machinery and equipment are depreciated over lives of
five to seven years and furniture and fixtures are depreciated
over lives of three to five years. Leasehold improvements are
amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or
the related lease terms. Maintenance and repair costs are
charged to earnings as incurred while expenditures for major
renewals and improvements are capitalized. Upon the disposition
of property and equipment, the cost and related accumulated
depreciation are removed from the accounts.

Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets

As discussed in “Recent Accounting
Pronouncements,” the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142,
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”
(“SFAS 142”) effective in the first quarter of
fiscal 2002. Under this new standard, goodwill and indefinite
life intangible assets are no longer amortized but are subject
to annual impairment tests. Other intangible assets with finite
lives will continue to be amortized on a straight-line basis
over the periods of expected benefit. The transitional
impairment tests were completed and did not result in an
impairment charge.

Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets

Long-lived assets, other than intangible assets
and goodwill, primarily include property and equipment.
Long-lived assets being retained for use by the Company are
periodically reviewed for impairment by comparing the carrying
value of the assets with their estimated future undiscounted
cash flows. If it is determined that an impairment loss has
occurred, the loss would be recognized during the period. The
impairment loss would be calculated as the difference between
asset carrying values and the present value of estimated net
cash flows or comparable market values, giving consideration to
recent operating performance. Prior to the adoption of
SFAS 142 (discussed in Recent Accounting Pronouncements),
the Company included intangible assets and goodwill as a
component of the long-lived asset categories reviewed for
impairment as discussed above. Subsequent to the adoption of
SFAS 142, indefinite lived intangible assets and goodwill
were reviewed for impairment in accordance with the new
accounting standards.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

Long-lived assets that are to be disposed of, are
reported at the lower of carrying value or fair value less cost
to sell. Reductions in carrying value are recognized in the
period in which management commits to a plan to dispose of the
assets. See Note 8 for long-lived asset write-downs recorded in
connection with the Company’s fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001
reorganization plans.

Minority
Interest in Subsidiary

Minority interest in the statements of income
represents Sumitomo’s share of the income in CJI. The
minority interest in the consolidated balance sheets reflects
the original investment by Sumitomo in that consolidated
subsidiary, along with their proportional share of the
cumulative income of that subsidiary.

Revenue
Recognition

Sales are recognized at the point of sale, which
occurs when merchandise is sold in an over-the-counter consumer
transaction or, for the wholesale channels, upon shipment of
merchandise, when title passes to the customer. Allowances for
estimated uncollectible accounts, discounts, returns and
allowances are provided when sales are recorded. Royalty
revenues are earned through license agreements with
manufacturers of other consumer products that incorporate the
Coach brand. Revenue earned under these contracts is recognized
based upon reported sales from the licensee.

Advertising

Advertising costs, which include media and
production, totaled $17,279 for fiscal year 2002, $16,445 for
fiscal year 2001 and $15,764 for fiscal year 2000, and are
included in selling, general and administrative expenses.
Advertising costs are expensed when the advertising first
appears.

Shipping and
Handling

Shipping and handling costs incurred were $10,694
for fiscal year 2002, $10,087 for fiscal year 2001 and $9,670
for fiscal year 2000, and are included in selling, general and
administrative expenses.

Income
Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes in
accordance with SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income
Taxes” (“SFAS 109”). Under SFAS 109, a
deferred tax liability or asset is recognized for the estimated
future tax consequences of temporary differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial
statements and their respective tax bases.

The Company’s operating results have been
included in Sara Lee’s consolidated U.S. and state income
tax returns and in the tax returns of certain Sara Lee foreign
operations, for periods where Sara Lee owned greater than 80% of
the Company’s outstanding capital stock. During these
periods prior to April 5, 2001, the provision for income
taxes in the Company’s financial statements has been
prepared as if the Company were a stand-alone entity and filed
separate tax returns.

Stock-Based
Compensation

SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock
Based Compensation” (“SFAS 123”) establishes
a fair value-based method of accounting for stock-based employee
compensations plans; however, it also allows an entity to
continue to measure compensation expense for those plans using
the intrinsic value based method of accounting prescribed by
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees”
(“APB 25”). Under the fair value method,
compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the
value of the award and is recognized over the service period,
which is usually the vesting period. Under the intrinsic
value-based method, compensation expense is the excess, if any,
of the quoted market price of the stock at the grant date or
other measurement date over the amount an employee must pay to
acquire the stock. Coach has elected to account for its
stock-based employee compensation plans under



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

APB 25 with pro forma disclosures of net
earnings and earnings per share, as if the fair value-based
method of accounting defined in SFAS 123 had been applied.

Fair Value of
Financial Instruments

The fair value of the revolving credit facility
at June 29, 2002 and June 30, 2001 approximated its
carrying value due to its floating interest rates. The Company
has evaluated its industrial revenue bond and believes, based on
the interest rate, related term and maturity, that the fair
value of such instrument approximates its carrying amount. As of
June 29, 2002 and June 30, 2001, the carrying values
of cash and cash equivalents, trade accounts receivable,
accounts payable, and accrued liabilities approximated their
values due to the short-term maturities of these accounts.

Coach, through CJI, enters into foreign currency
forward contracts that economically hedge certain
U.S. dollar denominated inventory risk, but have not been
designated for hedge accounting. The fair value of these
contracts are recognized currently in earnings. The fair value
of the foreign currency derivative is based on its market value
as determined by an independent party. However, considerable
judgement is required in developing estimates of fair value.
Accordingly, the estimates presented herein are not necessarily
indicative of the amounts that Coach could settle in a current
market exchange. The use of different market assumptions or
methodologies could affect the estimated fair value.

Foreign
Currency

The functional currency of the Company’s
foreign operations is the applicable local currency. Assets and
liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars using the
current exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date,
while revenues and expenses are translated at the
weighted-average exchange rates for the period. The resulting
translation adjustments are recorded as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within
stockholders’ equity. Gains and losses from foreign
currency transactions were not significant for fiscal 2002, 2001
and 2000.

Net Income
Per Share

Basic net income per share was calculated by
dividing net income by the weighted-average number of shares
outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share was
calculated similarly but includes potential dilution from the
exercise of stock options and stock awards.

Stock
Spilt

In May of 2002 Coach’s Board of Directors
authorized a two-for-one split of the Company’s common
stock, to be effected in the form of a special dividend of one
share of the Company’s common stock for each share
outstanding. The additional shares issued as a result of the
stock split were distributed on July 3, 2002 to
stockholders of record on June 19, 2002. The effect of the
stock split on earnings per share was retroactively applied to
all periods presented.

Recent
Accounting Pronouncements

In April 2001, the Emerging Issues Task Force
(“EITF”) of the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) reached a final consensus on
Issue 00-25, “Accounting for Consideration from a
Vendor to a Retailer in Connection with the Purchase or
Promotion of the Vendor’s Products.” In November 2001,
EITF 00-25 was codified in EITF 01-09. This issue
addresses the recognition, measurement and income statement
classification of consideration provided to distributors or
retailers. Previously, the Company had recorded these activities
within selling, general and administrative expenses. The Company
adopted EITF 00-25 in the first quarter of fiscal 2002. In
connection with this adoption, prior period amounts have been
reclassified to conform with the current year’s
presentation. The effect of the adoption resulted in a



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

reclassification from selling, general and
administrative expense to a reduction in net sales of $15,588
for fiscal 2001 and $11,224 for fiscal 2000.

In July 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141,
“Business Combinations” (“SFAS 141”)
and No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets” (“SFAS 142”). SFAS 141 requires
all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 to
be accounted for using the purchase method. Under SFAS 142,
goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives, such as
the Company’s trademarks, are no longer amortized but are
reviewed annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators
arise) for impairment. As described further in Note 14,
separable intangible assets that are not deemed to have
indefinite lives will continue to be amortized over their useful
lives (but with no maximum life). The Company adopted this
statement in the first quarter of fiscal 2002, resulting in no
goodwill or trademark amortization expense in fiscal 2002.
Accumulated amortization of goodwill and indefinite life
intangible assets was $10,503 at June 29, 2002 and
June 30, 2001.

In November 2001, the EITF reached consensus on
Issue 01-10, “Accounting for the Impact of the
Terrorist Attacks of September 11, 2001.” Related to
their discussion of this topic, the EITF also reached consensus
on Issue 01-13, “Income Statement Display of Business
Interruption Insurance Recoveries.” These issues primarily
relate to supplemental disclosure of the impact of the terrorist
attacks and the recognition of business interruption insurance
recoveries. Refer to Note 18, “Terrorist
Attacks,” for discussion of the relevant impact on the
Coach business and financial statements.

In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143,
“Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.”
(“SFAS 143”). SFAS 143 addresses financial
accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the
retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated
asset retirement costs. SFAS 143 requires that the fair
value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation be
recognized in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable
estimate of fair value can be made. The associated asset
retirement costs are capitalized as part of the carrying amount
of the long-lived asset. SFAS 143 is effective for the
first quarter in the fiscal year ending June 28, 2003. The
Company does not expect the adoption of this pronouncement to
have a material impact on its consolidated results of operations
or financial position.

In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment for Disposal
of Long-Lived Assets” (“SFAS 144”). This
Statement addresses financial accounting and reporting for the
impairment of long-lived assets and for long-lived assets to be
disposed of. SFAS 144 supersedes FASB Statement
No. 121, “Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived
Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of.”
However, SFAS 144 retains the fundamental provisions of
Statement No. 121 for (a) recognition and measurement
of the impairment of long-lived assets to be held and used and
(b) measurement of long-lived assets to be disposed of by
sale. SFAS 144 is effective for the first quarter in the
fiscal year ending June 28, 2003. The Company is currently
evaluating the impact of adopting this pronouncement on its
consolidated results of operations.

In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145,
“Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64,
Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical
Corrections” (“SFAS 145”). SFAS 145
rescinds the provisions of SFAS No. 4 that require
companies to classify certain gains and losses from debt
extinguishments as extraordinary items, eliminates the
provisions of SFAS No. 44 regarding transition to the Motor
Carrier Act of 1980 and amends the provisions of SFAS
No. 13 to require that certain lease modifications be
treated as sale-leaseback transactions. The provisions of
SFAS 145 related to classification of debt extinguishments
are effective for fiscal years beginning after May 15,
2002. Gains and losses from extinguishment of debt will be
classified as extraordinary items only if they meet the criteria
in APB Opinion No. 30; otherwise such costs will be
classified within income from operations. The provisions of SFAS
145 related to lease modification are effective for transactions
occurring after May 15, 2002. It is not expected that the
adoption of this Statement will have a material impact on
Coach’s consolidated financial position or results of
operations.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146,
“Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal
Activities” (“SFAS 146”). SFAS 146
addresses financial accounting and reporting costs associated
with exit or disposal activities and nullifies EITF Issue
No. 94-3, “Liability Recognition for Certain Employee
Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity
(including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)”. It
applies to costs associated with an exit activity that does not
involve an entity newly acquired in a business combination or
with a disposal activity covered by SFAS 144. A liability
for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity shall be
recognized and measured initially at its fair value in the
period in which the liability is incurred. SFAS 146 is
effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated
after December 31, 2002. The Company does not expect the
adoption of this Statement to have a material impact on
Coach’s consolidated results of operations or financial
position.

3.     Balance Sheet
Components

The components of certain balance sheet accounts
are as follows:



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

4.     Income
Taxes

The provisions for income taxes computed by
applying the U.S. statutory rate to income before taxes as
reconciled to the actual provisions were:

Current and deferred tax provisions (benefits)
were:

The following are the components of the deferred
tax provisions (benefits) occurring as a result of transactions
being reported in different years for financial and tax
reporting:



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

The deferred tax assets at the respective
year-ends were as follows:

5.     Debt

Revolving
Credit Facilities

Prior to February 27, 2001, Coach
participated in a cash concentration system requiring that cash
balances be deposited with Sara Lee, which were netted against
borrowings/billings provided by Sara Lee.

On July 2, 2000, Coach entered into a
revolving credit facility with Sara Lee. The maximum borrowing
permitted under this facility was $75,000. Interest accrued at
U.S. dollar LIBOR plus 30 basis points. Any receivable
balance from Sara Lee under this facility earned interest at
U.S. dollar LIBOR minus 20 basis points. The credit
facility contained certain covenants, all of which were complied
with. This facility was terminated on February 27, 2001.

During October 2000, Coach completed an equity
restructuring, which included the assumption of $190,000 of
long-term debt payable to a subsidiary of Sara Lee. This
long-term debt had an original maturity date of
September 30, 2002, accruing interest at U.S. dollar
LIBOR plus 30 basis points. The note contained certain
covenants, consistent with the above mentioned revolving credit
facility. In fiscal 2001, this loan was fully paid off by the
Company from the net proceeds of the initial public offering,
redeeming the short-term investments with Sara Lee and drawing
down on the Sara Lee revolving credit facility.

To provide funding for working capital for
operations and general corporate purposes, on February 27,
2001, Coach, certain lenders and Fleet National Bank, as primary
lender and administrative agent, entered into a $100,000 senior
unsecured three-year revolving credit facility (the “Fleet
facility”). This facility expires on February 27, 2004.

The initial LIBOR margin under the Fleet facility
was 125 basis points. For the year ended June 29,
2002, the LIBOR margin was 100 basis points reflecting an
improvement in our fixed-charge coverage ratio. Under this
revolving credit facility, Coach pays a commitment fee of 20 to
35 basis points based on any unused amounts. The initial
commitment fee was 30 basis points. For the year ended
June 29, 2002, the commitment fee was 25 basis points.
This credit facility may be prepaid without penalty or premium.

During fiscal 2002 the peak borrowings under the
Fleet facility were $46,850. In fiscal 2001 the peak borrowings
under the Sara Lee and Fleet revolving credit facility were
$37,667 and $31,000, respectively. As of June 29, 2002, the
borrowings under the Fleet facility were fully repaid from
operating cash flow. This facility remains available for
seasonal working capital requirements or general corporate
purposes.

The Fleet facility prohibits Coach from paying
dividends while the credit facility is in place, with certain
exceptions. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will
be at the discretion of Coach’s Board of Directors and will
be dependent upon Coach’s financial condition, operating
results, capital requirements and such other factors as the
Board of Directors deems relevant.

The Fleet facility contains various covenants and
customary events of default. The Company has been in compliance
with all covenants since its inception.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

In order to provide funding for working capital,
the acquisition of distributors and general corporate purposes,
CJI has entered into credit facilities with several Japanese
financial institutions. These facilities allow a maximum
borrowing of 6,700,000 yen or approximately $56,000 at
June 29, 2002. Interest is based on the Tokyo Interbank
rate plus a margin of up to 50 basis points.

These facilities contain various covenants and
customary events of default. CJI has been in compliance with all
covenants since their inception. Coach, Inc. is not a guarantor
on any of these facilities.

During fiscal 2002 the peak borrowings under the
Japanese credit facilities were $35,426. As of June 29,
2002, the outstanding borrowings under the Japanese facilities
were $34,169.

Long-Term
Debt

Coach is party to an Industrial Revenue Bond
related to its Jacksonville facility. This loan has a remaining
balance of $3,690 and bears interest at 8.77%. Principal and
interest payments are made semi-annually, with the final payment
due in 2014.

Future principal payments under the industrial
revenue bond are as follows:

6.     Leases

Coach leases certain office, distribution, retail
and manufacturing facilities. The lease agreements, which expire
at various dates through 2016, are subject, in some cases, to
renewal options and provide for the payment of taxes, insurance
and maintenance. Certain leases contain escalation clauses
resulting from the pass-through of increases in operating costs,
property taxes and the effect on costs from changes in consumer
price indices. Certain rentals are also contingent upon factors
such as sales. Rent-free periods and other incentives granted
under certain leases and scheduled rent increases are charged to
rent expense on a straight-line basis over the related terms of
such leases. Contingent rentals are recognized when the
achievement of the target, which triggers the related payment,
are considered probable. Rent expense for the Company’s
operating leases consisted of the following:



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

Future minimum rental payments under
noncancelable operating leases are as follows:

Certain operating leases provide for renewal for
periods of three to five years at their fair rental value at the
time of renewal. In the normal course of business, operating
leases are generally renewed or replaced by new leases.

7.     Commitments
and Contingencies

Currently, Sara Lee is a guarantor or a party to
many of Coach’s leases. The Company has obtained a letter
of credit for the benefit of Sara Lee in an amount approximately
equal to the annual minimum rental payments under leases
transferred to the Company by Sara Lee but for which Sara Lee
retains contingent liability. The Company is required to
maintain the letter of credit until the annual minimum rental
payments under the relevant leases are less than $2,000. The
Company has agreed to make efforts to remove Sara Lee from all
its existing leases and Sara Lee is not a guarantor or a party
to any new or renewed leases. The initial letter of credit had a
face amount of $20,600, and the Company expects this amount to
decrease annually as its guaranteed obligations are reduced. As
of June 29, 2002, the letter of credit was reduced to
$19,820. The Company expects that it will be required to
maintain the letter of credit for at least 10 years.

Coach is a party to several pending legal
proceedings and claims. Although the outcome of such items
cannot be determined with certainty, Coach’s general
counsel and management are of the opinion that the final outcome
should not have a material effect on Coach’s cash flow,
results of operations or financial position.

8.

Reorganization Costs

On January 23, 2002, management of Coach
announced a plan to cease production at the Lares, Puerto Rico,
manufacturing facility. This reorganization involved the
termination of 394 manufacturing, warehousing and
management employees at the Lares, Puerto Rico, facility. These
actions will reduce costs by the resulting transfer of
production to lower cost third-party manufacturers. Coach
recorded reorganization costs of $4,467 in the third quarter. In
the fourth quarter this charge was reduced to $3,373. This was
due primarily to the complete disposition of the fixed assets,
resulting in the receipt of proceeds greater than originally
estimated. The reorganization costs include $2,229 for worker
separation costs, $659 for lease termination costs and $485 for
the write down of long-lived assets to net realizable value.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

The composition of the reorganization reserve,
included in accrued liabilities, is set forth in the following
table. By June 29, 2002, production ceased at the Lares
facility and disposition of the fixed assets and the termination
of the 394 employees had been completed.

Coach anticipates that the remaining
workers’ separation and lease termination costs will be
settled during the first half of fiscal 2003.

In the first quarter of fiscal 2001, management
of Coach committed to and announced a plan to cease production
at the Medley, Florida, manufacturing facility in October 2000.
This reorganization involved the termination of
362 manufacturing, warehousing and management employees at
that facility. These actions reduced costs by the resulting
transfer of production to lower cost third-party manufacturers.
Coach recorded a reorganization cost of $4,950 in the first
quarter of fiscal year 2001. In the third quarter of fiscal year
2001, this charge was reduced to $4,569, as a result of the
complete disposition of the fixed assets at proceeds greater
than originally estimated by management. The reorganization
costs included $3,103 for worker separation costs, $832 for
lease termination costs and $634 for the write-down of
long-lived assets to net realizable value. By the end of fiscal
2001, production ceased at the Medley facility and disposition
of the fixed assets and the termination of the
362 employees had been completed.

The composition of the reorganization reserve is
set forth in the following table. By June 30, 2001,
production ceased at the Medley facility and disposition of the
fixed assets and the termination of the 362 employees had
been completed.

9.

Stock-Based Compensation

Coach Stock-Based Plans.

At the time of the initial public
offering Coach established the 2000 Stock Incentive Plan and the
2000 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan to award stock options and
other forms of equity compensation to certain members of Coach
management and the outside members of its Board of Directors.
These plans were approved by Coach’s stockholders during
fiscal 2002. The exercise price of each stock option equals 100%
of the market price of Coach’s stock on the date of grant
and generally has a maximum term of 10 years. Options
generally vest ratably over three years.

Under Coach’s stock option plans, an active
employee can receive a replacement stock option equal to the
number of shares surrendered upon a stock-for-stock exercise.
The exercise price of the replacement option was 100% of the
market value at the date of exercise of the original option and
will remain exercisable for the



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

remaining term of the original option.
Replacement stock options generally vest six months from the
grant date.

Concurrent with the initial public offering in
October 2000, Coach granted 6,382 options to essentially
all full-time employees and 30 options to outside members
of the Board of Directors at the initial public offering price
of $8.

Coach employees, at the initial public offering
date, converted 2,408 Sara Lee options into the same number
of Coach options while maintaining the same exercise price.

A summary of options held by Coach employees
under the Coach option plans follows:

The following table summarizes information about
stock options under the Coach option plans at June 29, 2002.

The fair value of each Coach option grant is
estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model and the following weighted-average
assumptions:



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

The weighted-average fair values of individual
options granted were $4.81 during fiscal 2002 and $3.34 during
fiscal 2001.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan.

During fiscal 2002, Coach
established the employee stock purchase plan and received
stockholder approval of this program. Under this plan, full-time
Coach employees are permitted to purchase a limited number of
Coach common shares at 85% of market value. Under this plan,
Coach sold 26 shares to Coach employees in fiscal year 2002. Pro
forma compensation expense is calculated for the fair value of
employees purchase rights using the Black-Scholes model.
Underlying assumptions are an expected life of .4 years,
risk free interest of 1.9%, expected volatility of 35.6% and
dividend yield of 0%. The weighted-average fair value of the
purchase rights granted during fiscal 2002 was $5.88.

Stock Unit Awards.

Restricted stock unit awards of
Coach common stock have been granted to employees as retention
awards. The value of retention awards is determined based upon
the fair value of Coach stock at the grant date.

Stock awards are generally restricted and subject
to forfeiture until the retention period is completed. The
retention period is generally three years. As of June 29,
2002, retention awards of 140 shares are outstanding, including
the 76 shares that were converted from a Sara Lee program at the
time of the initial public offering. This value is initially
recorded as unearned compensation and is charged to earnings
over the retention period. The expense related to these awards
was $235 for fiscal 2002 and $315 for fiscal 2001.

Sara Lee Stock-Based Plans.

Prior to the completion of the
exchange offer in April 2001, Coach employees participated in
stock-based compensation plans of Sara Lee. Sara Lee maintained
various stock option, employee stock purchase and stock award
plans.

Stock Options.

The exercise price of each stock
option equaled 100% of the market price of Sara Lee’s stock
on the date of grant and generally had a maximum term of
10 years. Options generally vested ratably over three
years. Under certain stock option plans, an active employee
could receive a Sara Lee replacement stock option equal to the
number of shares surrendered upon a stock-for-stock exercise.
The exercise price of the replacement option was 100% of the
market value at the date of exercise of the original option and
remained exercisable for the remaining term of the original
option. Replacement stock options generally vest six months from
the grant date.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

A summary of options held by Coach employees and
retirees under the Sara Lee option plans follows:

The fair value of each option grant under the
Sara Lee plans is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model and the following
weighted-average assumptions:

The weighted-average fair values of individual
options granted were $4.65 during fiscal 2001 and $4.96 during
fiscal 2000.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan.

Sara Lee maintained an employee
stock purchase plan that permitted full-time Coach employees to
purchase a limited number of Sara Lee common shares at 85% of
market value. Under the plan, Sara Lee sold to Coach employees
57 shares in fiscal year 2001 and 100 shares in fiscal year
2000. Pro forma compensation expense is calculated for the fair
value of the employees’ purchase rights using the
Black-Scholes model. Assumptions include an expected life of a
quarter of a year and weighted-average risk-free interest rates
of 5.4% in fiscal years 2001 and 2000. Other underlying
assumptions are consistent with those used for the Sara Lee
stock option plans described above.

Stock Unit Awards.

Restricted stock unit awards of
Sara Lee stock were granted to Coach employees as performance
awards and retention awards. The value of performance awards was
determined assuming the employee meets the performance
requirements and based upon the estimated fair value of the
stock earned at the end of the performance cycle. The value is
accrued through a charge to earnings as the award vests. The
vesting period is typically three years. The value of retention
awards is determined assuming the employee meets the retention
requirements and based upon the fair value of the Sara Lee stock
at the grant date. The value is accrued through a charge to
earnings over the retention period. The retention period is
typically three years.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

All stock unit awards are restricted and subject
to forfeiture and entitle the participant to dividends that are
escrowed until the participant receives the shares. The expense
related to these awards was $728 for fiscal 2001 and $963 for
fiscal 2000.

Pro forma SFAS 123 Disclosure.

Under APB 25, no compensation cost
is recognized for stock options and replacement stock options
under the stock-based compensation plans and shares purchased
under the employee stock purchase plan. Had compensation cost
for the grants for stock-based compensation been determined
consistent with SFAS 123, net income and net income per share,
basic and diluted, for fiscal years 2002, 2001 and 2000 would
have been as follows:

Deferred
Compensation.

Under the Coach,
Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, executive officers
and employees at or above the director level may elect to defer
all or a portion of their annual bonus or annual base salary
into the plan. Under the Coach, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan
for Non-Employee Directors, Coach’s outside directors may
similarly defer their director’s fees. Amounts deferred
under these plans may, at the participants’ election, be
either represented by deferred stock units, which represent the
right to receive shares of Coach common stock on the
distribution date elected by the participant, or placed in an
interest-bearing account to be paid on such distribution date.
The amounts accrued under these plans were $2,051 at
June 29, 2002 and $2,007 at June 30, 2001; these
amounts are reflected in other noncurrent liabilities in the
consolidated balance sheets.

The following table summarizes share and exercise
price information about Coach’s equity compensation plans
as of June 29, 2002.

10.     Retirement
Plans

Coach has established the Coach, Inc. Savings and
Profit Sharing Plan, which is a noncontributory defined
contribution plan. Employees who meet certain eligibility
requirements and are not part of a collective bargaining
agreement participate in this program.

Coach sponsors a noncontributory defined benefit
plan, The Coach Leatherware Company, Inc. Supplemental Pension
Plan, for individuals who are a part of collective bargaining
arrangements.

Employees who met certain eligibility
requirements and were not part of a collective bargaining
arrangement participate in defined benefit pension plans
sponsored by Sara Lee through June 30, 2001. These defined
benefit pension plans include employees from a number of
domestic Sara Lee business units. The



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

annual cost of the Sara Lee defined benefit plans
is allocated to all of the participating businesses based upon a
specific actuarial computation. All obligations pursuant to
these plans are obligations of Sara Lee.

The annual expense incurred by Coach for the
defined contribution and benefit plans is as follows:

The components of the Coach Leatherware Company,
Inc. Supplemental Pension Plan expense were:

The funded status of the Coach Leatherware
Company, Inc. Supplemental Pension Plan at the respective year
ends was:



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

Net pension expense for the Coach Leatherware
Company, Inc. Plan is determined using assumptions as of the
beginning of each year. Funded status is determined using
assumptions as of the end of each year.

The assumptions used at the respective year-ends
were:

11.     Segment
Information

The Company operates its business in two
reportable segments: Direct-to-Consumer and Indirect. The
Company’s reportable segments represent channels of
distribution that offer similar merchandise, service and
marketing strategies. Sales of Coach products through
Company-operated retail and factory stores, the Coach catalogue
and the internet constitute the Direct-to-Consumer segment.
Indirect refers to sales of Coach products to other retailers
and includes sales through its joint venture in Japan. In
deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance,
Coach’s executive officers regularly evaluate the sales and
operating income of these segments. Operating income is the
gross margin of the segment at standard cost less direct
expenses of the segment. Unallocated corporate expenses include
manufacturing variances, general marketing, administration and
information systems, distribution and customer service expenses.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

The following is a summary of the common costs
not allocated in the determination of segment performance.

Geographic Area Information

As of June 29, 2002, Coach operated 138
retail stores and 74 factory stores in the United States, two
retail locations in the United Kingdom, and operated four
manufacturing, distribution, product development and quality
control locations in the United States, Italy and China.
Geographic revenue information is based on the location of the
end customer. Geographic long-lived asset information is based
on the physical location of the assets at the end of each
period. Indirectly, through CJI, Coach operates 83 retail and
department store locations in Japan.

Note (1) —

Other International sales reflect shipments to
    third-party distributors primarily in East Asia and sales from
    Coach-operated retail stores in the United Kingdom.

12.     Coach Japan,
Inc. and the Acquisition of Distributors

In order to expand its presence in the Japanese
market and to exercise greater control over its brand in that
country, Coach formed CJI and has completed a program to acquire
the existing distributors. This entity is a joint venture with
Sumitomo, which manages the Coach business in Japan. Coach owns
50% of CJI and is deemed to have control as Coach appoints a
majority of the Board of Directors and as such, CJI is accounted
for as a consolidated subsidiary. Under the terms of the joint
venture agreement, Coach supplies its merchandise to CJI for
distribution and sale in Japan. Additionally, the joint venture
agreement contains provisions to enable Coach to purchase the
remaining minority interest in CJI after the beginning of the
seventh year of the joint venture agreement. Alternatively,
Sumitomo could require Coach to purchase its ownership interest
in the joint venture after such time as established in the terms
of the joint venture agreement.

On July 31, 2001, CJI completed the purchase
of 100% of the capital stock of P.D.C. Co. Ltd.
(“PDC”) from the Mitsukoshi Department Store Group
(“Mitsukoshi”) for a total purchase price of $9,018.



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

Mitsukoshi established PDC in 1991 to expand
Coach distribution to select department stores throughout Japan.
At the time of acquisition PDC operated 63 retail and department
store locations in Japan. The strength of the going concern and
the established locations supported a premium above the fair
value of the individual assets. The fair value of assets
acquired was $22,351 and liabilities assumed were $20,732.
Excess purchase price over fair market value is reported as
goodwill. Results of the acquired business are included in the
consolidated financial statements from August 1, 2001,
onward. Unaudited pro forma information related to this
acquisition are not included, as the impact of this transaction
is not material to the consolidated results of the Company.

On January 1, 2002, CJI completed the buyout
of the distribution rights and assets, related to the Coach
business, from J. Osawa and Company, Ltd. for $5,792 in cash. At
the time of the acquisition, J. Osawa operated 13 retail and
department store locations in Japan. The strength of the going
concern and the established locations supported a premium above
the fair value of the individual assets. The assets acquired of
$5,371 were recorded at estimated fair values as determined by
the Company’s management based upon information currently
available. Goodwill of $421 has been recognized for the excess
of the purchase price over the preliminary estimate of fair
market value of the net assets acquired. Accordingly, the
allocation of the purchase price is subject to revision, which
is not expected to be material, based on the final determination
of fair values of the assets acquired. Results of the acquired
business are included in the consolidated financial statements
from January 1, 2002, onward. Unaudited pro forma
information related to this acquisition are not included, as the
impact of this transaction is not material to the consolidated
results of the Company.

There are currently a total of 85 Coach locations
in Japan, including 68 department stores and 15 retail stores
managed by CJI and two airport locations operated by a
distributor. CJI plans to open additional locations within
existing major retailers, enter new department store
relationships and open freestanding retail locations.

13.  Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities

Effective July 2, 2000, the Company adopted
SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities” (“SFAS 133”).
SFAS 133, as amended and interpreted, establishes
accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments,
including certain derivative instruments embedded in other
contracts and for hedging activities. All derivatives, whether
designated in hedging relationships or not, are required to be
recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. If the derivative
is designated as a fair value hedge, the changes in fair value
of the hedged item are recorded in the statements of operations
in the period incurred. If the derivative is designated as a
cash flow hedge, effective changes in the fair value of the
derivative are recorded in other comprehensive income and are
recognized in the statement of operations when the hedged items
affects earnings. Ineffective portions of changes in the fair
value of cash flow hedges are recognized in earnings
immediately. The cumulative effect of adoption of SFAS 133
was not material to the financial position or the results of
operations of the Company.

Substantially, all purchases and sales involving
international parties are denominated in U.S. dollars and,
therefore, are not hedged using any derivative instruments. The
Company had not used foreign exchange instruments prior to the
formation of CJI.

The Company is exposed to market risk from
foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations with respect to CJI.
The Company, through CJI, enters into certain foreign currency
derivative instruments that economically hedge certain of its
risks but have not been designated for hedge accounting. These
transactions are in accordance with Company risk management
policies. The Company does not enter into derivative
transactions for speculative or trading purposes. During fiscal
2002, CJI entered into foreign currency forward contracts for
its U.S. dollar-denominated inventory purchases. In assessing
the fair value of these contracts, the Company has utilized
independent valuations. However, some judgement is required in
developing estimates of fair values. Accordingly, the estimates
presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts
that the



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

Company could settle in a current market
exchange. The use of different market assumptions or
methodologies could effect the estimated fair value.

The foreign currency contracts entered into by
the Company have durations no greater than 12 months. At
June 29, 2002, open foreign currency forward contracts with
a notional amount of $33,150 were fair valued (i.e., marked to
market) and resulted in a pretax non cash charge to earnings of
$3,252, included as a component of selling, general and
administrative expenses, with a corresponding liability included
in accrued liabilities. There were no foreign currency forward
contracts entered into by the Company as of June 30, 2001.

14.  Goodwill and Intangible
Assets

The Company adopted SFAS 142 in the first
quarter of fiscal 2002, resulting in no goodwill or trademark
amortization expense in fiscal 2002. Under the new standard,
goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, such as the
Company’s trademarks, are no longer amortized but are
subject to annual impairment tests. In accordance with
SFAS 142, prior period amounts were not restated. Coach
recorded goodwill and trademark amortization expense of $900 in
fiscal 2001 and $899 in fiscal 2000. If the guidance of the
statement had been applied retroactively, prior year results
would have been different than previously reported. A
reconciliation of net income as reported to adjusted net income
for the exclusion of goodwill and trademark amortization, net of
tax, is as follows:

The net carrying value of goodwill and other
intangible assets as of June 29, 2002 and June 30,
2001 is comprised of the following:



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

Changes in the carrying amounts of net goodwill
for the year ended June 29, 2002 are as follows:

15.  Earnings Per Share

Prior to October 2, 2000, Coach operated as
a division of Sara Lee and did not have any shares outstanding.
The initial capitalization of Coach, Inc. was two shares. On
October 2, 2000, a stock dividend was declared resulting in
70,052 shares held by Sara Lee. The number of shares outstanding
has been restated to reflect the effect of this stock dividend
for all periods presented prior to October 2, 2000. During
October 2000, the initial public offering of the Company’s
common stock was accomplished resulting in the issuance of an
additional 16,974 shares. Following the offering, 87,026 shares
were outstanding. Dilutive securities include share equivalents
held in employee benefit programs and the impact of stock option
programs.

The following is a reconciliation of the
weighted-average shares outstanding:

Diluted net income per share was $0.94 in fiscal
2002. This reflects a weighted-average of the shares outstanding
during fiscal 2002. Comparable diluted net income per share for
fiscal 2001 was $0.76. This reflects a weighted-average of the
shares outstanding before and after the initial public offering
of stock in October 2000. Fiscal 2000 diluted net income per
share was $0.55 since only the shares owned by Sara Lee are used
in the calculation. The effect of the two-for-one stock split
was retroactively applied to all periods presented.

16.     Relationship
with Sara Lee

Three types of intercompany transactions were
recorded in the Coach intercompany account with Sara Lee: cash
collections from Coach’s operations that were deposited
into the intercompany account; cash borrowings that were used to
fund operations; and allocations of corporate expenses and
charges. Cash collections included all cash receipts required to
be deposited into the intercompany account as part of the Sara
Lee cash concentration system. Cash borrowings made by Coach
from the Sara Lee cash concentration system were used to fund
operating expenses.

The Company was charged with allocations of
corporate expenses in the amounts of $31,437 for fiscal 20001
and $22,442 for fiscal 2000, which were included as components
of selling, general and administrative expenses. These charges
consisted of expenses for business insurance, medical insurance,
employee benefit



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

plan amounts, income, employment and other tax
amounts and allocations from Sara Lee for certain centralized
administration costs for treasury, real estate, accounting,
auditing, tax, risk management, human resources and benefits
administration. As of the Separation Date there are no further
transactions of this nature.

17.     Shareholder
Rights Plan

On May 3, 2001 Coach declared a “poison
pill” dividend distribution of rights to buy additional
common stock to the holder of each outstanding share of
Coach’s common stock.

Subject to limited exceptions, these rights may
be exercised if a person or group intentionally acquires 10% or
more of the Company’s common stock or announces a tender
offer for 10% or more of the common stock on terms not approved
by the Coach Board of Directors. In this event, each right would
entitle the holder of each share of Coach’s common stock to
buy one additional common share of the Company at an exercise
price far below the then-current market price. Subject to
certain exceptions, Coach’s Board of Directors will be
entitled to redeem the rights at $0.001 per right at any time
before the close of business on the tenth day following either
the public announcement that, or the date on which a majority of
Coach’s Board of Directors becomes aware that, a person has
acquired 10% or more of the outstanding common stock. The
Company is currently aware of one institutional shareholders
whose common stock holdings exceed the 10% threshold established
by the rights plan. This holder has been given permission to
increase its ownership in the Company to a maximum of 15%,
subject to certain exceptions, before triggering the provision
of the rights plan.

18.     Terrorist
Attacks

Coach operated a retail store in the World Trade
Center since 1995. During fiscal 2001, the store generated sales
of $4,382. As a result of the September 11, 2001 attack,
the store was destroyed. Inventory of $180 and fixed assets of
$353 have been removed from the accounts and Coach has received
preliminary payments under its property insurance coverage.

Preliminary losses relating to the Company’s
business interruption coverage have been filed with the
insurers. Coach has held discussions with its insurance carriers
and expects to fully recover these losses. In the third and
fourth quarters of fiscal 2002 Coach received preliminary
payments and recorded a gain of $1,413, of which $1,002 was
received in the fourth quarter, under the Company’s
business interruption coverage. This amount was included as a
reduction of selling, general and administrative expenses.

19.     Stock
Repurchase Program

On September 17, 2001, the Coach Board of
Directors authorized the establishment of a common stock
repurchase program. Under this program, up to $80,000 may be
utilized to repurchase common stock through September 2004.
Purchases of Coach stock may be made from time to time, subject
to market conditions and at prevailing market prices, through
open market purchases. Repurchased shares will become authorized
but unissued shares and may be issued in the future for general
corporate and other uses. The Company may terminate or limit the
stock repurchase program at any time. During fiscal 2002, the
Company repurchased 860 shares at an average cost of $11.45 per
share.

20.     Related-Party
Transaction

On July 26, 2001, Coach made a loan to Reed
Krakoff, its President, Executive Creative Director, in the
principal amount of $2,000. The loan bears interest at a rate of
5.12% per annum, compounded annually. This loan amount and the
applicable accrued interest is recorded as a component of other
non current assets in the accompanying balance sheet. Repayments
of $400 principal must be made on or before each of
July 26, 2003, 2004, 2005; the remaining $800 of principal,
together with all accrued interest under the loan, must be paid
on



COACH, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — (Continued)

(dollars and shares in thousands, except per
share data)

or before July 26, 2006. Mr. Krakoff
may repay these amounts at any time. As collateral for the loan,
Mr. Krakoff pledged to Coach his options to purchase 300
shares of Coach common stock at a price of $8.00 per share,
including the shares of stock and any cash or other property he
receives upon exercise of or in exchange for those options.
Mr. Krakoff would be obligated to repay the loan in full
immediately following certain events of default, including his
failure to make payments under the loan as scheduled, his
bankruptcy or the termination of his employment with Coach for
any reason.

21.     Subsequent
Event — Case London Ltd.

On July 1, 2002 Coach signed an agreement
with Case London Ltd. (“Case”) for the exclusive
distribution of Coach products in the United Kingdom and
Ireland. In addition, Case assumed the responsibility of
operating the existing Coach store on Sloane Street and the
Coach shop in Harrods in London.

22.     Subsequent
Event — Stock Repurchase

During August 2002, the Company repurchased
1,929 shares of common stock at an average cost of $25.92
per share. The stock repurchases of approximately $50,000 were
financed out of cash on hand and operating cash flows. As of
August 30, 2002, Coach had expended approximately $60,000
of the $80,000 authorized to date under the stock repurchase
program.

23.     Quarterly
Financial Data (Unaudited)

The sum of the quarterly earnings per common
share may not equal the full-year amount since the computations
of the weighted-average number of common-equivalent shares
outstanding for each quarter and the full year are made
independently.



COACH, INC.

Market and Dividend Information

Coach’s common stock is listed on the New
York Stock Exchange and is traded under the symbol
“COH”. Prior to the October 4, 2000 initial
public offering, there was no public trading market for any of
our securities. The following table sets forth, for the fiscal
periods indicated, the high and low closing prices per share of
Coach’s common stock as reported on the New York Stock
Exchange Composite Tape.

Coach has never declared or paid any cash
dividends on its common stock. Coach currently intends to retain
future earnings, if any, for use in its business and does not
anticipate paying regular cash dividends in its common stock.
The Fleet facility prohibits Coach from paying dividends while
the credit facility is in place, with certain exceptions. Any
future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the
discretion of Coach’s Board of Directors and will be
dependent upon Coach’s financial condition, operating
results, capital requirements and such other factors as the
Board of Directors deems relevant.



COACH, INC.

Schedule II — Valuation and
Qualifying Accounts

For the Fiscal Years Ended June 29, 2002,
June 30, 2001 and July 1, 2000

(1)

Includes a reclassification to accrued
    liabilities of $2,412 related to consumer returns where there is
    not an outstanding receivable.



COACH, INC.

EXHIBITS TO FORM 10-K

For the Fiscal Year Ended June 29,

Commission File No. 1-16153

(a) Exhibits (numbered in accordance with
Item 601 of Regulation S-K)



(b)

Reports on Form 8-K

Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the
Commission on May 8, 2002.

72