Item 1.Business.

The
Company.The J. M. Smucker Company (the “Company”) was established in 1897 and was incorporated in Ohio in 1921. The Company, often referred to asSmucker's(a registered trademark), operates principally in one industry,
the manufacturing and marketing of branded food products on a worldwide basis, although the majority of the Company’s sales are in the U.S. The Company’s operations outside the U.S. are principally in Canada, although products are exported
to other countries as well. Sales outside the U.S. represented approximately 9 percent of consolidated Company sales for fiscal 2012. The Company’s branded food products include a strong portfolio of trusted, iconic, market-leading brands that
are sold to consumers through retail outlets in North America.

On November 6, 2008, the Company completed a merger
transaction with The Folgers Coffee Company (“Folgers”), a subsidiary of The Procter & Gamble Company ("P&G"). The value of the transaction was approximately $3.7 billion, including the issuance of common shares of the Company
in connection with the merger and $350 million of Folgers debt. Under the terms of the transaction agreements, P&G distributed common shares of Folgers to participating P&G shareholders which were then automatically converted into the right
to receive common shares of the Company in the merger. Immediately following the merger, P&G shareholders and pre-merger Company shareholders owned approximately 53.5 percent and 46.5 percent, respectively, of the Company’s approximately
118 million common shares outstanding. The merger was accounted for as a purchase business combination, with the Company treated as the acquiring entity.

On May 16, 2011, the Company completed the acquisition of the coffee brands and business operations of Rowland Coffee Roasters, Inc. (“Rowland Coffee”). Information regarding the Rowland
Coffee acquisition is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, on pages 50 through 52 under “Note 2: Acquisitions.”

On January 3, 2012, the Company completed the acquisition of a majority of the North American foodservice coffee and hot beverage business of Sara Lee Corporation (“Sara Lee foodservice
business”). Information regarding the Sara Lee foodservice business acquisition is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, on pages 50 through 52 under “Note 2: Acquisitions.”

On March 26, 2012, the Company acquired a 25 percent equity interest in Guilin Seamild Biologic Technology Development Co., Ltd.
(“Seamild”), a privately-owned manufacturer and marketer of oats products headquartered in Guilin in the Guangxi province of China. Information regarding the Seamild investment is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2012 Annual Report
to Shareholders, on page 52 under “Note 3: Equity Method Investment.”

The Company has three reportable segments:
U.S. Retail Coffee, U.S. Retail Consumer Foods, and International, Foodservice, and Natural Foods. The Company’s two U.S. retail market segments in total comprised nearly 80 percent of the Company’s net sales in 2012 and represent a major
portion of the strategic focus area for the Company – the sale of branded food products with leadership positions to consumers through retail outlets in North America. The International, Foodservice, and Natural Foods segment represents sales
outside of the U.S. retail market.

Principal Products. The principal products of the Company, which are sold across
the Company’s U.S. retail market segments and International, Foodservice, and Natural Foods segment are coffee, peanut butter, fruit spreads, shortening and oils, baking mixes and ready-to-spread frostings, canned milk, flour and baking
ingredients, juices and beverages, frozen sandwiches, toppings, syrups, and pickles and condiments.






Product sales information for the years 2012, 2011, and 2010 is incorporated herein by
reference to information set forth in the Company’s 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, on pages 53 through 55 under “Note 5: Reportable Segments.”

In both of the U.S. retail market segments, the Company's products are primarily sold through a combination of direct sales and brokers to food retailers, food wholesalers, drug stores, club stores, mass
merchandisers, discount and dollar stores, and military commissaries. In the International, Foodservice, and Natural Foods segment, the Company’s products are distributed domestically and in foreign countries through retail channels,
foodservice distributors and operators (e.g., restaurants, lodging, schools and universities, health care operators), and health and natural foods stores and distributors.

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials. The raw materials used by the Company in each of its segments are primarily commodities and agricultural-based products. Green coffee, peanuts, edible
oils, sweeteners, milk, flour, corn, and other ingredients are obtained from various suppliers. These commodities are subject to price volatility since prices are dependent on quality and availability of supply. During 2012, the Company experienced
overall higher raw material costs, as compared to 2011, specifically for green coffee, edible oils, peanuts, flour, milk, and sweeteners. The prices of many of these commodities are expected to continue to fluctuate over time. The Company uses basis
contracts and commodity futures and options to manage price volatility for a significant portion of its commodity costs. Green coffee is sourced solely from foreign countries and its supply and price are subject to high volatility due to factors
such as weather, global supply and demand, pest damage, and political and economic conditions in the source countries. Fruit and vegetable raw materials used by the Company in the production of its food products are purchased from independent
growers and suppliers. Glass, plastic, steel cans, caps, carton board, and corrugate are the principal packaging materials used by the Company.

Raw materials are generally available from numerous sources although the Company has elected to source certain plastic packaging materials from single sources of supply pursuant to long-term contracts.
While availability may vary year-to-year, the Company believes that it will continue to be able to obtain adequate supplies and that alternatives to single-sourced materials are available. The Company has not historically encountered significant
shortages of key raw materials. The Company considers its relationship with key raw material suppliers to be good.

Trademarks and Patents. The Company's products are produced under certain patents and marketed under numerous trademarks owned or licensed by the Company or one of its subsidiaries. Major
trademarks, utilized primarily in the U.S. retail market segments, include:Folgers®,Dunkin’
Donuts®, Millstone®, Café Bustelo®,andCafé Pilon®in the U.S. Retail Coffee segment; andSmucker’s®, Jif®, Hungry Jack®, Uncrustables®, Dickinson's®, Adams®, Laura Scudder's®, Goober®, Magic Shell®, Crisco®, Pillsbury®, Eagle Brand®, Borden®and Elsie design, Martha White®, White Lily®,andFunfetti®in the U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segment.

Major trademarks utilized in the International, Foodservice, and Natural Foods segment include:Folgers,
Smucker’s, Jif, Crisco, Plate Scapers®, Bick’s®, Five Roses®, Robin Hood®, Carnation®, R. W. Knudsen Family®, Santa
Cruz Organic®, Double Fruit®, Recharge®, Red River®, Crosse & Blackwell®, Golden Temple®,Café Bustelo,andCafé Pilon.

Dunkin’ Donutsis a registered trademark of DD IP
Holder LLC used by the Company under license (the “Dunkin’ License”) for packaged coffee products sold in retail channels such as grocery stores, mass merchandisers, club stores, and drug stores. The Dunkin’ License does not
pertain toDunkin’ Donutscoffee or other products for sale inDunkin’ Donutsrestaurants.The terms of the Dunkin’ License include the payment of royalties to DD IP Holder LLC and other financial commitments by
the Company. The Dunkin’ License is in effect until January 1, 2034.

Pillsbury, the Barrelhead logo, and the
Doughboy character are trademarks of The Pillsbury Company, LLC and are used by the Company under a 20-year, perpetually renewable, royalty-free license.






Bordenand the Elsie design are trademarks used by the Company on certain products
under a perpetual, exclusive, and royalty-free license.Carnationis a trademark of Société des Produits Nestlé S.A. used by the Company’s Canadian subsidiary for certain canned milk products in certain territories
under an exclusive and royalty-free license with an initial term of 10 years, renewable by the Company for two successive five-year terms and which becomes perpetual at the end of the renewal terms under certain circumstances. In addition, the
Company or one of its subsidiaries licenses the use of several other trademarks, none of which are individually material to the Company's business.

Slogans or designs considered to be important trademarks include, without limitation,“With A Name Like Smucker's, It Has To Be Good®,” “The Best Part of Wakin’ Up Is Folgers In Your Cup®,” “Mountain Grown design,” “Choosy Moms Choose Jif®,” “Purely The
Finest®,” “Crisco is Cooking™,” “Everybody’s Happy When It’s Hungry Jack®,” “Goodness Gracious, It’s Good®,”theSmucker'sbanner, the Crock Jar shape, the Gingham design, and the Strawberry logo.

The Company owns several hundred patents worldwide in addition to proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes, and other
intellectual property rights that are not registered.

The Company considers all of its intellectual property and thePillsbury,Dunkin’ Donuts,Bordenand Elsie design, andCarnationlicenses, taken as a whole, to be essential to its business.

Seasonality. The Company’s U.S. Retail Coffee and U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segments are particularly seasonal around the “Fall Bake” and holiday period, which generally results in
higher sales and profits in the Company’s second and third quarters. The Company’s success in promoting and merchandising its baking and coffee brands during the “Fall Bake” and holiday period has a significant impact on its
results for a fiscal year. The back-to-school period and the spring holiday season are two other important promotional periods for the Company, although their impact to the Company is not as significant as the “Fall Bake” and holiday
period.

Working Capital. Working capital requirements are greatest during the first half of the Company’s fiscal
year mainly due to the timing of the buildup of coffee, oil, and baking inventories necessary to support the “Fall Bake” and holiday period and the additional buildup of coffee inventory in advance of the Atlantic hurricane season.

Customers. Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries amounted to approximately 26 percent, 26 percent, and
27 percent of net sales in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. These sales are primarily included in the U.S. retail market segments. No other customer exceeded 10 percent of net sales during 2012, 2011, and 2010.

During 2012, the Company’s top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 60 percent of consolidated net sales.
Although the loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact the Company’s sales and profits, the Company does not anticipate that this will occur to a significant extent due to strong consumer demand for the
Company’s products.

Orders. Generally, orders are filled within a few days of receipt, and the backlog of
unfilled orders at any particular time has not been material on a historical basis.

Government Business. No material
portion of the Company’s business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government.

Competition. The Company is the branded market leader in the coffee, peanut butter, shortening, sweetened condensed milk, fruit spreads, ice cream toppings, and natural foods beverages categories
in the U.S. The Company's business is highly competitive as all of its U.S. retail market segments’ brands compete for retail shelf space with other branded products as well as private label products.






The continued growth of alternative store formats, product and packaging innovations,
technological advances, and new industry techniques are all issues for companies in the food industry to consider in order to remain competitive. The primary ways in which products are distinguished are product quality, price, packaging, new product
introductions, nutritional value, convenience, advertising, and promotion. Positive factors pertaining to the Company’s competitive position include well-recognized brands, superior product quality and trust, experienced brand management, a
single national grocery broker in the U.S., varied product offerings, product innovation, good customer service, and an integrated distribution network.

The Company historically has seen accelerated private label growth during periods of general economic disruption. The Company estimates that, during the period following the economic recession of the late
2000’s, private label grew more than during past periods partly due to the run up in commodity costs, increased emphasis of store brands by retailers, and improvements in private label quality. The Company believes that both private label and
leading brands play an important role in all of the food categories in which it competes, appealing to different consumer segments. The Company closely monitors the price gap or price premium between its brands and private label brands, with the
view that value is about more than price and the expectation that number one brands will continue to be an integral part of consumers’ shopping baskets.

In the U.S. Retail Coffee segment, theFolgersbrand competes in the highly competitive U.S. packaged roast
and ground coffee market with other retail coffee roasters such asMaxwell House,Yuban, andNescafe. The Company competes in the premium coffee market with itsMillstoneandFolgers Gourmet Selections®brands, as well as through sales ofDunkin’ Donutsretail packaged coffee products, with other
brands such asStarbucks,Eight O’Clock,Seattle’s Best,Gevalia, andPeet’s Coffee & Tea. Through a manufacturing and distribution agreement with Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc.
(“Green Mountain”) and Keurig, Inc., the Company competes in the single serve coffee market with itsFolgers Gourmet SelectionsandMillstonepremium coffeesK-Cup®products. Additionally,Folgers Gourmet Selectionswill be part of the test rollout of the new Keurig Vue®brewing system. With the acquisition of Rowland Coffee, the Company now competes in the espresso coffee category
with itsCafé BusteloandCafé Pilonbrands.

Jif

Smucker’s

Adam’s

Laura Scudder’s

Jif

Jif

Smucker’s

Dickinson’s,

Welch’s

Crisco

Crisco

Crisco

Crisco

Pillsbury

Betty Crocker

Duncan Hines

Hungry Jack

Eagle Brand

Magnolia®






Research and Development. The Company predominantly utilizes in-house resources to
both develop new products and improve existing products in each of its business areas. Amounts expensed for product development were $21.9 million, $21.0 million, and $21.0 million in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.

Environmental Matters. The Company considers environmental sustainability to be its responsibility as a good corporate citizen and
a key strategic focus area for the Company. The Company has implemented and manages a variety of programs, including the utilization of renewable energy technology, improved wastewater management, increased usage of sustainable raw materials
including green coffee, and reuse of resources rather than consuming new ones, in support of its commitment to environmental sustainability. The Company continues to evaluate and modify its processes on an ongoing basis to further reduce its impact
on the environment and reduce waste.

Compliance with the provisions of enacted or pending federal, state, and local
environmental regulations regarding either the discharge of materials into the environment or the protection of the environment is not expected to have a material effect upon the Company’s capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position
in 2013.

Employees. At April 30, 2012, the Company had approximately 4,850 full-time employees, worldwide.
Approximately 28 percent of these employees, located at 11 facilities, are covered by union contracts. These contracts vary in term depending on the location. The Company believes its relations with its employees are good.

Financial Information about Industry Segments and Geographical Areas. The financial information required to be included in this
item concerning reportable industry segments and international operations for the years 2012, 2011, and 2010 is incorporated herein by reference to information set forth in the Company’s 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, on pages 53 through
55, under “Note 5: Reportable Segments.” The Company’s international operations are primarily in Canada with risks similar to those associated with the U.S. retail markets. More than one-half of the Company’s Canada sales
represent the sale of Canadian produced products to Canadian customers. The majority of the remaining Canada sales represent the sale of products produced in the U.S. to Canadian customers, primarilyFolgerscoffee andCriscooils.

Forward-Looking Statements. This Report includes forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations and
are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected or projected results. The descriptions of risks and uncertainties relating to forward-looking statements is incorporated herein by
reference to information set forth in the Company’s 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 36.

Available Information. Access to all Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filings made by the Company, including its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), is provided, free of charge, on the
Company’s Web site (www.smuckers.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.



