Item 1.Business.

The Company. The J. M. Smucker Company (“Company,”
“registrant,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) was established in 1897, was incorporated in Ohio in 1921, and is often referred to asSmucker’s(a registered trademark). We operate principally in one
industry, the manufacturing and marketing of branded food products on a worldwide basis, although the majority of our sales are in the U.S. Our operations outside the U.S. are principally in Canada, although products are exported to other countries
as well. Net sales outside the U.S. represented 8 percent of consolidated net sales for 2014. Our branded food products include a strong portfolio of trusted, iconic, market-leading brands that are sold to consumers through retail outlets in North
America.

On November 6, 2008, we completed a merger transaction with The Folgers Coffee Company (“Folgers”), a subsidiary
of The Procter & Gamble Company (“P&G”). The value of the transaction was approximately $3.7 billion, including the issuance of our common shares in connection with the merger and $350 million of Folgers debt. Under the terms
of the transaction agreements, P&G distributed common shares of Folgers to participating P&G shareholders which were then automatically converted into the right to receive common shares of the Company in the merger. Immediately following the
merger, P&G shareholders and pre-merger Company shareholders owned approximately 53.5 percent and 46.5 percent, respectively, of the Company’s approximately 118 million common shares outstanding. The merger was accounted for as a
purchase business combination, and we were treated as the acquiring entity.

We have three reportable segments: U.S. Retail Coffee, U.S.
Retail Consumer Foods, and International, Foodservice, and Natural Foods. The two U.S. retail market segments in total comprised over 75 percent of 2014 consolidated net sales and represent a major portion of our strategic focus – the sale of
branded food products with leadership positions to consumers through retail outlets in North America. The International, Foodservice, and Natural Foods segment represents sales outside of the U.S. retail market segments.

Principal Products. Our principal products are coffee, peanut butter, fruit spreads, shortening and oils, baking mixes and
ready-to-spread frostings, canned milk, flour and baking ingredients, juices and beverages, frozen sandwiches, toppings, syrups, pickles, condiments, and grain products.

Product sales information for the years 2014, 2013, and 2012 is incorporated herein by reference to information set forth in our 2014 Annual
Report to Shareholders, on page 52 under “Note 4: Reportable Segments.”

In both of the U.S. retail market segments, our
products are primarily sold through a combination of direct sales and brokers to food retailers, food wholesalers, drug stores, club stores, mass merchandisers, discount and dollar stores, and military commissaries. In the International,
Foodservice, and Natural Foods segment, our products are distributed domestically and in foreign countries through retail channels, foodservice distributors and operators (e.g., restaurants, lodging, schools and universities, health care operators),
and natural foods stores and distributors.

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials. The raw materials used in each of our
segments are primarily commodities and agricultural-based products. Green coffee, peanuts, edible oils, sweeteners, milk, flour, corn, and other ingredients are obtained from various suppliers. The availability, quality, and costs of many of these
commodities have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, over time. Basis, futures, and options contracts are used to manage price volatility for a significant portion of our commodity costs. Green coffee, along with certain other raw materials,
is sourced solely from foreign countries and its supply and price is subject to high volatility due to factors such as weather, global supply and demand, pest damage, investor speculation, and political and economic conditions in the source
countries. We source peanuts, edible oils, and wheat mainly from North America. Fruit and vegetable raw materials used in the production of our food products are purchased from independent growers and suppliers. The principal packaging materials we
use are plastic, glass, steel cans, caps, carton board, and corrugate.







Raw materials are generally available from numerous sources, although we have elected to source
certain plastic packaging materials from single sources of supply pursuant to long-term contracts. While availability may vary year-to-year, we believe that we will continue to be able to obtain adequate supplies and that alternatives to
single-sourced materials are available. We have not historically encountered significant shortages of key raw materials. We consider our relationships with key raw material suppliers to be good.

Trademarks and Patents. Our products are produced under certain patents and marketed under numerous trademarks owned or licensed by us
or one of our subsidiaries. Our major trademarks are listed below.



Primary Reportable SegmentMajor TrademarkU.S. Retail CoffeeFolgers®,Dunkin’ Donuts®, Café
Bustelo®, Millstone®,andCafé Pilon®U.S. Retail Consumer FoodsSmucker’s®, Jif®, Crisco®, Pillsbury®, Uncrustables®, Martha White®, Hungry Jack®, Eagle Brand®, Borden®and Elsie design,andFunfetti®International, Foodservice, and Natural FoodsSmucker’s, Folgers, Douwe Egberts®,R. W. Knudsen Family®,truRoots®,Robin Hood®,Bick’s®,Santa Cruz Organic®,Carnation®,Crisco, Dickinson’s®,andFive Roses®

Dunkin’ Donutsis a registered trademark of DD IP Holder LLC used under license (the
“Dunkin’ License”) for packaged coffee products sold in retail channels such as grocery stores, mass merchandisers, club stores, and drug stores. The Dunkin’ License does not pertain toDunkin’ Donutscoffee or other
products for sale inDunkin’ Donutsrestaurants. The terms of the Dunkin’ License include the payment of royalties to DD IP Holder LLC and other financial commitments by the Company. The Dunkin’ License is in effect until
January 1, 2034.

Pillsbury, the Barrelhead logo, and the Doughboy character are trademarks of The Pillsbury Company, LLC and
are used under a 20-year, perpetually renewable, royalty-free license.Bordenand the Elsie design are trademarks used on certain products under a perpetual, exclusive, and royalty-free license.Carnationis a trademark of
Société des Produits Nestlé S.A. used by our Canadian subsidiary for certain canned milk products in certain territories under an exclusive and royalty-free license with an initial term of 10 years which expires in October 2017,
renewable for two successive 5-year terms, and which becomes perpetual at the end of the renewal terms under certain circumstances.Douwe EgbertsandPickwick®are registered
trademarks of D.E Master Blenders 1753 N.V. and are used under a multi-year license. In accordance with a multi-year licensing and distribution agreement entered into with Cumberland Packing Corp. (“Cumberland”), in July 2013 we began
marketing and distributing Cumberland’s branded tabletop sweeteners sold under theSweet’N Low®,NatraTaste®,Sugar In The Raw®, and other “In The Raw” brands to foodservice customers in the U.S. and to retail and foodservice customers in Canada.Keurig®andK-Cup®are trademarks of Keurig Green Mountain, Inc. (“Keurig”), used with permission. In addition, we and our
subsidiaries license the use of several other trademarks, none of which are individually material to our business.

Slogans or designs
considered to be important trademarks include, without limitation,“With A Name Like Smucker’s, It Has To Be Good®,” “The Best Part of Wakin’ Up Is Folgers In Your
Cup®,” “Mountain Grown design,” “Choosy Moms Choose Jif®,” “Purely The Finest®,” “Crisco is Cooking™,” “Everybody’s Happy When It’s Hungry Jack®,” “Goodness Gracious,
It’s Good!®,”theSmucker’sbanner, the Crock Jar shape, the Gingham design, and the Strawberry logo.

We own several hundred patents worldwide in addition to proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes, and other intellectual
property rights that are not registered.







We consider all of our owned and licensed intellectual property, taken as a whole, to be
essential to our business.

Seasonality. The U.S. Retail Coffee and U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segments are particularly seasonal
around the Fall Bake and Holiday period, which generally results in higher sales and profits in our second and third quarters. Our success in promoting and merchandising our baking and coffee brands during the Fall Bake and Holiday period has a
significant impact on our results for a fiscal year. The back-to-school period and the spring holiday season are two other important promotional periods, although their impact is not as significant as the Fall Bake and Holiday period.

Working Capital. Working capital requirements are greatest during the first half of our fiscal year mainly due to the timing of the
buildup of coffee, oil, and baking inventories necessary to support the Fall Bake and Holiday period and the additional buildup of coffee inventory in advance of the Atlantic hurricane season.

Customers. Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and subsidiaries amounted to 27 percent of net sales in 2014 and 26 percent of net sales in
2013 and 2012. These sales are primarily included in the U.S. retail market segments. No other customer exceeded 10 percent of net sales during 2014, 2013, or 2012.

During 2014, our top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for 62 percent of consolidated net sales. Supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food
distributors continue to consolidate, and we expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from a limited number of customers. Although the loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively
impact our sales and profits, we do not anticipate that this will occur to a significant extent due to strong consumer demand for our brands.

Orders. Generally, orders are filled within a few days of receipt, and the backlog of unfilled orders at any particular time has not
been material on a historical basis.

Government Business. No material portion of our business is subject to renegotiation of
profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government.

Competition. We are the branded market leader in the
coffee, peanut butter, fruit spreads, shortening, sweetened condensed milk, ice cream toppings, and natural beverages categories in the U.S. In Canada, we are the branded market leader in the flour, pickles, canned milk, fruit spreads, shortening,
and ice cream toppings categories. Our business is highly competitive as all of our brands compete for retail shelf space with other branded products as well as private label products.

The continued growth of alternative store formats, product and packaging innovations, technological advances, and new industry techniques need
to be considered by companies in the food industry in order to remain competitive. The primary ways in which products and brands are distinguished are brand recognition, product quality, price, packaging, new product introductions, nutritional
value, convenience, advertising, and promotion. Positive factors pertaining to our competitive position include well-recognized brands, superior product quality and trust, experienced brand and category management, a single national grocery broker
in the U.S., varied product offerings, product innovation, good customer service, and an integrated distribution network.

Accelerated
private label growth is typically seen during periods of general economic disruption. Most recently during the period following the economic recession of the late 2000’s, it was estimated that private label grew more than during past periods
partly due to the run up in commodity costs, increased emphasis of store brands by retailers, and improvements in private label quality. We believe that both private label and leading brands play an important role in all of the food categories in
which we compete, appealing to different consumer segments. We closely monitor the price gap or price premium between our brands and private label brands, with the view that value is about more than price and the expectation that #1 brands will
continue to be an integral part of consumers’ shopping baskets.







In the U.S. Retail Coffee segment, theFolgersbrand competes in the highly competitive
U.S. packaged roast and ground coffee market with other retail coffee brands such asMaxwell House,Yuban, andNescafe. We participate in the premium coffee market with theMillstoneandFolgers Gourmet Selections®brands, as well as through sales ofDunkin’ Donutsretail packaged coffee products. Competitors include other brands such asStarbucks,Gevalia,Eight
O’Clock,Seattle’s Best, andPeet’s Coffee & Tea. Through a manufacturing and distribution agreement with Keurig, we compete in the single serve coffee market with theFolgers, Folgers Gourmet
Selections,andMillstonepremium coffeesK-Cup®products. Additionally, we plan to launchCafé Bustelo
K-Cup®packs in July 2014. K-Cup competitors includeGreen Mountain,Starbucks,Eight O’Clock,Maxwell House, andGevalia, as well as many private
label brands. We participate in the espresso coffee category with theCafé BusteloandCafé Pilonbrands.

Jif

Skippy, Peter Pan,

Jif

Smucker’s

Adam’s

®

Laura Scudder’s

®

Smucker’s,

Welch’s

Nutella

Crisco

Crisco

Crisco

Pillsbury

Betty Crocker

Duncan Hines

Pillsbury

Gold Medal

Hungry Jack

Eagle Brand

Magnolia®

In the International, Foodservice, and Natural Foods segment, our products are distributed
domestically and in foreign countries and compete with various brands within retail, foodservice, and natural foods markets.

Research
and Development. We predominantly utilize in-house resources to both develop new products and improve existing products in each of our business areas. Amounts expensed for research and development were $24.3 million, $24.7 million, and $21.9
million in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.

Environmental Matters. We consider environmental sustainability to be our
responsibility as a good corporate citizen and a key strategic focus area. We have implemented and manage a variety of programs, including the utilization of renewable energy technology, improved wastewater management, increased usage of sustainable
raw materials including green coffee, and reuse of resources rather than consuming new ones, in support of our commitment to environmental sustainability. We continue to evaluate and modify our processes on an ongoing basis to further reduce our
impact on the environment and reduce waste.

Compliance with the provisions of enacted or pending federal, state, and local environmental
regulations regarding either the discharge of materials into the environment or the protection of the environment is not expected to have a material effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position in 2015.







Employees. At April 30, 2014, we had 4,775 full-time employees worldwide, of which 26
percent, located at eight facilities, are covered by union contracts. These contracts vary in term depending on the location, with one contract expiring in 2015. We believe our relations with our employees are good.

Financial Information about Industry Segments and Geographical Areas. The financial information required to be included in this item
concerning reportable industry segments and international operations for the years 2014, 2013, and 2012 is incorporated herein by reference to information set forth in our 2014 Annual Report to Shareholders, on pages 51 and 52, under “Note 4:
Reportable Segments.” Our international operations are primarily in Canada with risks similar to those associated with the U.S. retail markets. Approximately half of our 2014 Canada sales represented the sale of Canadian produced products to
Canadian customers. The majority of the remaining Canada sales represented the sale of products produced in the U.S. to Canadian customers, primarilyFolgerscoffee,Bick’spickles, andCriscooils. As a result of the 2014
closure of our manufacturing facility in Ste. Marie, Quebec, and transition of Canadian fruit spreads production to our facilities in Orrville, Ohio, and Ripon, Wisconsin, we expect that in 2015 more than half of our Canada sales will represent the
sale of products produced in the U.S. to Canadian customers.

Forward-Looking Statements. This Report includes forward-looking
statements that are based on current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected or projected results. The descriptions of risks and uncertainties relating to
forward-looking statements are incorporated herein by reference to information set forth in our 2014 Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 34.

Available Information. Access to all of our Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filings, including our Annual Report
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”),
is provided, free of charge, on our Website (jmsmucker.com/investor-relations) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.



