Item 1.Business.

The Company. The J. M. Smucker Company (“Company,”
“registrant,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) was established in 1897, was incorporated in Ohio in 1921, and is often referred to asSmucker’s(a registered trademark). We operate principally in one
industry, the manufacturing and marketing of branded food products on a worldwide basis, although the majority of our sales are in the U.S. Our operations outside the U.S. are principally in Canada, although products are exported to other countries
as well. Net sales outside the U.S., subject to foreign currency exchange, represented 8 percent of consolidated net sales for 2015. Our branded food products include a strong portfolio of trusted, iconic, market-leading brands that are sold to
consumers through retail outlets in North America.

On March 23, 2015, we completed the acquisition of Big Heart Pet Brands
(“Big Heart”), a leading producer, distributor, and marketer of premium-quality, branded pet food and pet snacks in the U.S. The cash and stock transaction was valued at $5.9 billion, which included the assumption of $2.6 billion in
debt that we refinanced at closing. We issued 17.9 million shares of our common stock to the shareholders of Blue Acquisition Group, Inc., Big Heart’s parent company, and paid $1.2 billion in cash, subject to a working capital adjustment.
After the closing of the transaction on March 23, 2015, we had approximately 120.0 million common shares outstanding. We funded the non-equity portion of the acquisition through the combination of a $1.8 billion bank term loan and $3.7
billion in long-term notes.

We have four reportable segments: U.S. Retail Coffee, U.S. Retail Consumer Foods, U.S. Retail Pet Foods, and
International, Foodservice, and Natural Foods. The U.S. retail market segments in total comprised over 75 percent of 2015 consolidated net sales and represent a major portion of our strategic focus – the sale of branded food products with
leadership positions to consumers through retail outlets in North America. The International, Foodservice, and Natural Foods segment represents sales outside of the U.S. retail market segments.

Principal Products. Our principal consumer food and beverage products are coffee, peanut butter, fruit spreads, shortening and oils,
baking mixes and ready-to-spread frostings, canned milk, flour and baking ingredients, juices and beverages, frozen sandwiches, toppings, syrups, pickles, condiments, grain products, and nut mix products. Our pet products consist of dry and wet dog
food, dry and wet cat food, dog snacks, and cat snacks.

Product sales information for the years 2015, 2014, and 2013 is incorporated
herein by reference to information set forth in our 2015 Annual Report to Shareholders on page 60 under “Note 3: Reportable Segments.”

In the U.S. retail market segments, our products are primarily sold through a combination of direct sales and brokers to food retailers, food
wholesalers, drug stores, club stores, mass merchandisers, discount and dollar stores, military commissaries, and pet specialty stores. In the International, Foodservice, and Natural Foods segment, our products are distributed domestically and in
foreign countries through retail channels, foodservice distributors and operators (e.g., restaurants, lodging, schools and universities, health care operators), and natural foods stores and distributors.

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials. The raw materials used in each of our segments are primarily commodities and
agricultural-based products. Green coffee, peanuts, edible oils, wheat, sweeteners, corn, milk, fruit, vegetables, cocoa, poultry meal, soybean meal, meat, meat by-products, and other ingredients are obtained from various suppliers. The
availability, quality, and costs of many of these commodities have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, over time. Basis, futures, and options contracts are used to manage price volatility for a significant portion of our commodity costs.
Green coffee, along with certain other raw materials, is sourced solely from foreign countries and its supply and price is subject to high volatility due to factors such as weather, global supply and demand, pest damage, investor speculation, and
political and economic conditions in the source countries. We source peanuts, edible oils, and wheat mainly from North America. The principal packaging materials we use are plastic,






glass, metal cans, caps, carton board, and corrugate. For additional information on the commodities we purchase, see “Commodities Overview” on pages 31 and 32 in our 2015 Annual Report
to Shareholders.

Raw materials are generally available from numerous sources, although we have elected to source certain plastic
packaging materials from single sources of supply pursuant to long-term contracts. While availability may vary year-to-year, we believe that we will continue to be able to obtain adequate supplies and that alternatives to single-sourced materials
are available. We have not historically encountered significant shortages of key raw materials. We consider our relationships with key raw material suppliers to be good.

Trademarks and Patents. Our products are produced under certain patents and marketed under numerous trademarks owned or licensed by us
or one of our subsidiaries. Our major trademarks are listed below.



Primary Reportable SegmentMajor TrademarkU.S. Retail CoffeeFolgers®andDunkin’ Donuts®U.S. Retail Consumer FoodsSmucker’s®, Jif®, Crisco®, Pillsbury®,andUncrustables®U.S. Retail Pet FoodsMeow Mix®, Milk-Bone®, Kibbles ‘n Bits®, Natural
Balance®, 9Lives®,Pup-Peroni®, Gravy
Train®,andNature’s Recipe®International, Foodservice, and Natural FoodsSmucker’s, Folgers,andDouwe Egberts®

Dunkin’ Donutsis a registered trademark of DD IP Holder LLC used under license (the
“Dunkin’ License”) for packaged coffee products, including K-Cup®pods, sold in retail channels such as grocery stores, mass merchandisers, club stores, and drug stores. The
Dunkin’ License does not pertain toDunkin’ Donutscoffee or other products for sale inDunkin’ Donutsrestaurants. The terms of the Dunkin’ License include the payment of royalties to an affiliate of DD IP Holder
LLC and other financial commitments by the Company. The Dunkin’ License is in effect until January 1, 2039.

Pillsbury,
the Barrelhead logo, and the Doughboy character are trademarks of The Pillsbury Company, LLC and are used under a 20-year, perpetually renewable, royalty-free license.Borden®and the
Elsie design are trademarks used on certain products under a perpetual, exclusive, and royalty-free license.Carnation®is a trademark of Société des Produits
Nestlé S.A. used by our Canadian subsidiary for certain canned milk products in certain territories under an exclusive and royalty-free license with an initial term of 10 years which expires in October 2017, renewable for two successive
5-year terms, and which becomes perpetual at the end of the renewal terms under certain circumstances.Douwe EgbertsandPickwick®are registered trademarks of D.E Master
Blenders 1753 N.V. and are used under a multi-year license which expires in January 2019. In accordance with a multi-year licensing and distribution agreement entered into with Cumberland Packing Corp. (“Cumberland”), we market and
distribute Cumberland’s branded tabletop sweeteners sold under theSweet‘N Low®,NatraTaste®,Sugar In The
Raw®, and other “In The Raw” brands to foodservice customers in the U.S. and to retail and foodservice customers in Canada.
Keurig®and K-Cup®are trademarks of Keurig Green Mountain, Inc. (“Keurig”), used with permission. In addition, we and our
subsidiaries license the use of several other trademarks, none of which are individually material to our business.

Slogans or designs
considered to be important trademarks include, without limitation,“With A Name Like Smucker’s, It Has To Be Good®,” “The Best Part of Wakin’ Up Is Folgers In Your
Cup®,” “Mountain Grown design,” “Choosy Moms Choose Jif®,” “Purely The Finest®,” “Crisco is Cooking™,” “Everybody’s Happy When It’s Hungry Jack®,” “Goodness Gracious,
It’s Good!®,” “The Only One Cats Ask For By Name®,” “Say It With Milk-Bone™,”theSmucker’sbanner, the Crock Jar shape, the Gingham design, and the Strawberry,Milk-Bone, and9Liveslogos.

We
own several hundred patents worldwide in addition to proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes, and other intellectual property rights that are not registered.






We consider all of our owned and licensed intellectual property, taken as a whole, to be
essential to our business.

Seasonality. The U.S. Retail Coffee and U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segments are particularly seasonal
around the Fall Bake and Holiday period, which generally results in higher sales and profits in our second and third quarters. Our success in promoting and merchandising our coffee and baking brands during the Fall Bake and Holiday period has a
significant impact on our results for a fiscal year. The Back to School period and the Spring Holiday season are two other important promotional periods, although their impact is not as significant as the Fall Bake and Holiday period.

Working Capital. Working capital requirements are greatest during the first half of our fiscal year mainly due to the timing of the
buildup of coffee, oil, baking, and milk inventories necessary to support the Fall Bake and Holiday period and the additional buildup of coffee inventory in advance of the Atlantic hurricane season.

Customers. Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and subsidiaries amounted to 28 percent, 27 percent, and 26 percent of net sales in 2015,
2014, and 2013, respectively. These sales are primarily included in the U.S. retail market segments. No other customer exceeded 10 percent of net sales during 2015, 2014, or 2013. Within the Big Heart business, sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and
subsidiaries represent a larger portion of net sales, as compared to our business prior to the acquisition. As a result, beginning in 2016, we anticipate that sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and subsidiaries will represent a larger portion of net
sales than in 2015 due to a full year of Big Heart sales.

During 2015, our top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 60
percent of consolidated net sales. Supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors continue to consolidate, and we expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from a limited number of customers. Although the
loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits, we do not anticipate that this will occur to a significant extent due to strong consumer demand for our brands.

Orders. Generally, orders are filled within a few days of receipt, and the backlog of unfilled orders at any particular time has not
been material on a historical basis.

Government Business. No material portion of our business is subject to renegotiation of
profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government.

Competition. Within consumer foods and beverages, we are
the branded market leader in the coffee, peanut butter, fruit spreads, shortening, sweetened condensed milk, ice cream toppings, and natural beverage categories in the U.S. Within pet food and pet snacks, we are the branded market leader in the dog
snacks category in the U.S. In Canada, we are the branded market leader in the flour, pickles, canned milk, fruit spreads, shortening, and ice cream toppings categories. Our business is highly competitive as all of our brands compete for retail
shelf space with other branded products as well as private label products.

In order to remain competitive, companies in the food industry
need to consider emerging consumer preferences, technological advances, product and packaging innovations, and the continued growth of alternative store formats, including warehouse clubs, convenience stores, and e-commerce. The primary ways in
which products and brands are distinguished are brand recognition, product quality, price, packaging, new product introductions, nutritional value, convenience, advertising, promotion, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences.
Positive factors pertaining to our competitive position include well-recognized brands, high-quality products, consumer trust, experienced brand and category management, a single national grocery broker in the U.S., varied product offerings, product
innovation, good customer service, and an integrated distribution network.

The packaged foods industry has been challenged recently by a
general decline in sales volume in the center of the store. Certain evolving consumer trends have contributed to the decline, such as a






heightened focus on health and wellness, an increased desire for fresh foods, and the growing impact of social media and e-commerce on consumer behavior. To address these dynamics, we continue to
focus on innovation with an increased emphasis on products that satisfy evolving consumer trends.

In addition, private label has grown in
recent years due to general economic uncertainty, improvements in private label quality, and the increased emphasis of store brands by retailers in an effort to cultivate customer loyalty. In the pet food and pet snacks categories, private label
penetration has declined below levels seen in consumer food and beverage categories. We believe that both private label and leading brands play an important role in the food categories in which we compete, appealing to different consumer segments.
We closely monitor the price gap or price premium between our brands and private label brands, with the view that value is about more than price and the expectation that #1 brands will continue to be an integral part of consumers’ shopping
baskets.

In the U.S. Retail Coffee segment, theFolgersbrand competes in the highly competitive U.S. packaged roast and ground
coffee market with other retail coffee brands such asMaxwell House,Yuban, andChock full o’Nuts. We participate in the premium coffee market through sales ofDunkin’ Donutsretail packaged coffee products, as
well as with theFolgers Gourmet Selections®andMillstone®brands. Competitors include other brands such asStarbucks,Gevalia,Eight O’Clock,Seattle’s Best,Peet’s Coffee & Tea, andMcCafe. Through a manufacturing and distribution agreement with Keurig, we compete in the single serve
coffee market with theFolgers, Folgers Gourmet Selections, Millstone, andCafé Bustelo®premium coffees K-Cup®pods. Additionally, under a new, multi-year agreement, at the beginning of fiscal 2016 we began sellingDunkin’ DonutsK-Cup®pods to grocery chains, mass merchandisers, club
stores, drug stores, dollar stores, home improvement stores, and online retailers. K-Cup competing brands includeGreen Mountain,Starbucks,Eight O’Clock,Maxwell House, andGevalia, as well as many private
label brands. We participate in the espresso coffee category with theCafé BusteloandCafé Pilon®brands.

Jif

Skippy, Peter Pan,

Jif

Smucker’s

Adam’s

®

Laura
Scudder’s

®

Smucker’s,

Welch’s

Nutella

Crisco

Crisco

Wesson

Crisco

Pillsbury

Betty Crocker

Duncan Hines

Pillsbury

Gold Medal

Smucker’s Uncrustables

Hungry Jack®

Eagle Brand®

Magnolia®

In the U.S. Retail Pet Foods
segment, our pet products portfolio includes well-recognized national brands such asMeow Mix,Milk-Bone,Kibbles ’n Bits,Natural Balance,9Lives, andPup-Peroni, as well as other brand names and
private label products. We hold the #1 market share in the dog snacks






category (excluding rawhide), the #2 market share in both the dry and wet cat food categories, and the #3 market share in the dry dog food category. We compete with other branded pet food and pet
snacks products. In the dry and wet dog food categories, our main competitors areDog Chow,Beneful,Beyond,Pedigree,Nutro,Iams,Hill’s, andBlue. We compete in the dry and wet cat food
categories withFriskies,Fancy Feast,Cat Chow,Sheba,Whiskas,Iams,Hill’s, andBlue. Our main competitors in the dog and cat snacks categories areBeggin’ Strips,Waggin’ Train,Dentastix, andGreenies. In addition, we face competition from smaller branded and private label pet food and pet snacks products.

Folgers

Douwe Egberts

Nescafe

Smucker’s

Heinz

Robin Hood®

Five
Roses®

Folgers

Maxwell House

R. W. Knudsen Family®

Lakewood

Santa Cruz Organic®

truRoots®

Ancient Harvest

Research and Development. We predominantly utilize in-house resources to both develop new products and improve existing products in
each of our business areas. Amounts expensed for research and development were $32.5 million, $24.3 million, and $24.7 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively.

Environmental Matters. We consider environmental sustainability to be our responsibility as a good corporate citizen and a key
strategic focus area. We have implemented and manage a variety of programs, including the utilization of renewable energy technology, improved wastewater management, increased usage of sustainable raw materials including green coffee, and reuse of
resources rather than consuming new ones, in support of our commitment to environmental sustainability. We continue to evaluate and modify our processes on an ongoing basis to further reduce our impact on the environment and reduce waste.

Compliance with the provisions of enacted or pending federal, state, and local environmental regulations regarding either the discharge of
materials into the environment or the protection of the environment is not expected to have a material effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position in 2016.

Employees. At April 30, 2015, we had 7,370 full-time employees worldwide, of which 28 percent, located at 10 manufacturing
facilities, are covered by union contracts. These contracts vary in term depending on the location, with three contracts expiring in 2016, representing 11 percent of our total employees. We believe our relations with our employees are good.

Financial Information about Industry Segments and Geographical Areas. The financial information required to be included in this item
concerning reportable industry segments and international operations for the years 2015, 2014, and 2013 is incorporated herein by reference to information set forth in our 2015 Annual Report to Shareholders, on pages 58 through 61, under “Note
3: Reportable Segments.” Our international operations are primarily in Canada with risks similar to those associated with the U.S. retail markets. Approximately 40 percent of our 2015 Canada sales represented the sale of Canadian produced
products to Canadian customers. The majority of the remaining Canada sales represented the






sale of products produced in the U.S. to Canadian customers, primarilyFolgerscoffee,Bick’s®pickles,Criscoshortening and oils, andSmucker’sfruit spreads.

Forward-Looking Statements. This Report includes forward-looking
statements that are based on current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected or projected results. The descriptions of risks and uncertainties relating to
forward-looking statements are incorporated herein by reference to information set forth in our 2015 Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 42.

Available Information. Access to all of our Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filings, including our Annual Report
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”),
is provided, free of charge, on our website (jmsmucker.com/investor-relations) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.



