Item 1.	Business



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – Introduction



We are an Ohio corporation formed in 1968. Our lead subsidiary,
The Cincinnati Insurance Company, was founded in 1950. Our main business is property casualty insurance marketed through independent
insurance agencies in 39 states. Our headquarters is in Fairfield, Ohio. At year-end 2012, we employed 4,057 associates, with
2,784 headquarters associates providing support to 1,273 field associates.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation owns 100 percent of three
subsidiaries: The Cincinnati Insurance Company, CSU Producer Resources Inc. and CFC Investment Company. In addition, the parent
company has an investment portfolio, owns the headquarters property and is responsible for corporate borrowings and shareholder
dividends.



The Cincinnati Insurance Company owns 100 percent of our
four additional insurance subsidiaries. Our standard market property casualty insurance group includes two of those subsidiaries
– The Cincinnati Casualty Company and The Cincinnati Indemnity Company. This group writes a broad range of business, homeowner
and auto policies. Other subsidiaries of The Cincinnati Insurance Company include The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company,
which provides life insurance, disability income policies and fixed annuities, and The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance
Company, which offers excess and surplus lines insurance products.



The two noninsurance subsidiaries of Cincinnati Financial Corporation
are CSU Producer Resources, which offers insurance brokerage services to our independent agencies so their clients can access our
excess and surplus lines insurance products; and CFC Investment Company, which offers commercial leasing and financing services
to our agencies, their clients and other customers.



Our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) are available, free of charge, on our website,www.cinfin.com/investors,
as soon as possible after they have been filed with the SEC. These filings include annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports
on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In the following pages we reference various websites. These websites, including our
own, are not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Periodically, we refer to estimated industry data so that we
can give information about our performance versus the overall insurance industry. Unless otherwise noted, the industry data is
prepared by A.M. Best Co., a leading insurance industry statistical, analytical and insurer financial strength and credit
rating organization. Information from A.M. Best is presented on a statutory accounting basis. When we provide our results on a
comparable statutory accounting basis, we label it as such; all other company data is presented in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).



Our Business and Our Strategy



Introduction



The Cincinnati Insurance Company was founded over 60 years ago
by four independent insurance agents. They established the mission that continues to guide all of the companies in the Cincinnati
Financial Corporation family – to grow profitably and enhance the ability of local independent insurance agents to deliver
quality financial protection to the people and businesses they serve by:



·providing insurance market stability through financial strength



·producing competitive, up-to-date products and services



·developing associates committed to superior service



A select group of independent agencies in 39 states actively
markets our property casualty insurance within their communities. At year-end 2012, standard market commercial lines and excess
and surplus lines policies were marketed in all of those states, while personal lines policies were marketed in 31 of those states.
Within our select group of agencies, we also seek to become the life insurance carrier of choice and to help agents and their clients
– our policyholders – by offering leasing and financing services.



Three competitive advantages distinguish our company, positioning
us to build shareholder value and to be successful overall:



·Commitment to our network of professional independent insurance agencies and to their continued success



·Financial strength that lets us be a consistent market for our agents’ business, supporting stability and confidence








·Operating structure that supports local decision making, showcasing our claims excellence and allowing us to balance growth
with underwriting discipline



Independent Insurance Agency Marketplace



The U.S. property casualty insurance industry is a highly competitive
marketplace with more than 2,000 stock and mutual companies operating independently or in groups. No single company or group
dominates across all product lines and states. Standard market insurance companies (carriers) can market a broad array of
products nationally or:



·choose to sell a limited product line or only one type of insurance (monoline carrier)



·target a certain segment of the market (for example, personal insurance)



·focus on one or more states or regions (regional carrier)



Standard market property casualty insurers generally offer insurance
products through one or more distribution channels:



·independent agents, who represent multiple carriers



·captive agents, who represent one carrier exclusively



·direct marketing to consumers



For the most part, we compete with standard market insurance
companies that market through independent insurance agents. Agencies marketing our commercial lines products typically represent
six to 12 standard market insurance carriers for commercial lines products, including both national and regional carriers, most
of which are mutual companies. Our agencies typically represent four to six standard personal lines carriers, and we also compete
with carriers that market personal lines products through captive agents and direct writers. Distribution through independent
insurance agents or brokers represents approximately half of overall U.S. property casualty insurance premiums and approximately
two-thirds of commercial property casualty insurance premiums, according to the Insurance Information Institute.



We are committed exclusively to the independent agency channel.
The independent agencies that we choose to market our standard lines insurance products share our philosophies. They do business
person to person; offer broad, value-added services; maintain sound balance sheets; and manage their agencies professionally, targeting
long-term success. We develop our relationships with agencies that are active in their local communities, providing important knowledge
of local market trends, opportunities and challenges.



In addition to providing standard market property casualty insurance
products, we operate our own excess and surplus lines insurance brokerage firm and insurance carrier so that we can offer our excess
and surplus lines products exclusively to the independent agencies who market our other property casualty insurance products. We also
market life insurance products through the agencies that market our property casualty products and through other independent agencies
that represent The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company without also representing our other subsidiaries. Offering insurance solutions
beyond our standard market property casualty insurance products helps our agencies meet the broader needs of their clients and
also serves to increase and diversify agency revenues and profitability.



The excess and surplus lines market exists due to a regulatory
distinction. Generally, excess and surplus lines insurance carriers provide insurance that is unavailable in the standard market
due to market conditions or characteristics of the insured person or organization that are caused by nature, the insured's claim
history or the characteristics of their business. Insurers operating in the excess and surplus lines marketplace generally market
business through excess and surplus lines insurance brokers, whether they are small specialty insurers or specialized divisions
of larger insurance organizations. We established an excess and surplus lines operation in response to requests to help meet the
needs of agency clients when insurance is unavailable in the standard market. By providing superior service, we can help our agencies
grow while also profitably growing our property casualty business.



At year-end 2012, our 1,408 property casualty agency relationships
were marketing our standard market insurance products from 1,758 reporting locations. An increasing number of agencies have multiple,
separately identifiable locations, reflecting their growth and consolidation of ownership within the independent agency marketplace.
The number of reporting agency locations indicates our agents’ regional scope and the extent of our presence within
our 39 active states. At year-end 2011, our 1,312 agency relationships had 1,648 reporting locations. At year-end 2010,
our 1,245 agency relationships had 1,544 reporting locations.



We made 140, 133 and 93 new agency appointments in 2012,
2011 and 2010, respectively. Of these new appointments, 109, 93 and 70, respectively, were new relationships. The remainder
included new branch offices opened by existing Cincinnati agencies and appointment of agencies that merged with a Cincinnati agency.
These new appointments and other changes in agency structures or appointment status led to a net increase in agency relationships
of 96, 67 and 65 and a net increase in reporting agency locations of 110, 104 and 81 in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.








On average, we have a 12.6 percent share of the standard
lines property casualty insurance purchased through our reporting agency locations, according to data from agency surveys. Our
share is 17.7 percent in reporting agency locations that have represented us for more than 10 years; 8.5 percent
in agencies that have represented us for six to 10 years; 4.3 percent in agencies that have represented us for two to
five years; and 1.2 percent in agencies that have represented us for one year or less.



Our largest single agency relationship accounted for approximately
0.9 percent of our total property casualty earned premiums in 2012. No aggregate locations under a single ownership structure
accounted for more than 2.1 percent of our earned premiums in 2012.



Financial Strength



We believe that our financial strength and strong surplus position,
reflected in our insurer financial strength ratings, are clear, competitive advantages in the segments of the insurance marketplace
that we serve. This strength supports the consistent, predictable performance that our policyholders, agents, associates and
shareholders have always expected and received, helping us withstand significant challenges.



While the potential exists for short-term financial performance
variability due to our exposures to potential catastrophes or significant capital market losses, the rating agencies consistently
have asserted that we have built appropriate financial strength and flexibility to manage that variability. We remain committed
to strategies that emphasize being a consistent, stable market for our agents’ business over short-term benefits that might
accrue by quick, opportunistic reaction to changes in market conditions.



We use various principles and practices such as diversification
and enterprise risk management to maintain strong capital. For example, we maintain a diversified investment portfolio by reviewing
and applying diversification parameters and tolerances.



·Our $9.093 billion fixed-maturity portfolio is diversified and exceeds total insurance reserves. The portfolio had an
average rating of A2/A, and its fair value exceeded total insurance reserve liability by nearly 40 percent at December 31, 2012.
No corporate bond exposure accounted for more than 0.7 percent of our fixed-maturity portfolio, and no municipal exposure accounted
for more than 0.2 percent.



·The strength of our fixed-maturity portfolio provides an opportunity to invest for potential capital appreciation by purchasing
equity securities. Our $3.373 billion equity portfolio minimizes concentrations in single stocks or industries. At December 31,
2012, no single security accounted for more than 4.2 percent of our portfolio of publicly traded common stocks, and no single
sector accounted for more than 16 percent.



Strong liquidity increases our flexibility through all periods
to maintain our cash dividend and to continue to invest in and expand our insurance operations. At December 31, 2012,
we held $1.182 billion of our cash and invested assets at the parent company level, of which $958 million, or 81.0 percent,
was invested in common stocks, and $90 million, or 7.6 percent, was cash or cash equivalents.



We minimize reliance on debt as a source of capital, maintaining
the ratio of debt-to-total-capital below 20 percent. At December 31, 2012, this ratio at 14.1 percent was well below the target
limit as capital remained strong while debt levels did not change from year-end 2011. Long-term debt at year-end 2012 totaled $790
million and our short-term debt was $104 million. The long-term debt consists of three nonconvertible, noncallable debentures,
two due in 2028 and one in 2034. Ratings for our long-term debt are discussed in Item 7, Liquidity and Capital Resources,
Additional Sources of Liquidity, Page 84.



At year-end 2012 and 2011, risk-based capital (RBC) for our
standard and excess and surplus lines property casualty operations and life operations was very strong, far exceeding regulatory requirements.



·We ended 2012 with a 0.9-to-1 ratio of property casualty premiums to surplus, a key measure of property casualty insurance
company capacity and security. A lower ratio indicates more security for policyholders and greater capacity for growth by an insurer.
We believe our ratio provides ample flexibility to diversify risk by expanding our operations into new geographies and product
areas. The estimated industry average ratio was 0.8-to-1 at year-end 2012.



·We ended 2012 with an 11.1 percent ratio of life statutory adjusted risk-based surplus to liabilities, a key measure of
life insurance company capital strength. The estimated industry average ratio was 11.1 percent at year-end 2012. A higher
ratio indicates an insurer’s stronger security for policyholders and capacity to support business growth.








Statutory
Information



(Dollars in millions)At December 31,20122011Standard market property casualty insurance subsidiaryStatutory surplus$3,914$3,747Risk-based capital (RBC)3,9283,754Authorized control level risk-based capital487474Ratio of risk-based capital to authorized control level risk-based capital8.17.9Written premium to surplus ratio0.90.8Life insurance subsidiaryStatutory surplus$276$281Risk-based capital (RBC)290288Authorized control level risk-based capital2936Ratio of risk-based capital to authorized control level risk-based capital10.17.9Total liabilities excluding separate account business2,6262,454Life statutory risk-based adjusted surplus to liabilities ratio11.111.8Excess and surplus insurance subsidiaryStatutory surplus$199$186Risk-based capital (RBC)199186Authorized control level risk-based capital2013Ratio of risk-based capital to authorized control level risk-based capital10.213.9Written premium to surplus ratio0.50.4



The consolidated property casualty insurance group’s ratio
of investments in common stock to statutory surplus was 58.1 percent at year-end 2012 compared with 54.5 percent at year-end
2011.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation’s senior debt is rated
by four independent rating firms. In addition, the rating firms award our property casualty and life operations insurance financial
strength ratings based on their quantitative and qualitative analyses. These ratings assess an insurer’s ability to meet
financial obligations to policyholders and do not necessarily address all of the matters that may be important to shareholders.
Ratings may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agency, and each rating should be evaluated independently
of any other rating.



All of our insurance subsidiaries continue to be highly rated.
During 2012, three of the four ratings firms affirmed our insurance financial strength ratings and continued their stable outlook
on the ratings. No other rating agency actions occurred during 2012.



As of February 25, 2013, our insurance financial strength ratings
were:



Insurer
    Financial Strength RatingsRatingagencyStandard
                                                                       market propertycasualty
        insurance subsidiaryLife
    insurancesubsidiaryExcess
    and surplusinsurance subsidiaryDate
                                                                                              of most recentaffirmation
        or actionRating
    TierRating
    TierRatingTierA.
    M. Best Co.A+Superior2
    of 16AExcellent3
    of 16AExcellent3
    of 16Stable
    outlook (12/19/12)Fitch
    RatingsA+Strong5
    of 21A+Strong5
    of 21---Stable
    outlook (11/20/12)Moody's
    Investors ServiceA1Good5
    of 21------Negative
    outlook (10/21/11)Standard
    & Poor's Ratings ServicesAStrong6
    of 21AStrong6
    of 21---Stable
    outlook (7/30/12)



On December 19, 2012, A.M. Best affirmed our financial strength
ratings that it had assigned in December 2008, continuing its stable outlook. A.M. Best cited our superior risk-adjusted capitalization,
conservative loss reserving standards and growing use of predictive analytic modeling tools along with our historically strong
operating performance. Concerns noted included geographic concentration and weakened underwriting results in recent years, primarily
from above-average catastrophe-related losses. A.M. Best acknowledged the strong franchise value of our insurance subsidiaries
and the financial flexibility of the holding company.



On November 20, 2012, Fitch Ratings affirmed our insurer financial
strength ratings that it had assigned in August 2009, continuing its stable outlook. Fitch cited ratings strengths including
our conservative operating subsidiary capitalization supported by strong holding company cash and marketable securities position
and moderate holding company leverage, and well-managed reserves. Fitch added that we have implemented predictive modeling tools
that are anticipated to improve underwriting expertise and loss ratios over time. Rating concerns noted principally related to
challenges from competitive market conditions and exposure to regional natural catastrophes and other weather-related losses.



On July 30, 2012, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services
affirmed our insurer financial ratings that it had assigned in July 2010, continuing its stable outlook. S&P said its
rating was based on our strong competitive position, which is reinforced by a loyal and productive agency force and a low-cost
infrastructure. S&P also








cited our very strong capitalization and high degree
of financial flexibility. S&P noted that our strengths are partially offset by deteriorating property casualty underwriting
results due to weather-related losses, and earnings volatility stemming from regional concentration and low reinsurance utilization.



Our debt ratings are discussed in Item 7, Liquidity and Capital
Resources, Additional Sources of Liquidity, Page 84.



Operating Structure



We offer our broad array of insurance products through the independent
agency distribution channel. We recognize that locally based independent agencies have relationships in their communities and local
marketplace intelligence that can lead to policyholder satisfaction, loyalty and profitable business. Several of our strategic
initiatives are intended not only to help us compete but also to enhance support of agencies that represent us, thereby contributing
to agency success. We seek to be a consistent and predictable property casualty carrier that agencies can rely on to serve their
clients. For our standard market business, field and headquarters underwriters make risk-specific decisions about both new business
and renewals.



In our 10 highest volume states for consolidated property casualty
premiums, 1,039 reporting agency locations wrote 65.4 percent of our 2012 consolidated property casualty earned premium
volume compared with 992 locations and 66.5 percent in 2011.



Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Earned Premiums
by State



(Dollars in millions)Earnedpremiums% of totalearnedAgencylocationsAveragepremium perlocationYear ended December 31, 2012Ohio$64019.1%235$2.7Illinois2637.91272.1Indiana2286.81102.1Pennsylvania1965.9912.2Georgia1705.1881.9North Carolina1634.9911.8Michigan1534.61341.1Virginia1283.8652.0Kentucky1223.7432.8Tennessee1203.6552.2Year ended December 31, 2011Ohio$59119.5%233$2.5Illinois2508.31242.0Indiana2086.91071.9Pennsylvania1846.1852.2Georgia1545.1801.9North Carolina1494.9851.8Michigan1344.41181.1Virginia1234.1661.9Kentucky1143.8432.7Wisconsin1033.4512.0



Field Focus



We rely on our force of 1,273 field associates to provide service
and be accountable to our agencies for decisions we make at the local level. These associates live in the communities our agents
serve, working from offices in their homes and providing 24/7 availability to our agents. Headquarters associates support agencies
and field associates with underwriting, accounting, technology assistance and training and other services. Company executives,
headquarters underwriters and special teams regularly travel to visit agencies, strengthening the personal relationships we have
with these organizations. Agents have opportunities for direct, personal conversations with our senior management team, and headquarters
associates have opportunities to refresh their knowledge of marketplace conditions and field activities.



The field team is coordinated by field marketing representatives
responsible for underwriting new commercial lines business. They are joined by field representatives specializing in claims, loss
control, personal lines, excess and surplus lines, machinery and equipment, bond, premium audit and life insurance. The field team
provides many services for agencies and policyholders; for example, our loss control field representatives and others specializing
in machinery and equipment risks perform inspections and recommend specific actions to improve the safety of the policyholder’s
operations and the quality of the agent’s account.



Agents work with us to carefully select risks and help assure
pricing adequacy. They appreciate the time our associates invest in creating solutions for their clients while protecting profitability,
whether that means working on an individual case or customizing policy terms and conditions that preserve flexibility, choice and
other sales advantages. We seek to develop long-term relationships by understanding the unique needs of their clients, who are
also our policyholders.








We also are responsive to agent needs for well designed property
casualty products. Our commercial lines products are structured to allow flexible combinations of property and liability coverages
in a single package with a single expiration date and several payment options. This approach brings policyholders convenience,
discounts and a reduced risk of coverage gaps or disputes. At the same time, it increases account retention and saves time and
expense for the agency and our company.



We employ technology solutions and business process improvements
that:



·allow our field and headquarters associates to collaborate with each other and with agencies more efficiently



·provide our agencies the ability to access our systems and data from their agency management systems to process business transactions
from their offices



·allow policyholders to directly access, from their systems and mobile devices, pertinent policy information online in order
to further improve efficiency for our agencies



·automate our internal processes so our associates can spend more time serving agents and policyholders



·reduce duplicated effort or friction points in technology processes, introducing more efficiency that reduces company and agency costs



Agencies access our systems and other electronic services via
their agency management systems or CinciLink®, our secure agency-only website. CinciLink provides an array of web-based
services and content that makes doing business with us easier, such as commercial and personal lines rating and processing systems,
policy loss information, educational courses about our products and services, accounting services, and electronic libraries for
property and casualty coverage forms, state rating manuals and marketing materials.



Superior Claims Service



Our claims philosophy reflects our belief that we prosper as
a company by responding to claims person to person, paying covered claims promptly, preventing false claims from unfairly adding
to overall premiums and building financial strength to meet future obligations.



Our 770 locally based field claims associates work from their
homes, assigned to specific agencies. They respond personally to policyholders and claimants, typically within 24 hours of
receiving an agency’s claim report. We believe we have a competitive advantage because of the person-to-person approach and
the resulting high level of service that our field claims representatives provide. We also help our agencies provide prompt service
to policyholders by giving agencies authority to immediately pay most first-party claims under standard market policies up to $2,500.
We believe this same local approach to handling claims is a competitive advantage for our agents providing excess and surplus
lines coverage in their communities. Handling of these claims includes guidance from headquarters-based excess and surplus lines
claims managers.



Our property casualty claims operation uses CMS, our claims
management system, to streamline processes and achieve operational efficiencies. CMS allows field and headquarters claims associates
to collaborate on reported claims through a virtual claim file. Our field claims representatives use tablet computers to view and
enter information into CMS from any location, including an insured’s home or agent’s office, and to print claim checks
using portable printers. Agencies also can access selected CMS information such as activity notes on open claims.



Catastrophe response teams are comprised of volunteers from
our experienced field claims staff, and we give them the authority they need to do their jobs. In times of widespread loss, our
field claims representatives confidently and quickly resolve claims, often writing checks on the same day they inspect the loss.
CMS introduced new efficiencies that are especially evident during catastrophes. Electronic claim files allow for fast initial
contact with policyholders and easy sharing of information and data by rotating storm teams, headquarters and local field claims
representatives. When hurricanes or other weather events are predicted, we can identify through mapping technologies the expected
number of our policyholders that may be impacted by the event and choose to have catastrophe response team members travel to strategic
locations near the expected impact area. They are in position to quickly get to the affected area, set up temporary offices and
start calling on policyholders.





Our claims associates work to control costs where appropriate.
They use vendor resources that provide negotiated pricing to our insureds and claimants. Our field claims representatives also
are educated continuously on new techniques and repair trends. They can leverage their local knowledge and experience with area
body shops, which helps them negotiate the right price with any facility the policyholder chooses.



We staff a Special Investigations Unit (SIU) with former law
enforcement and claims professionals whose qualifications make them well suited to gathering facts to uncover potential fraud.
While we believe our job is to pay what is due under each policy contract, we also want to prevent false claims from unfairly increasing
overall premiums. Our SIU also operates a computer forensics lab, using sophisticated software to recover data and mitigate the
cost of computer-related claims for business interruption and loss of records.








Insurance Products



We actively market property casualty insurance in 39 states
through a select group of independent insurance agencies. For most agencies that represent us, we believe we offer insurance solutions
for approximately 75 percent of the typical insurable risks of their clients. Our standard market commercial lines products
and our excess and surplus lines are marketed in all 39 states while our standard market personal lines products are marketed in
31, offering insurance coverage that includes business property and liability, automobile and homeowner as well as umbrella liability.
We discuss our commercial lines, personal lines and excess and surplus lines insurance operations and products in Commercial Lines
Property Casualty Insurance Segment, Page 13, Personal Lines Property Casualty Insurance Segment, Page 15, and Excess and
Surplus Lines Property Casualty Insurance Segment, Page 16.



The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company began
excess and surplus lines insurance operations in January 2008. We structured this operation to exclusively serve the needs
of the independent agencies that currently market our standard market insurance policies. When all or a portion of a current or
potential client’s insurance program requires excess and surplus lines coverages, those agencies can write the whole account
with Cincinnati, gaining benefits not often found in the broader excess and surplus lines market. Agencies have access to The Cincinnati
Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company’s product line through CSU Producer Resources, the wholly owned insurance brokerage
subsidiary of parent-company Cincinnati Financial Corporation.



We also support the independent agencies affiliated with our
property casualty operations in their programs to sell life insurance. The life insurance, disability and fixed annuity products
offered by our life insurance subsidiary round out and protect accounts and improve account persistency. At the same time, our
life operation increases diversification of revenue and profitability sources for both the agency and our company.



Our property casualty agencies make up the main distribution
system for our life insurance products. To help build scale, we also develop life business from other independent life insurance
agencies in geographic markets underserved through our property casualty agencies. We are careful to solicit business from these
other agencies in a manner that does not compete with the life insurance marketing and sales efforts of our property casualty agencies.
Our life insurance operation emphasizes up-to-date products, responsive underwriting, high-quality service and competitive pricing.



Other Services to Agencies



We complement the insurance operations by providing products
and services that help attract and retain high-quality independent insurance agencies. When we appoint agencies, we look for organizations
with knowledgeable, professional staffs. In turn, we make an exceptionally strong commitment to assist them in keeping their knowledge
up to date and educating new people they bring on board as they grow. Numerous activities fulfill this commitment at our headquarters,
in regional and agency locations and online.



Except for travel-related expenses to classes held at our headquarters,
most programs are offered at no cost to our agencies. While that approach may be extraordinary in our industry today, the result
is quality service for our policyholders and increased success for our independent agencies.



In addition to broad education and training support, we make
available noninsurance financial services. CFC Investment Company offers equipment and vehicle leases and loans for independent
insurance agencies, their commercial clients and other businesses. We also provide commercial real estate loans or other financial
assistance to help agencies operate, expand and perpetuate their businesses. We believe that providing these services enhances
agency relationships with the company and their clients, increasing loyalty while diversifying the agency’s revenues.



We’re studying opportunities to begin developing our consumer
brand. Our goal is to better support our independent agents as we serve their clients, who are our current and prospective policyholders.
As part of that study, we are running a small consumer advertising campaign in 2013.








Strategic Initiatives



Management has identified strategies that can position us for
long-term success. The board of directors and management expect execution of our strategic plan to create significant value for
shareholders over time. We broadly group these strategies into two areas of focus – improving insurance profitability and
driving premium growth – correlating with important ways we measure our progress toward our long-term financial objectives.
A primary profitability long-term target is to produce a GAAP combined ratio over any five-year period that is consistently within
the range of 95 percent to 100 percent. A primary premium growth long-term target is to profitably grow to reach $5 billion
of property casualty and life insurance annual direct written premiums by the end of 2015.



Effective capital management is an important part of creating
shareholder value, serving as a foundation to support other strategies focused on profitable growth of our insurance business,
with the overall objective of long-term benefit for shareholders. Our capital management philosophy is intended to preserve and
build our capital while maintaining appropriate liquidity. A strong capital position provides the capacity to support premium growth,
and liquidity provides for our investment in the people and infrastructure needed to implement our other strategic initiatives.
Our strong capital and liquidity also provide financial flexibility for shareholder dividends or other capital management actions.



Our strategies seek to position us to compete successfully in
the markets we have targeted while optimizing the balance of risk and returns. We believe successful implementation of key initiatives
that support our strategies will help us better serve our agent customers, reduce volatility in our financial results and achieve
our long-term objectives despite shorter-term effects of difficult economic, market or pricing cycles. We describe our expectations
for the results of these initiatives in Item 7, Executive Summary of Management’s Discussion and Analysis, Page 38.



Improve Insurance Profitability



Implementation of the initiatives described below is intended
to enhance underwriting expertise and knowledge for our property casualty business, improving our ability to manage our business
while also providing greater efficiency. By improving our capabilities to determine individual insurance policy pricing with better
alignment to risk attributes, we can increase our effectiveness in managing profit margins. By improving internal processes and
further developing performance metrics, we can further improve efficiency and effectiveness. These initiatives also support the
ability of the agencies that represent us to grow profitably by allowing them to serve clients faster and more efficiently manage
expenses. Important initiatives for 2013 to improve insurance profitability include:



·Enhance underwriting expertise and knowledge – We continue to increase our use of information and develop our skills
for improved underwriting performance, focusing on areas that will benefit most from additional effort. We also continue to expand
our pricing capabilities by using predictive analytics, expecting cumulative benefits of these efforts to improve loss ratios over
time. Expanded capabilities include streamlining and optimizing data to improve accuracy, timeliness and ease of use. Development
of additional business data to support more accurate underwriting, more granular pricing and other business decision-making also
continues through a multi-year, phased project. Project deliverables include enhancing our data management program in phases, including
further developing our data warehouse used in our property casualty and life insurance operations.





Initiatives for 2013 also include improving or
expanding pricing precision with ongoing enhancement of analytics and predictive modeling tools. We continue to further
integrate such tools with policy administration systems to help our underwriting associates better target profitability and
discuss pricing impacts with agency personnel. Use of enhanced pricing precision tools and techniques with our existing
policies as they renew should improve
loss ratios over time, allowing us to ensure we are competitive on the most desirable business and able to adapt more rapidly to
changes in market








conditions. We began using the second generation of our workers’ compensation predictive modeling tool
in the second half of 2012. Since late 2011, we have used pricing precision tools for our commercial auto line of business and
also for general liability and commercial property coverages in commercial package accounts. Similar tools for small business policies
written through our CinciPakTMproduct began being used in several states in 2012 and will be implemented for many more
states in 2013. We also continue to enhance our model attributes used for personal auto and homeowner policies, expanding our pricing
points to add more precision to models used in past years. We plan to introduce predictive modeling for dwelling fire policies
in 2013. In addition, we are working to improve pricing precision for homeowner policies in select states over time through by-peril
rating that allows for pricing in line with the unique combination and magnitude of hazards affecting a particular insured risk.



·Improve internal processes – Improved processes support our strategic goals, reducing internal costs and allowing us
to focus more resources on providing agency services. Important process improvement efforts include additional streamlining of
policy processing between company and agency management systems, such as reduction of data entry by leveraging existing internal
and external data. This allows for processing of some personal lines or small commercial lines business without intervention by
an underwriter, for risks that meet qualifying underwriting criteria, and routing of complex work items to the most appropriate
associate for optimal service. In 2013, we plan to expand this form of streamlined processing to personal lines policy renewal
transactions, following successful 2012 implementation for new business policies. For small commercial lines policies that meet
qualifying underwriting criteria, we plan to expand streamlined processing of renewal transactions to most states by the end of
2013, building on a pilot program implemented for a limited number of states and policy coverages. We also plan to add workers’
compensation policy processing to our e-CLAS®CPP commercial lines policy administration system.



We measure the overall success of our strategy to improve insurance
profitability primarily through our GAAP combined ratio for property casualty results, which we believe can be consistently
within the range of 95 percent to 100 percent for any five-year period. We also compare our statutory combined ratio
to the industry average to gauge our progress.



In addition, we expect these initiatives to contribute to our
rank as the No. 1 or No. 2 carrier based on premium volume in agencies that have represented us for at least five years. In 2011,
we again earned that rank in nearly 75 percent of the agencies that have represented Cincinnati Insurance for more than five years,
based on 2011 premiums. We are working to increase the percentage of agencies where we achieve that rank.



Drive Premium Growth



Implementation of the operational initiatives below is intended
to further penetrate each market we serve through our independent agency network. We expect strategies aimed at specific market
opportunities, along with service enhancements, to help our agents grow and increase our share of their business. Our strategy
includes new initiatives and execution of prior year growth initiatives, including use of profitability and growth models or plans
at an agency level to facilitate coordination and decision-making. In addition to estimating planned premium growth from existing
agencies, these plans help project the number of additional agencies needed to achieve premium targets. Our focus remains on the
key components of agent satisfaction based on factors agents tell us are most important. Significant 2013 initiatives to drive
premium growth include:



·Expansion of our marketing and service capabilities – We continue to enhance our generalist approach to allow our appointed
agencies to better compete in the marketplace by providing services an agent’s clients want and need. During 2013, we continue
to develop and coordinate targeted marketing, including cross-selling opportunities, through our Target Markets department. This
area focuses on commercial product development, including identification of and promotional support for promising classes of business.
We offered 13 target markets programs to our agencies at the end of 2012, and we plan to launch additional programs during
2013, in addition to expanding product offerings within various programs.



We will pilot additional services in 2013 to select
agencies that opt to use a customer care center we are developing for small commercial business policies. Our services will include
various policy administration functions routinely provided by agencies, allowing agency personnel to focus more on marketing efforts
and on providing additional service to their clients as needed. We will also continue to add field marketing representatives where
needed for additional agency support in targeted areas, including some specializing in personal lines or excess and surplus lines.
Associates in our life insurance segment plan to increase opportunities for agencies to cross-sell to their clients by providing
additional service, including realigned territories for field associates and more product education.








·New agency appointments – We continue to appoint new agencies to develop additional points of distribution, focusing
on markets where our market share is less than 1 percent while also considering economic and catastrophe risk factors. In
2013, we are targeting approximately 65 appointments of independent agencies that write in aggregate $750 million or more
in property casualty business annually with various insurance carriers. While this target is lower than in recent years, we
believe it is appropriate based on our long-term premium volume objective while also considering the geographic marketing reach
assessment and the multi-year nature of premium growth from past agency appointments, as noted below. We are also targeting approximately
75 appointments of additional independent agencies to offer only our life insurance products and service, in addition to ones among
the 65 noted above that also want to represent us for life insurance.



We seek to build a close, long-term relationship
with each agency we appoint. The contribution of new agencies to our property casualty premium growth should occur over several
years, as time is required to fully realize the benefits of our agency relationships. We generally earn a 10 percent share
of an agency’s business within 10 years of its appointment. We also help our agents grow their business by attracting more
clients in their communities through unique Cincinnati-style service. We carefully evaluate the marketing reach of each new appointment
to ensure the territory can support both current and new agencies. In counting new agency appointments, we include appointment
of new agency relationships with property casualty insurance group subsidiaries of The Cincinnati Insurance Companies. For those
that we believe will produce a meaningful amount of new business premiums, we also count appointments of agencies that merge
with a Cincinnati agency and new branch offices opened by existing Cincinnati agencies. We made 140, 133 and 93 new appointments
in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, with 109, 93 and 70 representing new relationships.



We measure the overall success of our strategy to drive premium
growth primarily through changes in net written premiums. Other important indicators that we are successfully executing initiatives
to drive premium growth include tracking our progress toward our year-end 2015 direct written premiums target. We believe we can
grow premiums faster than the industry average over any five-year period, while also achieving our long-term objective for underwriting
profitability.



Our Segments



Consolidated financial results primarily reflect the results
of our five reporting segments. These segments are defined based on financial information we use to evaluate performance and to
determine the allocation of assets.



·Commercial lines property casualty insurance



·Personal lines property casualty insurance



·Excess and surplus lines property casualty insurance



·Life insurance



·Investments



We also evaluate results for our consolidated property casualty
operations, which is the total of our commercial lines, personal lines and excess and surplus lines results.



Revenues, income before income taxes and identifiable assets
for each segment are shown in a table in Item 8, Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 137. Some of
that information also is discussed in this section of this report, where we explain the business operations of each segment. The financial
performance of each segment is discussed in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations, which begins on Page 38.








Commercial Lines
Property Casualty Insurance Segment



The commercial lines property casualty insurance segment contributed
net earned premiums of $2.383 billion to consolidated total revenues, or 58.0 percent of that total, and reported profit
before income taxes of $181 million in 2012. Commercial lines net earned premiums rose 8 percent in 2012 and 2 percent
in 2011, following a decline of 2 percent in 2010.



Approximately 95 percent of our commercial lines premiums
are written to provide accounts with coverages from more than one of our business lines. As a result, we believe that our commercial
lines business is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. However, we provide line of business data to summarize growth
and profitability trends separately for our business lines. The seven commercial business lines are:



·Commercial casualty – Provides coverage to businesses against third-party liability from accidents occurring on their
premises or arising out of their operations, including liability coverage for injuries sustained from products sold as well as
coverage for professional services, such as dentistry. Specialized casualty policies may include liability coverage for employment
practices liability (EPLI), which protects businesses against claims by employees that their legal rights as employees of the company
have been violated, and against other acts or failures to act under specified circumstances; and excess insurance and umbrella
liability, including personal umbrella liability written as an endorsement to commercial umbrella coverages. The commercial casualty
business line includes liability coverage written on both a nondiscounted and discounted basis as part of commercial package policies.



·Commercial property – Provides coverage for loss or damage to buildings, inventory and equipment caused by covered causes
of loss such as fire, wind, hail, water, theft and vandalism, as well as business interruption resulting from a covered loss. Commercial
property also includes crime insurance, which provides coverage for losses such as embezzlement or misappropriation of funds by
an employee, among others; and inland marine insurance, which provides coverage for builder’s risk, cargo, electronic data
processing equipment and a variety of mobile equipment, such as contractor’s equipment. Various property coverages can be
written as stand-alone policies or can be added to a package policy. The commercial property business line includes property coverage
written on both a nondiscounted and discounted basis as part of commercial package policies.





·Commercial auto – Protects businesses against liability to others for both bodily injury and property damage, medical
payments to insureds and occupants of their vehicles, physical damage to an insured’s own vehicle from collision and
various other perils, and damages caused by uninsured motorists.



·Workers’ compensation – Protects employers against specified benefits payable under state or federal law for workplace
injuries to employees. We write workers’ compensation coverage in all of our active states except North Dakota, Ohio, Washington
and Wyoming, where coverage is provided solely by the state instead of by private insurers.



·Specialty packages – Includes coverages for property, liability and business interruption tailored to meet the needs
of specific industry classes such as artisan contractors, dentists, garage operators, financial institutions, metalworkers, printers,
religious institutions or smaller main street businesses. Businessowners policies, which combine property, liability and business
interruption coverages for small businesses, are included in specialty packages.



·Surety and executive risk – This business line includes:



oContract and commercial surety bonds, which guarantee a payment or reimbursement for financial losses resulting from dishonesty,
failure to perform and other acts.



oFidelity bonds, which cover losses that policyholders incur as a result of fraudulent acts by specified individuals or dishonest
acts by employees.



oDirector and officer (D&O) liability insurance, which covers liability for actual or alleged errors in judgment, breaches
of duty or other wrongful acts related to activities of for-profit or nonprofit organizations. Approximately 81 percent of our
D&O policies and 50 percent of the premium volume in force for 2012 were for nonprofit entities. Our director and officer liability
policy can optionally include EPLI coverage.



·Machinery and equipment – Specialized coverage provides protection for loss or damage to boilers and machinery, including
production and computer equipment, due to sudden and accidental mechanical breakdown, steam explosion or artificially generated
electrical current.



Our emphasis is on products that agents can market to small
to midsized businesses in their communities. Of our 1,758 reporting agency locations, 15 market only our surety and executive
risk products and 26 market only our personal lines products. The remaining 1,717 locations, located in all states in
which we actively market, offer some or all of our standard market commercial insurance products.








In 2012, our 10 highest volume commercial lines states generated
62.3 percent of our earned premiums compared with 63.3 percent in 2011 and 64.3 percent in 2010 as we continued
efforts to geographically diversify our property casualty risks. Earned premiums in the 10 highest volume states increased 7 percent
in 2012 and increased 12 percent in the remaining 29 states. The number of reporting agency locations in our 10 highest
volume states increased to 1,035 in 2012 from 985 in 2011.



Commercial Lines Earned Premiums by State



(Dollars in millions)Earnedpremiums% oftotalearnedAgencylocationsAveragepremium perlocationYear ended December 31, 2012Ohio$36415.3%234$1.6Illinois1958.21271.5Pennsylvania1727.2911.9Indiana1486.21081.4North Carolina1235.2881.4Michigan1074.51310.8Virginia1034.3651.6Georgia923.9831.1Wisconsin913.8531.7Tennessee883.7551.6Year ended December 31, 2011Ohio$34115.5%232$1.5Illinois1898.61231.5Pennsylvania1637.4851.9Indiana1386.31061.3North Carolina1185.4821.4Virginia1014.6661.5Michigan994.51150.9Georgia833.8751.1Wisconsin823.7511.6Tennessee773.5501.5



For new commercial lines business, case-by-case underwriting
and pricing is coordinated by our locally based field marketing representatives. Our agents and our field marketing, claims, loss
control, premium audit, bond and machinery and equipment representatives get to know the people and businesses in their communities
and can make informed decisions about each risk. These field marketing representatives also are responsible for selecting new independent
agencies, coordinating field teams of specialized company representatives and promoting all of the company’s products within
the agencies they serve.



Commercial lines policy renewals are managed by headquarters
underwriters who are assigned to specific agencies and consult with local field staff as needed. As part of our team approach,
headquarters underwriters also help oversee agency growth and profitability. They are responsible for formal issuance of all new
business and renewal policies as well as policy endorsements. Further, the headquarters underwriters provide day-to-day customer
service to agencies and marketing representatives by offering product training, answering underwriting questions, helping
to determine underwriting eligibility and assisting with the mechanics of premium determination.



Our emphasis on small to midsized businesses is reflected in
the mix of our commercial lines premium volume by policy size. Approximately 85 percent of our commercial in-force policies have
annual premiums of $10,000 or less, accounting in total for approximately one-third of our 2012 commercial lines premium volume.
The remainder of policies have annual premiums greater than $10,000, including in-force policies with annual premiums greater than
$100,000 that account for slightly less than 15 percent of our 2012 commercial lines premium volume.



Our commercial lines packages typically are offered on a three-year
policy term for most insurance coverages, a key competitive advantage. In our experience, multi-year packages appeal to the quality-conscious
insurance buyers who we believe are typical clients of our independent agents. Customized insurance programs on a three-year term
complement the long-term relationships these policyholders typically have with their agents and with the company. By reducing annual
administrative efforts, multi-year policies lower expenses for our company and for our agents. The commitment we make to policyholders
encourages long-term relationships and reduces their need to annually re-evaluate their insurance carrier or agency. We believe
that the advantages of three-year policies in terms of improved policyholder convenience, increased account retention and reduced
administrative costs outweigh the potential disadvantage of these policies, even in periods of rising rates.



Although we offer three-year policy terms, premiums for some
coverages within those policies are adjustable at anniversary for the next annual period, and policies may be canceled at any time
at the discretion of the policyholder. Contract terms often provide that rates for property, general liability, inland marine and
crime coverages, as well as policy terms and conditions, are fixed for the term of the policy.








The general liability exposure
basis may be audited annually. Commercial auto, workers’ compensation, professional liability and most umbrella liability
coverages within multi-year packages are rated at each of the policy's annual anniversaries for the next one-year period. The annual
pricing could incorporate rate changes approved by state insurance regulatory authorities between the date the policy was written
and its annual anniversary date, as well as changes in risk exposures and premium credits or debits relating to loss experience
and other underwriting judgment factors. We estimate that approximately 75 percent of 2012 commercial premiums were subject
to annual rating or were written on a one-year policy term.



We believe our commercial lines segment premiums reflect a higher
concentration, relative to industry commercial lines premiums, in contractor-related businesses. Since economic activity related
to construction, which can heavily influence insured exposures of contractors, may experience cycles that vary significantly
with the economy as a whole, our commercial lines premium trends could vary from commercial lines premium trends for the property
casualty insurance industry. In 2012, we estimated that policyholders with a contractor-related Insurance Services Office (ISO)
general liability code accounted for approximately 34 percent of our general liability premiums, which are included in the
commercial casualty line of business, and that policyholders with a contractor-related National Council on Compensation Insurance
Inc. (NCCI) workers’ compensation code accounted for approximately 47 percent of our workers’ compensation premiums.



Understanding evolving market conditions is a critical function
for our success, accomplished in both an informal and a formal manner. Informally, our field marketing representatives, underwriters
and Target Markets department associates are routinely in receipt of market intelligence from the agencies with which they work,
providing us with feedback. Our commercial lines product management group and field marketing representatives obtain competitive
intelligence through various means. This market information helps identify the top competitors by line of business or specialty
program and also identifies our market strengths and weaknesses. The information obtained encompasses pricing, breadth of
coverage and underwriting/eligibility issues.



In addition to reviewing our competitive position, our product
management group and our underwriting audit group review compliance with our underwriting standards as well as the pricing adequacy
of our commercial insurance programs and coverages. Further, our Target Markets department analyzes opportunities and develops
new products and services, new coverage options and improvements to existing insurance products.



We support our commercial lines operations with a variety of
technology tools. e-CLAS CPP for commercial package and auto coverages now has rolled out to all of our appointed agencies in 36 states.
It is being developed for additional coverages and remaining states that will be deployed over time. Since the initial deployment
of e-CLAS in late 2009, approximately three-quarters of our non-workers’ compensation commercial lines policies in force
at the end of 2012 have been processed through e-CLAS. In addition to increasing efficiency for our associates, the system allows
our agencies options to quote and produce commercial package policies in paper or electronic format from their offices and to bill
policies through their agencies or through us. These features increase their ease of doing business with us. The e-CLAS platform
also makes use of our real-time agency interface, CinciBridge®, which allows the automated movement of key
underwriting data from an agency’s management system to e-CLAS. This reduces agents’ data entry tasks and allows seamless
quoting, rating and issuance capability.



Personal Lines Property Casualty Insurance Segment



The personal lines property casualty insurance segment contributed
net earned premiums of $868 million to consolidated total revenues, or 21.1 percent of the total, and reported a loss
before income taxes of $43 million in 2012. Personal lines net earned premiums rose 14 percent in 2012, 6 percent
in 2011 and 5 percent in 2010.



We prefer to write personal lines coverage in accounts that
include both auto and homeowner coverages as well as coverages that are part of our other personal business line. At the end of
2012, for example, 76 percent of our homeowner policies were accompanied by a personal auto policy in the same account. As a
result of our account-based approach, we believe that our personal lines business is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis.
However, we provide line of business data to summarize growth and profitability trends separately for three business lines:



·Personal auto – Protects against liability to others for both bodily injury and property damage, medical payments to
insureds and occupants of their vehicle, physical damage to an insured’s own vehicle from collision and various other perils,
and damages caused by uninsured motorists. In addition, many states require policies to provide first-party personal injury protection,
frequently referred to as no-fault coverage.



·Homeowner – Protects against losses to dwellings and contents from a wide variety of perils, as well as liability arising
out of personal activities both on and off the covered premises. We also offer coverage for condominium unit owners and renters.








·Other personal lines – This includes the variety of other types of insurance products we offer to individuals such as
dwelling fire, inland marine, personal umbrella liability and watercraft coverages.



At year-end, we marketed personal lines insurance products through
1,321 or approximately 75 percent of our 1,758 reporting agency locations. The 1,321 personal lines agency locations are in
31 of the 39 states in which we offer standard market commercial lines insurance. We continue to evaluate opportunities to expand
our marketing of personal lines to other states. Primary factors considered in the evaluation of a potential new state include
weather-related catastrophe history and the legal climate.



In 2012, our 10 highest volume personal lines states generated
80.6 percent of our earned premiums compared with 80.7 percent in 2011 and 82.2 percent in 2010. Earned premiums in the
six highest volume states increased 10 percent in 2012 while increasing 22 percent in the remaining states,
reflecting progress toward our long-term objective of geographic diversification through new states for our personal lines operation.
The number of reporting agency locations in our 10 highest volume states increased 6 percent to 847 in 2012 from
798 in 2011.



Personal Lines Earned Premiums by State



(Dollars in millions)Earnedpremiums% oftotalearnedAgencylocationsAveragepremium perlocationYear ended December 31, 2012Ohio$26530.6%208$1.3Georgia728.2780.9Indiana718.2880.8Illinois627.2950.7Alabama495.7431.1Kentucky475.4371.3Michigan424.81140.4North Carolina374.3810.5Tennessee293.4500.6Minnesota242.8530.5Year ended December 31, 2011Ohio$24231.7%207$1.2Georgia668.6710.9Indiana648.4850.8Illinois567.4900.6Kentucky445.7381.2Alabama425.5411.0Michigan324.2970.3North Carolina283.7770.4Tennessee222.8450.5Virginia202.7470.4



New and renewal personal lines business reflects our risk-specific
underwriting philosophy. Each agency selects personal lines business primarily from within the geographic territory that it serves,
based on the agent’s knowledge of the risks in those communities or familiarity with the policyholder. Personal lines activities
are supported by headquarters associates assigned to individual agencies. At year-end 2012, we had 11 full-time personal lines
field marketing representatives who have underwriting authority and visit agencies on a regular basis. They focus primarily on
key states targeted for growth, reinforcing the advantages of our personal lines products and offering training in the use of our
processing system.



All of our personal lines policies are written for a one-year
term. Competitive advantages of our personal lines operation include broad coverage forms, flexible underwriting, superior claims
service and endorsements allowing customization of coverage for both personal auto and homeowner policies. Our personal lines products
are processed through Diamond, our web-based real-time personal lines policy processing system that supports streamlined processing.
Diamond incorporates features frequently requested by our agencies such as pre-filling of selected data for improved efficiency,
easy-to-use screens, local and headquarters policy printing options, data transfer to and from popular agency management systems
and real-time integration with third-party data such as insurance scores, motor vehicle reports and address verification.



Excess and Surplus Lines Property Casualty Insurance
Segment



The excess and surplus lines property casualty segment contributed
net earned premiums of $93 million to consolidated total revenues, or 2.3 percent of the total, and reported a loss before
income taxes of $1 million in 2012, its fifth year of operation. Excess and surplus lines net earned premium increased 33 percent
in 2012, 43 percent in 2011 and 81 percent in 2010.



Our excess and surplus lines policies typically cover business
risks with unique characteristics, such as the nature of the business or its claim history, that are difficult to profitably insure
in the standard commercial lines market. Excess and surplus lines insurers have more flexibility in coverage terms and rates compared








with standard lines companies, generally resulting in policies with higher rates and terms and conditions customized for specific
risks, including restricted coverage where appropriate. We target small to midsized risks, seeking to avoid those we consider exotic
in nature. Our average excess and surplus lines policy size is approximately $5,000 in annual premiums, and policyholders in many
cases also have standard market insurance with one of The Cincinnati Insurance Companies. All of our excess and surplus lines policies
are written for a maximum term of one year. Approximately 85 percent of our 2012 premium volume for the excess and surplus lines
segment provided commercial casualty coverages and about 15 percent provided commercial property coverages. Those coverages
are described below.



·Commercial casualty – Covers businesses for third-party liability from accidents occurring on their premises or arising
out of their operations, including products and completed operations. The majority of these policies have coverage limits of $1
million or less. Miscellaneous errors and omissions and professional coverage for liability from actual or alleged errors in judgment,
breaches of duty or other wrongful acts related to activities of insured businesses is also available, as is excess liability coverage
that adds another layer of protection to the insured’s other liability insurance policies. Typical businesses covered include
contractors, consultants, bars or taverns and manufacturers. Policies covering liability at special events are also available.



·Commercial property – Insures loss or damage to buildings, inventory, equipment and business income from causes of loss
such as fire, wind, hail, water, theft and vandalism. Examples of property we commonly insure with excess and surplus lines policies
include temporarily vacant buildings, restaurants and relatively higher-hazard manufacturing classes.



At the end of 2012, we marketed excess and surplus lines insurance
products in each of the 39 states in which we offer standard market commercial lines insurance. Offering excess and surplus lines
helps agencies representing The Cincinnati Insurance Companies meet the insurance needs of their clients when coverage is unavailable
in the standard market. By providing outstanding service, we can help agencies grow and prosper while also profitably growing our
property casualty business.



In 2012, our 10 highest volume excess and surplus lines states
generated 62.2 percent of our earned premiums compared with 62.8 percent in 2011 and 65.1 percent in 2010.



Excess and Surplus Lines Earned Premiums by State



(Dollars in millions)Earnedpremiums% of totalearnedYear ended December 31, 2012Ohio$1111.5%Indiana99.3Texas77.5Georgia66.8Illinois66.4Missouri54.9Michigan44.4Alabama44.1Pennsylvania33.7Kentucky33.6Year ended December 31, 2011Ohio$912.4%Indiana79.7Illinois56.8Georgia56.6Texas46.3Missouri45.4Pennsylvania34.2Michigan34.0Kentucky33.7North Carolina33.7



Agencies representing The Cincinnati Insurance Companies produce
over $2 billion in annual premiums for all carriers writing excess and surplus lines policies for their clients. We estimate that
approximately half of that premium volume matches the targeted business types and coverages we offer through our excess and surplus
lines segment. We structured the operations of this segment to meet the needs of these agencies and to market exclusively through
them.



Agencies have access to The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters
Insurance Company’s product line through CSU Producer Resources, the wholly owned insurance brokerage subsidiary of
parent-company Cincinnati Financial Corporation. CSU Producer Resources has binding authority on all classes of business written
through The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company and maintains appropriate agent and surplus lines licenses to process
nonadmitted business.



We seek to earn a share of each agency’s best excess and
surplus lines accounts by offering several unique benefits. Agency producers have direct access through CSU Producer Resources
to a group of our underwriters who focus exclusively on excess and surplus lines business. Those underwriters can tap into broader
Cincinnati services to provide policyholders additional value and help agents build the relationship through experienced and responsive
loss control and claims handling. CSU Producer Resources gives extra support to our independent agency producers by remitting surplus
lines taxes and stamping fees and retaining admitted market diligent search affidavits, where required. Agencies marketing
through CSU Producer Resources instead of a competing brokerage generally receive a higher commission because use of our internal
brokerage subsidiary eliminates some of the intermediary costs. This business is also factored in their profit-sharing agreement
with The Cincinnati Insurance Companies.








We use a web-based excess and surplus lines policy administration
system to quote, bind, issue and deliver policies electronically to agents. This system provides integration to existing document
management and data management systems, allowing for real-time processing of policies and billing. It provides a specimen policy
detailing coverages when a policy is quoted and delivers electronic copies of policies to independent agency producers within minutes
of underwriting approval and policy issue. In 2012, more than 95 percent of policies were issued within 24 hours of a request to
bind a policy.



Life Insurance Segment



The life insurance segment contributed $178 million of
net earned premiums, representing 4.3 percent of consolidated total revenues, and negative $3 million of income before income
taxes in 2012. Life insurance segment profitability is discussed in detail in Item 7, Life Insurance Results of Operations,
Page 77. Life insurance net earned premiums grew 8 percent in 2012, 4 percent in 2011 and 10 percent in 2010.



The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company supports our agency-centered
business model. Cincinnati Life helps meet the needs of our agencies, including increasing and diversifying agency revenues. We primarily
focus on life products that feature a steady stream of premium payments and that have the potential for generating revenue growth
through increasing demand. By diversifying revenue and profitability for both the agency and our company, this strategy enhances
the already strong relationship built by the combination of the property casualty and life companies.



Life Insurance Business Lines



Four lines of business – term life insurance, universal
life insurance, worksite products and whole life insurance – account for 96.5 percent of the life insurance segment’s
revenues:



·Term life insurance – policies under which a death benefit is payable only if the insured dies during a specific
period of time. For policies without a return of premium provision, no benefit is payable if the insured person survives to
the end of the term. For policies in force with a return of premium provision, a benefit equal to the sum of all paid base
premiums is payable if the insured person survives to the end of the term. Premiums are fixed, and they must be paid as scheduled.
The policies are fully underwritten.



·Universal life insurance – long-duration life insurance policies. Contract premiums are neither fixed nor guaranteed;
however, the contract does specify a minimum interest crediting rate and a maximum cost of insurance charge and expense charge.
Premiums are not fixed and may be varied by the contract owner. The cash values, available as a loan collateralized by the cash
surrender value, are not guaranteed and depend on the amount and timing of actual premium payments and the amount of actual contract
assessments. The policies are fully underwritten.



·Worksite products – term life insurance, return of premium term life insurance, whole life insurance, universal life
and disability insurance offered to employees through their employer. Premiums are collected by the employer using payroll deduction.
Policies are issued using a simplified underwriting approach and on a guaranteed issue basis. Worksite insurance products provide
our property casualty agency force with excellent cross-serving opportunities for both commercial and personal accounts. Agents
report that offering worksite marketing to employees of their commercial accounts provides a benefit to the employees at no cost
to the employer. Worksite marketing also connects agents with new customers who may not have previously benefited from receiving
the services of a professional independent insurance agent.



·Whole life insurance – policies that provide life insurance for the entire lifetime of the insured. The death benefit
is guaranteed never to decrease and premiums are guaranteed never to increase. While premiums are fixed, they must be paid
as scheduled. These policies provide guaranteed cash values that are available as loans collateralized by the cash surrender
value. The policies are fully underwritten.








In addition, Cincinnati Life markets:



·Disability income insurance that provides monthly benefits to offset the loss of income when the insured person is unable to
work due to accident or illness.



·Deferred annuities that provide regular income payments that commence after the end of a specified period or when the
annuitant attains a specified age. During the deferral period, any payments made under the contract accumulate at the crediting
rate declared by the company but not less than a contract-specified guaranteed minimum interest rate. A deferred annuity may be
surrendered during the deferral period for a cash value equal to the accumulated payments plus interest less the surrender
charge, if any.



·Immediate annuities that provide some combination of regular income and lump sum payments in exchange for a single premium.



Life Insurance Distribution



Our life insurance subsidiary is licensed in 49 states and the
District of Columbia. At year-end 2012, almost 87 percent of our 1,758 agency reporting locations offered Cincinnati Life products
to their clients. We also develop life business from approximately 600 other independent life insurance agencies. We are careful
to solicit business from these other agencies in a manner that does not conflict with or compete with the marketing and sales efforts
of our property casualty agencies.



When marketing through our property casualty agencies, we have
specific competitive advantages:



·Because our property casualty operations are held in high regard, property casualty agency management is predisposed to consider
selling our life products.



·Marketing efforts for both our property casualty and life insurance businesses are directed by our field marketing department,
which assures consistency of communication and operations. Life field marketing representatives are available to meet face-to-face
with agency personnel and their clients as well.



·Our life headquarters underwriters and other associates are available to the agents and field team to assist in the placement
of business. Fewer and fewer of our competitors provide direct, personal support between the agent and the insurance carrier.



We continue to emphasize the cross-serving opportunities of
our life insurance, including term and worksite products, for the property casualty agency’s personal and commercial accounts.
In both the property casualty and independent life agency distribution systems, we enjoy the advantages of offering competitive,
up-to-date products, providing close personal attention in combination with financial strength and stability.



·We primarily offer products addressing the needs of businesses with key person and buy-sell coverages. We offer quality, personal
life insurance coverage to personal and commercial clients of our agencies.



·Term life insurance is our largest life insurance product line. We continue to introduce new term products with features our
agents indicate are important, such as a return of premium benefit.



Because of our strong capital position, we can offer a competitive
product portfolio including guaranteed products, giving our agents a marketing edge. Our life insurance company maintains strong
insurer financial strength ratings: A.M. Best, A (Excellent); Fitch, A+ (Strong); and Standard & Poor’s A (Strong);
as discussed in Financial Strength, Page 5. Our life insurance company has chosen not to establish a Moody’s rating.



In 2012 and 2011, the principal geographic distribution of life
insurance premiums, based on information contained in statements filed with state insurance departments, is reflected in the table
below.



Life Insurance Premiums by State



(Dollars in millions)Earnedpremiums% of totalearnedYear ended December 31, 2012Ohio$4418.4%Pennsylvania187.5Indiana177.1Illinois166.7Michigan125.0Year ended December 31, 2011Ohio$4218.9%Pennsylvania177.7Indiana156.8Illinois167.2Michigan125.4








Investments Segment



Revenues of the investments segment are primarily from net investment
income and from realized investment gains and losses from investment portfolios managed for the holding company and each of the
operating subsidiaries.



Our investment department operates under guidelines set forth
in our investment policy statement along with oversight of the investment committee of our board of directors. These guidelines
set parameters for risk tolerances governing, among other items, the allocation of the portfolio as well as security and sector
concentrations. These parameters are part of an integrated corporate risk management program.



The fair value of our investment portfolio was $12.466 billion
and $11.735 billion at year-end 2012 and 2011, respectively. The overall portfolio remained in an unrealized gain position
as equity and fixed income markets experienced strong returns in 2012.



The cash we generate from insurance operations historically
has been invested in two broad categories of investments:



·Fixed-maturity investments – Includes taxable and tax-exempt bonds and redeemable preferred stocks. During 2012 and 2011,
purchases and market value gains more than offset sales and calls.



·Equity investments – Includes common and nonredeemable preferred stocks. During 2012, purchases and fair value gains
more than offset sales. During 2011, purchases and fair value gains partially offset sales.



(In millions)At
    December 31, 2012At December
    31, 2011Cost orPercentPercentCost orPercentPercentamortized costof totalFair valueof totalamortized costof totalFair valueof totalTaxable fixed maturities$5,47351.7%$6,13749.2%$5,36952.4%$5,84749.8%Tax-exempt fixed maturities2,74926.02,95623.72,71526.52,93225.0Common equities2,27021.43,23826.02,08820.42,85424.3Preferred equities990.91351.1740.71020.9Total$10,591100.0%$12,466100.0%$10,246100.0%$11,735100.0%



When allocating cash to various asset classes, we consider market-based
factors such as risk adjusted after-tax yields as well as internal measures based on regulatory and rating agency guidance. During
2012, approximately one-half of new cash flow was invested in equity securities, exceeding our long-term historic average. This
was our first year since 2007 of positive net investment into common stocks. In 2011, we had net dispositions in all asset classes
except investment grade corporate bonds. The primary driver of this was routine portfolio management as well as less new cash available
for investment as a result of our unusual level of catastrophe activity.



At year-end 2012, less than 1 percent of the value of our
investment portfolio was made up of securities that are classified as Level 3 assets and that require management’s judgment
to develop pricing or valuation techniques. We generally obtain at least two outside valuations for these assets and generally
use the more conservative estimate. These investments include private placements, small issues and various thinly traded securities.
See Item 7, Fair Value Measurements, Page 48, and Item 8, Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 121,
for additional discussion of our valuation techniques.



In addition to securities held in our investment portfolio,
at year-end 2012, other invested assets included $37 million of life policy loans and $31 million of venture capital fund
investments.
















Fixed-Maturity Investments



By maintaining a well diversified fixed-maturity portfolio,
we attempt to manage overall interest rate, reinvestment, credit and liquidity risk. We pursue a buy-and-hold strategy and do not
attempt to make large-scale changes to the portfolio in anticipation of rate movements. By investing new money on a regular basis
and analyzing risk-adjusted after-tax yields, we work to achieve a laddering effect to our portfolio that may mitigate some of
the effects of adverse interest rate movements.



Fixed-Maturity Portfolio Ratings



At year-end 2012, this portfolio’s fair value was 110.6 percent
of amortized cost, up from last year as a result of both a general decline in interest rates and further credit spread tightening.



The portfolio grew in 2012 due to a combination of market performance
and purchases, most heavily concentrated in the investment grade corporate sector. The majority of our nonrated securities are
tax-exempt municipal bonds from smaller municipalities that chose not to pursue a credit rating. Credit ratings at year-end
2012 and 2011 for the fixed-maturity portfolio were:



(In millions)At December 31, 2012At December 31, 2011FairvaluePercentof totalFairvaluePercentof totalMoody's Ratings and Standard & Poor's Ratings combined:Aaa, Aa, A, AAA, AA, A$5,54461.0%$5,50762.7%Baa, BBB3,18035.02,84232.4Ba, BB1681.81952.2B, B200.2330.4Caa, CCC20.050.1Daa, Da, D10.020.0Non-rated1782.01952.2Total$9,093100.0%$8,779100.0%



Our fixed-maturity portfolio as of December 31, 2012, included
approximate maturing amounts with pretax average yields-to-book value as follows: 6.6 percent maturing in 2013 with a 4.5 percent
yield, 7.4 percent in 2014 with a 4.9 percent yield, and 8.8 percent in 2015 with a 4.5 percent yield. Additional maturity periods
for our fixed-maturity portfolio are shown in Item 8, Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 118. Attributes
of the fixed-maturity portfolio include:



At December 31,20122011Weighted average yield-to-amortized cost5.0%5.3%Weighted average maturity6.3yrs6.7yrsEffective duration4.2yrs4.4yrs



Taxable Fixed Maturities



The fair values of our taxable fixed-maturity portfolio for
the last two years were:



(In millions)At December 31,20122011Investment-grade corporate$5,388$5,100States, municipalities and political subdivisions334320Below investment-grade corporate182198Government sponsored enterprises164160Convertibles and bonds with warrants attached3159United States government77Foreign government33Commercial mortgage backed securities28-Total$6,137$5,847



While our strategy typically is to buy and hold fixed-maturity
investments to maturity, we monitor credit profiles and fair value movements when determining holding periods for individual securities.
With the exception of U.S. agency issues, no individual issuer's securities accounted for more than 1.1 percent of the
taxable fixed-maturity portfolio at year-end 2012. Investment grade corporate bonds had an average rating of Baa1 by Moody’s
or BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s and represented 87.8 percent of the taxable fixed-maturity portfolio’s fair value
at year end 2012, compared with 87.2 percent in 2011.



The investment-grade corporate bond portfolio is most heavily
concentrated in the financial-related sectors, including banking, financial services and insurance. The financial sectors represented
31.2 percent of fair value of this portfolio at year-end 2012, compared with 29.3 percent, at year-end 2011. Although
the financial-related sectors make up our largest group of investment-grade corporate bonds, we believe our concentration is below
the average for the corporate bond market as a whole. No other sector exceeded 10 percent of our investment-grade corporate
bond portfolio at year-end 2012.








Most of the $334 million of securities issued by states, municipalities
and political subdivisions included in our taxable fixed-maturity portfolio at the end of 2012 were Build America Bonds.



Tax-Exempt Fixed Maturities



Our tax-exempt fixed-maturity portfolio’s fair value was
$2.956 billion at December 31, 2012. The portfolio is well diversified among approximately 1,000 municipal bond issuers. No single
municipal issuer accounted for more than 0.8 percent of the tax-exempt fixed-maturity portfolio at year-end 2012. Municipal
bond holdings in our larger states were:



(In millions)At December 31, 2012State issued generalobligation bondsLocal issued generalobligation bondsSpecial revenuebondsTotalPercent oftotalTexas$-$398$95$49316.7%Indiana-1528630110.2Michigan-260122729.2Illinois-226202468.3Ohio-135962317.8Washington3174392167.3Wisconsin3106271364.6Pennsylvania-838913.1Florida-2165862.9Arizona-5526812.7Colorado-4519642.2New Jersey-3817551.9New York-2924531.8Kansas-2821491.7Minnesota-366421.4All other states228525354018.2Total$8$1,934$1,014$2,956100.0%At December 31, 2011Texas$-$425$99$52417.9%Indiana-1631633211.3Michigan-257122699.2Illinois-226232498.5Ohio-1321072398.2Washington3174392167.4Wisconsin2115251424.8Pennsylvania-768842.9Florida-2161822.8Arizona-5127782.7Colorado-4015551.9Kansas-2720471.6New Jersey-3017471.6New York-1824421.4Utah-2119401.4All other states126422148616.4Total$6$1,893$1,033$2,932100.0%



At year-end 2012, our tax-exempt fixed-maturity portfolio, with
a fair value of $2.956 billion, had an average rating of Aa2/AA. Over 68 percent or $2.020 billion of the portfolio is insured,
and approximately 96 percent of the insured portion carried an underlying rating of at least A3 or A- by Moody’s
or Standard & Poor’s at year end. We strongly prefer general obligation or essential services bonds, which we believe
provide a superior risk profile. The top three revenue resources of the $1.014 billion in special revenue bonds owned at year-end
2012 were 37 percent from leasing, 24 percent from water and sewer and 9 percent from higher education.



Equity Investments



After covering both our intermediate and long-range insurance
obligations with fixed-maturity investments, we historically used available cash flow to invest in equity securities. Investment
in equity securities has played an important role in achieving our portfolio objectives and has contributed to portfolio
appreciation. We remain committed to our long-term equity focus, which we believe is key to our company’s long-term
growth and stability.



Common Stocks



Our cash allocation for common stock purchases is implemented
only after we ensure that our insurance reserves are adequately covered by our fixed-maturity investments. We believe our strategy
of primarily investing in a diversified selection of larger capitalization, high quality, dividend-increasing companies generally
results in reduced volatility relative to the broader equity markets.








At year-end 2012 and 2011, no holding had a fair value equal
to or greater than 5 percent of our publicly traded common stock portfolio. Pepsico Inc. (NYSE:PEP) was our largest single
common stock investment at year end, comprising 4.2 percent of the publicly traded common stock portfolio and 1.1 percent
of the entire investment portfolio.



At year-end 2012, 29.6 percent of our common stock holdings
(measured by fair value) were held at the parent company level. The distribution of the portfolio among industry sectors is
shown in the table below.



Common Stock Portfolio Industry Sector Distribution



Percent of Publicly Traded Common Stock PortfolioAt December 31, 2012At December 31, 2011CincinnatiFinancialS&P 500 IndustryWeightingsCincinnatiFinancialS&P 500 IndustryWeightingsSector:Information technology16.0%19.1%16.9%19.0%Industrials12.910.111.810.7Healthcare12.212.012.011.8Energy12.011.014.012.3Consumer staples11.710.612.311.5Financial11.215.68.513.4Consumer discretionary9.711.59.410.7Materials5.73.65.73.5Utilities4.83.45.53.9Telecomm services3.83.13.93.2Total100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%



Preferred Stocks



We evaluate preferred stocks in a manner similar to our evaluation
of fixed-maturity investments, seeking attractive relative yields. We generally focus on investment-grade preferred stocks
issued by companies with strong histories of paying common dividends, providing us with another layer of protection. When possible,
we seek out preferred stocks that offer a dividend received deduction for income tax purposes. We purchased $27 million in this
portfolio in 2012 and sold $2 million. We made no purchases or sales for this portfolio during 2011.



Additional information about the composition of investments
is included in Item 8, Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 118. A detailed listing of our portfolio is updated
on our website,www.cinfin.com/investors, each quarter
when we report our quarterly financial results.



Other



We report as Other the noninvestment operations of the parent
company and its noninsurer subsidiary CFC Investment Company. This subsidiary offers commercial leasing and financing services
to our agencies, their clients and other customers. At year-end 2012, CFC Investment Company had 2,562 accounts
and $75 million in receivables, compared with 2,217 accounts and $76 million in receivables at year-end 2011.








Regulation



The business of insurance primarily is regulated by state law.
All of our insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled in the state of Ohio except The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance
Company, which is domiciled in Delaware. Each insurance subsidiary is governed by the insurance laws and regulations in its respective
state of domicile. We also are subject to state regulatory authorities of all states in which we write insurance. The state
laws and regulations that have the most significant effect on our insurance operations and financial reporting are discussed below.



·Insurance Holding Company Regulation – We are regulated as an insurance holding company system in the respective states
of domicile of our primary standard market property casualty company subsidiary and its surplus lines and life insurance subsidiaries.
These regulations require that we annually furnish financial and other information about the operations of the individual companies
within the holding company system. All transactions within a holding company affecting insurers must be fair and equitable. Notice
to the state insurance commissioner is required prior to the consummation of transactions affecting the ownership or control of
an insurer and prior to certain material transactions between an insurer and any person or entity in its holding company group.
In addition, some of those transactions cannot be consummated without the commissioner’s prior approval. Recent
amendments to the Model Insurance Holding Company System Regulatory Act and Regulation, adopted by the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), and passed by a number of state legislatures, requires insurance holding company systems to provide
regulators with more information about the risks posed by any noninsurance company subsidiaries in the holding company system.



·Subsidiary Dividends – The Cincinnati Insurance Company is 100 percent owned by Cincinnati Financial Corporation.
The dividend-paying capacity of The Cincinnati Insurance Company and its 100 percent owned subsidiaries is regulated by the
laws of the applicable state of domicile. Under these laws, our insurance subsidiaries must provide a 10-day advance informational
notice to the insurance commissioner for the domiciliary state prior to payment of any dividend or distribution to its shareholders.
Generally, the most our insurance subsidiary can pay without prior regulatory approval is the greater of 10 percent of policyholder
surplus or 100 percent of statutory net income for the prior calendar year.



The insurance company subsidiaries must give 30 days’
notice to and obtain prior approval from the state insurance commissioner before the payment of an extraordinary dividend as defined
by the state’s insurance code. You can find information about the dividends paid by our insurance subsidiary in 2012
in Item 8, Note 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 127







·



·Insurance Guaranty Associations – Each state has insurance guaranty association laws under which the associations may
assess life and property casualty insurers doing business in the state for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies
to policyholders and claimants. Typically, states assess each member insurer in an amount related to the insurer’s proportionate
share of business written by all member insurers in the state. Our insurance companies received a savings of less than $1 million
from guaranty association refunds in both 2012 and 2011. We cannot predict the amount and timing of any future assessments or refunds
on our insurance subsidiaries under these laws.








·Shared Market and Joint Underwriting Plans – State insurance regulation requires insurers to participate in assigned
risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations, which are mechanisms that generally provide applicants
with various basic insurance coverages when they are not available in voluntary markets. Such mechanisms are most commonly instituted
for automobile and workers’ compensation insurance, but many states also mandate participation in FAIR Plans or Windstorm
Plans, which provide basic property coverages. Participation is based upon the amount of a company’s voluntary market share
in a particular state for the classes of insurance involved. Underwriting results related to these organizations could be adverse
to our company.



·Statutory Accounting – For public reporting, insurance companies prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP.
However, certain data also must be calculated according to statutory accounting rules as defined in the NAIC’s Accounting
Practices and Procedures Manual. While not a substitute for any GAAP measure of performance, statutory data frequently is used
by industry analysts and other recognized reporting sources to facilitate comparisons of the performance of insurance companies.



·Insurance Reserves – State insurance laws require that property casualty and life insurers annually analyze the adequacy
of reserves. Our appointed actuaries must submit an opinion that reserves are adequate for policy claims-paying obligations and
related expenses.



·Investment Regulation – Insurance company investments must comply with laws and regulations pertaining to the type, quality
and concentration of investments. Such laws and regulations permit investments in federal, state and municipal obligations, corporate
bonds, preferred and common equity securities, mortgage loans, real estate and certain other investments, subject to specified
limits and other qualifications. At December 31, 2012, the company believes it was in compliance with these laws and regulations
in all material respects.



·Risk-Based Capital Requirements – The NAIC’s risk-based capital (RBC) requirements for property casualty and
life insurers serve as an early warning tool for the NAIC and state regulators to identify companies that may be undercapitalized
and may merit further regulatory action. The NAIC has a standard formula for annually assessing RBC. The formula for calculating
RBC for property casualty companies takes into account asset and credit risks but places more emphasis on underwriting factors
for reserving and pricing. The formula for calculating RBC for life insurance companies takes into account factors relating to
insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks.



Although the federal government and its regulatory agencies
generally do not directly regulate the business of insurance, federal legislation and administrative rules adopted to implement
them do affect our business. Privacy laws, such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Health Insurance
Portability and Accounting Act (HIPAA) are the federal laws that most affect our day-to-day operations. These apply to us because
we gather and use personal nonpublic information to underwrite insurance and process claims. We also are subject to other federal
laws, such as the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA), anti-money laundering statute (AML), the Nonadmitted and Reinsurance Reform
Act (NRRA), and the rules and regulations of the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).



Title V of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank) created the Federal Insurance Office to monitor the insurance industry and gather information to identify
issues or gaps in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry of the United
States financial system, and to recommend to the Financial Stability Oversight Council that it designate an insurer as a systemically
significant entity requiring additional supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. We do not expect Dodd-Frank to result in federal
oversight of our operations as a systemically significant entity.



We do not expect to have any material effects on our expenditures,
earnings or competitive position as a result of compliance with any federal, state, or local provisions enacted or adopted relating
to the protection of the environment. We currently do not have any material estimated capital expenditures for environmental control
facilities.








